Our journey… towards a sustainable future Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Our journey… towards a sustainable future Our vision is to be a world-class, diversified resources company providing superior returns to our shareholders. We will meet our vision by delivering high-quality assets and low-cost operations, with sustainable development at the core of all that we do. About this report This is our sixth Sustainable Development Report; All Vedanta Group subsidiary companies and coincides with the publication of our Annual have been reported as though they were Report. Combined, these two documents provide 100% wholly-owned as we recognise the level an overview of our approach and achievements of control and sphere of influence the Group in 2013-14, outlining our actions over the past has over these operations. year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversified natural resources company. This report covers the reporting period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014, unless otherwise To provide a consistent view of our approach stated. Assurance of this report was carried and to provide a platform for illustrating our out in accordance with the DNV protocol success in managing the sustainability aspects for Verification of Sustainability Reporting of our business, we have structured our report in (VeriSustain). More details of assurance and alignment with our Sustainability Framework. verification are available in the Standards and Assurance section of this report. In this year’s Sustainable Development Report, we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and the GRI G3.1 supplement on Metal and Mining Industries and Oil & Gas. The report also aligns with and responds to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and Millennium Development Goals. We report to the highest A+ GRI application level. The detailed GRI G3.1 Content Index (including the Mining and Metal and the Oil & Gas Supplement) is available on the website (vedantaresources.com/ SustainableDevelopment2013-2014/standardsand-assurance). View our detailed report online at vedantaresources.com/ SustainableDevelopment2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship About Vedanta 2 Sustainable management in practice 20 Making a positive contribution 4 Health and safety management 24 Chairman’s statement 6 Health 25 Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement 8 Safety 26 Approach and strategy 10 Environmental management 30 Materiality 14 Water 32 Objectives and targets 16 Biodiversity 35 Energy and climate change 36 Air quality 38 Management of raw materials and waste 39 Building Strong Adding and Standards and Relationships Sharing Value Assurance Stakeholder engagement 43 Employees 52 Global Reporting Initiative Human rights 47 Communities 57 (GRI) index 68 Community engagement Other stakeholders 62 Millennium Development and resettlement 48 Goals (MDGs) 80 DNV assurance statement 81 Glossary 83 1 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value About Vedanta Our journey…of growth and diversification We are a diversified natural resources group headquartered in London with a set of large, long-life, low-cost, scalable assets around the globe. We are committed to sustainable development, supporting local communities and contributing to the economies of the areas where we operate. 6 Our portfolio is primarily in copper, zinc, lead, silver, aluminium, iron ore, power and oil & gas assets. Our business 15 3 15 4 encompasses eight countries through several dozen 1 2 operations, with a particular focus on India and Africa, where 5 14 14 13 we hold the majority of our operating assets. Our activities 20 7 13 13 bring both financial and non-financial value to the countries 20 12 and communities where we operate, generating significant revenue for government and local bodies, developing 16 16 infrastructure, engaging local and regional suppliers 21 8 18 17 and employing many thousands of people worldwide. 9 19 11 10 10 22 Our portfolio Description Zinc/Lead/Silver Oil & Gas Iron Ore We are the world’s largest integrated zinc-lead Cairn India is the fastest growing energy We are the largest private sector producer producer and one of the leading silver company in the world (Platts Top 250 of iron ore in India, and also have over a producers globally. Our key assets include Global Energy Company Rankings 2013) 3 billion tonne deposit in Liberia, West Africa. the world’s largest zinc-lead mine, Rampura with assets including the Rajasthan block, Agucha, and the Sindesar Khurd zinc-lead the largest onshore discovery in India mine with its silver-rich ore in India, as well as in 20 years. one of the largest undeveloped zinc deposits in the world at Gamsberg, South Africa. Market share We are the leading supplier of zinc in India, We contribute to over 25% of India’s We are one of India’s largest iron with an 88% market share. We are also the current domestic crude production. ore exporters. country’s leading supplier of lead and silver. Location India, Ireland, Namibia, South Africa India, Sri Lanka, India, Liberia South Africa Revenue (US$ million)* 2,857 3,093 267 EBITDA (US$ million) 1,358 2,347 24 Production volumes Zinc – 1,054 kt; Lead – 188 kt; Silver – 12.5 219 Kboepd 1.5 million tonnes units million oz Total no. employees 21,815 9,882 6,198 including contract workforce Total no. fatalities 6 0 1 High category 1 0 0 environmental incidents Total payment to local 813.5 4,013 33 exchequer (US$ millions) Community investment 15.7 4.8 2.42 (US$ millions) * Exclusive of inter-business revenue Related information: vedantaresources.com/overview/about-vedanta 2 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value About Vedanta continued 1 Debari smelter 16 Ravva (PKGM-1) block 2 Chanderiya smelters 17 KG-ONN-2003/1 block 3 Rampura-Agucha mine 18 KG-OSN-2009/3 block 4  Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters and 19 PR-OSN-2004/1 block Sindesar Khurd mine 20 Cambay (CB/052) block 5 Zawar mine 21 MB-DWN-2009/1 block 25 6 Talwandi Sabo power project 22 SL 2007-01-001 block 7 Silvassa refinery 23 Lisheen mine, Ireland 8 Sesa Goa operations – Goa 24 Mt Lyell mine, Australia 9 Sesa Goa operations – Karnataka 25 Iron Ore project, Liberia 10 Tuticorin smelter 26, 27 Konkola and Nchanga copper mines 26 27 11 MALCO power plant & Nchanga smelter, Zambia 12 Lanjigarh alumina refinery 28 Skorpion mine, Namibia 13  Jharsuguda smelters & power plants 29 Black Mountain mine, South Africa 28 14 Korba smelters & power plants 30 South Africa Block 30 15 Rajasthan block 29 Key Zinc-Lead-Silver Iron Ore Aluminium Projects under development 23 Oil & Gas Copper Power Captive thermal power plant 24 Copper Aluminium Power Description We have one of the lowest-cost custom We are the largest aluminium producer We are one of the largest wind power smelters in the world at Tuticorin in India, in India, with smelters, refinery, captive and independent power generators in with our Australian mines supplying part power plants and mines. These are large India, with a major new plant in Talwandi of the copper concentrate requirements high-quality assets strategically located Sabo coming on stream this year. of our Indian operations. in the midst of the coal and bauxite belt, incorporating the latest technology. Our operations in Zambia include one of the largest, highest-grade copper mines in the world at Konkola Deeps. We are the leading supplier of copper We are the leading supplier of aluminium Our generating capacity is around Market share in India, with a 28% market share. in India, with over 44% market share. 5% of India’s generating capacity. Australia, India, Zambia India India Location 4,676 1,785 622 Revenue (US$ million)* 354 287 169 EBITDA (US$ million) 471 kt 793 kt 9,374 million units sold Production volumes 21,452 22,938 5,558 Total no. employees including contract workforce 7 1 4 Total no. fatalities 0 0 0 High category environmental incidents 265 143 27 Total payment to local exchequer (US$ millions) 21.1 4.6 0.8 Community investment (US$ millions) Related information: vedantaresources.com/overview/about-vedanta 3 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Making a positive contribution Our journey… in creating value for stakeholders Since our listing ten years ago, we have created and delivered significant meaningful value for our stakeholders. This includes the contribution made by our resources, our direct financial contributions and through social and economic development for society, particularly in emerging economies. The contribution made by our resources In India, we are amongst the largest community centres, water tanks, roads, repair of The resources we bring to market create the contributors to the exchequer, and in Africa, school buildings projects in partnership with the basic building blocks of society and are our Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) operations community and the local administration essential sources of socio-economic growth, in Zambia, our zinc operations (BMM) in South have been among our core activities. both within and beyond the regions where Africa, Skorpion Zinc in Namibia and our iron ore operations in Liberia all make important, In India, resource sharing between local we have operations. long-term contributions to local and regional authorities has resulted in the construction The scale of the resources we bring to market in economies. Since 2005, we have invested of 43.51km of roads, 18 community centres, India make us a critical contributor to its growth: over US$4 billion across our African operations. six temples, three sitting-platforms, seven tube we are the leading supplier of zinc in India, with wells, bore wells, open wells and ring wells,11 an 88% market share, and the country’s leading This year, we contributed a total of US$5.3 billion drains, four check dams, six ponds, seven school supplier of lead and silver. We also contribute to governments. boundary walls, 17 classrooms, 5,706 household to India’s energy security, providing over 30% Countries Payment to exchequer ($m) toilets and seven other structural renovation of domestic crude production. Additionally, we projects. In total, this year we spent US$49 India: 5,139 are the leading supplier of copper in India, with million on community programmes, including a 28% market share, and have over 44% market Zambia: 74 US$4.48 million on infrastructure. share in aluminium. South Africa: 29 Others: 54 Resource sharing between local authorities in In Zambia, we operate one of the highestAfrica and other countries outside India has grade large copper mines in the world and The social and economic development resulted in the construction of 351 tube wells have significantly expanded the country’s and bore wells, seven classrooms, one community contributions we make copper production. centre and one sitting-platform, 52 household Our operations make a valuable contribution toilets and two other structural renovation projects. The direct financial contributions to the social and economic development of the communities in which we operate. This includes We also make a broader contribution through we make direct employment of close to 90,000 developing and promoting effective Our taxes, royalties, dividends and salaries and employees and contractors as well as indirect collaborations and programmes between wages, as well as our capital and operating work opportunities for an estimated additional business, governments and civil society. For expenditure, stimulate economic activity and 500,000 people. Our community programmes example, our partnership with the Zambia enable governments to fulfil their responsibilities. benefit approximately 4.1* million people – Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Since our IPO in 2004, we have maintained a improving health, education and livelihoods. (ZEITI) and the Government of Zambia progressive dividend policy, and have returned Our business locations are situated in remote continues to expand and enhance ZEITI’s US$1.4 billion in dividends to shareholders places and communities residing around the capabilities in data management and IT skills, since the IPO in 2004. We have delivered location have very little access to infrastructure, bringing greater transparency and accountability. a total shareholder return of 200% since augmenting and upgrading community assets/ We also partnered with the Government of the Vedanta listing in London in 2004. common property resources such as constructing Zambia to improve railway infrastructure. * Some of the beneficiaries could be involved in more than one project. 4 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Making a positive contribution continued Highlights (10 years of delivery) Total shareholder return Dividend yield Communities: social investment 200% 4% US$127 million 12% CAGR in the last 3 years Capital returned to shareholders Government Direct and indirect employment US$1.4 billion US$15 billion 88,000 since IPO in the last 3 years FY 2013-14 Direct economic contribution (US$m) US$12,945m Revenue US$802m Employee costs US$4,778m Operating costs (excluding payments to the exchequer) US$5,295m Payments to the exchequer US$1,194m Payments to providers of capital US$49m Community investments (including donation) US$827m Economic value retained Total employees (by product) Payments to the exchequer Community investment (by product) US$ 5.3 billion 5.3 5.3 4.2 1.8 Zinc/Lead/Silver Copper Zinc/Lead/Silver Copper Oil & Gas Aluminium 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Oil & Gas Aluminium Iron Ore Power Iron Ore Power Related information: vedantaresources.com/overview/making-a-positive-contribution 5 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Chairman’s statement Our journey… of positive endeavour with all our stakeholders Our long-life, tier 1 resource assets offer the opportunity to create value across generations. To ensure we operate successfully across this timescale we must consistently maintain our licence to operate by running our business sustainably. In 2013-14, we celebrated ten years since we listed our company. This anniversary provides an opportunity to reflect on the journey of growth and delivery we have been on and how we have integrated sustainable working across our business, where we can still improve, and our plans for the future. The resources we mine and process are in turn making a substantial contribution to the education, health and wellbeing of local communities, as well as offering huge employment opportunities – essential in the economies in which we operate. We have a particular focus on India, our main country of operation, and we have been able to help the country unlock its substantial resource capacity. We have also made substantial investments in African countries and contribute to their economies. As we start our second decade since IPO, we hope to support these developing economies in realising their full capability and ensuring resource security for future generations. There is also still enormous untapped potential, not only in these regions but globally, as we expand and continue to grow. Over this past year, I have been particularly pleased with the success our businesses have had in implementing our Sustainability “This anniversary provides an opportunity to reflect Framework underpinned by our successful on the journey of growth and delivery we have been Scott Wilson audit and the insights we have gained from our materiality exercise. We on and how we have integrated sustainable working also continued with the simplification of our corporate structure with the merger of Sesa across our business, where we can still improve, and Goa and Sterlite. This is another major step in our journey to unlock value for our our plans for the future.” shareholders, employees and broader stakeholders. I am very pleased to introduce the Sustainable Development Report 2013-14, Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/chairmans-statement 6 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Chairman’s statement continued detailing our approach to sustainability. The most important area where we must such a success in raising awareness of the Through this report we provide an overview do better is in our employee and contractor importance of empowering and educating of our performance, progress and our various fatalities, and both Tom and I share the view girls in India. sustainable development initiatives based that the current fatalities and safety on our three-pillar sustainability framework – performance needs to be improved drastically. Forward together Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong As we work on addressing this, I am pleased to Four years ago, I set out my priorities for Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value. see significant reductions in our environmental our sustainability journey: embed sustainable incidents and improved processes to reduce development in every aspect of what we do; Incoming CEO our environmental footprint. improve our health and safety performance; At the close of the year our CEO of five years, make targeted contributions to local M.S. Mehta, took well-earned retirement. I Building Strong Relationships communities; continue to minimise our wish to place on record my thanks to him as Identifying and actively managing all our impact on air, water and land; and maintain his leadership has been pivotal to our success stakeholder relationships – including our an active dialogue with our stakeholders. As over this first decade and he departs with our employees, our host communities and our I reflect on both the past year and the last warmest wishes. We are indeed very fortunate shareholders and lenders – is important if we decade, I am pleased to see the many to have secured a replacement of the calibre are to maintain our licence to operate. This successes we have had in meeting these of our new CEO Tom Albanese, who joins our year, we took another step to add consistency priorities, as well as the steps we have business, bringing deep experience from across the Group, with all subsidiary businesses taken to bridge our gaps in performance. working at the highest level in the natural now formally recording all stakeholder resources industry. Tom is passionate that expectations and outcomes of their As I look forward to the next year and beyond, Vedanta becomes a safe environment for our engagements. Human rights have remained I am committed to ensuring Vedanta manages workforce and operates with the full support a particular focus of the Sustainability its business responsibly and plays an integral, of the communities that host our operations. Committee and I have been reassured by the positive role in all the regions in which we do His commitment to ensuring we run our amount of training we have done across our business – in a spirit of positive endeavour with business to the highest standards reflects my businesses in our Code of Conduct to ensure all our stakeholders. own deeply held belief that, to be truly we engage with people fairly and respectfully. Anil Agarwal successful, we must operate our business with Chairman the values of sustainability embedded in all our Adding and Sharing Value activities. This is also reinforced by our Board Vedanta’s role is to create value for all our and its Sustainability Committee through stakeholders; this includes the financial value various interventions and reviews. we create for our shareholders and investors as well as the broader value we add to society. Responsible Stewardship This includes the tens of thousands of men Building a successful and sustainable business and women we have employed, the substantial over the past decade has required a consistent economic contributions through payments we and systematic approach to running our made to exchequers across the world; and the operations – in accordance with best practice millions of people who have benefited from the standards. This year we have continued to wide-ranging community programmes we have strengthen our Sustainability Framework, and helped initiate and manage. We have played I have been particularly impressed by how an active role in addressing and improving our management team have implemented and health, education and livelihoods for the supported our Vedanta Sustainability Assurance communities in the areas where we operate – Programme (VSAP), the key tool we are using and I would like to thank the many partners to ensure our Framework is complied with who have joined with us in this important work. across the business. To celebrate this success, On a personal level, this year I have been I have initiated a biannual Chairman’s Award particularly touched by all the people who to recognise the subsidiary businesses that have helped make our ‘Khushi’ campaign have best met the Company’s expectations. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/chairmans-statement 7 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement Our journey… towards meaningful value As a natural resource explorer and producer of basic raw materials, Vedanta has played an important role in India’s and Africa’s growth and prosperity over the past decade, and has added value for shareholders, employees and a broad range of stakeholders. In our industry, success is often judged by how efficiently and cost effectively we manage the extraction and processing of natural resources. However, integral to our long-term success is an approach that ensures we undertake these activities safely and in a sustainable manner. We do this by safeguarding the welfare of our workforce, engaging with communities in a way that builds trust and delivers sustainable benefits to them, working diligently to minimise wherever possible our impact on the environment and sharing fairly the value we create. As we continue our journey, we will ensure the longevity of our business and our production assets by meeting these goals and managing our operations sustainably, in the broadest possible sense. Prior to taking up my role as Chief Executive Officer, in my capacity as Chairman of Vedanta Resources Holdings Limited, I visited almost every Vedanta asset over a six-month period. This gave me the opportunity to see our operations at first hand and engage directly with our workforce. I was very pleased to witness the genuine commitment our people have to making Vedanta the best it can be – both in its daily operations, and in contributions to local communities where we operate. This commitment of our workforce reassures me that many of the issues raised by well“As we continue our journey, we will ensure the longevity intentioned commentators and organisations do not accurately reflect our Group’s operations of our business and our production assets by meeting on the ground. That said, on our journey of these goals and managing our operations sustainably, continuous improvement, we do need to improve performance in some areas, and the in the broadest possible sense.” opinions of our stakeholders matter in helping us improve our business. Vedanta has been on a journey to embed sustainable management practices across all subsidiary businesses and I’m very pleased to have joined the Group at this important evolutionary phase. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/incoming-ceos-statement 8 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Zero harm for our people In my many visits to our operations, whilst “I was very pleased to witness the genuine commitment pleased with the progress our people have our people have to making Vedanta the best it can be – made in reducing the lost time incidents, it is clear much more can be done. The fatalities both in its daily operations, and in contributions to local need to be eliminated and serious injury rates have to be reduced drastically to be in line communities where we operate.” with our vision of zero harm. Understanding the causes of harm, and prevention, will be ongoing priorities of mine. Further, I and the Executive Committee in the year ahead are conducting a full appraisal of our safety Community consent In the years ahead, I will continue to stress One of my most important visits in 2013 was that creating a culture based on the principles management processes, contractor to our Lanjigarh operations, where I spent of sustainability is a journey of continuous management and compliance and internal significant time with our on-site management improvement. We are measuring our success safety leadership to rapidly achieve a zero harm team to explore the issues raised by a number in doing this, and aware of where we need to environment for our entire workforce – an of our external stakeholders. I was impressed do better. I am committed to ensuring Vedanta essential goal in our business. Conducting all by the care shown by our team to operate plays an integral, positive role in all the regions our operations safely is simply non-negotiable. responsibly in the region and I emphasised in which we do business, by managing all our I have been to all of our African operations, the Company’s clear approach that we will not operations to globally recognised standards of and I have been impressed by the contribution consider bauxite mining at Niyamgiri without sustainability. In this report, we detail the steps we have made to the environment and the express invitation and free prior agreement we have taken this year to achieve this and our communities since the first investment. of the local communities to do so. Indeed, this plans for the future – creating meaningful In Zambia, we have made efforts and is the approach we bring to all our operations. value for all our stakeholders for our next contributions to improve our water quality with Meanwhile, bauxite is abundantly available in decade and beyond. several large-scale investment projects, notably other parts of Odisha and we will continue the a water treatment facility and a new state of Tom Albanese engagement with the State Government to the art copper smelter. Chief Executive Officer make it available for ramp-up of the Lanjigarh A culture of respect refinery. I have worked with civil society in the I’m encouraged to see how much work has past to find sustainable solutions to issues and been done over the past two years to enable I intend to keep up the engagement with our our operations to comply with the United stakeholders in a spirit of finding such solutions Nations Convention on Human Rights and on bauxite. I will be conducting a further gap analysis to assess and ensure this compliance so that we Creating meaningful value I am privileged to lead a business with the can become signatory to it. In my discussions majority of its operations in India, one of the with our operations, I focused on the most exciting development stories in the world, importance of having a culture of respect in our that has some of the largest reserves of natural day-to-day operations. This extends outwards resources. These resources, like those across from how our senior management works with our African countries of operation, substantially each other, how line managers engage with contribute towards strengthening national and their workforce of employees and contractors, local economies and provide much needed through to how our security personnel interact investments in infrastructure, education with people and communities. In my many and health. visits, I was pleased to see that the expected behaviours, embedded in our Code of Conduct, are being adopted throughout the Group. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/incoming-ceos-statement 9 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Approach and strategy Our journey… towards embedding our sustainability framework Vedanta is focused on operational excellence, efficient cost management and sustainability to drive long-term value for all our stakeholders. Our Sustainability Model is comprised of three pillars: Responsible Stewardship, over the last few years provides us with a robust structure to deliver this Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value. These pillars supported by our three sustainability pillars. This approach also enables us to capture the steps we must take to ensure a long-term, successful future for drive consistency across all our subsidiary companies and during the year we our business – meeting our strategic goals of growth, long-term value and have further embedded the standards and processes required to achieve this. sustainable development. The development of our Sustainability Framework (www.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/ approach-and-strategy) Our Sustainability Model Responsible Stewardship Value will help us Responsible governance to maintain a supports relationship licence to operate building Long-term sustainability Adding and Building Strong Sharing Value Relationships Relationships enable us to contribute to wider society Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/approach-and-strategy 10 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Approach and strategy continued A robust structure to create long-term value for stakeholders enabled by our three pillars of sustainability. Implementing the Sustainability We are committed to ensuring that the We continued providing training to our Framework Framework is followed and managed in all our management teams to ensure there was a solid The development of our Sustainability Model operations and new projects in order to continue understanding of the Framework’s requirements. and Framework over the last few years provides our sustainability journey. Our subsidiary We cascaded information down to our subsidiary us with a robust structure to deliver all-round businesses conducted a gap analysis to identify businesses, providing on-location training to sustainable performance and consistency the gaps between their existing management managers to ensure compliance by their teams. across our businesses. systems (such as ISO, OHSAS and Social Large-scale posters and other support materials Accountability standards) and our Framework. were provided to reinforce the key messages. Our Framework provides clear, structured To bridge the gaps identified and to implement To date more than 9,000 employees have been guidance to all of our subsidiary businesses the Framework our subsidiary businesses trained on the Framework. We are using the to manage their business sustainably. It undertook one or both of the following: Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme comprises of a full set of policies, technical • upgraded their existing management systems (VSAP) to ensure Framework compliance, and management standards and supporting to meet the requirements of the Framework including through a programme of audits. guidance notes aligned to international More detail of how we are using our VSAP tool • implemented their management systems standards like IFC, ICMM and OECD guidelines. is available in the Sustainable management and the additional requirements needed to match the Framework in practice section. Lenders Equator principles IFC performance standards, EHS guidelines, ICMM and OECD guidelines Gap analysis Vedanta Sustainability Framework Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Policies Internal Technical standards / Management standards / Guidance notes verification process (Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Sesa Sterlite (SSL) KCM Programme) Sesa Iron Sterlite Vedanta Cairn HZL BALCO MALCO KCM ZI CMT Ore Copper Al & Power India Upgrading of all subsidiary company management systems including ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 Subsidiary local assurance process Implementation of Vedanta Sustainability Framework (international standards) in all operations Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/approach-and-strategy 11 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Approach and strategy continued Managing sustainability Sustainability is driven through all levels of the Group’s subsidiary businesses and we have a clear structure for managing and implementing our Sustainability Framework from the Group to the operational business units. Vedanta Board Remuneration Sustainability Audit Executive Nominations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Sustainability Team Chief Sustainability Officer Assurance Health Safety Communities Environment Reporting Segment Business committees Operational review / Business management group HSE/CSR/Sustainability committees – HSE/CSR/Sustainability teams Site-level committees HSE/CSR committees HSE/CSR/Sustainability teams Review of assurance findings Reporting route Assurance process Sustainability Committee Executive Committee Segment business committees The Vedanta Board is responsible for all aspects The Executive Committee supports the Board Each of the subsidiary businesses has of sustainability across the Group and acts and oversees the implementation of the Group developed their own corporate mechanisms, through the Sustainability Committee. The strategic initiatives set by the Board. The such as health and safety, and social Committee is chaired by the Senior Committee is chaired by the CEO (Vedanta). committees to deliver on their targets and Independent Director (Vedanta), CEO and comprises senior management including to drive sustainability across their operations. (Vedanta) and the CEO (Base Metals – Africa Group CFO, Business CEOs and CFO etc. Apart and Australia). All subsidiary business CEOs from the business goals and performance, the Activities of these committees included a have a permanent invitation to attend and Committee reviews the sustainability practices review of our sustainability KPIs of water, participate in the Committee’s meetings. The including the safety, environment and energy, carbon, employee attrition, community Committee oversees and reviews sustainability community relations aspects on a periodic investments, subsidiary business performance performance and the Committee Chairman basis. and key sustainability issues including regularly updates the Board on its progress. community impact and beneficiaries. In The Committee also reviews the VSAP findings addition, site-level committees considered Following Mr. Naresh Chandra’s retirement and each company performance on the VSAP local issues, including community engagement from the Board, Non-Executive Director Mr. assurance process. programmes, contractor engagement and Euan MacDonald assumed the Chairmanship site-specific incidents. of the Sustainability Committee. Details of the roles and responsibilities of all our committees can be found at: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/approach-and-strategy 12 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Approach and strategy continued Sustainability Committee The Vedanta Board is responsible for all sustainability aspects across the Group and acts through the Sustainability Committee. The Committee also carried out a self-review of its performance on the mandate provided by the Board. This year, the Committee considered and oversaw: Health and safety • Review of all fatalities and their root causes; action plans in response to mitigate risk of harm to employees and contractors • Review of Key Safety Focus Area programme • Behavioural safety initiatives programmes at HZL • Safety key performance indicators (KPIs) and setting medium-term targets • Review of action plans and future strategy of serious incidents at TSPL, KCM, CMT and HZL operations Environment • Review of Group water savings and initiatives • Review of Group energy savings and initiatives • Environmental KPIs and medium-term targets • Review of waste utilisation plans and initiatives • Review of environmental incidents Community relations and • Overseeing the internal risk assessment on child labour and human rights stakeholder engagement • Expectations cited by stakeholders during the 2013 Annual General Meeting Sustainability Framework • Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme action plans and updates and Reporting • Implementation of Safety Guidance Notes • Review of Group SAP-Environment Health and Safety technology solution • Review of final Scott Wilson audit process and closure of its recommendations • Validation of Vedanta Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 More information on the Committee’s mandate and, activities performed can be found by contacting sustainability@vedanta.co.in Message from the Sustainability Committee Chairman “This year I was pleased to assume the Chairmanship of Vedanta’s Sustainability Committee. In overseeing my responsibilities as laid down by the Board, and in managing Vedanta’s business sustainably, I will be guided by the three pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value, which together have proven to be a valuable model for the Company’s sustainable growth. Over the course of the year, the Committee was particularly concerned to focus on the unacceptably high number of fatalities suffered across our business, to understand their root causes and to monitor the business response through the ‘Key Safety Focus Areas’ programme, launched to strengthen our mitigation of safety risks. The Committee also recognised that subsidiary businesses needed to improve their stakeholder engagement and change management processes. We recommended that with regard to human rights and child labour compliance subsidiary businesses need to be extra vigilant at the loading and unloading operations in remote areas. Water, energy and waste consumption targets were also reviewed by the Committee and we emphasised the importance of having robust plans to ensure these targets are met. The Committee further recommended hiring a Group safety adviser to help and support Group companies on safety-related issues. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank management across our subsidiary businesses for their commitment to VSAP, which has been a demanding exercise.” Euan MacDonald – Sustainability Committee, Chairman Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/approach-and-strategy 13 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Materiality Our journey… towards meaningful stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement deepens our understanding of the political, social, economic and environmental context of our business and the expectations of our stakeholders. This approach allows us to identify our material issues, which are those issues that are deemed important to our stakeholders and to the sustainable operations of our business, and inform the issues we discuss throughout this report. By identifying our material issues we are able to most efficiently direct our resources and management time to those issues with the potential to have the largest impact on our business. Our key stakeholder groups Communities Host governments Employees Vedanta Industry Shareholders Civil society Lenders More information on the business approach to stakeholder engagement and the various channels that we use to communicate with our stakeholders can be found in the Building Strong Relationships section of this report. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/materiality 14 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Materiality continued Mapping our material issues These engagements have enabled us to In 2013-14, we engaged with both internal identify the priorities and expectations of our and external stakeholders through a formal stakeholders and our management. For our consultation process. stakeholders, this included eliminating fatalities; human rights and the rights of indigenous This comprised: peoples; our approach to new projects; and • Interviews with shareholders, lenders and adherence to international standards. civil society organisations Management also highlighted the importance • Interviews with Vedanta employees who of reducing fatalities; environmental manage host government and supplier management; community engagement and relationships impact; new project management; operational • Surveys of employees and community groups risks; and training and leadership development. • Ongoing engagement with Vedanta’s We have translated these priorities into Investor Relations, Human Resources, material business issues and mapped them Commercial and other corporate teams onto the matrix below in order of relevance. • CEO and senior management team These material issues inform the content of discussions this report, whilst those of high relevance also • Vedanta Sustainability Assurance feature in our printed summary report, which Programme findings is available as a downloadable PDF. Materiality matrix High • Public policy and advocacy • Human rights and rights • Employee safety of indigenous people • Environmental management • Land and resettlement (water, waste, emissions) • Energy and climate change • Economic returns Relevance to stakeholders • Supplier and customer relationship • Diversity and equal opportunity • Biodiversity • Ethics and integrity – Code of Conduct • New project management • Child and forced labour • Supply chain management • Training and leadership development • Bribery • Taxes and other payments • Community engagement and impact • Attrition • Retention • Succesion planning • Occupational health Low Low Relevance to Vedanta management High High Sustainability priorities covered in our printed and online Sustainable Development Report Medium Sustainability priorities covered in our online Sustainable Development Report Low Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/materiality 15 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Objectives and targets Our journey… of continued progress In the table below we have outlined our key sustainability objectives and targets, our performance this year in meeting these targets and our 2014-15 goals. These predominantly reflect the material issues that are important to our stakeholders and management. Objectives and targets 2013-14 Status Performance FY 2013-14 Objectives and targets FY 2014-15 Responsible Stewardship Health and safety Achieve zero fatal accidents There have been 19 fatal accidents. All incidents Achieve zero fatal accidents have been investigated. Lessons learned are shared across Group companies to avoid recurrence Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) LTIFR: 0.54* LTIFR to be less than or equal to 0.51 to be less than or equal to 0.70 LTIFR (Operational only): 0.68 (operational only) Total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR: 1.55* TRIFR to be less than or equal to 1.47 (TRIFR) to be less than or equal to 1.7 TRIFR (Operational only): 1.94 (operational only) Behaviour-based safety training module to Behaviour-based safety module initiated at Behaviour-based safety training be piloted at one site our HZL and Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda and module to be rolled out to other Copper subsidiaries subsidiary businesses Environment Water savings – MCM of water – 6.12 Owing to disruption in production at our Water savings – MCM of water – 2.49 SSL – Copper, Iron and Lanjigarh operations Energy savings – million GJ – 0.87 Energy savings – million GJ – 2.15 and CMT subsidiaries, along with the delay in the commencement of some scheduled initiatives, the Group could not achieve the estimated water and energy savings. Further, our KCM mines have had to withdraw large amounts of underground water due to the high water table in the region. Excluding KCM, the absolute water and energy savings were 2.53 MCM and 1.33GJ respectively Report on Scope 3 emissions disclosure Subsidiary businesses established the systems Report on Scope 3 emissions by by 2015-16 and started reporting Scope 3 emissions internally 2015-16 Initiation of high-risk Biodiversity High-risk BMPs are being initiated at our KCM and By 2015-16, all sites to have BMP Management Plans (BMPs) across all sites HZL subsidiaries in place Continue to monitor new projects and site All new projects at KCM, HZL, ZI subsidiaries are Continue to monitor new projects closure as per the Sustainability Framework being managed as per Framework and site closure as per the Sustainability Framework Similarly, the Lisheen site closure plan has been put in place in compliance with the Framework 5% increase in non-hazardous waste Total generation – 10.28 million MT 5% increase in non-hazardous waste recycled tonnage against baseline Total recycled – 7.62 million MT recycled tonnage against baseline FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 Total recycling rate – 74% >20% recycling as compared to 2012-13 Achieved Not achieved In progress * Operations and projects Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/objectives-and-targets 16 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Objectives and targets continued Objectives and targets 2013-14 Status Performance FY 2013-14 Objectives and targets FY 2014-15 Responsible Stewardship continued Assurance Each site to be assessed annually All sites assessed annually Each site to be assessed annually Closure of Scott Wilson recommendations All recommendations closed No ongoing actions as Scott Wilson recommendations are now part of our Framework Building Strong Relationships All sites to upgrade their existing All major sites upgraded their existing SEPs as Implementation of SEPs to be Stakeholder Engagement Plans (SEPs) per the Sustainability Framework, implementation monitored. All sites to review their in progress needs and impact assessments and upgrade SEPs accordingly by 2015-16 Human rights training to be continued Human rights and Code of Conduct training is Ensuring the 100% coverage of as part of the Sustainability Framework now included as part of the HR training calendar human rights and Code of Conduct training calendar training for all new hires More than 20,000 man-hours of training in CoC and human rights All sites to develop/upgrade grievance All major sites upgraded their existing grievance Implementation of grievance management systems management systems as per the Sustainability systems to be monitored Framework Adding and Sharing Value Training and development Improve coverage of Code of Conduct 59% of employees have been trained in human Ensuring the 100% coverage training programme (% of workforce rights and Code of Conduct training of human rights and Code of coverage) Conduct training for all new hires Roll-out of Technical ACT-UP in all Group companies for the identified technical roles Identification and mentoring of next 50 stars were identified for the fast track development Identification of next set of 50 generation of leaders through integrated programme. These stars have undergone an intensive stars for the intensive programme and intensive development exercises to development programme which included Action grooming next-generation talent encourage and enable an ability to assume Learning Projects, learning labs/workshops and for leadership roles more senior roles and responsibilities coaching sessions Diversity 25% women representation at the Vedanta has been actively searching for 25% women representation at the Vedanta Board level by 2015 and interviewing women candidates, with Vedanta Board level by 2015 (all no appointment made to date appointments will be made on merit) Continue to focus on diversity with an objective of 15% of total women hiring at a lateral and fresher level Achieved Not achieved In progress Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/overview/objectives-and-targets 17 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Our journey… towards implementing sustainability controls In this section Sustainable management in practice 20 Health and safety management 24 Health 25 Safety 26 Environmental management 30 Water 32 Biodiversity 35 Energy and climate change 36 Air quality 38 Management of raw materials and waste 39 Employees reviewing procedures at shop floor in BALCO operations 18 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Responsible Stewardship…the ethos for building our business The Responsible Stewardship pillar of our sustainability framework encapsulates our approach to managing our risks and how we conduct our business ethically. It also guides us in ensuring the health and safety of our workforce and how we minimise our environmental footprint. All our activities are driven by our values and the commitment of the Group’s leadership to operating to best practice standards across our operations – this starts with our Board, which is ultimately responsible for ensuring Vedanta is a sustainable business. Responsible Stewardship Long-term sustainability Adding and Building Strong Sharing Value Relationships Materiality matrix specific to the Responsible Stewardship section High • Energy and climate change • Employee safety • Environmental management (water, waste, emissions) Relevance to stakeholders • Ethics and integrity – Code of Conduct • Biodiversity • New project management • Bribery • Occupational health Low Low Relevance to Vedanta management High 19 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Sustainable management in practice Our journey… towards managing sustainability aspects Sustainability is an ongoing journey for any business; however, 2013 marked a culmination of three years of work to embed our Sustainability Framework. Our journey started with creating a set of celebrating successes in meeting targets and and human rights elements. The assurance policies applicable to all our subsidiary compliance assessment through internal and system works on the premise of tracking businesses, and supporting those policies external auditing, via our Vedanta Sustainability corrective and preventive action by our with clear management systems, technical Assurance Programme. The diagram below subsidiaries and undertaking periodic formal standards and guidance notes. The next step outlines the expected journey all of our audits by the Corporate Sustainability team, was training all key personnel in the activities subsidiary businesses in achieving 100% supported by external experts. and behaviours expected across the business compliance with the Framework and truly to meet the requirements of the Framework – embedding our Sustainability Framework in the VSAP is now an annual process with clear which is now an integral component of our working culture across the Group. tracking of results by the Sustainability human resources training calendar. To Committees and the Executive Committee date more than 9,000 management Vedanta Sustainability Assurance which in turn reports to Board. As per the employees have been trained in our Programme (VSAP) identified gaps, respective business Sustainability Framework. Beginning last year and fully implemented this management plans and undertakes corrective year, VSAP is our sustainability risk assurance actions of gaps, which are periodically reviewed, The consistent reinforcement of the importance tool which we use to assess the compliance of evaluated and documented. The successes are of the Framework was not only left for training, all our businesses with the Framework, identify also identified, highlighted and cross-learning but also other channels, including linking where gaps exist and address them. The opportunities are created. Last year our Zinc management remuneration to key assurance model has different modules, which International business topped sustainability targets, communicating and cover environment, health, safety, community the VSAP compliance table. Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) 0 Respective country regulations Compliance and internal rules 40 Policies, management and technical standards, guidance notes (in line with IFC, ICMM and OECD) understood as being useful Management Audit scores and implemented 60 Personnel Participation of personnel and effective implementation 80 Culture of company The VSF is completely implemented, best practices are identified, practiced and permanent monitoring is in place 100 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Time period Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/sustainablemanagement-in-practice 20 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Sustainable management in practice continued VSAP is now an annual process with clear tracking of results by the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee which in turn report to the Board. To further emphasise the importance of • Reviewing the Group’s internal controls and Whistleblowing procedure compliance, the biannual Chairman’s Award risk management systems and considering The Group’s Whistleblowing Policy supports has been established to recognise the best the effectiveness of these systems the Group’s aim of working to the highest performing business against Sustainability • Monitoring anti-bribery and corruption ethical standards. The Audit Committee performance, with VSAP scores as an important policies and procedures reviews any reports made under the parameter. Last year SSL-Jharsuguda and Whistleblowing Policy and ensures that • Reviewing the Group’s arrangements for its BALCO won the Chairman’s Award. appropriate actions are then taken. The email employees to raise concerns through its address whistleblower@vedanta.co.in is Audit Committee Whistleblowing Policy available for issues to be raised confidentially, The Audit Committee’s MAS function assists Fraud and Bribery Act with those emails sent directly to the Head of the Board in maintaining and monitoring the The Group is committed to the elimination of the Management Assurance Services – MAS – Group system of risk management and internal fraud, with each suspected case thoroughly who is independent of business management. controls. The main mandate of the Audit investigated and concluded. Between January and December 2013, there Committee includes: were 90 whistleblowing cases, of which 32 were The Audit Committee reviews the actions taken • Monitoring the integrity of the financial by management in the elimination of upheld, resulting in appropriate disciplinary statements fraudulent practices and to promote ethical actions including separation, warning, working practices. counselling and transfer. Salient features of VSAP Key modules: Audit methodology: Audit guidelines: • Compliance • Verification of documents related to • All operations need to do self-assessment • Objectives and targets management standards and report • Waste management • Verification of implementation • Currently all operations will be audited • Effectiveness once a year • Competency and training • Legal and statutory compliance review • Uses this following criteria: • Management reviews • Facility inspection –– Documentation • Accident investigations • Safety • Interactions with personnel at facility –– Implementation including training • Environment management • Identifying potential risk situations –– Effectiveness in the facility, dialogue with the • Social and stakeholder engagement –– Sustainance concerned persons • Human rights • Rating of the site based on the provided assurance document • Conclusion with an agreement on further progress Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/sustainablemanagement-in-practice 21 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Sustainable management in practice continued Environment and Social Impact and Environmental Authorisation from the Assessments (ESIAs) of new projects Department of Environment and Nature We recognise that our success is dependent Conservation (DENC), Kimberley in August upon ensuring the right management systems 2013. As at the publication date, all necessary are in place from the very beginning of a approvals have been received except for the Water Use License which is pending. A further Zambia project, and that these processes and engineering feasibility study is in progress which Mimbula II Open Pit Mine management systems are in accordance is due to be finalised by 2014-15. This is a brownfield project in the Nchanga with international standards like IFC. mine of our KCM subsidiary in Zambia. The In order to ensure that new projects are Swartberg project mainly involves open pit mining and its properly derisked to obtain and sustain their This is an existing lead, copper and silver mine related infrastructure. A draft ESIA report was licence to operate, we now follow the New adjacent to our existing operational Deeps submitted to the Zambia Environmental Project Planning Process, conducting ESIA Mine. With falling ore grades and the Management Agency (ZEMA) for initial review. to international standards and site closure impending exhaustion of the Deeps Mine, the A public hearing was conducted on 25 January management standard, as prescribed by our Swartberg mine is a likely alternative to replace 2014 as part of the process. Inquiries have also Framework. It is mandatory that a baseline the Deeps Mine’s resources, utilising existing been sent out for the review of the ESIA and for ESIA is commissioned for each new project, infrastructure. Our Black Mountain Mining the bridging of any gaps, if identified. The and now all our subsidiary businesses conduct subsidiary has initiated an ESIA which was process is anticipated to be completed by the ESIAs to international standards. The lodged with the DENC, Kimberley in January second half of FY 2014-15. management standard also obliges our 2013. A draft scoping report is in the public domain for a commenting/consultation period New Slag Dumpsite, KCM businesses to ensure that adequate resources of 40 days. (Nchanga Smelter) have been planned for, and are made available, This is a brownfield project in which KCM to implement site closure plans including wishes to establish a new granulated slag initiatives to prepare staff for closure, and disposal site. This project also encompasses retraining. All our mines have site closure plans. related activities such as transportation, site We review all new projects and site closures for clearing and levelling, drainage systems and adherence to our expected standards and ways Namibia traffic control. Draft Terms of Reference have of working through the VSAP process. Gergarub been reviewed by ZEMA. KCM is currently The Gergarub deposit is a greenfield zinc addressing ZEMA’s comments and will We understand that consultation and feedback commence the ESIA process. deposit located in the south-western corner of need to be obtained from stakeholders on how Namibia, in close proximity to our Skorpion Zinc sustainability issues associated with the project Mine. As the area of the study is located close are considered, prioritised and implemented. To to a biodiversity hotspot an ESIA study was support our business, we have continued to commissioned before any other technical develop a team of internal experts who can studies were initiated. The IFC standards, assist our businesses to meet the rigorous Equator Principals, Vedanta Sustainability India expectations we have put in place. Hindustan Zinc Limited standards and Namibian legislation were covered in the terms of reference for the study. The brownfield projects to expand Sindesar This year, new projects and the stages of their The study commenced in August 2012, Khurd Mine (located in Rajsamand, Rajasthan), planning and ESIA include: including the appointment of external Kayar Lead Zinc mine (located in Ajmer, consultants. Since commissioning the ESIA, a Rajasthan), Maton Rock Phosphate mine number of baseline studies have been (located in Udaipur, Rajasthan) and Zawar conducted including vegetation, air pollution, Mines projects are in the pipeline and have yet fauna and health. BID documents were drafted to receive environmental clearance (EIA) from the Indian regulatory bodies. A separate South Africa and circulated which were used during the public consultation meeting and the authority’s post-clearence ESIA process will be carried out Gamsberg consultation meeting. The draft scoping report as per Vedanta’s Sustainability Framework. The Gamsberg project is a greenfield zinc mining project. The ESIA for the project was was prepared and published with all relevant initiated in May 2012 and was based on IFC documentation and was available for public requirements and local South African comment. The study is targeted for completion legislation. The project received final approval during 2014-15. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/sustainablemanagement-in-practice 22 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Sustainable management in practice continued “We are actively pursuing potential alternative industries and sustainable development projects for Liberia the mine site, to ensure a positive legacy is left and Western Cluster Limited the socio-economic aspects of mine closure are The Group purchased an iron ore resource in Liberia in 2011. An ESIA for WCL Liberia was adequately addressed.” completed in 2013 and an environmental permit was obtained for the mine and the related port and road project. The ESIA is Lisheen has submitted its annual statement to summer months). Their health was monitored uploaded on the official website of EPA the regulatory authorities in order to release regularly by a local veterinary doctor and blood Liberia as part of the disclosure of information money from the closure fund to pay for samples were taken to assess metal to stakeholders. rehabilitation work in 2014. concentration levels. Metal concentration in the blood has been demonstrated to be normal In order to prove that the TMF rehabilitation (tests conducted by the UK State Vet plots can support livestock, heifers have been Laboratory) and the animals have thrived on placed on the rehabilitated area of the TMF. the TMF. The animals were fed on grass grown on the Ireland cap. During the winter they were fed on baled After-care at Lisheen will span 30 years, with Lisheen mine closure silage (cut from TMF field plots during the an eight to ten-year monitoring period. The Lisheen mine is an underground lead and zinc mine located in north Tipperary, Ireland. Construction commenced in 1997 and the mine has been in production since 1999. The mine is currently expected to close in 2015. We are actively pursuing potential alternative industries and sustainable development projects for the mine site, to ensure a positive legacy is left and the socio-economic aspects of mine closure are adequately addressed. A task force made up of local government representatives, Lisheen staff and members of governmental industrial development agencies are already working in partnership to manage the closure of the site and creating new livelihood options for the community. A sub-committee of the Community Engagement Forum has joined with Lisheen staff to form a closure committee, which meets on a quarterly basis. The mine has been progressively rehabilitating the tailings management facility (TMF). Two phases of the TMF have been capped to date, amounting to 15 hectares, equivalent to 23% of the main TMF facility. Lisheen has given a commitment to the local community and to regulatory stakeholders to complete 60% of the cap for the main facility within the operational life of the mine, with the balance to be completed after the mine closes. It is planned to complete three additional phases in 2014, which will bring the rehabilitated area to 51%. A view of our Geragub (Namibia) greenfield project Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/sustainablemanagement-in-practice 23 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management Our journey… towards embedding a culture of zero harm Health and safety management is a material issue across all our operations. We owe a duty of care to every one of the people who work for us. Accordingly, we work to understand and respond to the health and safety risks our business faces, beginning with creating a culture of compliance based upon our Sustainability Framework and its required behaviours. This year we continued our journey to embed a All our subsidiaries run robust on-site training zero harm culture, with targeted programmes programmes for both employees and contract Looking forward Over the coming year, we commit to for our high-risk operations. Through our workforce (induction and job-based) achieving the following: Framework and our Vedanta Sustainability appropriate to the site’s operations and Assurance Programme (VSAP), we are creating contextual needs based on the linguistic and • Effective implementation of health and a consistent behavioural approach across all our literacy skills of local employees and contractors. safety guidance notes to strengthen the operations, regardless of geography, because During the reporting year, 81,000 man-hours of identified gaps we recognise that attitudes to health and safety training were delivered to our employees • For operations identified as needing safety can differ significantly across cultures. and contractors on subjects including working additional assistance, the VSAP process at heights, permit to work, job safety analysis, will occur twice a year Embedding a culture of zero harm first aid, incident reporting, behaviour-based We are guided by internationally recognised training Fall off Ground (FOG). • Behavioural-based safety initiatives to be standards on health and safety. All our rolled out at other businesses subsidiary businesses are obliged to ensure that We conduct occupational health and wellbeing • Undertaking a review of the Unsafe their safety management programmes meet programmes relevant to the identified risks of Conditions Elimination programme the requirements of the Framework. In addition, each operation. These include baseline health • Undertaking a visible leadership drive to 44 of our 52 sites are OHSAS 18001 certified. studies to identify key occupational health risks increase the positive impact of our Several mechanisms like monthly meetings, and steps to mitigate those risks, which are management team on safety culture safety alerts, leadership audits etc. are in place audited through our VSAP tool. Medical at Group, business and site level to manage screening is also provided to identify and • All subsidiary businesses to review health and safety issues. provide medical treatment of illnesses and their contractor management diseases relevant to the location, for example processes, enforcing compliance Training and communication and HIV (Zambia) and malaria (India and Zambia). with our expected standards reinforcement of health and safety messages are the main ways in which we embed a zero harm culture at our sites. We also work with our senior management team to ensure they are appropriately motivated to emphasise and reinforce this culture. Health and safety is a mandatory module in our HR training programme and health and safety outcomes are linked directly to remuneration to further emphasise its importance, as with other sustainability objectives. All injuries are recorded and all information related to the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), fatalities and key health issues are monitored and reviewed at the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee. 44 of our 52 sites are OHSAS 18001 certified Fire safety drill at our Cairn India operations Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 24 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management continued Health The industries in which we operate pose potential hazards to human health. We believe strongly in maintaining a healthy work force by minimising the potential impacts of exposure to these hazards. Our approach Support and recovery • We offer training and instruction on healthy Our approach to the occupational health of our • All our businesses are well equipped with lifestyles and disease prevention and workforce is structured within four areas: occupational health centres to treat illness treatment, with localised programmes for prevention, monitoring, support and recovery. and injuries in our workforce. Medical specific diseases such as HIV and malaria. insurance is provided to 100% of our full-time Health and wellness facilities, including All units maintain a health management employees whereas contract employees are on-site fitness centres, are provided and our system that minimises, as far as is reasonably covered by either Employee State Insurance weekly health tips by email at some of our practical, the hazards and risks of their (ESI) or through Group insurance/workmen’s businesses have also proved to be very operations to employees and contract workers. compensation. popular. Healthy living messages are We invest in technologically advanced reinforced in internal publications and our • Specific stress management programmes are processes that reduce possible exposure levels, health and wellness days and weeks address offered to groups of employees identified as workplace monitoring, including pollution specific themes. being at risk, such as our drivers and shop control equipment, effluent treatment and the floor operators who are exposed to • Regular sports programmes and proper storage of hazardous chemicals. high-noise areas. A new Hearing competitions for both employees and Prevention Conservation programme has been initiated, contractors promote healthy and active We provide first aid and occupational health which includes additional training to lifestyles and workforce engagement. training to employees and contractors along employees on the use of hearing protection (ear plugs or muffs) and an illustration of Community health with site-specific personal protective equipment noise levels to emphasise the importance of We understand our obligation to the families (PPE) and protective clothing. A number of hearing protection and the use of acoustic of our workforce and the communities that health and wellness programmes and support chambers for equipment. surround our operations. Accordingly, we offer services, including respiratory health and hearing them a wide range of on-site and out-reach conservation programmes, eye health checks, • The provision of on-site safety equipment, health and disease prevention and treatment ergonomic surveys and the promotion of healthy including chemical neutralising agents in programmes, which are discussed in more lifestyles (including smoking prevention, exercise, case of spills (and training in their use) and detail in the Community section. yoga and weight loss); various company heart defibrillators. publications and activities are also provided. Monitoring Health management begins with a preemployment medical check, followed by periodical medical check-ups with on-site medical professionals to monitor occupational exposure limits and disease, as appropriate. In FY 2014, around 150,000 medical examinations were conducted across all sites and a few cases of Musculo-Skeletal Syndrome and Noise Induced Hearing Loss (slight impairment) were identified. During the year periodic tests to ascertain the Occupational Exposure Limits (OELs) in the work environment (for example, noise, dust and heat), and studies of illumination levels, heat stress and manual handling are undertaken. Occupational health centre at BALCO Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 25 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management continued Safety We operate in challenging environments and while we have made many improvements in how we run our business, our rate of fatalities and serious injuries remains completely unacceptable, and below what we and others expect of a business of our scale and ambition. Work has been done to address this and we will continue to improve further through more rigorous training, scientific risk mitigation and constant reinforcement of our expectations, particularly by working closely with our contractors. Our approach Key Safety Focus Areas (KSFAs) To address these areas of risk we are: Our approach to achieving a zero harm culture • Work at height – awareness of risks related • Releasing specific guidance notes to address and environment begins with hazard to working at height and ensuring adherence each of the six identified risk areas identification and risk assessment. Management to the working at height standards • Releasing specific risk area audit templates to systems are designed to identify and remove • Fleet safety – aims at avoiding, reducing assess site compliance unsafe conditions, train our people in safe and minimising serious accidents associated • Mandating that our sites submit self-scored practices and ensure correct behaviour through with fleet movement. audit results against the template management leadership. • Lock out – Tag out (LOTO) – energy • Conducting monthly reviews of action plans Over the past three years we have adopted (electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic) isolation against the gaps identified a set of policies, technical standards and through a proper lock out – tag out system • Hiring external experts to assist businesses management processes to ensure a consistent • Machine guarding – management of improve processes in each of the six areas approach across our subsidiary businesses. hazards related to rotating and moving Ensuring compliance with these has been our • Targeting 100% KSFA compliance machinery main task this year, using our Vedanta • Permit to work – awareness and effective Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) tool. implementation of permit to work system Whilst we are still some way from achieving our safety goals, the rigorous compliance and audit • Pedestrian management – managing processes we now have in place are expected to pedestrian safety particularly near fleet and have a significant impact over the coming years. machinery In parallel with rolling out a unified set of processes and standards, a key tool used to raise our safety outcomes has been our Elimination of Unsafe Conditions Programme, which focuses on high-risk areas and processes, including conveyors, machine guarding, pressure vessels and welding machines. As of now almost 20,000 modifications have been made to mitigate risks. This year, we have further evolved our approach: through a rigorous analysis of safety gaps and further opportunities for rectification, achieved by applying our VSAP tool and using the assistance of external experts. As a result, we have identified six Key Safety Focus Areas (KSFAs) and have rolled out targeted programmes to directly address those risks. The areas were identified on the basis that approximately 75% of incidents causing lost time due to injury or fatalities fell within one of these six areas. Our KCM employees at work in underground operations Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 26 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management continued Safety continued CASE STUDY Safety excellence journey at Hindustan Zinc Limited As part of Hindustan Zinc Limited’s (HZL) drive to build a world-class safety culture, the business appointed DuPont to assess and understand HZL’s safety culture and assist the business in reaching its safety goals. Underlining the importance that HZL attaches to the project, the appointment is for a four-year term, which commenced in October 2013. Launched under the banner ‘Aarohan’ (journey towards excellence), the importance of HZL’s new safety journey was illustrated by those attending its commencement: senior HZL management, union representatives, government officials, senior management of DuPont and all HZL employees. A new safety mascot and the slogan ‘My Safety My Responsibility’ was launched, which will be used throughout the Company for all safety promotion activities and stakeholder communications. To support the initiative, HZL also launched a four-point engagement plan based on: • Engaging leadership and line management • Building strong foundations and safety management systems • Building skills, coaching and competency for the consistent implementation of the safety programme • Enhancing safety management systems and competency To date, activities have included: the formation of the Corporate Safety Council; an HZL leadership Engagement Alignment Session for top management; Felt leadership and values workshops; the training of 220 executives in leading safety efforts and incident investigation training. These activities along with a wide range of plans are designed to enable HZL to achieve a positive health and safety cultural transformation – leading directly to improved outcomes for its employee and contract workforce. Employees proceeding through decline at HZL operations At Cairn India, more than 4,000 people were trained in defensive driving, reducing their motor vehicle accident frequency rate to 0.07 from 0.49 per million km Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 27 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management continued Safety continued Embedding the safety culture To embed a culture of zero harm, we undertake regular, compulsory training; for example, all new Cairn India employees are required to attend a three-day training programme to cover specific on-site health, safety and environment (HSE) procedures. We also reinforce safety training messages on-site through infographics, other media and issue-specific safety days and weeks – including our ‘Perfect Day’ campaign at all rig sites. Below we provide an example of the communications calendar used by our Skorpion Zinc subsidiary business as part of their ongoing safety training and awareness campaign. Safety communication calendar – Skorpion Zinc mine Month Monthly safety topic for discussion Quarterly safety campaign April 13 Hot metals May 13 Chemical and hazardous substances ‘Leading with sustainability’ Going green, keeping it bright, saving energy, my green contribution June 13 Safety fundamentals July 13 Heavy mobile equipment and light vehicles August 13 Mechanical handling – crane and sling operations ‘Man in mirror campaign’ September 13 Safety fundamentals – slips, trips and falls October 13 Working at heights ‘It wasn’t me’ November 13 Energy and machinery isolation December 13 Heavy mobile equipment and light vehicles ‘Speeding!! What’s in it for me’ January 14 Accumulations of water and liquids February 14 Mining, quarrying and stockpile operations ‘My big three’ March 14 Confined spaces Specific activities undertaken in 2013-14 Safe behaviour initiatives in previous years. These programmes are an included: Konkola Copper Mine’s Fall of Ground We emphasise the importance of reporting important tool in creating a cultural mindset mine support education campaign which has near miss incidents and the identification of that embraces our goal to strive for zero harm been designed to prevent rock falls in mining unsafe behaviours. Safety training forms part of to our workers. For example, the Zero Incident operations; HZL’s utilisation of external our line manager HR induction programme and Process (ZIP) was introduced at Skorpion Zinc. consultants for specific training, including the safe behaviours are reinforced by senior leaders ZIP is a behaviour-based intervention to Indian School of Mines’ training on safe and and line managers’ who visibly ‘walk the talk’ empower the workforce to be safe in all aspects efficient blasting practices; a new behavioural on-site and monitor compliance. of their life and was facilitated by external safety tool rolled out at Hindustan Zinc, who experts. We also reinforce our expectations with also launched the AAROHAN safety drive in We continued to roll out behaviour-based a variety of programmes designed to stimulate association with DuPont; and mining simulators initiatives, building on the work we have done thinking and embed a culture of zero harm. installed at HZL’s RAM underground mine and at SKM. Our management of contractors continues to be an area that requires attention, and this year we continued to strengthen our approach, updating mandatory safety clauses in third-party contracts and focused on-site contractor safety training. In accordance with our suppliers and contractors technical standards which we have rolled out, contracts across all our operations are now to include a specific safety and sustainability checklist and criteria. Contracts can only be awarded to a vendor if the safety requirements as outlined are complied with. Safety briefing and activity preparation talk at TSPL operation Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 28 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Health and safety management continued Safety continued Road safety Road safety continues to be a priority for the business due to the ongoing risks it presents to employees, contractors and the public. This year our road safety programmes continued, including multiple road safety week celebrations across our subsidiary businesses. These included Sesa Sterlite Jharsuguda celebrating a road safety week, which included coaching the community and the drivers regarding road safety. Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) signed a memorandum of understanding with Rajasthan Parivahan Nirikshak Sangh (RPNS) and the All India Federation of Motor Vehicle Departments to create the Rajasthan Road Safety Awareness Mission. HZL provided the financial assistance for a safety van, and RPNS are administering an awareness campaign which will encompass HZL units, schools and nearby villages. At Cairn India, more than 4,000 people were trained in defensive driving, adding Road safety week celebration at SSL-Jharsuguda operation to the 2,000 trained last year. This is having a significant impact on Cairn’s motor vehicle accident rate (MVARF) which is currently at LTIF rates (operations and projects) Lost time injury frequency 0.07 per million kilometres, a significant improvement on the rate before training 0.54 rate (LTIFR) in the reporting commenced, and a further improvement on last year’s recorded rate of 0.49 per million km. 0.86 0.83 period of 0.54 (excluding Safety performance 2013-14 projects), a 2% decrease There has been an overall declining trend in the 0.55 incident rates experienced by the Group with 0.54 compared to last year a lost time injury frequency (LTIF) rate in the reporting period of 0.68 (excluding projects), a 6% decrease compared to last year, accounting for 5,566 man-days lost. Regrettably, however, we did experience 19 fatalities in 2013-14 (11 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 in India, four in Africa, one in Ireland and three in Australia). This is of great concern to the business, with any fatality a tragedy for all concerned. Each subsidiary company’s CEO or COO presented a detailed appraisal of the root CASE STUDY causes of each fatality to the Board’s Sustainability Committee and updated them CASHe – Change Agent for Safety, Health & Environment on action plans in response. Sesa Sterlite Aluminium Division – Jharsuguda introduced a new initiative called Behaviour-Based Safety (BBS). To achieve the Group aim to create a zero In 2013-14, around 68% of the fatalities were harm culture, BBS seeks to create a positive HSE culture within operations, and due to a fall from height (6), fall of ground (4) CASHe was introduced in July 2013 as a tool to achieve this goal. and electrical (2). To mitigate risks in these areas, we have released Working at Height and CASHe of workshops conducted by a professor of psychology who led lock out – tag out guidance notes, with fall of discussions and training on creating a culture of safe and healthy working. ground guidance notes in preparation and The workshop was attended by 550 employees and was supported by the expected to be released in 2014-15. These launch of an online BBS reporting system and the formation of a Jharsuguda guidance notes are designed to strengthen the plant committee. The committee was tasked to lead awareness sessions of BBS sites’ risk mitigation in accordance with global and to emphasise importance of reporting breaches of accepted behaviours. best practice, supported by a 100% compliance drive to prevent further incidents in these areas. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/health-and-safetymanagement 29 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management Our journey.... towards protecting the environment Environmental management forms a key component of our Sustainability Framework and is applied to the entire lifecycle of all our operations with processes mapped against international standards. We strive to achieve a culture beyond As part of continual improvement, we planned Environment incidents compliance when it comes to environmental to obtain ISO 14001 certification at all our sites We strive for zero environmental incidents and management. In this we are supported by the and 45 of our 52 operations are now certified, have a robust internal process, including policies, technical standards and guidance with three additional sites obtaining categorising incidents according to severity, for notes we have in place through our Framework certification in 2013-14. ISO 14001 managing any incident that does occur. to manage biodiversity, energy and carbon, accreditation helps us to regularly review the Subsidiary businesses monitor, report and water, health, safety and waste issues. For the environmental management system (EMS) and investigate all incidents with the aim of applying material environmental issues arising from the we have programmes in place to mitigate the lessons learnt, to prevent the recurrence of similar materiality process, we have developed specific identified environmental impacts of our events, and share learning across the Group. objectives and targets. We review the products and services. In addition, building on performances of these issues on a periodic the ISO 50001 certification of our SSL – Our internal system of incident reporting basis, particularly with regard to energy and Lanjigarh operations, this year our SSL Copper categorises them according to their severity, from water management, and our management (Tuticorin and Silvassa), SSL – Jharsuguda one (lowest) to five (highest/most significant), teams are given training to embed their and SSL – Jharsuguda IPP businesses also with the Sustainability Committees and understanding of how to meet the Framework obtained their ISO 50001 certification. Executive Committee reviewing category four requirements. We spent US$57 million on environmental and five incidents on a quarterly basis whereas management improvement projects across all incidents are reviewed in Group environment Environment management the businesses. meetings on a monthly basis. We understand that the nature of our operations has implications for the environment The robustness of our EMS and ISO During the reporting period, we did not in different ways – through the emission of implementation is assessed using VSAP, with experience any category five incidents and only particulates, wastes generated in mining, five of the 16 modules specifically addressing experienced one category four incident at our refining and smelting processes, water environmental management. All our subsidiary Hindustan Zinc plant, that is described on the consumption and changes in land use. We are businesses have been assessed against these following page. committed to minimising our environmental modules and gaps were identified in energy, footprint from the start of operations to closure water management, greenhouse gas (GHG) Category 4 and 5 incidents and beyond. emissions and biodiversity. All our businesses have put in place action plans to close these 1 gaps in 2014-15. Building on the ISO 50001 In accordance with our Sustainability 5 certification of our SSL Framework, we also conduct Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) across – Lanjigarh operations, all new projects. An update on our ESIA progress this year is available in the this year our SSL Copper – Sustainability Risk Management section, 1 1 which includes the environmental clearance Tuticorin and Silvassa, SSL of our Gamsberg project in South Africa and 1 1 – Jharsuguda and SSL – other project updates. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Jharsuguda IPP businesses Category 4 Category 5 also obtained their ISO 50001 certification Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 30 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued We are committed to minimising our environmental footprint from the start of operations to closure and beyond Acid spill at Hindustan Zinc In January 2014, an acid tanker carrying sulphuric acid overturned while negotiating a sharp turn on a village road near our plant boundary. The tanker casing was cracked, causing the entire concentrated sulphuric acid to spill on barren land. Remediation was immediate, by spreading approximately 50 tonnes of lime to neutralise the acid content in the soil. The affected soil was removed and was disposed in a secure landfill. Further, soil samples were collected from the affected area, and tested and found to be normal following our actions. Several corrective and preventive actions, like assessment of a driver’s skill, training and coaching, review of tanker integrity systems and widening of roads have been taken to ensure safe driving in the future. SSL-Copper update With reference to the Madras High Court case Our reclaimed senquilim mine at Sesa Sterlite – Iron division wherein the Supreme Court in 2013 appointed an independent investigation team – consisting of the National Environmental Engineering Looking forward Research Institute (NEERI), the Tamil Nadu Although not all the environmental targets were met in 2013-14, we are very encouraged Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and the that our management teams have embraced and undertaken different environmental Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) – it was initiatives. Over the coming year, we commit to achieving the following: found that the business meets all the required standards. Based on the NEERI Report of 2005, • Closing of gaps identified by VSAP wherein certain parameters were found to be • Working closely with our subsidiary businesses to ensure all environmental exceeding the standard, the Supreme Court targets are met of India ordered SSL Copper to deposit US$18 • The finalisation of Biodiversity Management Plans (BMPs) to achieve our million with the Collector, Tuticorin as a fixed 2015-16 target deposit in a nationalised bank, the interest on • Improving the waste management recycling rate, in particular for fly ash which will be spent on suitable environmental improvement measures in the vicinity of • Reviewing our GHG emissions plans and performance the plant. • Managing new projects in accordance with our Framework Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 31 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Water We recognise the value of water as an increasing global concern and are conscious of the impact of its use in mining, smelting and refining and at our power plants. The water we use comes from a variety of sources, including ground, surface, rainfall and municipality supplies. Water management is a material issue for our Cairn India’s operations utilise the abundant Water withdrawal and discharge business because many of our operations are supply of sub-surface saline water to meet its During the reporting period, we withdrew in water-scarce areas. For those that are not operational and domestic water needs, with more than 340 MCM from natural and artificial in water-scarce areas (such as Konkola Copper water required for injection into the reservoir to water sources and more than 235 MCM of Mines, Copper Mines of Tasmania and Lisheen) maintain hydrocarbon reservoir pressure. In the water is used in our operations. None of the we also ensure we have programmes in place Rajasthan block, the Central Ground Water natural water sources is being affected by to protect this precious resource. Authority (CGWA) has approved saline water our water withdrawal as all of our operations abstraction. An extensive and ongoing ground withdraw less than 5% of the source. In Water management water monitoring programme is in place to addition, none of these water sources is Our approach is outlined in our water policy and track the behaviour of the reservoir due to the designated as a protected area, either delivered through our water management proposed abstraction. Cairn works closely with nationally or internationally. standard. We facilitate the integration of water the government and the regulators to ensure management into decision-making processes that data is transparently shared and that its Most of our operational processes have been for new and existing projects, which helps ensure activities do not pose any risk to the fresh water designed to be ‘zero discharge’ facilities, where all necessary measures to avoid or minimise resource of the region, with the fresh water the generated waste water is treated and and, in some cases, compensate for the impacts requirements of the plant being met by the completely recycled back into process areas for of our projects are taken. This includes an desalination of saline water. Importantly, early cooling and other applications. In addition to obligation for all our subsidiary businesses to in the project’s lifecycle the ‘first right’ of local these initiatives, effluent and sewage treatment conduct a basic water screening assessment to communities to fresh water was respected. plants are installed at many locations for identify sensitive water resources, aquatic reusing water at primary locations. habitats and any known or suspected water At our BALCO plant, improving the reliability resource constraints in proximity to each of our dyke water recirculation pump resulted Due to the high water table in Zambia, Ireland operation. Most of our subsidiary businesses in total saving of 200 cubic metres of water and Australia our subsidiary businesses withdraw have prepared a Water Resources Management per day. and dewater (remove) a large quantity of water Plan (WRMP) to eliminate, minimise, mitigate from their underground mines. Approximately During FY 2013-14, water conservation efforts 60% of the water withdrawn (around 205 MCM) and manage impacts on water resources. across Vedanta subsidiaries successfully led to is discharged into nearby water bodies. All waste Initiatives on water management nearly 60 MCM of water recycling which is one water discharge complies with applicable Rain water harvesting is undertaken by HZL, quarter of our total water requirement in our regulatory limits and at all sites waste water is SSL – Jharsuguda and SSL – Copper and Iron operations. The total water saving for the year treated in effluent treatment plants. Metals are ore divisions. For many years our Iron Ore amounts to 2.52 MCM. precipitated by addition of lime and flocculants division has met its water requirement through with the use of sediment ponds. For our Cairn harvesting rain water. India business, the total volume of produced water amounts to 17 MCM of which approx. Total water withdrawal (m3) 16 MCM is reinjected back into the system. Ground water Surface water Rainwater Utility Unit Name 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 Zinc India 3,606,625 4,031,287 21,462,806 21,367,857 46,079 170,914 39,947* 46,910 Zinc International 28,223,280 27,271,024 2,704,625 7,181,557 0 0 0 0 Copper India/Australia 2,879,788 12,657 4,318,291 7,247,107 0 0 0 1,451,826 Copper Zambia 163,557,718 149,249,607 29,952,521 28,303,077 0 0 0 0 Aluminium 60,280 60,280 43,483,899 46,828,348 0 0 0 0 Power 0 0 30,211,342 28,769,936 0 0 0 0 Iron Ore 132,286 182,213 2,175,577 806,261 435,470 4,168,390 141,212 105,906* Oil & Gas 11,301,451 14,068,904 0 0 0 0 115,584 73,631 Total 209,761,428 194,875,971 134,309,060 140,504,143 481,549 4,339,304 296,743 1,678,273 * FY 2012-13 number for Iron Ore business restated Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 32 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Water continued Total Group water consumption (m3) Total Group water recycling (m3) Total water recycling rate (%) 24% 25% 22% 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Total Group water consumption and water recycled (m3) 2013-14 2012-13 Unit Name Water used Water recycled % Water used Water recycled % Zinc India 36,065,047 11,725,329 33 34,223,606 10,031,900 29 Zinc International 6,555,006 766,404 12 6,637,120 730,325 11 Copper India/Australia 6,395,981 406,441 6 93,748,234 458,081 6 Copper Zambia 82,658,686 23,063,987 28 53,539,673 30,725,152 33 Aluminium India 49,410,509 6,700,978 14 30,135,072 7,166,888 13 Power 26,436,302 1,307,113 5 28,769,936 2,301,105 8 Iron Ore India 3,884,545 0 0 7,537,184* 2,274,413 30 Oil & Gas 27,851,997 16,434,962 59 22,080,547 7,912,649 36 Total 238,258,073 60,405,214 25 256,835,798 61,600,512 24 * FY 2012-13 number for Iron Ore business restated CASE STUDY Suspended solids discharge reduction – Konkola Copper Mines Our Konkola Mine is one of the wettest in the world so the primary • Prevent pollution of the receiving water bodies focus has been on reducing water discharges, increasing recycling The project identified three steps to achieve the reduction in TSS: rates and improving quality of water. refurbishment of existing underground settlers; desilting of Between January 2009 and August 2011, the Konkola Mine chocked drain drives; installation of slurry pumps to reduce the generated and discharged over 8 MCM of water with desludging period from over eight months to three weeks. an average of 190mg/l total suspended solids (TSS) through the Between 2010 the time of writing, over $US22 million has been combined discharge drain – almost double the statutory limit of spent on these projects and the following positive results achieved: 100mg/l. More than 95% of this water comes from underground during dewatering of mines. The high TSS impacts the • TSS levels in the effluent are now compliant with regulations environment as well as the cost of pumping. Futher, the at below 100 mg/l discharge water could not be utilised for domestic use. • Wear and tear on the pumping infrastructure is notably reduced due to improved water quality which lessens abrasive impacts A project was initiated to reduce the levels of TSS to: • The river upstream and downstream is once again a reliable • Reduce the costs associated with pumping, electricity and wear water resource for irrigation, fishing and transportation for the and tear of pumping infrastructure communities that live along its banks. • Reduce suspended solids from the underground water prior to discharge into natural water courses Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 33 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Water continued “Most of our operational processes have been designed to be ‘zero change’ facilities, while the generated waste water is treated and recycled back into the process areas.” CASE STUDY Removing ammonia from water discharge at Lisheen mine Discharge due to nitrogen entering the mine from overlying peat bogs was an issue identified at our Lisheen mine. This challenge was caused by the large volume of water that needs to be treated. The mine produces in the region of 75,000 MCM water each day and ammonia concentration in this water (prior to any treatment) is in the order of 1.5mg/l. The licence limit is 1mg/l (as nitrogen). We requested permission from the Environmental Protection Agency to construct engineered wetlands to provide a passive natural attenuation for site water discharge. This was granted and plants (reeds or phragmites) were taken from various areas around the site and nitrifying bacteria were added to the site discharge to help seed the wetlands with bacteria and initiate the ammonia removal process, which has been successful. Artificial wetland at our Lisheen Mine Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 34 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Biodiversity Understanding our biodiversity impact is important for us because of the potential scale of our projects and their environmental footprint, and has been identified as a material issue for our business. Our biodiversity policy obliges all subsidiary proximity to protected International Union for restoration methods in nearby areas which businesses to facilitate the integration of Conservation of Nature (IUCN) areas, important are recognised as being of international biodiversity and ecosystem conservation into bird areas and key biodiversity hot spots. conservation importance due to their high decision-making processes for new and existing Progress has been made across all our subsidiary level of endemism and high plant diversity. operations. It also helps to ensure that all businesses to engage experts and establish In addition, our Hindustan Zinc business necessary measures are taken to avoid, biodiversity management plans to meet our FY developed an in-house nursery for the minimise and, in some cases, compensate for 2015-16 deadline. All our high priority sites like conservation of biodiversity, which included the impacts of our projects. With the help of the HZL, SZ, KCM and BMM either have initiated or community involvement. This year as a Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT), already have BMP in place. restoration approach we planted 3.5 million we have reviewed all operations to identify plant samplings. which of our sites are operating within close This year, as part of its BAP, Skorpion Mine has set up restoration trials to develop appropriate Rehabilitation nursery at our Skorpion Zinc mine Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 35 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Energy and climate change Understanding the risks and opportunities of climate change and our energy consumption profile is a key consideration in our energy intensive industry, and is a material issue for our business. We recognise that we have both social and Key energy reduction and efficiency efficiency improvement projects at SSL – economic responsibility to take action to reduce initiatives in 2013-14 Jharsuguda, KCM, HZL, SSL – Copper, BALCO our footprint and to engage constructively on We have been constantly making efforts to and other subsidiary businesses. climate change issues. By understanding the generate electricity from waste heat and to be risks and opportunities of climate change, and Two of our operations (KCM and CMT) have self-reliant in our power needs. In 2013 we how these affect the organisation, we can purchased electricity from renewable energy increased our installed capacity to 139 MW, up reduce our own impact on the environment sources (hydro power stations), meaning from 91 MW in 2012, allowing for greater and make a positive contribution to the debate. 2.1% of total energy is from renewable energy. efficiency in our operational energy usage. During the reporting period our Cairn India Our energy and carbon policy (available to view SSL – Jharsuguda has introduced a range of operation invested US$0.19 million in in the Policies section of our corporate website) energy and carbon emission reduction steps renewable energy and generated 275 GJ commits our operations to adopting and including the reduction of smelter-specific direct of renewable energy. In the FY 2013-14, maintaining global best practices in carbon current energy consumption through the 40 solar powered lights were installed at our and energy management and to minimise implementation of slotted anodes. At BALCO Raageshwari Gas Terminal (RGT) and 41 solar greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We use automation in the melting furnace and cooling powered lights were installed at our Bhagyam technology to maximising efficiencies and tower resulted in savings of more than 750,000 facility in Rajasthan. take steps to diversify our energy portfolio and thousand GJ in the reporting period. In total water sources. There are direct economic during 2013-14, we saved more than 1.72 benefits to be gained by running our business million GJ of energy due to conservation and efficiently, as well as opportunities for revenue generation through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). During the reporting period, we identified CDM projects with a CER of 1.4 million units. These, projects with 1.05 million potential units are already registered on UNFCCC while projects with 0.36 million units are at an active stage of implementation. In 2013-14 around 0.54 million units CER accrued. To add additional robustness to our energy programmes, subsidiary businesses are upgrading existing business management systems to allow accreditation to the energy standard ISO 50001. During the reporting period SSL – Tuticorin, SSL – Silvassa, SSL – Jharsuguda & Sterlite Energy Limited obtained ISO 50001 certification, with this achievement being used as a model for the rest of our operations. HZL operates around 273mw of wind turbine assets Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 36 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Energy and climate change continued We use technology to maximise efficiencies and take steps to diversify our energy portfolio and water sources. We also installed 32 light-controlled timers Scope 1 emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) Scope 2 emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) at the Bhagyam facility to save electricity. Several operations, including SSL – Lanjigarh and our Copper divisions, switched off loaded electrical equipment during the plant shut-down period which also resulted in energy savings. At our Cairn business, we currently use associated gas at the Mangala Processing Terminal to generate power for our operational facilities. The excess associated gas is flared at the assets where gas sales infrastructure does not exist. We have undertaken a project to compress and condition the excess gas. Post-conditioning, this gas will be commingled and exported with the Raageshwari gas for sale Zinc India 4,576,813 Zinc India 174,083 to our gas customers. This will help in conserving Zinc International 40,034 Zinc International 770,296 energy and reducing GHG emissions. For the Copper India/Australia 1,230,907 Copper India/Australia 174,593 reporting period, the volumes of flared and Copper Zambia 110,512 Copper Zambia 13,513 vented hydrocarbon emissions from Cairn operations were approximately Aluminium 18,317,289 Aluminium 15,419 38.47 million m3 and 1.09 million m3. Power 9,243,526 Power 6,444 Iron ore 1,378,925 Iron ore 5,515 We have also focused our efforts on the Oil & Gas 1,051,143 Oil & Gas 7,347 reduction of indirect consumption of energy due Total 35,949,149 Total 1,167,209 to business travel by installing tele-presence links with all our producing assets and encourage employees to use them effectively. This initiative has helped reduce travel time and costs, road travel risk and travel-related GHG emissions. Carbon Disclosure Project Direct and indirect energy (million GJ) We disclose our environmental performance to the Carbon Disclosure Project, and our score again improved this year to 82 points and a performance grade B. This saw Vedanta ranked ninth among 31 FTSE 350 companies in the materials category. 13 342 13 ct: 13 13 331 Year Disclosure Score and Performance Grade 2010-11 54C 2011-12 62C 2012-13 76D 2013-14 82B 219 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Indirect Direct Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 37 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Air quality Emissions through our processes are a material issue for our business because of the numerous extractive and resource processing activities we undertake. Vedanta has an environmental management SSL – Copper has installed an Open-path 2013-14 Significant emissions (MT) standard which commits our operations to Fence Line Monitoring system at a cost of identifying and managing emissions to air from US$0.31 million, to further strengthen the Emissions from stacks point sources, fugitive sources, and mobile ambient air quality monitoring across all four 128,157 sources, as well as from process activities boundaries of the plant. This is in addition to associated with combustion and materials the existing eight traditional ambient air storage. We require all our operations to apply quality monitoring stations placed around air quality prevention and mitigation measures. the boundary. The system works on the principle of UV Differential Optical Absorption Across the Group, we monitor air quality and Spectroscopy to monitor sulphur dioxide (SOx) 6,066 the effects and implications that this may have 33,995 and Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emission along the for employees, local communities and the four sides of our factory operation. Further, our environment. Air emission monitoring includes SSL – Jharsuguda business thermal powerplant PM SOx NOx both ambient air quality monitoring (AAQM) has completed hybridisation of all its 2013-14 2013-14 2013-14 and stack emissions monitoring. In general, as electrostatic precipitators with bag filters, part of ESIA studies, the baseline ambient air making it one of the best in terms of air monitoring data is collected within a 10km emissions from the stacks. radius of the plant site. The monitoring locations are selected based on considerations including meteorological conditions on a synoptic basis, topography of the study area and areas most likely to be impacted. Suspended particulate matter (SPM), SOx and NOx are generally monitored as part of AAQM. The AAQM reports are regularly submitted to the regulatory authorities. In relation to stack emissions of particulate matter, emissions are legally regulated at most of our operations and are monitored to ensure compliance. We also monitor SOx and NOx and other relevant emissions including lead emissions in our zinc operations, fluoride emissions in our copper and aluminium operations and poly aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in our aluminium operations. Our significant emissions include SOx, NOx, and PM and are summarised in the graph above right. Other emissions include fluoride emissions (136MT), lead emissions (39MT) and PAH emissions (4MT) and VOC emissions from our Hybridisation of ESPs with bag filters at SSL – Jharsuguda Cairn India operations (111MT). Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 38 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Management of raw materials and waste Our mining and smelting/refinery operations generate significant amounts of non-hazardous waste and some hazardous waste. The bulk is mineral waste, generated by the mining of ore and its processing and the smelting of metals. We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage our waste in constructive ways. Waste management Our hazardous waste generation includes used/ Amount of waste generated (million MT) We have in place a Resource Use and Waste spent oil, waste refractories, spent pot lining Management Technical Standard and and residual sludge from smelters. Hazardous wastes are stored in authorised, licensed and XX supporting guidance notes. Our main priority is to reduce both the quantity and toxicity of our secured landfills, while some have value and are 0.78 waste, followed by recovery, reuse and recycling, sold to authorised recyclers. 0.64 with disposal in landfill or by incineration 0.64 During the reporting period the quantity of 9.37 viewed as a last choice, and the technical 8.36 hazardous and non-hazardous waste we standard obliges our subsidiary businesses to generated was approximately 7.76 million tonnes. 7.08 systematically identify these opportunities wherever practicable. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 The key non-hazardous wastes we generate Details (generation in million MT) include fly ash (from captive and merchant Overburden 185 179 107 power plants), red mud (aluminium refinery Tailings 36 35 32 waste), jarosite/jarofix (from zinc smelting), slag, 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 lime grit (process residues from smelters and Hazardous alumina refineries) and phosphor gypsum Non-hazardous (phosphoric acid plant). CASE STUDY Red Mud Powder Plant at SSL – Lanjigarh Red mud is a waste produced from the refining of bauxite to produce alumina as raw material for the electrolysis of aluminium. It cannot be disposed of easily and tends to be pumped into holding ponds, taking up land area that cannot be built on or farmed, even when dry. At our Lanjigarh operations, to resolve this issue we have created a new red mud disposal system to convert the liquid mud into solid cakes that can then be converted into useful products, including for cement production and pig iron production, as well as conversion into lightweight aggregates – all with the aim that our alumina plant will become the first such zero waste refinery in the world. This will lead to the complete elimination of the wet red mud pond and reduce the related risks to the environment. Additional benefits will include an improvement in alumina recovery and the development of by-product recovery projects for valuable resources such as titanium and iron. Red Mud Power Plant at SSL – Lanjigarh Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 39 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Environmental management continued Management of raw materials and waste continued Waste utilisation and performance Material transportation In 2013-14, more than 1.5 million metric Our product movements take place through sea, rail and roadways. Standard process is followed for all tonnes (MT) of slag were used in various useful activities ensuring complete protection to product and environment. However, there is still a possibility applications like road construction, land of environmental impacts like dust emission during transportation and handling of material like levelling and in the abrasive and cement bauxite, coal, lime, alumina etc., dust during vehicle movement inside plant premises. To minimise industries; nearly 4.75 million MT of fly ash these impacts businesses have installed bag filters and dry fog systems with proper water sprinklers. from our power plants was sent to nearby Further, all trucks are covered with tarpaulin to ensure no spillage and dust generation. cement and brick manufacturing units together with land levelling; 0.96 million MT of gypsum from our SSL Copper – Tuticorin plant was utilised in cement, fertilisers and brick manufacturing; and nearly 0.4 million MT of red mud from our BALCO plant (old stock) was used in road construction and brick manufacturing. In the reporting period around 107 million MT of overburden and 32 million MT of tailings were produced. Much of our generated overburden is used in secondary construction work, for example, in raising tailing dam heights, and back-filling mined out areas and exhausted mine pits. At our Cairn operation, around 39,578 MT of drill mud and cuttings were produced using Dust suppression measures on haulage roads at HZL mine non-aqueous drilling fluid and were disposed onshore. Consumption of all raw material (million MT) Raw materials Raw materials consumed in our operations Raw material Semi-manufactured Asso material Packaging Unit name (solid and liquid) (solid and liquid) (solid and liquid) material include bauxite, copper ore/concentrate, zinc, Zinc India 9,462,747 24,414 398,816 840 iron and lead ore and their associated mineral inputs, semi-manufactured and packaging Zinc International 4,444,165 – 275,158 – material. During the year, 30 million MT of raw Copper India/Australia 1,808,701 1,069,383 1,923,160 117 material, 4 million MT of associated materials, Copper Zambia 11,241,240 16,186,812 819,469 335 and 19 million MT of semi-manufactured Aluminium 1,646,569 1,244,129 135,098 272 materials were consumed. Iron Ore 1,376,969 610,848 172,543 – During the reporting period, more than 225 MT Total 29,980,392 19,135,585 3,724,245 1,564 of rejected copper coil, copper cast bar, and milling chips were recycled in our Sterlite unit. Our consumption of bauxite has been affected by the limited availability of the resource at Sesa Sterlite – Lanjigarh alumina refinery. We continue to work with the Odisha state authorities (OMC) for the allocation of other bauxite alternatives nearby; however, as of writing, the Lanjigarh refinery is running at its full capacity of 1 MMTPA and is getting bauxite from other states in India and from overseas. Water sprinkling system at Lanjigarh Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/responsible-stewardship/environmental-management 40 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Our journey… towards building strong relationships In this section Stakeholder engagement 43 Human rights 47 Community engagement and resettlement 48 Sustainable livelihood beneficiaries at a village near BALCO operations 41 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Building Strong Relationships… the cornerstone of long-lasting partnerships Strong, productive relationships enable us to add and share value with our stakeholders. Successful engagement with people and organisations that are interested in our business can also lead to the identification of new areas where we can find and unlock additional value, as well as assist us in the important process of risk identification and mitigation. Responsible Stewardship Long-term sustainability Adding and Building Strong Sharing Value Relationships Materiality matrix specific to the Building Strong Relationships section High • Human rights and rights of indigenous people • Land and resettlement Relevance to stakeholders • Child and forced labour • Community engagement and impact Low Low Relevance to Vedanta management High 42 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Stakeholder engagement Our journey… towards nurturing and maintaining relationships Stakeholder engagement equips us to proactively build trust in our business, identify opportunities and build relationships with our stakeholders. We have in place a systematic approach to relationship and stakeholder management, and this has been the key methodology of our materiality process, where we formally engage with the identified seven main stakeholder groups who have significant interests in our operations. Communities Host governments Employees Vedanta Industry Shareholders Civil society Lenders We undertook our periodic engagement with stakeholders again in 2014 and the detailed results are described in the Materiality section of this report. In addition to our formal materiality undertaking, we also have regular two-way engagement with our stakeholders. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/stakeholder-engagement 43 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Stakeholder engagement continued Communities Communities Significance to the business Identified material aspects • Vital to the business’s licence to operate • Community engagement initiatives • Infrastructure projects • Land and resettlement Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Community group meetings • 4.1 million beneficiaries via integrated development • Village council meetings (panchayats) programmes • Public hearings • Stakeholder engagement process as per the Framework is being followed • Grievance mechanisms • Grievance mechanism in place • Cultural events • All land and resettlement to follow the process laid down in the Framework Employees Significance to the business Identified material aspects Employees • Key assets in delivering operational capabilities • Training and leadership development • Deliver business goals and targets • Gender and regional diversity • Workplace safety Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Various forums: Chairman’s workshops, • Launched technical ACT-UP process across the business CEO meetings and feedback sessions for providing further technical training • Performance management systems • Accelerated Development Process initiated to identify • Various committees at the plant level: mentor future leaders across the business programme, event management committee and • Peer benchmarking done for pay and promotions welfare committee, women’s clubs etc • Preference for women and regional hiring • Trainings and behavioural-based programme initiated Shareholders Significance to the business Identified material aspects • Provide finance • Economic performance • Provide a critical assessment of management • Dividends Shareholders competencies • ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) compliance • Corporate governance Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Regular updates and investor meetings • US$4,491.2m EBITDA, US$508.4m dividends • Site visits and presentations (Total Vedanta and Group companies) • Annual General Meeting • Successful completion of Scott Wilson recommendations • Conferences • Addition of new non-executive independent • Dedicated contact channel ir@vedanta.co.in Board members Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/stakeholder-engagement 44 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Stakeholder engagement continued Lenders Significance to the business Identified material aspects • Provide finance • Economic performance • Ensure right management systems are followed • ESG compliance • Adherence to international standards for new projects • Sustainability risk management Lenders Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Meetings • US$12,945m turnover • Presentations • Successful completion of all Scott Wilson • Site visits recommendations • All new projects are carried out as per the Framework (and International Finance Committee standards) • VSAP process in place Civil society Significance to the business Identified material aspects • Provide a critical eye to the business’s operation • Partnership • Provide technical support to the learning and • Community development development of the business • Human rights compliance • Child labour and forced labour Civil society Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Partnerships with and membership of international • More than 250 partnerships with non-government organisations organisations, schools, academic and government • Working relationships with organisations on bodies specific projects • Sustainability Committee reviewed human rights • Engagement with international, national and and child labour risk assessment local NGOs Industry (suppliers, customers and peers) Significance to the business Identified material aspects • Facilitators for product development • Contractual integrity • Suppliers and customers are directly linked with the • Supply chain management Industry business and growth • Collective bargaining • Vital for development of regulations and standards, • Supplier and customer relationships lobbying, working processes Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Customer satisfaction surveys • SAP-supplier and contractor management systems • Supplier and vendor meetings rolled out to facilitate transparency • Membership of industry bodies • Collective bargaining agreement with non-supervisory staff is followed at ZI, CMT, HZL, BALCO, KCM and Sesa Sterlite – Iron Ore division Host governments Significance to the business Identified material aspects Host governments • Provide the regulatory framework (taxation, licensing, • Economic performance infrastructure, economic playing field for growth) in • Community development which the business exists • Environmental initiatives • Partners in development projects Nature of engagement Engagement activities in 2013-14 • Participation in government consultation programmes • US$5.3m payment to exchequers • Engagement with national, state and regional • US$49m in community development government bodies at business operational level • US$56m spent in environmental improvement projects Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/stakeholder-engagement 45 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Stakeholder engagement continued Managing and responding to and at all relevant public places for the routed through the Chief Sustainability our stakeholders stakeholders’ scrutiny and feedback. Officer and his team for response. As our business grows and evolves, identifying Similarly, the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for WCL – Liberia All the issues, feedback points and grievances and actively managing a large number of has been successfully completed and was raised are recorded and contribute to our complex relationships must be carefully planned. also made available online. continual monitoring and understanding Each stakeholder or group must be managed of stakeholders’ interests and ultimately according to the potential impacts, risks to stakeholders, and associated risks. In accordance Responding to stakeholder concerns become part of stakeholders’ feedback used We have a dedicated public email address – in our materiality exercise. with our Stakeholder Engagement Technical sustainability@vedanta.co.in – available for Standard and the aims of our overarching social We also proactively meet with key stakeholder sending sustainability and grievance queries policy, Stakeholder Engagement Plans (SEPs) are groups including civil society organisations, media on Vedanta or any of its Group companies. now in place at all our subsidiary businesses and and industry associations, to increase awareness It is being managed by the Group Chief our VSAP tool is being used to ensure the SEPs about our business, explain our point of view and Sustainability officer and team who respond are appropriate for both the business and answer queries. We also publish in-house journals to stakeholders at the business and operational operational context. and newsletters, such as Zinc News and Yagna, levels as appropriate, guided by our Framework. to engage with employees, our wider industry The formal and documented stakeholder At the Group level, our Group Chief and communities and host governments. engagement process is followed for all existing Sustainability Officer and his team are and new projects. In 2013-14, all of our Group ultimately responsible for responding to businesses started formally recording all stakeholder expectations and meeting stakeholders’ concerns and at business level we have a structured external and internal In 2013-14, all of our outcomes. In our new projects, such as Gergarub, Namibia and Western Clusters, grievance mechanism. Group businesses started Liberia, an extensive SEP was followed. This included commissioning of baseline studies, Similarly, all emails and correspondence regarding our sustainable development formally recording all public consultation meetings and meetings with authorities. The draft scoping report for initiatives received by corporate functions like Corporate Communications and Investor stakeholder expectations the Gergarub project was made available online Relations teams are being forwarded to or and meeting outcomes. CASE STUDY Amazing champions of energy – Engagement exercise by Cairn India In the second half of 2013, Cairn India undertook its second The success of engaging students through ACE II was illustrated season of the ‘Amazing Champions of Energy’ (ACE II) student by over 4,000 responses to our teaser questions on Facebook engagement programme. The programme encompassed within 24 hours of launch, over 350 case study submissions and 25 leading campuses in nine Indian states. ACE II involved around more than 200,000 unique views on the ACE Facebook page. In 20,000 students, more than triple the number of students who total, ACE II received over 1,100 registrations and 670 submissions participated in the first season of ACE in January 2013. They were for the case study challenge on the topic ‘Subsidy or Subsidy challenged to work on an energy problem and attended onAdministration – Which is a bigger problem for India?’ campus talks. The event culminated in a nationally televised final on the eve of India Republic Day in January 2014. More than 75 students across 21 campuses presented their case studies and a jury panel assessed all the presentations to select the winners. Team ISB from Mohali was declared the winner followed by runners-up from Team MNIT, Jaipur and IIM, Calcutta. Young students award-winners in the ACE II initiative Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/stakeholder-engagement 46 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Human rights Our journey… towards recognising and respecting human rights Our human rights policy is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on business and human rights and includes a ban on child or forced labour – either directly or through contract labour. Additionally, our Code of Conduct commits us to comply with all relevant national laws and regulations, underpinning our approach to protecting the fundamental rights of our employees and contract workforce. Human rights training is an integral part of our reputable organisations with whom we engage be high, during the past year no instances of Sustainability Framework implementation, with directly as raw material providers or child labour in our operations came to the employees receiving training in 2013-14, and for further processing. All these organisations Group’s attention. Through the Sustainability our Code of Conduct includes clear expectations have adequate systems to safeguard the Committee review, we identified transport of behaviours that respect human rights. human rights of their workforce. management as the critical area of risk for child labour. To ensure that as a Group we are best This year we provided more than 20,000 By conducting Environmental and Social Impact equipped to mitigate this risk we are carrying man-hours of training in the Code of Conduct Assessments (ESIAs) in compliance with out periodic inspections of our remote mine and human rights to our employees and applicable legal requirements and our Framework, locations, and require age proof identification contract workforce. human rights considerations are taken into for all contract workers. account for all new projects, including the This ranges from our on-site security guards obligation to undertake a human rights screening Forced labour – who are required to work in compliance with process in all merger and acquisition activities. Our Code of Conduct expressly prohibits the use of International Finance Corporation (IFC) and forced labour. This is upheld in all our dealings with International Council on Mining and Metals Last year no significant merger and acquisition contractors and vendors, with guidance provided guidelines – to our transport workforce, where activity was undertaken. Through a tailored to sites on working with contractors and suppliers we have previously identified some risks of child human rights module in VSAP, we were able in order to eliminate any breach. In the reporting labour. In 2013-14, more than 95% of our to confirm that no major non-compliance period, there were no recorded incidents of forced security guards around the Group received existed. We have also emphasised to our labour across any of our operations. training in our human rights policy. subsidiary businesses that suppliers must operate in accordance with our human rights Indigenous peoples and vulnerable Led by the Vedanta Sustainability Committee, expectations. In pursuit of this goal: in 2013-14 we undertook internal reviews tribal groups related to human rights and child labour risk • All new suppliers and contractors are The Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Tribal assessment. It was commissioned to ensure that provided with an induction to our Code of Groups guidance note was rolled out, to support all our business units have a clear understanding Conduct, sustainability policies, standards the implementation of our related technical of the areas of possible risk pertaining to human and systems standard. This applies when an ESIA is required rights. The objective of the review was to confirm or when any new project identifies or suspects • Inspections and audits of all key suppliers there are communities of indigenous peoples or that we are meeting all applicable national and and contractors are now undertaken and international, guidelines and conventions on vulnerable tribal groups present within a project’s any issues identified are recorded and area of influence. The core aim of the standard human rights with special reference to the UN communicated to the contractor Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The is to enable our project teams to engage, • VSAP was used to monitor supplier and negotiate and partner with these vulnerable assessment confirms that the human rights contractor performance and compliance groups in a manner that avoids negative policy is being implemented by all units. The review also helped us in strengthening our impacts and risks for all stakeholders, especially In addition, we have rolled out a Group-wide SAP existing systems and delivering focused the indigenous peoples and vulnerable tribes. – Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) IT training for our staff. It also outlines our desire to create opportunities module, which ensures transparency and adds for positive economic and social development, value to our suppliers, who can access the We support collective bargaining and our within the context of the unique requirements system once registered. businesses, namely BALCO, HZL, SSL – Iron, of these groups. During the reporting period KCM, CMT and Zinc International, recognise Child labour none of our operating mines were found to be unions while other business have adequate We prohibit the use of child labour in all our operating in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ system for employee development, operations, including activities that are territory and hence no violations involving the remuneration and grievance redress. Similarly, out-sourced to contractors. Whilst we operate rights of indigenous people or vulnerable groups all our significant suppliers are generally in countries where the risk of child labour may were observed during the reporting period. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/human-rights 47 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Community engagement and resettlement Our journey… towards maintaining dialogue, engagement and relationships We believe that the long-term success of our business is dependent upon building trust with our host communities. This means we must work collaboratively throughout a project, from initial scoping to eventual closure. The opinions and concerns of our host communities must be heard, and incorporated into our planning processes to create shared value. To illustrate the benefits our business can bring, people with deep roots in the area. settlement. Mutual agreement is our preferred we aim to balance the unique needs of local The diagram on the next page outlines the alternative to land expropriation through people with the broader aims of socioapproach we take to engage and address government agencies. No resettlements economic development. To achieve this, our community stakeholders. took place in the reporting period. all of our businesses have implemented local community engagement plans. However, At times, new projects may require that we If resettlement must occur, we work closely with by FY 2015-16, we plan to refresh our consider resettlement; however, we are guided the communities to plan this, with the ultimate socio-economic impact assessment to by a firm desire to avoid resettlement whenever goal of providing improved quality of life and further inform our planning of community possible. Where resettlement is unavoidable, an enhancement to former living standards development programmes and retain a in accordance with our Land Resettlement and earning capacity. This includes housing third-party assessor to maintain transparency Standard we seek to minimise the impacts and infrastructure above the standard of their and accountability. in terms of both the number of people affected former circumstances. We also seek to ensure and the severity of the impact itself. To obtain resettled communities are proactively involved Our community dialogue is intensive across all land, all our operations first explore the option in creating value from the ongoing project – for our operations and we generally employ local of land purchase through negotiated example as suppliers or in on-site employment. CASE STUDY Black Mountain enterprise development initiative – training and mentoring SMMEs In the Northern Cape of South Africa (Khai-Ma municipal region) we enabled small, micro and medium-sized enterprises (SMMEs) to improve their business skills to enable them to better service the needs of our Black Mountain mine as well as other potential mines in the Northern Cape. We did this by initiating a training and mentoring programme in 2013, which consisted of four phases: Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Macro-level assessment Macro-level assessment Training and mentoring Assess progress Develop database Recruit SMMEs and Quality assurance and Identifying next steps of SMMEs prioritise training needs monitoring for a sustainable Macro-level stakeholder solution to grow SMMEs engagement in the region Forty-five SMMEs were recruited and training needs were identified to address business needs and skills gaps. A team of trainers and mentors worked closely with these SMMEs at the start of the programme to develop a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats) analysis. At the end of the programme, mentors facilitated business plan development with each SMME developing their own actions to improve their business in the three months after completion. The programme to date has seen growth of over 30% in the participating SMMEs revenue. Six SMMEs have created jobs through employment of personnel and a total of 46 have registered on databases to increase their opportunities to secure local work. A total of 30 contracts was secured by the close of the project and 17 business owners had some kind of success to share. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/community-engagement-resettlement 48 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Community engagement and resettlement continued Our consultation approach: building community understanding Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Outcomes »» Entry point activity »» Preliminary dialogue »» Wider consultation Development of community need and development with the community with the projectplan ensuring basic amenities and livelihood affected families opportunities are as per the consultation process »» Approaching the »» Baseline study and »» Public hearing Implementation of community development plan as community need assessment per the local needs of the area resulting in improved quality of life »» Isolating issues »» Feedback Continuous feedback and feed forward system through community grievance redressal mechanism »» Consensus building If fractured consensus Addressing different views 2nd phase hearing Community grievance mechanisms We are aware that any project is likely to raise CASE STUDY issues for a host community, and we have in place community grievance processes where Resolving community grievances at BALCO by issues can be raised in a structured manner, BALCO’s expansion plans led to a perception in the community surrounding the plant with our skilled on-the-ground business that the expansion would negatively impact their existing water supplies as the area representatives. This is a key step in preventing was prone to water shortages over the summer season. As part of their outreach concerns from escalating into significant issues initiative, BALCO representatives (‘The Township Department’) periodically met elected or disputes, risking the viability of operations. representatives living in the surrounding area. It was at this forum that local community All public grievances are resolved as per the representatives raised the concerns of the community. process and procedure laid down under our framework: Grievance Redressal technical The specific water-related grievance of the community was registered at the standard. External grievances regarding community grievance office. BALCO contacted the responsible local water authority Vedanta and its subsidiaries can also be logged and collectively came up with a solution to ensure delivery of water by BALCO in the at sustainability@vedanta.co.in. We have used event of any shortage. It was agreed this would be in place until local authorities could our VSAP tool to audit all our businesses to resolve any water shortage issues. ensure appropriate processes are in place and in line with our standards. We will seek to close The local community was involved throughout the process and was satisfied that any identified gaps during 2014. their grievance had been addressed. The timely response to the issue and community participation ensured effective resolution of the grievance. All community incidents and grievances are recorded and categorised as negligible (1), minor (2), moderate (3), serious (4) or disastrous (5), and captured on a monthly basis. No category 4 or 5 incidents were recorded in 2013-14, although lower-level incidents like village road blockage and strikes were recorded, particularly related to employment and contractor issues, infrastructure projects and some operational issues including land and traffic management. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/building-strong-relationships/community-engagement-resettlement 49 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Our journey… towards shared benefits for all stakeholders In this section Employees 52 Communities 57 Other stakeholders 62 Our employees are our key assets 50 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Adding and sharing value… for the benefit of all stakeholders We create value through structured and collaborative engagement with our stakeholders, including for our employees, our host communities and broader society. This is done not only through the commodities that we produce but through the economic and social contributions we make across our global operations, particularly in the developing world. Responsible Stewardship Long-term sustainability Adding and Building Strong Sharing Value Relationships Materiality matrix specific to the Adding and Sharing Value section High • Public policy and advocacy • Economic returns Relevance to stakeholders • Supplier and customer relationship • Supply chain management • Training and leadership development • Attrition • Taxes and other payments • Retention • Succession planning Low Low Relevance to Vedanta management High 51 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Employees Our journey… towards people excellence Our growth and success is dependent upon, and attributable to our employees and our people strategy is based on that belief to recruit, develop and retain a talented workforce. We create a high-performance work culture through strong engagement and empowerment, enabling our people to meet our business goals while realising their full potential in a safe and healthy workplace. The strategic approach to human resources Organisational growth We are committed to hiring the right person for (HR) is set by our over-arching Group HR We are dependent upon our employees to the right job, and expect all decisions relating philosophies, which help us achieve our goal create and enhance the value proposition of our to employee development and progression to of being an employer of choice. In practice business. Our approach is focused on ensuring be based on proper evaluation directly related this means: that we have the right person in the right role, to work performance. We continue to focus on along with clear succession planning, with a hiring more women professionals for business • Operating a meritocratic business and roles and this is an internal priority set by the focus on critical positions. This is important recognising and rewarding all our people management to bring in diverse skills across in our industry where securing high-potential in a fair and equitable manner the Group. talent is a challenge because of high growth • Creating a high-performance culture with and competition for skilled personnel across effective internal systems and processes the industry. for talent management and engagement • Ensuring that all our workplaces are free from all forms of discrimination or any kind of harassment on the basis of age, gender, caste or religion • Meeting all our responsibilities and HR obligations as a direct and indirect employer and ensuring that there are no violations of human rights • Compliance with all applicable laws of the jurisdictions where our operations exist • Ensuring smooth integration in the event of mergers or acquisitions by upholding and honouring all ongoing commitments and sharing best practices These overriding philosophies set the tone for our people priorities: organisational growth; performance management; talent development and management; HR process and systems improvement; and employee engagement (welfare and benefits, volunteering and collective bargaining). We ensure all workplaces are free from any discrimination Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/employees 52 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Employees continued Promoting high performance cultures for all our employees is key to their, and our, success We also focus on recruiting from the Performance culture themes covered include health and communities that surround our operations to All employees participate in a reward-linked safety, behavioural training and technical encourage local employment generation. Over annual appraisal programme where skills training. the reporting period, across our business, the performance is gauged against key total percentage of senior management who Owing to the high proportion of our workforce performance indicators set during the goalare locally hired is: India (91%), Australia who join Vedanta as new graduates, managing setting process at the beginning of the year (100%), Zambia (59%), Namibia (nil), Ireland career progression and development is very and is measured against a pre-determined (100%) and South Africa (40%). important to the business, particularly to ensure five-point scale. Feedback and the identification talent retention. To manage a new recruit’s of areas of improvement or further We continue to attract talent from top transition from ‘Campus to Corporate’, we development are an integral part of this engineering institutes, business schools and have a structured orientation programme. appraisal process. Since sustainability is one graduate colleges. This is an important step in For more established employees we have of the key indicators on which our business sourcing a strong talent pipeline for the future. various additional programmes to enhance performance is mapped, we also have systems We also focus on effectively utilising and their engagement. For example, we conduct in place that link individual KPIs to sustainability grooming the talent by appropriately rotating Chairman’s workshops, where employees outcomes: health, safety and environment, them across businesses for experience in new across Group companies attend discussions stakeholder engagement and governance. roles and to prepare them to take up various with our Chairman. This exposure to senior key positions in the future. In particular, this For more detail on our approach, please see our management provides employees with the year, due to uncertainty in the resumption Remuneration report in our Annual Report. opportunity to ask questions and engage of mining operation in SSL – Iron Ore division, with the leaders of the business, an opportunity we redeployed appropriate resources to Talent management and development that may not normally be available, particularly other businesses. Training and development remains a constant for junior colleagues. In the last five years, theme of Vedanta’s commitment to its around 2,000 employees have attended New recruits receive appropriate training and employees to ensure they are able to maximise these workshops. throughout their probationary period their their contribution to our business. Over the last performance is reviewed and feedback is provided year we have delivered 1.1 million training We believe that we must invest in developing by line managers. They are also encouraged to hours for all staff, averaging 40 man-hours per and retaining key talent to drive innovation and undertake special projects to enhance their employee. Further, training is carried out on-site efficiency within the business. In this regard, our learning and support is offered through a by both internal and external experts – broad attrition rate has remained stable and this year mentoring programme. was reported at less than 5%. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/employees 53 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Employees continued Total manpower by country Total manpower by employment Women in workforce (%) category* 8.5 8.3 8.2 8.1 India 77% Full-time 32% 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Africa 22% Contract 68% Other 1% *as at 31st March 2014 As a further step in developing our employees, Employee engagement Engaging employees through volunteering HZL in collaboration with the Birla Institute of We want to provide a rewarding work We help our employees to make a difference by Technology & Science launched the ‘Work environment, with a spirit of common purpose. providing them with opportunities to contribute Integrated Learning Programme’. This enables Across our operations, employees participate in a their professional skills and other resources employees to undertake higher learning wide variety of activities to create a sense of through volunteering in their communities. Our programmes in process engineering and shared ownership and participation. This ranges employees participate in various programmes manufacturing management, on-site at our from the formal training and work programmes including cleanliness drives, health awareness businesses. we offer, to broader cultural, sporting, social and camps, HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns, career leisure activities for employees and their families. guidance for secondary students and the We also have programmes to assist employees organisation of sports events for community in a smooth transition from work to retirement. Employees are encouraged to communicate youth. These programmes include computer literacy, their views and opinions. For example, we have wealth management, tradesman skill-building, suggestion boxes and an open-door policy at In cases of need, employees also contribute in certificates and other diploma courses, the senior management level as well as formal terms of cash and kind; for example, we retirement workshops and employee assistance employee grievance mechanisms. Committees partnered with local NGO Nirmaan Goa to programmes. At Lisheen, we have rolled out a are in place to oversee issues including cases of contribute to the ‘Joy of Giving’ week which is structured outplacement programme for all discrimination and harassment. observed across India. employees, providing them with assistance in skill-building, finance and welfare, planning new We measure our success in fostering positive We believe that volunteering is a means of career moves and encouraging engagement through internal and external contributing to our local communities and a entrepreneurship. We contributed €750 employee surveys. We participate in external way to engage our employees, particularly towards the cost. surveys like Aon Hewitt’s Great Places to Work when they co-create and ‘own’ programmes. and internal ‘dipstick’ surveys to gauge Employee volunteering has brought many engagement. We use these results to inform additional advantages: it has fostered a greater In the last five years more our employee programmes over the next year. sense of responsibility among our staff and helped create a more motivated team and than 2,000 employees Employee turnover and attrition (%) united culture. Importantly, employees actively Employee participate in deciding their community have attended Chairman’s Year turnover* Attrition initiatives, establishing stronger relationships 2010-11 10.6 5.4 between these communities and our business. workshops. 2011-12 10.7 5.5 2012-13 11.43 4.74 2013-14 9.5 4.9 *E  mployee turnover including retirements but excluding VRS Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/employees 54 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Employees continued Welfare and benefits We ensure our employees have a rewarding workplace with additional benefits and CASE STUDY activities – from inter-business cricket Stars of Business Development Programme competitions to local and regional cultural celebrations. We provide a comprehensive array Our ‘Stars of Business Development Programme’ was created to identify of benefits to our employees that is tailored by and nurture our next generation of leaders through an integrated and our subsidiaries in order to be appropriate to intense development programme. Fifty managers were selected from a pool their locations. The benefits package includes: of 500 to undertake the programme. All participants underwent psychometric performance-related compensation; maternity assessment followed by feedback from managers to identify their strengths leave; medical insurance covering family and and development areas. This was followed by the creation of individual dependants; transport facilities; subsidised development plans. canteen facilities; and a share option Specific, appropriate business projects (Action Learning Projects) were allocated programme for executive-level employees. to participants, who executed these projects with senior executives available As our operations tend to be located in remote to act as mentors throughout the projects’ execution, giving the participants regions, access to health facilities is often real world business exposure. This hands-on experience was supported by limited. In order to ensure that employees and leadership workshops and progress tracking, including personalised progress contractors are able to receive such services, we feedback from key business stakeholders. have on-site medical facilities, local hospitals Stars of Business Development participants found the programme and supporting medical staff available to our extremely useful in developing their leadership skills. Feedback collected employees, contractors and local community from senior management highlighted that more than 90% of the participants members. In order to encourage a healthy have shown significant improvements across competencies identified as their work-life balance around our sites, our development areas. businesses promote social gatherings and recreational activities organised by event To build on the positive outcomes, there are plans to provide enhanced role committees where employees are actively opportunities to accelerate their career journey, including through job rotation, encouraged to participate along with their cross-business assignments and international experience – embedding a strong families. In addition to medical and leadership pipeline for our future. recreational facilities, we provide fully furnished accommodation for employees at most locations and fully equipped townships. This is an essential aspect of our people strategy, ensuring that our employees are safe, healthy and comfortable. Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations (US$ million) 2012-13 2013-14 Salaries and wages 650.7 726.3 Defined contribution 26.2 25.7 pension scheme costs Defined benefit pension 23.2 16.7 scheme costs Share-based 25.5 23.8 payment charge Total 725.6 801.6 Sports and recreational events are always encouraged Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/employees 55 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Employees continued Collective bargaining safety, working conditions, remuneration, We aim to have constructive relations with all allowances, incentives and bonuses. In addition, employees and labour unions in the locations unions play an active role in safety committees at CASE STUDY where we operate, and to ensure that many sites and union representatives participate Technical ACT-UP compensation for workers meets or exceeds in various steering committees. The key milestones in this the legal requirements. project are to: A mechanism is in place to make employees We do not believe that any country where we aware of any significant operational changes • Articulate a ‘Technical Career have operations represents a risk to freedom of like restructurings, mergers and acquisitions, Philosophy’ for Vedanta association and collective bargaining, and we expansions and the like. Notification periods for • Develop a ‘Technical uphold this right at all the operations we manage. such events are contained in collective Competency Framework’ We understand that collective bargaining offers bargaining agreements and certified standing (including Proficiency Levels) the opportunity to build a constructive orders of respective entities. For example, in • Develop a ‘Technical Assessment relationship with unions – management and India the notification period is 21 days, in Framework union representatives negotiate agreements Zambia it is one year, in Namibia three months, which include clauses on productivity, health and and one month in South Africa. In the early 2000s we developed the Accelerated Competency Tracking & Upgradation Program (ACT-UP). This Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements programme successfully identified and (%) of employees covered under fast-tracked the careers of many of our Units collective bargain 2013-14 current leaders, contributing to the Zinc, Lead & Silver HZL 50.9% growth of the organisation and its Zinc International 66.8% leadership team. Iron Ore SSL – Iron Ore divison 62.7% In 2013, we expanded our ACT-UP Aluminium BALCO 64.2% leadership programme to encompass Copper KCM 89.1% technically highly-skilled employees. We CMT 45.0% felt this was an important step because of the key role these employees play in our business and the importance of retaining them, it can be a challenge to replace them. In conjunction with a leading HR consultancy, we developed a framework of technical competency dictionaries for job families across our value chains of metal exploration, mining and processing and power along with supporting technical job families. We then carried out a ‘Technical ACT-UP’ pilot programme with mining and smelting employees at Hindustan Zinc and Sterlite Copper to identify technical ‘Stars of Business’. The ACT-UP process was designed to comprehensively assess employees’ technical and behavioural competencies. This was a rigorous process of both online and in-person assessments through a panel of behavioural and technical assessors. Due to its success, we are rolling out the programme across our businesses in 2014. Technical ACT-UP workshop participants at SSL – Copper Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/employees 56 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Communities Our journey… towards socio-economically empowered communities As a large part of our operations are in two of the world’s major developing areas, India and Africa, our commitment to operating a sustainable business and maintaining our licence to operate is of crucial importance to our business. Running an effective community investment Our approach helps us to develop three to five-year plans for programme is core to our business. We do this Guided by the UN Millennium Development local communities. We often recruit external by helping communities identify their priorities Goals, we work closely with communities, experts to assist us in both understanding local through participatory needs assessment governments and NGOs to identify needs and to engage with relevant programmes, and then work closely with them development priorities and to collaboratively communities. For example, this year we have to design programmes that seek to make design appropriate and effective programmes. partnered with the Brighter India Foundation, progress towards an overall improvement in the The majority of our initiatives are carried out in Financial Inclusion Improves Sanitation and quality of life of the local communities. This collaboration with community organisations Health (FINISH), Action For Food Production includes through enhanced incomes, better and are developed in partnership utilising a (AFPRO), Botanical Society, Emory Research health and education facilities and better needs-based approach to community Products and the IL&FS Group. utilisation of available resources. This year we investment, underpinned by the use of the invested approximately US$49 million in Our ultimate aim is for the programmes we ‘Public-Private-People-Partnership’ (4Ps) model. community programmes around the world, create to be owned and managed by the benefiting some 4.1 million people. Our community engagement process, together communities they serve. with baseline studies and needs assessments, CASE STUDY Reducing water-borne disease with reverse osmosis plants Cairn India undertakes oil exploration and production in the state One of the most important outcomes of the project has been that of Rajasthan, India. In the district of Barmer, water-borne diseases it has helped in reducing morbidity due to a number of waterare a major health problem. The total dissolved solids (TDS) level borne diseases, such as diarrhoea – especially among children. The in drinking water is above World Health Organization standards, clean drinking water is also helping to reducing skeletal deformities aggravated by high fluoride content which can lead to bone caused by high TDS and fluoride content. deformity and joint pain. To address these issues, Cairn India extended support to the community by starting a project of potable drinking water. In partnership with the Rajasthan government Department for Water Works (PHED), the business initiated the ‘Jeevan Amrit Project’ in April 2013. This involved installing water kiosks with reverse osmosis (RO) plants to enable communities to access clean drinking water. Cairn India also partnered with Tata Projects to develop and install customised plants to meet local needs. Importantly, the water kiosks are run and managed by village committees, who charge Rs. 5 per 20 litres of water, ensuring the plant is self-sustaining. To date, 14 RO plants have been set up, with plans to scale this up in the coming year. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/communities 57 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Communities continued Our areas of focus We have seven discrete focus areas in our community programmes: health, education, sustainable livelihoods, women’s empowerment, community asset creation, bio-investment and integrated village development. These areas have been chosen due to the relevance they have to the development agendas of our major host countries, and regional areas of operation. Key focus areas Our priority Activities Outcomes Health Providing various endemic Our activities include the delivery of medical infrastructure Our medical and health (including disease camps which such as the 36 hospitals/health posts we run across the Group infrastructure programmes nutrition and promote awareness supported by medical outreach services, which include mobile have included providing sanitation) and prevention. health vans and medical outposts to provide isolated rural hospitals, clinics, ambulances communities with access to medical services. and related assets. In 2014, Our ultimate goal is to reduce some 1.75 million people infant mortality. We have programmes to support access to clean water and have benefited from our increase awareness of the importance of sanitation, providing health initiatives. practical assistance in developing related infrastructure, such as toilets, garbage disposal facilities and waste recycling. In rural communities and villages, over 37,000 people We particularly focus on women, through targeted nutrition have benefitted this year programmes and family planning, combined with child from our support in sanitation welfare initiatives. infrastructure. Education Supporting education The Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi (VBCA) programme Currently being implemented programmes, especially those targets pre-school level education through the Integrated by BALCO, HZL and SSLthat increases the girl child Child Development Scheme, run in partnership with the Lanjigarh, VBCA collectively school enrolment, retention Indian Government. We also promote women’s education, by reaches out to more than and educational attainment sponsoring girls who opt for higher education. 125,000 children across more and promote women’s than 4,600 centres. We also support a mid-day meal programme through eight vocational skills. centralised kitchens, aimed at improving the health status of The mid-day meal children from Class I to VIII in Government-aided schools as programme is run in well as encouraging regular attendance at school. partnership with the state Government We assist adult literacy centres, distribute education kits and and reaches out to more provide proactive support and encouragement for than 250,000 students at educational enrolment and achievement. Skills development around 2,700 schools on training is offered in a wide range of marketable trades and a daily basis. we encourage development of small business enterprises and entrepreneurship. Sustainable Given our locations, we focus On farms, we distribute high-yield seeds, provide education More than 15,000 farmers livelihoods on assisting our surrounding and training in fruit and vegetable cultivation and in animal are included in agricultural communities in developing rearing practices, breed selection and animal vaccination. initiatives. In 2014, over sustainable livelihoods based 263,000 people have been We offer a range of technical assistance through partners, on agricultural commodities assisted by our broad range including adopting the new scientific technologies such as and livestock and non-farm of livelihood programmes. compost pits and drip irrigation systems. initiatives. We also focus on non-farm interventions for rural youth to Our aim is to assist in create economic opportunity. diversification of revenue sources. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/communities 58 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Communities continued Our priority Activities Outcomes Women’s Rural women play an Our main activity in working to empower women is our We currently support some empowerment important role in supporting support for over 1,200 women’s Self Help Groups (SHGs). 1,275 SHGs comprising over their households and we These SHGs bring women together to develop skills and 17,000 members. The help create sustainable create various income generating micro businesses. As average monthly income of communities by supporting economic opportunities are very limited in isolated, rural women entrepreneurs is initiatives that create gender villages, SHGs not only give women a chance to contribute around US$110. mainstreaming opportunities. towards the income of their families but also provide an The Vedanta Integrated Jan opportunity to socialise and share concerns and experiences Jivika Yojana (VIJJY) plan was with other women outside the home, leading to overall developed in partnership with empowerment of women. the NGO ACCESS. VIJJY is Specific opportunities include training in tailoring, stitching focused on improving income and local crafts with the aim that women are provided with generating opportunities in skills that can enable sustainable income generation. Market nine villages around our links are also provided. We also partner to provide livelihood SSL – Jharsuguda plant skills, including animal husbandry; support is also provided to and currently comprises establish links with financial institutions. 140 groups, with over 1,500 members in trades including leaf plate making, poultry, floriculture, fishery management and mushroom cultivation. Community Our community asset Amongst other initiatives, this also includes the building of This year, over 390,000 asset creation creation programme schools in rural and remote locations. Facilities are built on a people have benefited from facilitates the building and needs basis in discussion with the community and have our community asset creation development of infrastructure included community halls, roads, health and education projects. projects in partnership with facilities. national and local governments. Bio-investment Restoring and improving This year, our focus has been on significant planting In 2013, we supported the natural systems helps both programmes around our operations. The aim of these mass planting of over 175,000 to improve the biological plantings is to reduce dust emissions and preserve habitats saplings. balance of an area and to and water tables. In addition, we have supported fruit orchard reduce rural poverty. plantations in various locations to both generate income and promote biodiversity. Integrated Our objective is to facilitate Under the IVDP, villages are identified by a number of At the end of the reporting village the holistic development of indicators including limited infrastructure, low literacy rates, period, IVDP has helped development local rural communities the level of government services available and the availability 125 villages around our through our Integrated of healthcare and education services. We work with NGOs operations in India Village Development and government authorities, in collaboration with the village, and Africa. Programme (IVDP), usually to prepare an IDV plan. A partnership strategy is drawn up conducted in conjunction and periodic meetings with local government and the with a government partner. community are conducted to track progress and implementation in a collaborative manner. The process takes between three and five years, from inception to handover. All activities are designed to enable eventual handover to the village for sustainable self-management. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/communities 59 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Communities continued Evolving our approach We continue to evolve our approach. Ultimately, we want to empower communities to determine the best approach to address their CASE STUDY specific socio-economic and quality-of-life Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) – needs. Although this approach can result in village livelihood programmes programmes taking longer in the initial development stage, we believe that stronger, Our KCM business in Zambia works with a wide range of surrounding more sustainable programmes are created communities to assist them to create sustainable livelihood programmes. when they are community initiated, owned, For example, targeting over 70,000 families in two four-year programmes in managed and run (with the guidance and the cities of Chililabombwe, Chingola and Nampundwe, KCM partnered with resources we and our partners can provide). the charity Village Water Zambia to support an integrated approach to animal We are expanding the number of programmes husbandry and agriculture. This is creating alternative employment that are created and run in this way, and will opportunities for both former miners and non-miners in the community. continue in the coming year. Additionally, through these projects, overall nutrition – particularly of children – is increased by the greater availability of dairy products and grains. This year, although we have had some challenges at our operations, with, for example The programmes include capacity building through training (including training the disruption of operations at SSL – Iron Ore almost 50 farmers as community animal health workers to undertake basic division we have continued to support quality veterinary community services), study tours and provision of start-up capital programmes across our seven target areas. Our including animals, vegetable seeds and agricultural equipment. It also programmes and presence have created a large promoted linkages with Government, NGOs and other stakeholders who can number of job opportunities, increased access support the programmes’ outcomes. to healthcare and delivered a wide range To embed community ownership and the sustainability of the projects, KCM has of initiatives that are empowering local helped the communities to create Community Management Committees, which community members, with specific focus handle finances, animal health and other issues of common interest. Importantly, on women. the projects have also forged effective partnerships between staff from relevant Below are a few of the key performance Government ministries and local officials who are complementing the project indicators which highlight our indirect economic activities through various extension services, creating additional value. impacts in India and Africa. Livelihood Total Youths provided vocational training 4,271 Youths linked to jobs after training 1,982 Youths linked with job/self588 employment engaged under micro-enterprise development for self-employment Women empowerment Total Number of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 1,275 Women members of SHGs 17,587 SHGs engaged in income 328 generation activities No. of women-established 489 micro-enterprises Average monthly income of women 110 entrepreneurs in US$ Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/communities 60 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Communities continued CASE STUDY Vedanta Khushi “No child in India is to be deprived of nutrition, health and primary education. Let us make India a nation free of malnourished children.” Anil Agarwal, Chairman Vedanta has a strong focus towards care To build on this support, in April 2012 awareness. Through these forums, there for underprivileged children. Since 2008 we launched a 100% non-government have been 60 debates on a number of the Group has associated with and funded initiative “Khushi”, a global child child care issues including girls’ education, supported about 14,000 child care care awareness campaign, that would infrastructure in schools, street children, centres in India, reaching approximately pro-actively engage with different sets of quality of education, disparities in urban 500,000 rural children – for their nutrition, people through direct communication and rural education, malnutrition and health and education. and social media to spread awareness child labour. and encourage them to take individual As per the UNICEF report, India has the steps towards child care. “Khushi” has 75 child care centres in rural greatest population of children in the parts of Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, world, but also the highest number of The campaign in social media was Chattisgarh and Odisha reaching out to malnourished children and child deaths. launched through a dedicated blog about 2,500 underprivileged children. Although the government agencies, www.khushi-creatinghappiness.blogspot.com More recently, “Khushi” came together corporates and NGOs are collaborating in which uploads success stories, articles with Indian television station NDTV for the for this cause, still a lot is required to uplift and other credible information, and utilises campaign “Our Girls Our Pride”, focusing on and help these underprivileged children. Facebook (www.facebook.com.groups/ raising awareness and funding to educate vedantakhush)i to spread general and empower over 2,000 Indian girls. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/communities 61 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Other stakeholders Our journey… towards making positive contributions Our employees and communities are the stakeholders who are most directly and continuously impacted by our activities. We have outlined below the five additional stakeholders who are also very important to our business and how we generate value with them. Industry (suppliers, customers, our Commodity Positioning Meeting expectations peers and industry associations) Aluminium Largest producer in India 44% primary aluminium consumption in India As the largest producer of aluminium, copper Copper Largest producer in India 28% primary copper consumption in India and zinc-lead in India we make a significant contribution to the development and maturity Largest private employer in Zambia of many markets. Due to the scale of our and largest contributor to the operations, we generate opportunities for nation’s exchequer downstream industries and support services Iron Ore Largest private sector producer Largest private sector exporter in India which has led to the growth of other industries in India which are capitalising on the increased Oil & Gas Largest private sector producer Produces more than 25% of India’s domestic availability of domestic raw materials. Sourcing in India crude production locally not only benefits local economies and Zinc-Lead Largest integrated zinc-lead 88% of India’s zinc consumption governments but also contributes to reducing producer in India the carbon footprint. In addition, we strive to Largest producer in Africa work with local suppliers wherever possible, contributing to local market development. Silver Largest primary producer in India Record production of silver in India (13.1moz) Importantly, this relationship extends to in the reporting period non-financial benefits such as skills Source* development and training in areas such as Requests for quotations, vendor bidding and through our marketing and customer health and safety, as well as making auctions are carried out online to ensure relationship personnel. All our activities are improvements to local infrastructure. transparency, with easy access to the status of focused on ensuring our customers’ needs are Suppliers offers, material dispatched and payments, met in an appropriate and timely manner, Our suppliers are an integral part of our business ensuring transparency within the business and including assisting our customers with and include government utility companies, added value to our suppliers. technical issues and product development international manufacturers and local service for first use. Customers providers, and we use local suppliers whenever Our customers are predominantly large In order to measure the success of our possible. We also partner with supplier industrial downstream producers with whom customer relations, customer satisfaction organisations to enable effective and mutually we deal directly. We understand that meeting surveys are conducted periodically by external beneficial relationships. We believe in continuous our customers’ expectations is crucial to the third parties. The accumulated feedback is and progressive adoption of IT and automation growth of our business, particularly when we shared in management review meetings and to improve our operating efficiencies. have such a significant presence in the market. appropriate corrective actions are taken to Last year the Group launched the SAP – We therefore ensure that our raw materials address particular customer requirements. Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) meet the required London Metal Exchange (LME) standards for entering the commodity This is supported by senior executives making module, which includes a SAP supplier portal frequent visits to customers to get direct which is an easy to use, highly-efficient and market. We have defined systems and practices in place to understand and meet customer feedback on our products and services and secure method of communication between other related issues. purchasing organisation and vendors. expectations and regularly engage with them *Source – Aluminium Association of India, International Copper Promotion Council India (ICPCI), India Zinc-Lead Development Association. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/other-stakeholders 62 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Other stakeholders continued Product stewardship As primary producers, we have limited control of the full lifecycle and the way in which products are produced and disposed. However, we are CASE STUDY committed to ensure that the beginning of the Cairn India hosts the first global health, lifecycle adheres to appropriate international safety and environment (HSE) conference commodity trading standards. Ensuring that the extraction, processing and refining of our In 2013, Cairn India organised a global HSE conference, the first of its natural resources is done in a responsible and kind in South Asia, themed ‘Collaborate, Lead and Transform’. More than sustainable way is core to our product 600 delegates from industry and government attended to hear 50 national stewardship commitment and a critical part of and international speakers. delivering quality to our customers. The conference examined a wide range of HSE issues, including strategies A key aspect of our product stewardship is our to enable sustainable business growth, to share best practice learnings and commitment to the highest technological techniques to engage work forces to create strong health and safety cultures. standards and processes. To ensure the safe Key findings of the conference included that small initiatives such as daily handling of our products, we use a Material toolbox talks before commencement of work can go a long way in the Safety Data Sheet which includes information adoption of HSE at the grass root level in an organisation. Initiatives such as on physical data, health effects, storage and counselling and mentoring workshops are also important elements in disposal. We also use a Technical Services embedding a HSE culture in an organisation. Resource for quality assurance. Together with It was also noted that a key characteristic that will define the future of HSE scorecards, all this information is available to is the ability of all industry participants to come together to exchange support our customers, allowing them to gain a technological innovations and share knowledge in HSE, with incident reporting full and detailed understanding of our products and information dissemination being extremely important. and their composition. We also comply with all prevailing standards and laws related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, of the country where we operate. Over the reporting period, no cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services were observed or reported. Similarly, no significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were reported. “Over the reporting period, no cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations and voluntary codes concerning the heath and safety impacts of our products were observed.” Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/other-stakeholders 63 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Other stakeholders continued Host governments and education services and infrastructure that we Vedanta’s economic contribution We believe that, as a Group, we make a provide, either independently or in constructive significant, valuable contribution by ensuring partnerships, benefiting some 3.7 million people. that both the financial and non-financial In the last year, in total the Group contributed returns that the business can deliver are US$5.3 billion to host governments by way of realised. For example, where infrastructure, taxes and royalties. Importantly, we have a including roads, housing, sanitation and transparent approach to disclosing the tax we healthcare facilities, are not adequate we pay and, for developing countries, the revenue partner with host governments to develop received facilitates the sustainable development these areas for future generations. At a broader of host communities. level, we are committed to contributing to the development of democracy and democratic We have not received any direct financial processes in the countries where we operate. assistance from governments, although as a We do this in a number of ways, including part of various direct tax holidays and similar through membership of industry organisations exemptions Vedanta did benefit by US$642 and international bodies. Direct tax (income tax, 22% million during 2013-14. FBT, WT and TDS/TCS) We make a direct, positive economic contribution It is Board policy, as per the UK Bribery Act, Royalties 23% to national and state budgets through the taxes that neither Vedanta nor Group subsidiaries Customs duty 5% and royalties we pay. We also make a broader will make donations or contributions to contribution through developing industry, Profit sharing – petroleum 31% political parties within the United Kingdom infrastructure and skills, and by providing or European Union. In India, political donations Cess and NCCD 13% some 90,000 direct and indirect employment or contributions made within the context of Other 6% opportunities and many times that through legitimate business operations are only made secondary, supporting industries. This is with the approval of the Board. underpinned by the broad range of health CASE STUDY The STP project is an important step in protecting this culturally significant city. The STP will treat 20 million litres of HZL – Partnering with Government domestic sewage per day, removing significant runoff waste for a cleaner environment that is currently flowing into and polluting the lake system. Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) has partnered with the Government In addition to reducing pollution the plant will also generate of Rajasthan to build the City of Udaipur’s first domestic sewage revenue for the municipality of Udaipur. treatment plant (STP). Udaipur is renowned for its magnificent The plant is being constructed on a design, build, own, operate, geography of spectacular lakes and is one of India’s most visited transfer basis with the regional Government. Contracts have been tourist cities; however, recent development has put pressure on signed and the plant is expected to be operational in 2014. infrastructure and the cleanliness of the lakes. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/other-stakeholders 64 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Other stakeholders continued Civil society The world faces many pressing issues including climate change, poverty and the depletion of finite natural resources. By our engagement and CASE STUDY partnerships with civil society – encompassing Partnering with Action for Food Production to create a wide range of non-governmental and sustainable livelihoods not-for-profit organisations – we can make a contribution to meeting these global and Bharat Aluminium Company (BALCO) partnered with Action for Food local challenges. In addition, to deliver our Production (AFPRO) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural many community development programmes Development (NABARD) to create a sustainable livelihood programme for we partner with a wide range of civil society neighbouring communities in the state of Chhattisgarh, India (Korba district). organisations as they can offer valuable The aim of the programme was to reduce vulnerable communities’ reliance on expertise and personnel. These relationships are government schemes and to enable self-sustaining income generation. managed at the appropriate level; at the Group The programme was initiated by identifying the places in a pilot village where corporate level, at our subsidiary businesses water conservation structures could be built (to provide water catchment and at the local level, utilising our CSR, investor solutions in the rocky environment) and to develop an understanding of relations, sustainability and other functional cropping practices. A village committee was established and created an teams. We also listen closely to the views of understanding that they would be responsible for maintaining the structures organisations that challenge our business. after the completion of the project. The committee also helped mobilise By engaging appropriately, we understand civil community labour and resources such as seeds, fertilisers and other society organisations’ expectations of business, agriculture implements. particularly with reference to human rights, The project has been rolled out across four villages in the region, with structures health, safety and the environment. It is clear such as ponds, well and water check dams (saving water from run-off) being that they expect businesses such as ours to built in a partnership between BALCO, AFPRO and the village communities. The make a positive contribution for the betterment first set of structures built enabled farmers to have access to water near their of society and this report is the main way we farms and helped them grow cash crops. Seventeen farmers took part in a pilot illustrate how we do this. demonstration, and they experienced a 41% average increase in yields. We believe in promoting public policies and a The success of the project and the support of the farmers involved led to regulatory framework that serve the common additional seed provision from government. Farmers, motivated by the success good of society. Being a major contributor to the of the programme, also contributed capital for fencing to protect their crops. social and economic development of the Although the project is only 18 months old, it has given local people the communities in which we operate, we advocate opportunity to reduce dependence on welfare programmes by creating policies which promote sustainable development sustainable livelihoods. and value creation for all stakeholders. Vedanta currently plays no direct role in developing public policy; however, we are a member of the UNGC and World Business Council for Sustainable Development who are working on various sustainable development programmes/ frameworks. Some of our subsidiary companies Image TBC are members of trade and industry bodies like the Federation of Indian Mining Industries, Confederation of Indian Industries, India Lead Zinc Development Association, Indian Institute of Metal, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Zambia Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Irish Business and Employers’ Confederation, and The Energy Resources Institute, India, where they actively participate. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/other-stakeholders 65 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Other stakeholders continued Shareholders and lenders Delivering returns to our shareholders Additional financial and business development Strong relationships with our shareholders and highlights over the past year include: lenders ensure that we are able, through access 2013-14 59 2012-13 58 Consistent returns to finance, to expand and grow our business. As 55 We have a progressive dividend policy and have many lenders are aligned to the Equator 2011-12 returned US$1.4 billion in dividends to Principles and International Finance 2010-11 52.5 shareholders since the IPO in 2004. Since our Corporation (IFC) standards, our Sustainability 2009-10 12% 45 IPO at 390p in December 2003, shareholders CA Framework and this report act as important 2008-09 41.5 have seen a Total Shareholder Return of over tools to build this relationship. 2007-08 41.5 GR 200% and we have paid a progressive dividend We engage with shareholders and lenders in a 2006-07 35 sinc that was increased in nine out of ten years and targeted and timely way and as part of this 2005-06 20 e IP held constant for one year. year’s materiality process we consulted with 2004-05 17.05 O Track record of delivering EBITDA growth representatives of our shareholders and lender 2003-041 16.5 Our broad natural resources portfolio diversified institutions. Our Annual General Meeting also 1 In FY2004, a single dividend of 5.5 US cents per share across base metals, bulks and oil & gas has enables two-way dialogue with shareholders, was paid for the four months since listing, equivalent delivered consistent EBITDA margins in excess and members of our senior management team to an annual payment of 16.5 US cents per share. of 30% over the last ten years. The Group engage with shareholders on a periodic basis to EBITDA has increased almost 15 times, from enable understanding of our business and US$323 million following flotation to strategy. US$4.5 billion in FY 2013-14. This reflects Delivering returns to our strong growth in production complemented shareholders and lenders by a successful programme of acquisitions. In order to meet the economic commitments Our industry leading investment programme that the business has with its finance providers, has expanded capacity and improved efficiency, Vedanta invests in projects and businesses that leading to the delivery of consistent profit drive the development of the Group asset base margins. Vedanta is reaping the benefits of its and increase production, and therefore sales. expansion programme as project ramp-ups are driving free cash flow generation, which exceeded capex by US$1.6 billion this year. Related information: vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14/adding-and-sharing-value/other-stakeholders 66 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Standards and Assurance In this section Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index 68 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 79 Assurance statement – DNV 80 Awards and Accolades 82 Glossary 83 Community member in BALCO measuring rice 67 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index This report aligns and is developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, following both sector-specific supplements for mining and metals, and oil and gas companies. This year following consultation with our stakeholders, we have structured the report around key material issues identified as per our materiality. Standard disclosures part I: Profile disclosures Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Fully Chairman’s statement of the organisation. Incoming CEOs statement 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Annual Report 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully Homepage 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully About Vedanta 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including Fully About Vedanta main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and Annual Report joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. Fully About Vedanta 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, Fully About Vedanta and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully About Vedanta sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Other Stakeholders 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully About Vedanta 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully Homepage regarding size, structure, or ownership. GRI3.1 – Performance Indicator (pdf) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Detailed GRI (pdf) Awards 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully Homepage information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Homepage 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Homepage 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully To be included on back cover contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully Materiality 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully To be included on back cover subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). About Vedanta See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully Homepage of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully Homepage facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that About Vedanta can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 68 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part I: Profile disclosures continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully Assurance Statement – DNV calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully Mentioned within the sections information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully Homepage the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully Assurance Statement – DNV Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully Assurance Statement – DNV external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Fully Approach and strategy committees under the highest governance body Annual Report responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully Annual Report body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, Fully Annual Report state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully Annual Report recommendations or direction to the highest Statement engagement governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Fully Annual Report highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully Annual Report ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, Fully Annual Report and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully Homepage codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Materiality environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 69 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part I: Profile disclosures continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully Approach and strategy overseeing the organisation's identification and Sustainable management in practice management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Fully Annual Report own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully Annual Report approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully Homepage social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Sustainable management in practice organisation subscribes or endorses. Health and safety management 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully Other Stakeholders associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully Stakeholder engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully Materiality whom to engage. Stakeholder engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully Stakeholder engagement frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Materiality group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully Stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has Materiality responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard disclosures part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3.1 MMSS DMAs Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully About Vedanta Making a positive contribution Market presence Fully About Vedanta Annual Report Indirect economic impacts Fully Communities Making a positive contribution Reserves DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully Environmental management Energy Fully Environmental management Water Fully Environmental management Biodiversity Fully Environmental management Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Environmental management Products and services Fully Environmental management 70 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure DMA EN continued Compliance Fully Environmental management Transport Fully Environmental management Overall Fully Environmental management DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Fully Employees Labour/management relations Fully Employees Occupational health and safety Fully Health and safety management Training and education Fully Employees Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Employees Equal remuneration for women and men Fully Employees Annual Report DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully Other Stakeholder Annual Report Non-discrimination Fully Employees Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Employees Child labour Fully Human Rights Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully Human Rights Security practices Fully Indigenous rights Fully Assessment Fully Community engagement and resettlement Human Rights Remediation Fully Community engagement and resettlement DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully Community engagement and resettlement Artisanal and small-scale mining Fully Human Rights Resettlement Fully Community engagement and resettlement Closure planning Fully Sustainable management in practice Grievance mechanisms and procedures Fully Community engagement and resettlement Emergency preparedness Fully Sustainable management in practice Corruption Fully Sustainable management in practice Public policy Fully Other stakeholders Anti-competitive behaviour Fully Other stakeholders Compliance Fully Other stakeholders Involuntary resettlement Fully Community engagement and resettlement Asset integrity and process safety Fully Sustainable management in practice DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Materials stewardship Fully Other stakeholders Customer health and safety Fully Other stakeholders Product and service labelling Fully Other stakeholders Marketing communications Fully Other stakeholders Customer privacy Fully Other stakeholders Compliance Fully Other stakeholders Fossil fuel substitutes Fully Environment Other stakeholders 71 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Economic Economic performance EC1COMM Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Making a positive contribution including revenues, operating costs, employee GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Fully Environmental management for the organisation's activities due to climate change. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan Fully Employees obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully Other stakeholders government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Partially Other stakeholders locally-based suppliers at significant locations of We will provide an update on this in operation. 2015-2016 when our data system is more robust EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully Employees management and workforce hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Fully Communities and services provided primarily for public benefit through GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Making a positive contribution EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully Communities economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) OG1 Core Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) production. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) OG2 Core Total amount invested in Renewable Energy. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) OG3 Core Total amount of renewable energy generated by source. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully Environmental management improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Part GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 72 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully Environmental management reductions achieved. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Fully Environmental management of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Fully Environmental management and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Partially Environmental management adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) biodiversity value outside protected areas. We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Partially Environmental management and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for Partially Environmental management production activities or extractive use) disturbed or GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) rehabilitated. We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Partially Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Partially Environmental management managing impacts on biodiversity. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as Partially Environmental management requiring biodiversity management plans according to GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those We will report on this in 2015-16 as the sites with plans in place. data is not compiled at a corporate level OG4 Core Number and percentage of significant operating sites in Partially GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Partially Environmental management conservation list species with habitats in areas affected GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) by operations, by level of extinction risk. We will report on this in 2015-16 as the data is not compiled at a corporate level Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully Environmental management by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Not Scope III Emission will be reported by weight. by 2015 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully Environmental management reductions achieved. 73 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Not material EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Fully Environmental management and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully Environmental management GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges Fully Environmental management and their associated risks. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) OG5 Core Volume and disposal of formation or produced water. Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Environmental management OG6 Core Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) OG7 Core Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) strategies for treatment and disposal. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Fully Environmental management water bodies and related habitats significantly affected GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully Environmental management products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) materials that are reclaimed by category. OG8 Core Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels. This indicator is not GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) applicable Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully Environmental management non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Fully Environmental management products and other goods and materials used for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Fully Environmental management investments by type. 74 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Social: Labour practices and decent work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully Employees contract, and region, broken down by gender. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Fully Employees employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully Employees provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) by gender. Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully Employees bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's Fully Community engagement duration, by country. and resettlement Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Fully Heath and safety management absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully Employees gender, and by employee category. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Fully Employees that support the continued employability of employees GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Fully Employees and career development reviews, by gender. GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Fully Employees men by employee category, by significant locations of GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) operation. 75 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Social: Human rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Fully Human rights agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other Fully Human rights business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully Human rights procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully Sustainable management in practice corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which Fully Human rights the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Fully Human rights significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Prevention of forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Fully Human rights significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully Human rights organisation's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent Fully Human rights to Indigenous Peoples' territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Fully Human rights indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Fully Human rights been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are present GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) or affected by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Fully Human rights addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.” 76 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Social: Society Local communities SO1 (MMSS) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes Fully Communities and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Community engagement operations on communities, including entering, and resettlement operating, and exiting. SO1 (G3.1) Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully Community engagement community engagement, impact assessments, and and resettlement development programmes. Communities GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating Fully Human Rights to land use, customary rights of local communities and Community engagement Indigenous Peoples. and resettlement MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to Fully Community engagement resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of and resettlement local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Artisanal and small-scale mining MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating sites Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. Resettlement MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Closure planning MM10 Number and percentage of operations with Fully Sustainable management in practice closure plans. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Fully Community engagement impacts on local communities. and resettlement Community SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Fully Community engagement operations with significant potential or actual negative and resettlement impacts on local communities. OG10 Core Number and description of significant disputes with local Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) communities and indigenous peoples. OG11 Core Numbers of sites that have been decommissioned and Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) sites those are in the process of being decommissioned. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Fully Sustainable management in practice for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's Fully Sustainable management in practice anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully Sustainable management in practice GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 77 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value GRI index continued Standard disclosures part III: Performance indicators continued Profile disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully Reported in SDR non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws Environmental management and regulations. OG12 Core Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. OG13 Core Number of process safety events, by business activity. Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) Social: Product responsibility Materials Stewardship MM11 Programmes and progress relating to materials Fully Other Stakeholders stewardship. Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) products and services are assessed for improvement, and Other Stakeholders percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Other Stakeholders regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Other Stakeholders service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Other Stakeholders Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Fully Other Stakeholders voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Other Stakeholders regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. OG14 Core Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting Fully GRI 3.1 Performance Indicator (pdf) sustainability criteria. 78 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value MDG External indices and benchmarks United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) We are committed to upholding the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and are supportive of the UN Millenium Development Goals. Our Sustainable Development Report communicates our progress in implementing the 10 principles, and below we have mapped out where information about our progress can be found throughout the report. Issue area UNGC principle Reference Page number Human rights Principle 1: Human rights 47 Principle 2: Human rights 47 Labour Principle 3: Employees 52 Principle 4: Human rights 47 Principle 5: Sustainability Committee Chairman’s Statement 6 Human rights 47 Principle 6: Employees 52 Environment Principle 7: About Vedanta 2 Chairman’s statement 6 Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement 8 Approach and strategy 10 Sustainable management in practice 20 Environmental management 30 Principle 8: Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement 8 Sustainability Committee Chairman’s statement 13 Environmental management 30 Principle 9: Incoming Chief Executive Officer’s statement 8 Environmental management 22-28 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Sustainable management in practice 20 Other stakeholders 62 Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) We also align our reported activities to be broad aims of the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The table below outlines where information about Vedanta’s activities can be found to demonstrate our contribution towards MDG’s. The detail activities can be found in our online report underneath the following section. MDG number Description Progress 1 Eradicating extreme poverty and hunger Community engagement and resettlement Communities 2 Achieving universal primary education Making a positive contribution Communities 3 Promoting gender equality and empowering women Employees and Communities 4 Reducing child mortality rates Communities 5 Improving maternal health Communities 6 Combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases Community engagement and resettlement Communities 7 Ensuring environmental sustainability Environment Communities 8 Developing a global partnership for development Making a positive contribution; Communities 79 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Assurance Statement – DNV Introduction • Review of the Report against the requirements • Examined and reviewed documents, data DNV GL represented by DNV Business of VeriSustain with moderate level of assurance; and other information made available Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV GL’) • Verification of the reliability of GRI G3.1 by Vedanta, including the performance has been commissioned by the management performance indicators and performance indicators related to health and safety (LA7) of Vedanta Resources plc (‘Vedanta’ or the information specifically related to and GHG emissions (EN16); ‘Company’), to carry out an independent Greenhouse Gas Emissions (EN16) • Conducted interviews with key assurance engagement on the Company’s and Health & Safety (LA7); representatives including data owners Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 and decision-makers from different levels • Confirmation of Vedanta’s declared (‘the Report’) in its printed and web online and functions of the Company; Application Level i.e. A+. version. The engagement was carried out • Performed sample-based reviews of against the DNV GL Protocol for Verification The reporting boundary is as set out in the the mechanisms for implementing the of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ – Report covering sustainability performance Company’s sustainability related policies, www.dnv.com/moreondnv/cr/) including of Vedanta Resources plc. As part of our as described in the Report; verification of Application Level and verification, we visited as part of our verification, adherence to the principles of the Global we visited SSL Aluminium divisions (Lanjigarh • Performed sample-based checks of the Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2011, Sustainability and Jharsuguda), Hindustan Zinc Ltd., BALCO, processes for generating, gathering and Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1) Cairn India (Barmer operations), SSL – Copper managing the quantitative data and including the Mining and Metals Sector division (Tuticorn) and Zinc International qualitative information included in the Report. Supplement (MMSS) and Oil and Gas Sector (Lisheen mine). In addition to Vedanta’s Conclusions Supplement (OGSS). Corporate Office at New Delhi, India: In our opinion, based on the scope of this The intended users of this assurance statement Our engagement did not include assessment assurance engagement, the Report, along are the management of the Company and of the adequacy or effectiveness of Vedanta’s with the referenced information in the website readers of the Report. The management of the strategy or management of sustainability and commitments with timelines to report the Company is responsible for all information related issues and during the assurance process, partially reported core indicators, generally provided in the Report as well as the processes we did not come across limitations to the scope meet the requirements for Application Level A+, for collecting, analyzing and reporting the of the agreed assurance engagement. The and is a fair representation of the Company’s information presented in the printed and online financial disclosures in the Report are based on sustainability performance. We have evaluated report, including the maintenance and integrity the audited financial statements issued by the the Report’s adherence to the following of the website. Our responsibility in performing Company’s statutory auditors. No external principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ this work is regarding the verification of the stakeholders were interviewed as part of this and ‘Needs Improvement’: Report only, in accordance with the agreed scope assurance engagement. Stakeholder Inclusiveness: The stakeholder of work. The assurance engagement is based on Verification Methodology identification and engagement process is well the assumption that the data and information This assurance engagement was planned documented and implemented through the provided to us is complete, sufficient and and carried out in accordance with VeriSustain. Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme authentic. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability The Report has been evaluated against the and the Report brings out the material aspects or co-responsibility for any decision a person or following criteria: related to key stakeholders. In our view, the level entity would make based on this Assurance at which the Report adheres to this principle Statement. Our assurance engagement was • Adherence to the principles of Materiality, is ‘Good’. planned and carried out in March 2014 to Completeness, Neutrality, Reliability, June 2014. Materiality: The Company has carried out Responsiveness and Stakeholder inclusiveness; materiality assessment based on internal and Scope, Boundary and Limitations • The principles and requirements of GRI G3.1 external perspectives, and arrived at material of Assurance for an Application Level A+ including the issues of significance considering the effectiveness • The scope of the assurance as agreed upon MMSS & OGSS disclosures. of existing management systems across the with Vedanta included the verification of the As part of the engagement, DNV GL has diverse range of Vedanta’s businesses. The content of the Report. In particular the verified the statements and claims made in the material issues are adequately covered in the assurance engagement included: Report. In doing so, we have: Report. In our view, the level at which the Report • Verification of the application of Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. • Reviewed the Company’s approach to Content Principles set out in GRI G3.1 and stakeholder engagement and its materiality Responsiveness: We consider that the quality of information presented in the determination process; Company’s response to key stakeholder Report over the reporting period 1st April 2013 to 31st March 2014; • Verified the sustainability-related statements concerns, through its policies and management and claims made in the Report and assessed systems, including governance are fairly • Review of the policies, initiatives, practices reflected in the Report. In our view, the level the robustness of the data management and performance described in the Report; at which the Report adheres to the principle systems, information flow and controls; of Responsiveness is ‘Acceptable’. 80 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Assurance Statement – DNV continued Completeness: The Report has fairly DNV GL’s Competence and attempted to respond on disclosures on Independence management approach, sustainability DNV GL is a global provider of sustainability performance, and explanations on omissions services, with qualified environmental and and commitments to future reporting that are social assurance specialists working in over material within the Company’s reporting 100 countries. While we did conduct other boundary, against the GRI G3.1 including the second party and third party assessment work MMSS and OGSS requirements. In our view, with Vedanta in 2013-14, in our judgement the level at which the Report adheres to this this does not compromise the independence principle is ‘Acceptable’. or impartiality of our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions and Reliability: The majority of data and recommendations. The DNV GL assurance information verified at Corporate Office and team were not involved in the preparation sites were found to be accurate. Some of the of any statements or data included in the data inaccuracies identified during the Report except for this assurance statement. verification process were found to be attributable We maintain complete impartiality towards to transcription, interpretation and aggregation any people interviewed as part of this assurance. errors. Hence in accordance with VeriSustain for a moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report are For DNV GL generally reliable and acceptable. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Vadakepatth Nandkumar Neutrality: The Company has reported its Project Manager, sustainability issues and performance in terms Head – Sustainability and Climate Change, of content and presentation in a neutral tone. DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, In our view, the level at which the Report India. adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and further opportunities for improvement reported to the management of Vedanta and Prasun Kundu are not considered for drawing our conclusion Assurance Reviewer, on the Report; however, they are generally DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, consistent with the Management’s objectives: India. 4th June’ 2014, Bangalore, India. • To explicitly bring out the supply chain concerns, stakeholder engagement process may include critical supply chain partners of Vedanta; • A system of periodic communication of sustainability performance of individual business may be evolved to disclose key sustainability performance disclosures in the website for the benefit of stakeholders to enable informed decisions; • To further improve the quality and reliability of sustainability-related data across business, it is worthwhile to establish a process with cross functional teams to review and validate the sustainability disclosures. 81 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Awards and Accolades • Cairn India won the Safety Award (Cross country – crude Oil Pipeline) 2013 from the Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) • Cairn India was named as the ‘World’s fastest growing Energy company’ in the Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings 2013 • Cairn India (Mangala Oil & Gas field) was granted the 3rd FICCI Safety Systems Excellence Awards for Manufacturing-2013 • Cairn India received the FICCI Corporate Social Responsibility Award – 2013 • HZL received the Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2013 bythe Udaipur Chamber of Commerce & Industry • HZL was given the commendation certificate at the CII ITC Sustainability Awards • HZL (Chanderiya Smelting Complex) was honoured with the State Level Bhamashah Award 2013 • HZL (Chanderiya Smelting Complex) received the Indian Manufacturing Excellence Award 2013 by Frost & Sullivan • HZL (Chanderiya Smelting Complex) was honoured with the Ram Krishna Bajaj National Quality Award-2013 for Business Excellence • BALCO received the Shristi Good Green Governance Award 2013 • BALCO (Bodai-Daldali Bauxite Mines) was honoured with the ‘Sita Ram Rungta Social Awareness Award’ • BALCO won the CII – Best Environment Practice Award 2013 in the Innovative Category • BALCO won the Global CSR Excellence & Leadership Awards, presented by the World CSR congress 2014 in two categories: Community development & best use of CSR practices in manufacturing sector • BALCO won the Best CSR practices award in the mining sector at the National CSR Conclave Awards on 22 March 2014 • Zinc International’s (Lisheen Mine) received the Bank of Ireland Community Spirit Award 2013 • Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT) and Queenstown Heritage and Arts Festival won the 2013 Creative Partnerships Australia, Toyota Community Award • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda (Plant 1 & CPP) received the Frost & Sullivan’s Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2013 • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda (Smelter 1 & CPP) was granted the 14th National Award for Excellent in Energy Management by CII • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda was awarded the Best CSR Practices Award 2013 for ‘Women Empowerment’ & ‘Community Development’ Initiatives • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda was honoured with the CII Odisha Award 2013 for Best Practices in Environment, Health & Safety • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda was granted the ‘Outstanding and Noteworthy Accomplishments award’ in the Sector at the ‘6th India Power Awards 2013’ by the Council of Power Utilities • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda (Smelter-1) was honoured with Frost & Sullivan’s ‘The Economic Times India Manufacturing Excellence Awards 2013’ • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda (Smelter 1) won the National Energy Conservation Award 2013 by BEE • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda won the National Award for Best CSR Practice at the National CSR Conclave • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda received the’ Support and Improvement in Quality Education Award’ & ‘Innovative Efforts for Sustainable Growth Award’ at the Odisha CSR Conclave Award 2014 • Sesa Sterlite – Jharsuguda received recognition for ‘Support and Improvement in Quality Education’ and ‘Innovative projects for Sustainable Growth’ at the Odisha CSR conclave 2014 • Sesa Sterlite – Lanjigarh won the Greentech CSR and the Greentech Environment award 2014 • Sesa Sterlite – Lanjigarh secured the World HRD congress 2013’s Employer branding award in the ‘Managing health at work’ category • Sese Sterlite – Copper Smelting plant received the Safety Innovation Award 2013 from the Institution of Engineers (India) • Sese Sterlite – Copper Smelting plant was granted the CII EHS 2013 – ‘3 Star Appreciation Award’ in recognition to their efforts in Environment, Health & Safety Practices • Konkola Copper Mines received a ‘Four Star’ grading for its overall approach to safety management systems as per the best practice benchmarks by the British Safety Council 82 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Glossary A. Narraine Sesa Goa mine in Karnataka, India GJ Gigajoules MW Megawatt AAQM Ambient Air Quality Monitoring GRI/G3 Global Reporting Initiative NABARD National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development ACTs Adiabatic Cooling Towers GRMC Group Risk Management Committee NEERI National Environment Engineering AGM Annual General Meeting GSPCB Goa State Pollution Control Board Research Institute AR Annual Report HCD High Capacity Diesel NGO Non-Governmental Organisation BALCO Bharat Aluminium Company Limited, HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety a company incorporated in India Acquired Immuno 18001 Assessment Series (standards for Deficiency Syndrome occupational health and safety BAP Biodiversity Action Plan management systems) HR Human Resources BBS Behaviours-Based Strategy OMC Odisha Mining Company HSE Health, Safety and Environment Bicholim A mine of Sesa Goa PAH Poly aromatic hydrocarbons IBAT Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool Black Zinc asset (mine) in South Africa PPE Personal Protective Equipment Mountain ICDS Integrated Child Development Scheme: Anganwadi catering to health PPPP, or 4P’s Public-Private-People-Partnership BLCC Biodiversity and Livelihoods and educational needs of children in the Coordination Committee age group 0–6 years RMC Risk Management Committee BMPs Biodiversity Management Plans ICMM International Council of Metal SDR Sustainable Development Report and Mining C C India Ltd., a company SEL Sterlite Energy Ltd., a company incorporated in India IFC International Finance Corporation incorporated in India CCF Chief Conservator of Forests IPP Independent Power Plant SEP Stakeholder Engagement Plan CDM Clean Development Mechanism IRP Independent Review Panel Sesa Goa Sesa Goa Limited and its subsidiaries CEC Central Empowered Committee IRTE Institute of Road & Traffic Education SHG Self Help Groups CEO Chief Executive Officer ISO 9001 International Organisation for Skorpion Zinc Zinc asset (mine) in Namibia Standardisation (standards for quality CER Certified Emission Reduction management system) SPA Single Point Accountability CFO Chief Financial Officer ISO 14001 International Organisation for SPL Spent Pot Lining CGWA Central Ground Water Authority Standardisation (standards for SPM Suspended particulate matter environmental management systems) Chanderiya One of the smelter units of HZL SRM Supplier Relationship Management ISO 50001 International Organisation for CIF&B Chief Inspector of Factories & Boilers Standardisation (standards for energy STDP Save the Tasmanian Devil Programme management system) CMT Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited, TNPCB Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board a company incorporated in Australia IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature TPM Total Product Management COO Chief Operating Officer IVDP Integrated Village Development TQM Total Quality Management COP Cairn Observation Programme Programme TRIFR Total Recordable Injury CPCB Central Pollution Control Board JET Junior Executive Training Frequency Rate CRF Cobalt Recovery Furnance KCM Konkola Copper Mines PLC, UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention a company incorporated in Zambia on Climate Change CSO Committee Secretary KRA Key Result Area UNGC United Nations Global Compact CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Lisheen Zinc asset (mine) in Ireland UNMDG UN Millennium Development Goals DAPP Development Aid from People to People LME London Metal Exchange VAL Vedanta Aluminium Ltd, a company DNV Det Norske Veritas AS incorporated in India LOTO Lockout-Tagout EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, VAL-J VAL-Jharsuguda depreciation and amortisation LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: the number of lost time injuries per million VAL-L VAL-Lanjigarh EHS Environment, Health and Safety man-hours worked by employees and contractors in our operations VBCA Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi Centres EIA Environment Impact Assessment m3 Cubic metres VER Voluntary Emission Reduction EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative MALCO The Madras Aluminium Company VIJJY Vedanta Integrated Jan Jivika Yojana ESIA Environmental and Social Limited, a company incorporated VRS Voluntary Retirement Scheme Impact Assessments in India VSAP Vedanta Sustainability Assurance ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan MAS Management Assurance Services Programme EVG&D Economic Value Generated and Mboe Millions of Barrels of Oil Equivalent VSF Vedanta Sustainability Framework Distributed MCM Million Cubic Metres WBCSD World Business Council for ExCo Executive Committee Sustainable Development MDG Millennium Development Goals Fatality The death of an employee, contract Zinc Zinc assets in Black Mountain, employee, business associate or visitor MHU Mobile Health Unit International Namibia and Ireland at our operations and project sites MOEF Ministry of Environment and Forests (ZI) FTSE Financial Times and the London Moz Million Ounces Stock Exchange MT Metric tonnes FY Financial Year MVAFR Motor Vehicle Accident Frequency Rate GHG Greenhouse Gas 83 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2013-14 Further information We value your feedback and welcome comments on this report or any aspect of our approach to Sustainability Reporting. Please email us at: sustainability@vedanta.co.in Please write to us at: Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ For more information visit www.vedantaresources.com More online View our Sustainability website www.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2013-14 View our online Annual Report 2013 www.vedantaresources.com Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ Tel: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 vedantaresources.com
