Energy efficiency Next-generation healthcare Industrial productivity Intelligent infrastructure solutions Thinking for the long term Providing answers Annual Report 2013 siemens.com Energy efficiency Next-generation healthcare Industrial productivity Intelligent infrastructure solutions Siemens at a glance Fiscal 2013 siemens.com Company Report 2013 Living our visions Achieving our goals Living our visions Achieving our goals RUS Kirishi, Russia Energy solutions pages 4 21 How do you convert an aging power station into one of the most efficient combined cycle power plants in Russia? How can you produce energy more efficiently while protecting the climate? Kirill Gamburger and Denis Bashuk report on a project that has implications Kirishi for power generation far beyond Russia’s borders. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-ENERGY Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment A single report An integrated approach Welcome to Siemens’ Annual Report for 2013. This year, we’ve combined our ­previously separate Annual and Sustainability Reports to provide an integrated overview of our Company ’s key topics. We trust you’ll find it interesting and ­informative. And don’t miss the related website, which includes a wide range of impressive video and picture material as well as links to further information. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions USA York Harbor, U.S. Industry solutions pages 40 59 What are the challenges facing people who need joint replacements? What role can industry software play in producing prosthetics? And what does the future hold for developments in this area? Three quesYork ­Harbor tions from three d ­ ifferent perspectives: Gordon France, Sabine Fietz and ­Professor Berend Denkena provide answers and offer insights into an important topic for today and tomorrow. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-INDUSTRY 2 IND Gurgaon, New Delhi, India Healthcare solutions pages 22 39 How can the medical challenges facing the Indian subcontinent be mastered? How can access to affordable healthcare be expanded? And how can advanced medical technologies help make it all happen? Dr. Naresh Trehan, founder of “Medanta – Gurgaon The Medicity,” and heart surgeon Dr. Namrata Gaur have been addressing these questions for years. To make high-quality healthcare services affordable for as many people as possible – that’s their aspiration. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-HEALTHCARE Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare Making visions a reality Targeting actions Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life AUT Vienna, Austria Infrastructure solutions pages 60 79 What makes an already very livable city even more l­ivable? How are intelligent infrastructure solutions improving Vienna the quality of urban life? And what makes these solutions intelligent in the first place? Mayor Michael Häupl and Corporate strategy pages 80 85 the Freimüller-Köhler family talk about their hometown of Vienna – one of the most ­livable cities in the world. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-IC How can we create sustainable value? What are ­our goals? And how do we measure the ­success of our business activities? To find out, take a look at our strategy report, which ­provides an overview of the principles that are ­guiding our actions and helping us achieve our aim of ­creating sustainable value. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/STRATEGY 3 Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment 4 Acting responsibly “How can we better protect our environment with new technologies?” Kirill Gamburger – Siemens engineer – St. Petersburg, Russia I love being an engineer, and I’m very passionate about my work. I guess you could say engineering runs in my family. My grandfather was an engineer, and both my mother and my father are engineers. So our family lives and breathes the profession. While studying in St. Petersburg and Finland, I learned how technology enables us to meet the major challenges of our time. At Siemens, I’m now drawing on this experience. As the engineer responsible for servicing and maintaining the upgraded unit at the Kirishi combined cycle power plant, I’m helping drive ecofriendly power generation in Russia. RUS Kirishi 59 ° 27 ' N, 32 ° 1 ' E Population: about 53,000 Kirishi 7 Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment Leveraging business opportunities “How can we generate more electricity with less natural gas?” Denis Bashuk – General Manager of OGK-2 – Moscow, Russia As one of the largest energy utilities in Russia, OGK-2 currently generates about 8% of the country’s electrical power. To meet the continually growing demand for electricity, we’re not only building new power plants but also upgrading many of our older steam-driven facilities, which date back to the days of the Soviet Union. As chief engineer at the Kirishi power plant, I personally supervised the plant’s modernization, and as general manager of the company that operates it, I’m now seeing the results. What’s my conclusion? Siemens’ highefficiency combined cycle power plant technology is a winner. 4 7 Efficient power production for Russia “I must admit I feel quite proud when the lights come on in St. Petersburg.” Siemensʼ energy solutions Power plant modernization Kirishi, Russia There are some cities whose magic truly comes alive at night – and St. Petersburg is certainly one of them. Whether in summer, when the city stays light for up to 20 hours a day during the famous “white nights,” or in winter, when the former czarist capital is covered in snow and its historic buildings are spectacularly illuminated, residents and tourists alike are enchanted by nighttime in St. Petersburg – a city of more than a million inhabitants and the world’s northernmost metropolis. Kirill Gamburger has good reason to be proud of St. Petersburg’s nocturnal charm because he’s one of the people who helps ensure that its handsome avenues are brightly lit: “When the lights come on, I know that my power plant in Kirishi is operating smoothly at full load.” The 27-year-old Siemens engineer is responsible for maintaining and servicing two gas turbines, two generators and the automatic control system at the power plant in Kirishi, a town about 170 kilometers southeast of St. Petersburg. The facility supplies electricity to residents and businesses across northwestern Russia. “I’m responsible for Unit 6, which is Russia’s biggest combined cycle power plant,” explains Gamburger. Originally built during the Soviet era as a steam power plant, the facility has now been upgraded by Siemens. 8 Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment 2 1 1 – Siemens engineer and project manager Kirill Gamburger enjoys living and working in St. Petersburg, where he also completed his university studies in engineering. 2 – View of St. Petersburg at night, from St. Isaac’s Cathedral. In the summer, the city stays light very late, and street lighting is required for only a few hours before the sun 9 rises again. 10 Generating power more efficiently 1 Protecting the environment 2 1 – The turbine hall of Unit 6 at the Siemens project manager Kirill Gamburger ­ peration for anywhere from 32 to 50 years, o Kirishi power plant is enormous. Siemens engineer Andrey Lukashkin is responsible for ensuring that the upand another 22% were commissioned over (right) is on site five days a week, graded Unit 6 at the Kirishi power plant 50 years ago. In view of the low efficiency working with plant employees to operates smoothly. The engineering proof many of these plants, Russia is investing monitor the system. fession runs in the blood of this passionate heavily to expand its power-generating 2 – Once a month, Kirill Gamburger engineer. Gamburger, who also devotes his ­capacity. (left) travels from St. Petersburg to Kirishi to consult personally with free time to technology-related pursuits, is his Siemens colleague Andrey descended from three engineers – followBut supply bottlenecks cannot be elimi­nat­ Lukashkin, who works at the plant. ing in the footsteps of not only his mother ­ed simply by building new power plants. and father but of his grandfather as well. The only way to ensure that businesses and And he’s not the only family member to up­ residents have ample, reliable supplies of hold the tradition: his brothers also studied power is to boost the efficiency of existing engineering in St. Petersburg. At Siemens, plants as well. Russia currently generates Gamburger can put his skills to the test: most of its electricity at aging steam power “I’m primarily responsible for long-term plants. Our upgrade at Kirishi impressively service agreements that run for six to demonstrates how the peak output and twelve years – or 50% to 100% of a gas energy efficiency of existing facilities can ­turbine’s entire lifecycle. I organize the debe dramatically improved. livery of replacement parts, recruit employees, prepare work plans and schedules, Energy-efficient and and coordinate all these processes in con­environ­mentally friendly sultation with the plant staff.” Gamburger A failure at Kirishi’s Unit 6 would have negwill remain in charge of Kirishi’s repowered ative consequences for the power supply Unit 6 throughout its lifecycle since plant in St. Petersburg and across the northwestoperator OGK-2 and Siemens have signed a ern region of Russia. As project manager, service agreement for the gas turbines and Kirill Gamburger has a great deal of regenerators that extends from 2013 to 2025. sponsibility for the power plant’s availability and performance. He also keeps a close The growing energy needs eye on operating costs for his customer: of a vibrant region “We’re now making better use of valuable Russia’s huge reserves of natural gas and natural gas, and our customer is benefitpetroleum are extremely important for the ing from substantial cost savings. Just concountry’s economy and its roughly 143 milsider the comparison: the efficiency of the lion inhabitants as well as for meeting the old units was 38%, while the new units are energy needs of Europe and Asia. As one of reaching 55%. That means we need onethe world’s largest electricity producers, third less natural gas to generate the same Russia is facing new challenges. According amount of electricity.” And this increased to ­Russian government forecasts, demand efficiency also benefits the environment: for electricity will increase 50% by 2030. “One-third less natural gas per kiloThe problem is that many of the country’s watt-hour of electricity means one-third power plants are outdated. According to fewer emissions of climate-damaging Russia’s Ministry of Energy, half the coun­carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour,” notes try’s steam power plants have been in Gamburger. PAGE 21 Increase in capacity 500 MW The modernization of Unit 6 at the Kirishi power plant nearly tripled the unit’s installed capacity, from about 300 to 800 megawatts. 11 Lots of electricity from hot exhaust gases The retrofitted Unit 6 at the Kirishi facility via a shaft to a generator, which produces is a state-of-the-art combined cycle power electricity. When emitted, the turbine’s explant of the kind that Siemens has installed haust gases have a temperature of bein many parts of the world over the last few tween 500°C and 600°C. At Kirishi, these years. Our advanced techno­logy enables gases no longer go unused but are harthe highly efficient use of fuel (natural gas nessed to produce steam, which is then in Kirishi’s case). When the fuel is burned, used to generate additional energy. Thanks thermal energy is converted into mechanito this technology, combined cycle power cal energy, which drives a gas turbine – as in plants are the most efficient type of cona jet engine. The gas turbine is connected ventional power plant. Efficiency 55% Prior to the upgrade, Unit 6 achieved an efficiency of 38%. Thanks to our innovative systems, 55% of the energy contained in the natural gas used to drive the unitʼs turbines is now being converted into electrical energy. more than Two gas turbines 300 turbines We’ve sold more than 300 of our SGT5-4000F turbines worldwide. In addition to the turbines’ high output, customers value their low emissions and efficient fuel use. 12 Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment Reduction in gas consumption 104 g/ kWh Unit 6 now needs exactly 220 grams of natural gas to generate one kilowatt-hour of electricity. Prior to the upgrade, 324 grams were required to generate the same amount. Two generators 640 MW The culmination of our many years of experience in producing generators, each of the two SGen5-1000A generators that we installed at Kirishi has a capacity of 320 megawatts. Control system 24 hours Extremely reliable and easy to operate, our advanced control system at Kirishi facilitates everyday processes. All employees – from shift supervisors to service engineers – can perform their work from nearly any location in the plant, around the clock. 13 Generating power more efficiently 1 Protecting the environment 2 1 – During a visit to Kirishi, Denis Bashuk, the general manager of power plant operator OGK-2, surveys the entire plant from the meeting room. 2 – The Kirishi power plant was built in the mid-1960s. Unit 6, pictured here, was ­commissioned in the early 1970s as a conventional steam power plant. The unit was upgraded and expanded by Siemens in 2012. “We can now dispense with the use of environmentally harmful heavy oil.” Denis Bashuk is the general manager of the Russian energy utility OGK-2. Before assuming this position, he was chief engineer at the Kirishi power plant, where he headed one of Russia’s largest projects to upgrade and boost the efficiency of a conventional steam power plant. Bashuk’s positive ­experience working with Siemens convinced him to rely on us for servicing Kirishi and for retrofitting other plants with our technologies. The updated Unit 6 at Kirishi has been in regular service since 2012. Have your expectations been fulfilled ? Denis Bashuk : This interview has given me a good reason to come back to K ­ irishi from our Moscow headquarters and see for myself how well Unit 6 is performing. As chief engineer at Kirishi, I oversaw the unit’s modernization from 2005 to 2008. At that time, I was very anxious to see if all the ambitious target parameters could be fulfilled. And Siemens kept its word. The new turbine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency 14 Strategic context in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55% today. As a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the same amount of electricity. Our answers to the Why did OGK-2 choose Siemens as its partner for this project ? challenges of climate Denis Bashuk : We first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit around 2004. There were various technical possibilities, and several companies change submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. One argument in favor of Siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization concept. A high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and we were impressed with Siemens’ very good references in this respect. In previous years, Siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines, Worldwide power generation (in terawatt-hours) which were consistently praised by their operators. You trust us so much that OGK-2 has commissioned Siemens to service Unit 6 until 2025. 36,600 Denis Bashuk : Yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. We prefer it when the + 13,800 original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its systems. Renewables 22,800 1 Our contract with Siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident that we won’t Hydro have any problems with service and maintenance during this time. Nuclear Gas What impact is the upgrade of Unit 6 having on the Oil environment ? Coal Denis Bashuk : A very positive one! Since the power plant now utilizes natural gas much more efficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emis2012 2030 sions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. What’s more, we no longer need to burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. Unfortunately, that used 1 Excluding hydro to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. In Source: Siemens the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed, we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever. How will we generate the power we’ll need in the future?As This the is general manager of a major power plant operator a pressing question for many countries today, even though the in Russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of challenges vary from place to place. While the demand for electhe future ? tricity is soaring in the world’s emerging markets, cost-efficiency and, in some cases, climate protection are the primary concerns in Denis Bashuk : To achieve a sustainable energy mix in the European part of our the industrialized countries. A wide range of diverse measures will we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. The country, be required to meet all these challenges. Energy systemsbest around way to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced the world are becoming much more complex. The linear combinedenergycycle power plants. We’ve only recently begun to use this technolconversion chain of the past is evolving into a complexogy power in Russia. New and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my matrix comprising many different producers and consumers. preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in Russia while minimizing the consumption of primary energy. We’re ideally positioned to master these challenges. Our portfolio encompasses energy-saving products, solutions and services in the What is OGK-2 planning in this regard ? fields of resource-conserving and climate-friendly power generaDenis Bashuk : We’re truly impressed with the results of Siemens’ upgrade of tion, low-loss power transmission and intelligent power distribution via smart grids. Unit 6 at Kirishi. At the moment, OGK-2 is building two new units, at the Cherepovets and Serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from Siemens for both projects. And the construction of a third unit is in the planning phase. 15 19 Generating power more efficiently Balanced energy mix 1 Protecting the environment 2 Generating power while 1 – During a visit to Kirishi, minimizing resource use Denis Bashuk, the general manager of power plant operator and environmental impact OGK-2, surveys the entire plant from the meeting room. 2 – The Kirishi power plant was built in the mid-1960s. Unit 6, pictured here, was commissioned in the early 1970s as a conventional steam Expected increase in capacity power plant. The unit was from new power plants, 2013upgraded – 2030 and(in gigawatts) expanded by Siemens in 2012. China 1,584 13% 31% 6% 12% 29% 9% 2% 5% EU 813 14% 5% 2% 49% 23% 8% 2% USA 697 36% 1% 25% 26% 2% 1% 5% 13% India 671 9% 44% 8% 20% “We can now dispense with the use of Combined Cycle Simple Cycle Steam Nuclear Hydro Wind & Solar Other environmentally harmful heavy oil.” Source: Siemens Denis Bashuk is theThe future of general power generation manager of the Russian will depend on achieving a balenergy anced energy mix. One key focus will be to expand the use of utility OGK-2. Before assuming this position, he was chief renewables. As the leading provider of offshore wind turbines, engineer at the Kirishi we’repower playingplant, where a vital role here.he Forheaded example,one we of built the world’s Russia’s largest projectslargest to upgrade offshore wind andfarm,boostthe Londonthe efficiency Array, off the coast of the of a conventional steam UK. Thepower plant. installation’s 175Bashuk’s turbines are positive now generating enough power to supply about 500,000 British households with green experience working with Siemens convinced him to rely electricity. on us for servicing Kirishi and for retrofitting other plants with our technologies. Flexible, high-efficiency fossil-fuel power plants will also be needed to ensure reliable power supplies. The most efficient fossil-fuel The updated Unit 6power at Kirishi plants has been in regular are state-of-the-art combinedservice cycle plants, whose fuel since 2012. Have your consumption expectations per kilowatt-hour been fulfilled ? one-third less than the is about average figure for the world’s gas-fired fleet. Even greater efficiency Denis Bashuk : This interview has given me a good reason to come back to can be attained using combined heat and power plants, which genKirishi from our Moscow headquarters and see for myself how well Unit 6 is erate both electricity and heat in the form of steam or hot water. performing. As chief engineer at Kirishi, I oversaw the unit’s modernization The net efficiency of the gas-fired cogeneration plant that we’re from 2005 to 2008. At that time, I was very anxious to see if all the ambitious now building in Düsseldorf, Germany is expected to exceed 61%. target parameters could be fulfilled. And Siemens kept its word. The new turWhen the thermal energy that will be diverted for district heating is bine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency also included in the equation, overall fuel utilization efficiency increases to 85%. 14 16 Efficient power transmission in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55% today. As a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the same amount of electricity. Distributing power intelligently Why did OGK-2 choose Siemens as its partner for this project ? Denis Bashuk : We first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit around 2004. There were various technical possibilities, and several companies submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. One argument in favor of Siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization concept. A high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and we were impressed with Siemens’ very good references in this respect. In previous years, Siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines, Comparison of power transmission systems which were consistently praised by their operators. You trust us so much that OGK-2 has commissioned HVDC Siemens to service Unit 6 until 2025. 3–5 % (including conDenis Bashuk : Yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. We prefer it when the version losses) original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its powerOur systems. losscontract with Siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident that we won’t have any problems with service and maintenance during this time. Conventional What impact is the upgrade of Unit 6 having on the 6–10% environment ? Denis Bashuk : A very positive one! Since the power plant now utilizes natural powermore gas much lossefficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emissions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. What’s more, we no longer need to burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. Unfortunately, that used to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. In the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed, HVDC – High-voltage direct-current transmission Conventional alternating-current transmission we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever. Source: Siemens As the general manager of a major power plant operator in Russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of Ideally, renewable energy sources are utilized where they’re most abundant. However, installations for harvesting renewables the are future ? often located far from consumption centers, making the expansionDenis Bashuk : To achieve a sustainable energy mix in the European part of our of long-distance transmission grids a key priority. Today’scountry, grid of we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. The choice is based on high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission best way to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced technology, which is one of our strengths. We’re a leading provider combined cycle power plants. We’ve only recently begun to use this technolof products and solutions that enable the low-loss transmission ogy inofRussia. New and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my large amounts of electricity over long distances. preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in Russia while minimizing the consumption of primary energy. In consumption centers, the growing but fluctuating feed-in of electricity from renewable sources can lead to supply instability. What is OGK-2 planning in this regard ? Our smart grids safeguard the stability and security of power supplies – for example, by balancing supply and demand with the Denis Bashuk : We’re truly impressed with the results of Siemens’ upgrade of help of innovative software solutions. Unit 6 at Kirishi. At the moment, OGK-2 is building two new units, at the Cherepovets and Serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from Because the amount of power provided by the wind and Siemens the sun for both projects. And the construction of a third unit is in the fluctuates, energy storage solutions are becoming increasingly phase. planning important. We’re working intensively to develop new solutions for storing large quantities of surplus power. Among other projects, we’re testing electrolysis systems that convert surplus electricity into storable hydrogen, which can then be used to power fuel-cell vehicles, for example. 17 19 Generating power more efficiently Sustainable use of energy 1 Protecting the environment 2 Slashing electricity consumption 1 – During a visit to Kirishi, Denis Bashuk, the general manager of power plant operator OGK-2, surveys the entire plant from the meeting room. 2 – The Kirishi power plant was built in the mid-1960s. Unit 6, pictured here, was commissioned in the early 1970s as a conventional steam power plant. The unit was Saving energy with intelligent building upgraded systems and expanded by Siemens in 2012. 40% of the energy used worldwide 21% of greenhouse gas emissions is consumed by buildings originate from buildings 30% reduction in energy consumption with Siemens’ intelligent building technologies Sources: United States Department of Energy, “Energy consumption by application in commercial buildings;” and International Energy Agency (IEA), “World Energy Outlook 2008” The cleanest electricity is always the electricity that’s not used at “We can nowall.dispense withenergy The potential for reducing theconsumption use ofand thus cutting costs is particularly high in buildings, industrial production and environmentally harmful transportation. We provide heavytechnologies oil.” that match power consumption to availability. For example, our demand management Denis Bashuk is thesystems general helping more aremanager of and the more Russianconsumers energy use power when supplies are high and rates are low. utility OGK-2. Before assuming this position, he was chief engineer at the Kirishi power plant, Our intelligent buildingwhere he headed technologies one of are boosting the energy effiRussia’s largest projectsciency to upgrade and of residential boost thebuildings andcommercial efficiency while enhancing of a conventional steam comfort power plant. Bashuk’s and productivity positive a wide range of for users. Comprising solutions and services, our building management systems control experience working with Siemens convinced him to rely everything from electrical installations and heating, ventilation and on us for servicing Kirishi and for retrofitting other plants air conditioning systems to lighting, access control, video surveilwith our technologies. lance and fire safety solutions. The updated Unit 6Inatthe Kirishi area of has been in regular transportation, electricservice mobility is of major signifsince 2012. Have your icance. Whether in buses, expectations beentrains or cars, fulfilled ? our electric motors are about three times as efficient as internal combustion engines. And Denis Bashuk : This interview has given me a good reason to come back to transportation isn’t the only area in which electric motors are proKirishi from our Moscow headquarters and see for myself how well Unit 6 is viding answers. They’re also optimally suited for use in industry, performing. As chief engineer at Kirishi, I oversaw the unit’s modernization where they power conveyor belts and pumps, for example. Electric from 2005 to 2008. At that time, I was very anxious to see if all the ambitious drive systems currently account for nearly two-thirds of industrial target parameters could be fulfilled. And Siemens kept its word. The new turpower consumption, which our optimized drive solutions can slash bine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency by up to 70%. 14 18 in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55% today. As a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the same amount of electricity. Why did OGK-2 choose Siemens as its partner for this project ? Denis Bashuk : We first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit around 2004. There were various technical possibilities, and several companies submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. One argument in favor of Siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization ­concept. A high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and we were impressed with Siemens’ very good references in this respect. In previous years, Siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines, which were consistently praised by their operators. You trust us so much that OGK-2 has commissioned Siemens to service Unit 6 until 2025. Denis Bashuk : Yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. We prefer it when the original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its systems. Our contract with Siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident that we won’t have any problems with service and maintenance during this time. What impact is the upgrade of Unit 6 having on the environment ? Denis Bashuk : A very positive one! Since the power plant now utilizes natural gas much more efficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emissions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. What’s more, we no longer need to burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. Unfortunately, that used to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. In the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed, we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever. As the general manager of a major power plant operator in Russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of the future ? Denis Bashuk : To achieve a sustainable energy mix in the European part of our country, we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. The best way to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced combined cycle power plants. We’ve only recently begun to use this technol­ ogy in Russia. New and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in Russia while minimizing the consumption of primary energy. What is OGK-2 planning in this regard ? Denis Bashuk : We’re truly impressed with the results of Siemens’ upgrade of Unit 6 at Kirishi. At the moment, OGK-2 is building two new units, at the ­Cherepovets and Serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from Siemens for both projects. And the construction of a third unit is in the ­planning phase. 19 Generating power more efficiently Protecting the environment 20 The young engineer has good reason to be pleased and even quite proud of his work because he’s making a major contribution to providing reliable energy while also helping protect the environment in the ­region around St. Petersburg: “I think we have to do even more to minimize environ33% mental impact. But things are moving in the right direction: environmental protection Reduction in energy consumption is becoming more and more important to the people of Russia.” This shift in ­attitude is also being supported by the The power plant’s upgraded unit now ­government, which has put in place the ­under­lying economic, organizational and requires one-third less natural gas to legal pre­­re­quisites for producing electri­c­ ity more efficiently and reducing energy produce the same amount of electricity. ­consumption. A new generation of engineers The thing that Kirill Gamburger appreciKirill Gamburger has set ambitious goals 2 ates most about his job is the teamwork for his future. Having already earned two 1 with highly committed fellow employees. engineering degrees, he’s now working on Whether for small-scale “hot-section” ina degree in economics at the State Polyspections or major inspections of the technical University in St. Petersburg – 1 – Via long-distance overhead transmission lines, the Kirishi ­turbines in Unit 6, he can always count on with support from Siemens. “I feel very power plant supplies electricity his well-qualified coworkers. “We’re a great connected to Siemens. My cousin, who, to Russia’s entire northwestern team, because we have some of the world’s like me, is an engineer, also works for region – all the way to Murmansk, which is north of the Arctic Circle. top experts when it comes to building Siemens in St. Petersburg. At the moment, and servicing leading-edge combined cycle he’s expanding his knowhow during a stint 2 – Kirishi is about 170 kilometers power plants.” And the cooperation doesn’t at the head office in Erlangen. Only a comsoutheast of St. Petersburg. The economy of this heavily wooded stop at Russia’s borders: Gamburger, who’s pany like Siemens offers opportunities like area is based on forestry, wood been at Siemens since 2009, regularly that.” processing and paper production. ­consults with his colleagues in Berlin and Erlangen, Germany. In the Gamburger family, today’s generation is reversing the route taken by their The engineers and technicians also comancestors, who emigrated from Germany municate frequently with their counterto Russia around 100 years ago to help parts at the other Russian power plants build the Trans-Siberian Railway. “That exthat use gas turbines from Siemens. Kirill plains our German-sounding name, which Gamburger especially enjoys his work at is anything but common in Russia,” says the plant in Kirishi: “There are lots of young Gamburger with a grin. “Since it’s easier to people employed in engineering and projpronounce a ’g’ than an ’h’ in Russian, our ect management at the Kirishi power plant original name ’Hamburger’ got changed to now. By joining forces, we quickly find ’Gamburger’ at some point.” So for Kirill solutions – even when looking for answers Gamburger, working for Siemens is, in a to difficult and complex questions.” Gamsense, like closing the circle. burger usually travels from St. Petersburg to Kirishi once a month to meet with the WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ plant’s managers and engineers. Telephone REPORT-ENERGY conferences are held each week, to keep WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ everyone up-to-date. REPORT-­E NERGY-MOVIE 21 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare 22 Acting responsibly “How can we make healthcare accessible to each and every individual? ” Dr. Namrata Gaur – Cardiac surgeon – Gurgaon, New Delhi, India As a doctor, I want everyone in India to have high-quality healthcare – regardless of their social status, gender or age. At our hospital complex, “Medanta – The Medicity,” we’re already moving toward this goal: we deliver healthcare at prices that are 20% to 30% lower than those of comparable facilities in India. And, with support from Siemens, we also operate a mobile clinic that my colleagues take to rural areas, performing checkups, providing free treatment and offering local residents healthcare information. IND Gurgaon 28 ° 28 ' N, 77 ° 1 ' E Population: about 1.5 million Gurgaon 25 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare Leveraging business opportunities “How can we make top-quality healthcare affordable? ” Dr. Naresh Trehan – Cardiac surgeon and Chairman of “Medanta – The Medicity ” – Gurgaon, New Delhi, India Many years ago, I started out with a vision: to set up a hospital in India where people would receive world-class care at affordable prices. Today, the patients at Medanta get the best care available in a wide array of specialized areas, from heart surgery to traditional Indian medicine. Our physicians, who are among the most qualified in the country, are also involved in clinical research, training and education. Software solutions and imaging systems from Siemens are helping make outstanding healthcare affordable by ensuring the efficiency of our workflows. 22 25 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare 1 1 – Dr. Namrata Gaur in her ­element: after performing ­successful cardiac surgery on a baby, she gives the young mother an optimistic prognosis. Enabling access to healthcare “I want to help ­people and enhance their quality of life.” Siemens’ healthcare solutions Medanta – The Medicity Gurgaon, New Delhi, India is one of Medanta’s areas of specialization. Each year, some 4,000 cardiac patients It was during an operation that Dr. Namrata ­receive treatment or undergo surgery at Gaur realized the direction she wanted to the hospital, which is located in Gurgaon, take: the aspiring young doctor was so fasa booming city of 1.5 million near New cinated by the patient’s beating heart that Delhi. Opened in 2009, the multi-specialshe vowed to become a cardiac surgeon. ization medical complex boasts a total of Her father, also a physician, warned her more than 20 specialist areas under one about the tough, predominantly male roof – from cardiac surgery to oncology. ­domain of heart surgery, in which there were only a few hundred female practiThe founder, Chairman and Managing tioners worldwide. But Dr. Gaur had made ­Director of Medanta is Dr. Gaur’s mentor, up her mind. And to this day, the experithe Indian cardiac surgeon Dr. Naresh enced surgeon is still just as fascinated: ­Trehan, who established Medanta with the “The heart is more than just a muscle; it’s aim of making world-class healthcare home to the emotions, romance and love. ­affordable for as many people as possible. Even children know that it’s something Four years after the hospital’s inauguraspecial. When I operate on the heart, I’m tion, Dr. Gaur is convinced that this mission touching the soul of my patients.” is being fulfilled: “Our 1,250 beds, 350 critical-care beds and 45 operating rooms are Serving many patients from the always full. Many patients come from nearby ­surrounding countryside rural areas or from neighboring countries Dr. Namrata Gaur operates on two to three such as Uzbekistan, Iran, Afghanistan and patients a day, six days a week. Heart surgery Pakistan.” 26 27 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare 28 2 1 1 – Physicians in a Medanta heart catheter lab use a Siemens Artis Zee angiography system to assess the condition of a patient’s blood vessels. 2 – All five of Medanta’s cardiac catheterization laboratories are equipped with Siemens technology. Our syngo.via software enables ­surgeons and radiologists to view patient images on screen. Cardiac operations per year about 4,000 Within a few short years, Dr. Naresh Trehan has made his vision of creating “the best hospital between Berlin and Tokyo” a reality. One of the reasons why Dr. Namrata Gaur quality products from Siemens. The comis so enthusiastic about working at mitted heart surgeon knows how impor­ ­Medanta is its state-of-the-art technology: tant that is: “In medical school and during “I can access all of a patient’s electronic my specialist residency program, I often health records from virtually any computer used Siemens systems. They provide preat the hospital, even during an operation. cise r­ esults and are both user-friendly and And that facilitates and accelerates deciextremely reliable. Now I use them to ­ sion-making – for the benefit of my pa­monitor my work as I operate. Is the heart tients.” Software from Siemens enables all valve or bypass working, or is there leakpatient data, including images such as age? With a Siemens cardiac sonogram, X-rays and angiograms, to be stored on a I can see immediately and take corrective single platform – for all departments at the action if necessary.” However, technology hospital. from Siemens not only promotes positive patient outcomes. “Thanks to the best Siemens technology makes equipment and digital networks,” states work easier hospital head Dr. Naresh Trehan with What’s more, the imaging data in the elec­ conviction, “we work very productively, tronic health records is supplied by Siemens our doctors have more time for their systems. When it comes to CT, MRI and PET ­patients, and we can still deliver healthcare scanners as well as X-ray and ultrasound at affordable prices.” PAGE 38 systems, Medanta relies primarily on high-­ 29 Healthcare technology for many ­specialties under one roof At the multi-specialization Medanta healthclinicians can view X-rays and other images care facility, Siemens has turned the vision on screen. The attending physician and the of the largely digitized hospital into reality. nursing staff can access each image on a The chemical development of film, for secure drive at virtually every computer 1 in many years standard practice with X-ray the hospital. The flow of data is particularequipment, is a thing of the past at Medanly efficient b ­ ecause nearly all the hospital’s ta, as are long rows of patient files. All eximaging systems are from Siemens and amination results are stored electronically. communicate with the system via uniform Together with their colleagues in other rooms data formats and interfaces. at the hospital and even at other facilities, 1 Prerequisites include: Internet connection to clinical network, DICOM compliance, meeting of minimum hardware requirements and adherence to local data security regulations. SOMATOM ­Definition Flash 1 mSv can reduce radiation dose during heart scans to less than one millisievert. Artis zeego with syngo DynaCT Cardiac 360° is an integrated industrial robotic technology that – by enabling a highly flexible rotation around the human body – creates CT-like cross sections from which 3D images can be gen­ erated before, during and after therapeutic interventions. MAGNETOM Espree 70 cm features a 70-centimer inner bore – to increase patient maneuverability and facilitate scans of obese and ­claustrophobic patients. Biograph™ mCT 5 minutes enables whole-body PET-CT scans in only five ­minutes – for a high level of patient comfort. 30 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare syngo.plaza, syngo.dynamics and syngo.via + efficiency enable – as IT systems for radiology, cardiology and other clinical departments – the more efficient and precise reading and archiving of patient images. Artis Zee with 3D syngo DynaCT Cardiac images allows 3D imaging that enhances the precise ­evaluation and effectiveness of the latest cardiac interventions. ACUSON SC2000 ™ – 15 Ultrasound System minutes uses automated measurement ­processes to considerably accelerate ultrasound examinations. > 25 Mobile clinic buses are providing basic medical care to ­people who would otherwise never receive it. Siemens has equipped more than 25 mobile clinics in India with healthcare systems in the last ten years. 31 Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare “Medanta is devoted to life.” Dr. Naresh Trehan opened “Medanta – The Medicity,” a multispecialization medical complex, in 2009. After working many years as a cardiac surgeon in the U.S., he has been making a major contribution to cardiology in India since the mid-1980s. With Medanta, Dr. Trehan aims to set new standards for the quality of healthcare in India while making medical services more widely accessible. Dr. Trehan, what is the concept underlying Medanta? Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta offers people in India top-quality medical services – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading healthcare professionals. We combine, among other things, traditional Indian herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology. This enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regardless of their social and economic status. 32 How would Strategic you assess Medanta’s development today, four context 1 years after its inauguration? Our answers to the 2 Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta’s development has been outstanding in every respect. We’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. Our 1 – Dr. Naresh Trehan has pertechnical equipment ranges from the most advanced X-ray systems to innovaformed more than 50,000 heart challenges of tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. As a result, our healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. But we’re still working to operations in the course of his professional life. He conveys his knowledge and extensive demographic change continuously improve. experience to colleagues at his own hospital, Medanta. You want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the 2 – Medanta is located about 20 kilometers from New Delhi’s intersame time, provide more people with access to affordable national airport – another reason for its attractiveness to patients healthcare. Population Isn’t that abycontradiction? growth 2050 (in billions of people) from all across India and outside the country. Dr. Naresh Trehan: In the U.S., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about US$40,000. In Europe, the figure is around US$25,000. At Medanta, the 9.6 same operation costs less than US$4,000. We can provide the operation at that price because labor costs + 2.4in India are lower and because we work much 7.2 more productively than our colleagues in the West. In India, heart surgeons perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries. Our advanced medical technology solutions from Siemens and our optimized IT infrastructure are further key factors. Emerging and developing countries What are the challenges facing healthcare in India? Dr. Naresh Trehan: Our situation – like so many others in India –Industrialized is paradoxical. countries On the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers 2013 2050 of patients from abroad. India has taken a leading position here, and I’m naturally very pleased about that. But on the other hand, even though our services cost Source: onlyNations, United orEconomic a tenth of aboutDepartment a twentieth ofAffairs, whatPopulation and Social West, in the 2013 they doDivision, they’re still not affordable for the majority of India’s people – particularly those in rural areas. The world’s population is booming. Today, our planet is home to 7.2 billion people. According to the United Nations, this number will What are you doing to master this challenge? rise to 9.6 billion by 2050. Most of this growth will occur in the develDr. Naresh oping countries, At Medanta, Trehan:where we’ve will the population made world-class increase from 5.9medical billion treatment to 8.2forbillion affordable today moreinpeople. 2050. In And we’ve launched addition, people are The Healthy living longer.and Educated Village Program Average to fosterworldwide, life expectancy and medical healthcarewhich is now 69 expertise years for peothe cities. outside We’re ple training born between personnel 2005 and to provide 2010, will rise totreatment medical and 76 years for education those born in villages, and we operate between 2045 and a mobile 2050. Inclinic to serve the more rural areas. developed Siemens countries, has provided us average with cancer diagnostic equipment. We use it to examine life expectancy will be 83, while people in the emerging countries people in rural areas free of charge and refer them, will live to an average age of 75. when necessary, to local hospitals. In my opinion, access to medical services in India has improved considerably in the last five years. This change confident I’mposes major that, within the challenges theten fornext years,healthcare we’ll be providing up world’s to 50% more systems. In the patients with access fast-growing to high-quality emerging and developinghealthcare. countries, the demand for professional, affordable entry-level healthcare Why didisyou solutions decideIntothe intensifying. partner industrialized Siemens? withcountries, population growth will be minimal. However, the progressive aging of the popDr. Naresh Trehan: I have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical ulations in those countries will increase the demand for medical systems and its services. It’s unbeatable. We’re 100% certain that Siemens services there, too. For many years, we at Siemens have been workproducts won’t let us down. I also have a high regard for the company’s charing to improve healthcare worldwide – with medical devices, acter. When Siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. But healthcare IT solutions and lab tests. The following pages document when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. And I appreciate the progress we’ve made in our three key strategic action areas. that very much. In addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our requirements – also in terms of cost. 33 Providing high-quality medical technology Fighting the most threatening diseases Improving healthcare Faster, more accurate diagnosis reduces the risk of life-threatening illness Number of patients treated worldwide using Siemens medical devices and lab tests 1 90 million treated patients Target 2014 86 million treated patients Current situation 2013 70 million treated patients Starting point 2010 1 Based on the installed base of the Siemens products and solutions used to diagnose and treat heart attack, stroke, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, breast cancer and lung cancer, taking into account only those product categories included in the recommendations of the relevant medical societies. According to World Health Organization (WHO) statistics for the year 2011, about 30% of all deaths due to illness are caused by cardiovascular diseases, 15% by cancer and 15% by infection. Medical products and solutions from Siemens are helping drive the fight against these life-threatening illnesses. In 2013, for instance, our healthcare devices and lab tests were used to examine or treat “Medanta is devoted to life.” more than 86 million victims of heart attack, stroke, breast cancer, lung cancer, HIV/AIDS or tuberculosis. In 2014, we aim to help treat more than 90 million people worldwide. Dr. Naresh Trehan opened “Medanta – The Medicity,” a multispecialization Our commitment medical is particularly complex, clear in the inarea 2009. After working of HIV/AIDS. Africa many years accountsasfora cardiac about 60%surgeon of the world’s HIV U.S., in the he about has been sufferers: making a 22.5 million of contribution major the continent’s inhabitants to cardiology are currently in India infected sincewith the the mid-1980s. immunodeficiency virus. For rapid, effective therapy, early testing With Medanta, Dr. Trehan aims to set new standards for the is vital. And this is where Siemens comes in. In Africa, we’ve quality of healthcare in India while making medical services equipped 18 laboratories in ten countries with lab tests and conmore widely ducted more than accessible. 350,000 examinations. Attending physicians use the results to select and administer drug combinations tailored to Dr. each patient. what Trehan, is the –concept This example just one underlying Medanta? of many – highlights the major role that our clinical diagnostic tests are playing in the battle Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta offers people in India top-quality medical seragainst the world’s most dangerous diseases. vices – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading healthcare professionals. We combine, among other things, traditional Indian herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology. This enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regardless of their social and economic status. 32 34 How would Improving you assess quality Medanta’sindevelopment and productivity the healthcaretoday, field four 1 years after its inauguration? 2 High-quality healthcare services Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta’s development has been outstanding in every respect. We’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. Our 1 – Dr. Naresh Trehan has permust remain technical equipment ranges from affordable the most advanced X-ray systems to innovaformed more than 50,000 heart operations in the course of his tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. As a result, our professional life. He conveys healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. But we’re still working to his knowledge and extensive continuously improve. experience to colleagues at his own hospital, Medanta. You want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the 2 – Medanta is located about 20 kilometers from New Delhi’s intersame time, provide more people with access to affordable national airport – another reason Number of patients treated every hour worldwide for its attractiveness to patients healthcare. Isn’t that using Siemens a contradiction? medical devices and lab tests 1 from all across India and outside the country. Dr. Naresh Trehan: In the U.S., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about US$40,000. In Europe, the figure is around US$25,000. At Medanta, the 170,000 203,000 same operation costs less than US$4,000. We can provide the operation at 200,000 that price because labor costs in India are lower and because we work much more productively than our colleagues in the West. In India, heart surgeons perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries. Our advanced medical technology solutions from Siemens and our optimized IT infrastructure are further key factors. What are the challenges facing healthcare in India? Dr. Naresh Trehan: Our situation – like so many others in India – is paradoxical. 1h On the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers of patients from abroad. India has taken a leading position here, and I’m naturally very pleased about that. But on the other hand, even though our Starting point Current situation Initial target services cost only2010 about a tenth or a twentieth 2013 of what they do2014 in the West, they’re still not affordable for the majority of India’s people – particularly those in rural areas. 1 Based on the installed base of Siemens imaging products and their typical utilization. We’ve also taken into account the number of in-vitro tests worldwide, divided by the average number of tests per patient. What are you doing to master this challenge? Dr. Naresh Trehan: At Medanta, we’ve made world-class medical treatment affordable In 2013, more for more people. And than 203,000 we’ve patients launched were worldwide treated and The Healthy or Educated Village Program examined to foster every hour using healthcare and medical Siemens medical devices tests. the cities. and laboutside expertise We’re As a result, wepersonnel training to provide met the target we’dmedical treatmentinand set for ourselves education a year in villages, 2010 and wethan earlier operate a mobile planned. This clinic to serveboth achievement areas. Siemens ruralconfirms has provided us our success with cancer diagnostic equipment. We use it to examine and motivates us to further improve the quality and productivity of people in rural areas free of charge and refer them, when necessary, to local hospitals. healthcare services and enable even more patients to benefit from In my opinion,technologies our access to medical in 2014.services in India has improved considerably in the last five years. I’m confident that, within the next ten years, we’ll be providing up to substantial A 50% more patients proportion withofaccess to high-quality healthcare expenditure healthcare. worldwide is currently wasted due to inefficiency. By providing efficient products did youwe’re Whysolutions, and decide makingto partner with Siemens? a key contribution to ensuring that medical examinations remain widely available despite rising cost Dr. Naresh Trehan: I have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical pressures. systems and its services. It’s unbeatable. We’re 100% certain that Siemens products won’t let us down. I also have a high regard for the company’s character. When Siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. But when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. And I appreciate that very much. In addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our requirements – also in terms of cost. 35 Providing high-quality medical technology Providing access to healthcare Improving healthcare Medical imaging for everyone – from basic care to highly specialized diagnostics Patients in emerging countries with access to Siemens imaging systems 1 1 billion Target 2014 970 million Current situation 2013 760 million Starting point 2010 1 Based on the installed base of Siemens CTs in 113 emerging countries (< 0.785 in the UN Human Development Index of 2010). We’ve derived the number of inhabitants per CT from a calculation of CT density in selected countries. In 2013, more than 970 million patients in emerging countries had access to Siemens imaging systems. But we’re still not satisfied: by 2014, we want to increase this figure to more than one billion. Our aim is to boost the utilization rates of existing X-ray systems and CT/MRT scanners and improve basic healthcare services by providing robust low-cost medical technologies like our Multix Select DR “Medanta is devoted to life.” digital X-ray system and our SOMATOM Spirit CT scanner. Dr. Naresh Trehan opened “Medanta – The Medicity,” a multispecialization medical complex, in 2009. After working many years as a cardiac surgeon in the U.S., he has been making a major contribution to cardiology in India since the mid-1980s. With Medanta, Dr. Trehan aims to set new standards for the quality of healthcare in India while making medical services more widely accessible. Dr. Trehan, what is the concept underlying Medanta? Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta offers people in India top-quality medical services – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading healthcare professionals. We combine, among other things, traditional Indian herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology. This enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regardless of their social and economic status. 32 36 How would you assess Medanta’s development today, four 1 years after its inauguration? 2 Dr. Naresh Trehan: Medanta’s development has been outstanding in every respect. We’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. Our 1 – Dr. Naresh Trehan has pertechnical equipment ranges from the most advanced X-ray systems to innovaformed more than 50,000 heart operations in the course of his tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. As a result, our ­professional life. He conveys healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. But we’re still working to his knowledge and extensive continuously improve. ­experience to colleagues at his own hospital, Medanta. You want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the 2 – Medanta is located about 20 kilometers from New Delhi’s intersame time, provide more people with access to affordable national airport – another reason for its attractiveness to patients healthcare. Isn’t that a contradiction? from all across India and outside the country. Dr. Naresh Trehan: In the U.S., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about US$40,000. In Europe, the figure is around US$25,000. At Medanta, the same operation costs less than US$4,000. We can provide the operation at that price because labor costs in India are lower and because we work much more productively than our colleagues in the West. In India, heart surgeons perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries. Our advanced medical technology solutions from Siemens and our optimized IT infrastructure are further key factors. What are the challenges facing healthcare in India? Dr. Naresh Trehan: Our situation – like so many others in India – is paradoxical. On the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers of patients from abroad. India has taken a leading position here, and I’m ­naturally very pleased about that. But on the other hand, even though our services cost only about a tenth or a twentieth of what they do in the West, they’re still not affordable for the majority of India’s people – particularly those in rural areas. What are you doing to master this challenge? Dr. Naresh Trehan: At Medanta, we’ve made world-class medical treatment affordable for more people. And we’ve launched The Healthy and Educated ­Village Program to foster healthcare and medical expertise outside the cities. We’re training personnel to provide medical treatment and education in villages, and we operate a mobile clinic to serve rural areas. Siemens has provided us with cancer diagnostic equipment. We use it to examine people in rural areas free of charge and refer them, when necessary, to local hospitals. In my opinion, access to medical services in India has improved considerably in the last five years. I’m confident that, within the next ten years, we’ll be providing up to 50% more patients with access to high-quality healthcare. Why did you decide to partner with Siemens? Dr. Naresh Trehan: I have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical systems and its services. It’s unbeatable. We’re 100% certain that Siemens products won’t let us down. I also have a high regard for the company’s character. When Siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. But when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. And I appreciate that very much. In addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our requirements – also in terms of cost. Providing high-quality medical technology Improving healthcare 1 1 – A Bodhi tree adorns the hospital’s foyer. Patients and family members of all religions tie red ribbons to the tree, a Buddhist symbol of wisdom and life, and pray for health – their own and that of their relatives. Dr. Namrata Gaur Cardiac surgeon “We want to treat every patient with the same degree of care, compassion and commitment.” Dr. Namrata Gaur is full of enthusiasm for job: “My father was a doctor, and I saw how her challenging profession, although she his patients respected him for his compascontinually faces new challenges. One of sion and commitment. From him, I learned her major concerns is the growing number that nothing is more rewarding than helpof cardiovascular patients: “The incidence of ing people, relieving their pain and encoronary artery disease is increasing sharply, hancing their quality of life.” And the very and our patients are getting younger all popular doctor needs a lot of strength. the time. Not long ago, for example, we At Medanta, there are many sick people operated on a girl of only 14. One contribwaiting for help, and twelve-hour days and uting factor is a genetic predisposition in six-day work weeks are the norm in cardiac the Indian population, another is the changsurgery. ing lifestyle. In the cities, in particular, there’s more stress, people are smoking more, Nevertheless, in addition to working in the eating less healthy foods and paying less operating room and intensive care unit, attention to their health in general.” As a Dr. Gaur is also committed to training result, India will have to expand its ­capacity physicians and nurses: “During training, ­ for treating cardiovascular disease in the I also convey the idea that we need to do years ahead. Despite growing prosperity, more to promote the health of women there are still huge social disparities in the and children in India.” That’s why she’s so country, and relatively few people can afexcited about a project being undertaken ford health insurance. The challenge is to jointly by Medanta and Siemens: “In the rugive people in India ­access to high-­quality ral areas of India, many people are poor, and healthcare – regardless of their income the next good hospital is often very far and their status. For Dr. Gaur, Medanta is away. Our doctors travel from village to on the right track: “We’re providing high-­ ­village with a mobile clinic equipped with quality care for our patients at a cost that is devices and systems from Siemens, examinabout 20% to 30% lower than at compa­ ing and treating patients free of charge and rable hospitals. What’s more, the disadvaneducating the rural population about health taged receive treatment at reduced cost or issues.” Dr. Namrata Gaur now combines in even free of change, no matter what their her work everything she intended from the gender or religion.” start: medical professionalism, personal compassion and social responsibility. A fulfilling profession that entails making sacrifices WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ The fact that not only the wealthy benefit REPORT­H EALTHCARE from her work as a heart surgeon gives WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ Dr. Gaur the strength she needs to do her REPORT­H EALTHCARE-MOVIE The statements by Siemens’ customers described herein many variables exist (e.g., hospital size, case mix, level of are based on results that were achieved in the customer’s IT adoption) there can be no guarantee that other custom38 unique setting. Since there is no “typical” hospital and ers will achieve the same results. 39 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions 40 Acting responsibly “How can I enjoy life to the fullest once again?” Gordon France – Ice hockey player and artist – York Harbor, Maine, U.S. Sports and painting are my great passions – even today at the age of 76. I’ve played ice hockey with my friends ever since I was a kid. I also enjoy traveling with my wife and painting landscapes. But a few years ago, disease nearly put a stop to all that. Intense pain in my knees was making it harder and harder to get around. Then I decided to get knee replacements. The operations gave me back my mobility and put an end to the pain. Now I’m back in the middle of things. USA York Harbor, Maine 43 ° 8 ' N, 70 ° 38 ' E Population: about 3,000 York Harbor 43 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions Leveraging business opportunities “How can implants be manufactured faster and at lower cost?” Sabine Fietz – Engineer – Erlangen, Germany As a Siemens engineer, I look for answers to technological challenges every day. People like Gordon France show me how important it is to continuously work on finding more efficient industrial processes and solutions rather than simply being content with the status quo. The key here is to have a comprehensive overview of all the steps in both product development and the manufacturing process – from the initial implant design to production planning and machine tool configuration (production engineering) to actual manufacturing and services. By using software solutions to link all these steps in an end-to-end process chain, we can enable implant manufacturers to further simplify, considerably accelerate and, last but not least, cut the cost of designing implants. We’re also leveraging this approach to make production processes more efficient in other industries. 40 43 Industry solutions that enhance the ­quality of life Back in the game – with new knees Siemens’ industry solutions York Harbor, Maine, U.S. Erlangen, Germany Maine, U.S. the coast of Maine. That means he does a months after leaving the hospital, Gordon lot of walking on rough terrain – just as he France was once again leading a full life. Ice hockey is one of the toughest sports did before his operations. But today he no “I can move like a 25-year-old again. My around. Next to head wounds, knee injulonger takes it for granted. “I had severe quality of life has really improved.” ries are the most common result of uninknee pain for years, and it kept getting tended collisions on the ice. But seventyworse. The doctors always diagnosed the Gordon France is only one example among six-year-old Gordon France wouldn’t dream same thing: the onset of arthritis. So it was many. In the U.S., some 720,000 people of giving up the sport that’s been his hobby only a matter of time before I’d either have receive knee implants every year – people since childhood, even though he’s had two to get knee replacements or quit walking who couldn’t continue living their normal knees replaced: “When I got out of rehab, altogether.” lives without the help of artificial joints. I headed straight back to the rink, grabbed And it’s here that our knowhow and experonto the boards and pulled myself along Gordon France was aware that there might tise in the area of industrial production until I got the hang of it again. Before I be complications. He also knew that the processes can make an important contribuknew it, I was whirling around the ice, implants would probably have to be tion. As a producer of innovative industry and my knees were working great.” When ­replaced at some point. But there didn’t solutions, we’ve developed a solution that not playing ice hockey, the successful artist seem to be much choice: “I couldn’t hike, will enable implant manufacturers to prois continually looking for interesting landI couldn’t skate, and I couldn’t paint any duce prosthetics faster, more efficiently and scape motifs – preferably in Tuscany or more. Something had to be done.” The more economically. On the pages that folnear his summer home in York Harbor on operations were a success. About six ­ low, Sabine Fietz explains how it all works. 44 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions 1 2 1/2 – Five-time grandfather ­Gordon France sets a fast pace in the rink. Thanks to two ­artificial knees, he can still play his ­favorite sport. 45 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions 1 2 1 – Knee replacements make it ­possible for people like Gordon France to live normal, active lives once again. 2 – At our Technology and Application Center in Erlangen, Germany, Sabine Fietz describes how intelligent software solutions from Siemens enable manufac­turers to produce implants faster and thus more economically – for the benefit of patients. Industry solutions for people only have decades of experience in indusgrowing.” In order to manufacture variSiemens engineer Sabine Fietz has big trial production. We’re also one of Europe’s ously sized batches of prosthetics economplans: “One of the megatrends in our socilargest software providers. Our innovative ically and thus as cost-neutrally as possible, ety relates to demographic development. software solutions enable all process companies are looking for ways to optimize People are living longer, which means that steps – from a product’s development to its their existing processes. What’s needed are there’s a growing need for healthcare prodmanufacture – to be simulated, tested and manufacturing solutions that offer greater ucts. As the age pyramid for the industrialintegrated in a virtual environment. What’s flexibility and efficiency while maintaining ized countries clearly shows, more and the advantage? Our customers can test and high standards of quality and current levels more individuals – like Gordon France – are optimize all steps in the product developof production reliability. “That’s exactly reaching an age at which their joints are no ment and manufacturing process in the what our solution does,” says Sabine Fietz. longer up to the demands placed on them virtual domain before a single machine “By linking virtual and real processes, we in daily life. Of course, these people still tool or production facility goes into operaenable the efficient use of manufacturing want to continue leading active lives. For tion. They can see what impact a change in facilities even for small-batch production.” many patients, artificial knees are the only the planned product design has on all furEfficiency means one thing above all: speed. way to improve their clinical outcomes and ther production steps, whether the producWhether rapidly implementing specificamaintain their quality of life. The challenge tion facility is running smoothly, and where tions in the form of digital prototypes, is to manufacture increasingly individualthe manufacturing processes can be made quickly developing computer-numericalized products that are also affordable.” even more productive, efficient and flexily-controlled (CNC) programs, swiftly setble.” Only when everything is working perting up or retooling machines for different This challenge applies particularly to imfectly in the on-screen simulation does the batch sizes or, last but not least, acceleratplants, many of which have only a limited real production process begin. ing machine-tool performance – Siemens’ lifespan and must be replaced after a cersolution makes it all possible while also tain time. Artificial knees, for example, are Siemens is also leveraging this expertise in ensuring that quality requirements are subject to heavy loads and generally do not its solution for the industrial production of met. “By implementing this approach, last longer than ten to 15 years. The quest implants, thus supporting prosthetics manwe’re reducing the cost, effort and time to provide the best possible prosthetic for ufacturers worldwide. As Sabine Fietz needed to manufacture implants and layeach patient is spawning a continually inknows from many discussions with customing the foundation for more affordable and creasing number of different implant sizes ers, manufacturers find themselves facing thus more widely available implantation and shapes. Aware of this situation, Sabine more and more new challenges: “Due to processes.” That’s what Sabine Fietz finds Fietz and her colleagues are leveraging the steadily increasing number of patients most rewarding: “Our solution is helping Siemens’ strengths to create solutions for in need of artificial joints, the demand for patients regain their quality of life. And ultiimplant manufacturers. “At Siemens, we not different implant sizes and shapes is also mately, that’s what counts.” PAGE 56 46 Knee prosthetics 720,000 In the U.S., some 720,000 people receive knee implants every year. 47 Innovative industry solution from a single source The production of implants is a prime exWith our comprehensive offerings for autoample of how Siemens’ solutions are helpmation technology, industrial controls, ing enhance industrial productivity. We drive technology, industry software and consistently deploy integrated technol­ services, we supply and support customers ogies for the benefit of our customers. worldwide along the entire value chain – Our wide-ranging portfolio – coupled with from product design to production plansolid, internationally proven vertical-marning and engineering to actual production ket ­expertise and a strong customer foand services. cus – enables us to deliver the right products and solutions for every application. Siemens is driving the future of industry. Product design 1 In the chemicals, pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, car and machine tool industries, intensive global competition, increasing product variety and new technologies have radically shortened innovation cycles for products of all kinds. Industry software can markedly reduce development times and slash costs. To virtually develop, test and optimize their products, companies worldwide are relying on product lifecycle management (PLM) software from Siemens. 1 2 Production planning 2 Industry software makes it possible to completely simulate and optimize production by developing whole factories and individual machines on screen. This approach saves time, ­conserves resources and cuts energy costs while increasing plant profitability. The key to success lies in the integration of our PLM software into our automation systems, which cuts time-to-market by up to 50% while enhancing quality. 48 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions Production engineering 3 Services 5 As the use of hardware and software increases, it is becomEffective maintenance plays a vital role in industry by ing more challenging – but also more important – to ensure increasing plant availability. But service doesn’t end here. that individual systems communicate and cooperate seamFrom planning and installation to operation and moderni­ lessly. Our Totally Integrated Automation Portal (TIA Portal) zation, we support industrial customers with product-, is an engineering revolution that enables integrated, uniform ­systemand application-related services throughout entire access to all automation tasks while optimizing workflows plant lifecycles in order to reduce downtime and conserve and reducing engineering costs by as much as 30%. resources. Based on decades of vertical-market and process expertise, our rigorous customer focus is enabling us to enhance industrial productivity and efficiency while cutting overall production costs. +45 =53 3 4 25 –17 5 Production 4 Increased automation has revolutionized industry in recent years, and the trend is continuing. Our Totally Integrated Automation (TIA) platform enables companies to optimize their automation solutions – no matter what industry they’re in. The productivity and efficiency of entire factories can be improved even further with the help of efficient motors, gears and converters. The use of innovative and perfectly tailored drive technology alone can yield energy savings of up to 70%. Maximum production performance and response are also ensured by our Manufacturing Execution ­System (MES). Thanks to intelligent data linking, companies can influence production processes transparently and in real time. 49 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions “As researchers, we always have to think ahead.” Professor Berend Denkena is head of the Institute of Production Engineering and Machine Tools at Leibniz University in Hanover and one of Germany ’s leading specialists in the field of production process and machine tool development. Professor Denkena, what’s the connection between your institute’s work and Siemens ? Professor Denkena : I’m very familiar with Siemens from my previous work in industry. We cooperate with your company very closely. For example, virtually all the controls and drives used in our machine tools come from Siemens. Our re­search and teaching focus on production process and machine tool development. In this field, there are many connections to Siemens. In the area of simulation, for example, our work is guided by similar concerns. In the area of machine tool programming, there are interfaces with Siemens’ product lifecycle management software. As researchers, we develop innovative solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. That is, we think a little ahead. 50 Siemenscontext Strategic has created a standardized process for automating 1 the manufacture of prosthetics. In your opinion, what’s the Our answers to biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ? 2 Professor Denkena : I’d say it’s probably cost. Healthcare solutions have to be 1 – Professor Berend Denkena has headed the Institute of Production the challenges of affordable. And from a technology point of view, it’s extremely difficult to Engineering and Machine Tools combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one at the Centre for Production customized product or a few products of a particular type. Technology at Leibniz University globalization in Hanover, Germany, since 2001. The activities of the institute’s What role do you think the individualized mass production roughly 70 researchers focus on production processes, mechatronic of prosthetics will play in the future ? And how would you components and production planning and organization. assess their market potential ? Siemens’ global value chain1 Professor Denkena : Our whole society is aging. What’s more, many people want 2 – A machine tool controlled by a Siemens SINUMERIK system to remain mobile and active as they grow older. That’s why implants can produces an implant. enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. If you can get the cost-benefit Europe, C.I.S., ratio 2 right, Africa, East approach has excellent market potential. Siemens’ Middle 39.9 revenue (in billions of �) 3 53% of total worldwide But that means the process chain has to be automated 220,000 61% from end to end. What are the obstacles here ? employees 4 of total worldwide Professor Denkena : The problems are usually at the interfaces – from product design, simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the machine tools to the actual production. Siemens maps end-to-end process chains for its products. And in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for success. One of your current research projects focuses on the production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics. What’s your vision ? Professor Denkena : Our vision is to implement production processes directly on site – that is, we want to precisely manufacture components under sterile conditions as close as possible to the operating room – when, for example, an implant has to be replaced or a tumor removed. You only see what the situation really is when an operation is underway. Siemens is on the right track – Americas Asia, Australia but our ultimate goal is to manufacture components very quickly right where 20.9 revenue they’re needed. (in billions of �) 3 28% of total worldwide 15.1 revenue (in billions of �) 3 20% of total worldwide How long do you think it will be6 78,000 4,000 22% of total 18% of total employees 4 worldwide before that happens ? employees 4 worldwide Professor Denkena : Unfortunately, these things always take longer than they should. 1 That’s All figuresbeen refer toour experience continuing anyway. operations Regulatory approval 2 Commonwealth always Statesplays of Independent a big 3role By in customer location the healthcare 4field. As of So, September 30, 2013be surprised if it took at least I wouldn’t ten years. I hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions. In any event, I’m convinced that Siemens has made a very important advance The world’s economies are becoming increasingly interlinked. since the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better Trade barriers are falling, commodity exports are on the rise prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life. around the globe, and economic centers and economic growth are shifting from the industrialized nations to the emerging markets. China’s industrial output has overtaken that of the U.S., and more than 100 of today’s Fortune 500 companies are in the BRIC countries. Globalization is advancing at full speed. These worldwide changes present massive challenges for industry. New competitors, global value chains and a high degree of market transparency are adding to the competitive pressures. Industrial companies must continually increase their productivity if they don’t want to fall behind. And for this, they need innovative manufacturing technologies that allow them to produce more flexibly and at lower cost, with shorter time-to-market. As one of the world’s leading providers of automation technology and industry software, we intend to play a leading role in the future of manufacturing. 51 Enhancing industrial productivity Industry 4.0 Creating efficient solutions On the road to the Fourth Industrial Revolution From Industry 1.0 to Industry 4.0 1.0 1784 based on mechanical production equipment driven by water and steam power 2.0 1870 based on mass production enabled by the division of labor and the use of electrical energy 3.0 1969 based on the use of electronics and IT to further automate production 4.0 tomorrow based on the use of cyber-physical systems It sounds like something out of science fiction: communities of “As machines researchers, organize themselves, we supply always have chains automatically cooperate with one another, and unfinished products send the data to neededthinkfor theirahead.” processing to the machines that will turn them into merchandise. These are the developments that will characterize the production Professor Berendenvironment Denkena of is tomorrow. head of the Many observersof Institute areProducproclaiming the advent of a fourth industrial revolution: Industry tion Engineering and Machine Tools at Leibniz University in 4.0. The first revolution was triggered by mechanical systems and Hanover drives (theand one power of and loom Germany ’s leading steam engine). Thespecialists second involved in the field theproduction of process division of labor and machine and mass production tool development. techniques. And the third was ushered in by electronic systems and computer technolProfessor Denkena, ogies for automating what’s theprocesses. manufacturing connection between your institute’s work and Siemens ? In the world of Industry 4.0, software will network all the steps Professor requiredDenkena : I’m very for a product’s familiar with development, Siemens fromand manufacturing mymainteprevious work in industry. We cooperate nance. Products with your and machines willcompany communicate very with oneFor closely. example, virtuanother andall ally the controls exchange and drives commands. Theused in ourofmachine factories the future willcome tools from Siemens. optimize Our and re searchtheir control and manufacturing on production teaching focusprocesses largelyprocess and machine tool by themselves, development. In this field, although in accordance withthere are many parameters connections defined by humans to –Siemens. thus In the area of simulation, increasing industrial example, ourWith forproductivity. workouris guided by similar unparalleled rangeconcerns. of In the area of machine offerings tool programming, for leading-edge industrialthere are interfaces production, withaSiemens’ we’ll play key product lifecycle management software. role in shaping this transformation. As researchers, we develop innovative solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. That is, we think a little ahead. 50 52 Siemensmanufacturing Efficient has created aprocesses standardized process for automating 1 the manufacture of prosthetics. In your opinion, what’s the biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ? 2 Making production more Professor Denkena : I’d say it’s probably cost. Healthcare solutions have to be 1 – Professor Berend Denkena has flexible affordable. And from and affordable a technology point of view, it’s extremely difficult to headed the Institute of Production Engineering and Machine Tools combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one at the Centre for Production customized product or a few products of a particular type. Technology at Leibniz University in Hanover, Germany, since 2001. The activities of the institute’s What role do you think the individualized mass production roughly 70 researchers focus on production processes, mechatronic of prosthetics will play in the future ? And how would you components and production planning and organization. assess their market potential ? Potential of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Professor Denkena : Our whole society is aging. What’s more, many people want 2 – A machine tool controlled by a Siemens SINUMERIK system to remain mobile and active as they grow older. That’s why implants can produces an implant. enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. If you can get the cost-benefit ratio right, Siemens’ approach has excellent market potential. A B C D E F G 1 But that means the process chain has to be automated from 2 end to end. What are the obstacles here ? 3 Professor Denkena : The problems are usually at the interfaces – from product design, 4 simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the machine tools to the actual production. Siemens maps end-to-end process chains for its products. And in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for success. One of your current research projects focuses on the production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics. What’s your vision ? Professor Denkena : Our vision is to implement production processes directly on Our –experts site that is, compare to precisely manufacture we want manufacturing components in the Fourth under sterile Industrial conditions as Revolution to close as possible a chess computer. Becauseroom the operating to Why? – when, a chess for example, an computer implant hasmode in training replaced orthe to bedetermines a tumor optimal move inYou removed. anyonly by the situasee what situation tion really is when an operation analyzing and comparing all possible future game scenarios. Andright track – is underway. Siemens is on the this our but ultimate what is precisely goal ishappens to manufacture components in the Industry all theright where very quickly 4.0 world: they’re needed. parameters and data used to develop and manufacture products are analyzed in order to predict optimal production paths and How long do you then reevaluated afterthink it will Thisbe each step. beforemakes that ithappens approach possible ? to identify the best options for the rest of the process under the Professor Denkena : Unfortunately, these things always take longer than they given conditions and the impact their implementation would have should. That’s been our experience anyway. Regulatory approval always plays on the development and production steps taken so far. a big role in the healthcare field. So, I wouldn’t be surprised if it took at least ten years. I hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions. Such flexible, optimized manufacturing processes will slash timeIn any event, I’m convinced that Siemens has made a very important advance to-market, for example, by speeding up the construction of producsince the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better tion facilities. They’ll also make it possible to manufacture product prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life. variants and even single customized products easily and at low cost. The Siemens solution described in this report – which demonstrates the advantages of lean, customized production in the area of surgical prosthetics – is one good example of how this approach will work. Another is our electronics factory in Amberg, Germany, where our engineers simulate and optimize production processes – including the control of entire factories – and adapt them to current conditions when developing new products and while production is already underway. 53 Enhancing industrial productivity Intelligent software solutions Creating efficient solutions Keys to the Fourth Industrial Revolution R&D employees and software developers (approximate) in fiscal 2013 29,800 R&D employees 17,000 Software developers thereof about 8,500 Software developers at the Industry Sector Software is the heart of intelligent factories. It enables products and production cycles to be planned and optimized in the virtual world before the first screw is manufactured. Software will, accordingly, be a key driver of industrial growth in the years ahead. According to researchers, the market for industrial soft“As researchers, we always have ware alone totals €18 billion (2012), with anticipated annual growth of some 8%. to think ahead.” With our outstanding setup – 17,000 software engineers, of whom Professor our Industry 8,500 are atBerend DenkenaSectoris– head we’re one of Europe’s of the Institute largest of Producsoftware companies. A leader in all relevant industrial software tion Engineering and Machine Tools at Leibniz University in segments, we offer a comprehensive software portfolio for the Hanover entire value and one chain of Germany – from ’s leading to product development specialists manufacturingin the field of andproduction maintenanceprocess and machine – for industries ranging from development. tool car making and shipbuilding to aerospace and food production. Professor Denkena, what’s the connection between your As a supplier of automation technology and industry software, institute’s work and Siemens ? we’re one of the few companies to combine the real and virtual Professor worlds of Denkena : I’m very familiar manufacturing Siemens with roof. under one from We’re my previous work in unsurpassed industry. We cooperate in this field. And with with over your 290 company very closely. manufacturing For example, virtuand production ally all theworldwide, facilities controls and drives we’re one in alsoused themachine ofour toolsofcome largest users from Siemens. our own Our research industry and teaching focus on production process and machine tool software. development. In this field, there are many connections to Siemens. In the area of simulation, for example, our work is guided by similar concerns. In the area of machine tool programming, there are interfaces with Siemens’ product lifecycle management software. As researchers, we develop innovative solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. That is, we think a little ahead. 50 54 Siemens has created a standardized process for automating 1 the manufacture of prosthetics. In your opinion, what’s the biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ? 2 Professor Denkena : I’d say it’s probably cost. Healthcare solutions have to be 1 – Professor Berend Denkena has headed the Institute of Pro­duction affordable. And from a technology point of view, it’s extremely difficult to Engineering and Machine Tools combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one at the Centre for Production customized product or a few products of a particular type. ­Technology at Leibniz University in Hanover, Germany, since 2001. The activities of the institute’s What role do you think the individualized mass production roughly 70 researchers focus on production processes, mechatronic of prosthetics will play in the future ? And how would you components and ­production planning and organization. assess their market potential ? 2 – A machine tool controlled Professor Denkena : Our whole society is aging. What’s more, many people want by a Siemens SINUMERIK system to remain mobile and active as they grow older. That’s why implants can produces an implant. enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. If you can get the cost-benefit ratio right, Siemens’ approach has excellent market potential. But that means the process chain has to be automated from end to end. What are the obstacles here ? Professor Denkena : The problems are usually at the interfaces – from product design, simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the machine tools to the actual production. Siemens maps end-to-end process chains for its products. And in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for ­success. One of your current research projects focuses on the ­production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics. What’s your vision ? Professor Denkena : Our vision is to implement production processes directly on site – that is, we want to precisely manufacture components under sterile conditions as close as possible to the operating room – when, for example, an implant has to be replaced or a tumor removed. You only see what the situation really is when an operation is underway. Siemens is on the right track – but our ultimate goal is to manufacture components very quickly right where they’re needed. How long do you think it will be before that happens ? Professor Denkena : Unfortunately, these things always take longer than they should. That’s been our experience anyway. Regulatory approval always plays a big role in the healthcare field. So, I wouldn’t be surprised if it took at least ten years. I hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions. In any event, I’m convinced that Siemens has made a very important advance since the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life. Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions 1 2 1 – Before an implant is milled in the real world, all production steps are planned in a virtual environment and approved by the implant manufacturer. Only then does the machine tool begin production. 2 – At the Centre for Production Technology at Leibnitz University in Hanover, Germany, Professor Berend Denkena and Sabine Fietz discuss the challenges, opportunities and future of industrially produced implants. “We all have to think more developing the process. Our goal is to operate machine tools under sterile con­ like visionaries” make implant production ever faster, more ditions. But this will require a team effort Professor Berend Denkena, who holds a efficient and cheaper. Why? Because the involving a wide range of experts from doctorate in engineering, is a machining standard implants used today can’t be ad­different fields. And it will take time. Ultiexpert. He’s well aware of how important justed to the bone conditions that physimately, the best option would be to manuabsolute precision is in the field of medical cians discover only after an operation is in facture directly on site, but many chaltechnology, where micrometer exactness progress. As things are now, surgeons eilenges will have to be mastered before is a must. As head of the Institute for Prother have to remove healthy tissue or fill that’s a reality.” duction Engineering and Machine Tools damaged tissue with cement – in other at Leibniz University in Hanover, Germany, words, they have to adapt the patient to The improvements we’re developing are Professor Denkena is working on a variety the implant instead of tailoring the implant intended to make procedures less burdenof research and development projects in to the patient. We’re working on solutions some for patients by fitting the prosthetic medical technology and prosthetics. that – building on an end-to-end, almost to the bone rather than the other way fully automated process chain – may enaround. Physicians will also benefit since In his view, Siemens’ solutions for the indusable implant manufacturers and their partthey’ll be able to optimize the implant trial production of implants are an importners to produce prosthetics in the future during surgery, once they’ve seen the joint. ant advance – one that points the way to that are better tailored to individual patient “We all have to think more like visionaries,” the future. As he explains, the key is to interequirements. With rigorously improved says Sabine Fietz. “Our solution shows grate the entire process chain from beginprocedures, it could even become possible what production processes are going to ning to end: “The problems are usually at to produce implants in hospitals while oplook like in the future. Modern software the interfaces – from product design, simerations are taking place.” In Professor solutions are bringing the virtual and real ulation and planning to the operation or Denkena’s opinion, such a solution is quite manufacturing worlds closer together, programming of the machine tools to the conceivable. “Implants are currently being while creating unprecedented momentum actual production. For its products, Siemens manufactured on conventional machine and flexibility. For our customers, that maps end-to-end process chains. And in tools. Even when the greatest possible care means more efficient processes, shorter my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for sucis taken and the workpiece is sterilized time-to-market and, last but not least, cess.” Sabine Fietz adds: “However, we’re upon completion, contamination may ochigher productivity at lower cost.” already thinking about ways to continue cur. That’s why we have to find a way to 56 Professor Berend Denkena Leibniz University, Hanover, Germany “ Siemens has made a very important advance that can help provide patients with better implants that last longer, work better and, thus, enhance their quality of life.” 57 1 2 1 – Gordon France discovered his passion for painting after he retired. When a friend bought one of his landscapes, he decided to keep pursuing his new hobby. 2 – The beach and the countryside near Gordon France’s summer home in York Harbor, not far from Portsmouth, Maine, are a never­ending source of inspiration for his landscape paintings, even after many years. “Once again, I can stand over cliffs and rocks in search of the perturn out, he wouldn’t have waited so long. at my easel for hours” fect view. There was a time when the pain “Everything went perfectly. And it feels as if When talking to Gordon France, two topin his knees made this impossible and a new world has opened up to me. I can do ics come up again and again: sports and France was forced to gradually withdraw everything I did before. I don’t even notice landscapes. Both are passions of his. from what had been a very active life. the artificial joints. It’s great.” Gordon France “I want my paintings to have visual and would advise anyone in a similar situation to emotional appeal for the viewer,” he says. The turning point came one day when he have the operation as soon as possible. “If I achieve that, I’ve succeeded.” Thanks was playing hockey and intolerable pain “I have my life back. I have so many ideas for to his new knee joints, France is once forced him to leave the ice after only five things I want to paint. And I can finally play again able to stand at his easel and paint minutes. “I couldn’t stand up any more. ice hockey again with my old friends.” without pain. The implants have also Right then, I knew I’d have to do something given him the mobility he needs to go out about my knees. The pain was curtailing WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ and discover new motifs. Every year, he my quality of life tremendously. I could no REPORT-INDUSTRY and his wife travel to Italy, where he hikes longer do the things I loved most.” If he’d WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ through forests, crosses streams and climbs known then how well the operations would REPORT-­I NDUSTRY-MOVIE Gordon France Ice hockey player and artist “ I can do everything with my artificial knees. And the best part is that I don’t even notice them.” 58 Enhancing industrial productivity Creating efficient solutions 59 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life 60 Acting responsibly “What makes life in Vienna so special? Come with us – we’ll show you!” The Freimüller-Köhler family – Vienna, Austria We love living in Vienna. As passionate city dwellers, we appreciate the high quality of life that our city offers. Vienna has lots of beautiful public squares, cultural offerings for every taste, excellent schools, a fantastic transportation infrastructure, plenty of green open spaces – and we feel completely safe here. Best of all: our city is further expanding its infrastructure for a sustainable, livable future. AUT Vienna 48 ° 12 ' N, 16 ° 22 ' E Population: about 1,750,000 Vienna 63 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life Leveraging business opportunities “ More quality of life or more economic growth? Vienna can have both.” Dr. Michael Häupl – Mayor of Vienna, Austria Vienna is the capital of classical music, a center of culture and the arts. I’ve made it my mission to make the city a hub for science, research, innovation and technology as well. We’ve improved the quality of life for Vienna’s residents by implementing new technologies – in the areas of traffic management and public transportation, for example. And we intend to keep building on our successes by implementing intelligent infrastructure solutions for mobility, power supply and building management. 60 63 Intelligent infrastructure is enhancing the quality of life Environmental awareness and energy efficiency, Viennese style: Austria’s capital epitomizes what makes a city livable. Siemens’ infrastructure solutions Vienna, Austria 64 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life Vienna, Austria two decades. One focus has been on infrastructure, where Vienna has been rigorously “Back when our kids were small, it was implementing “intelligent” strategies. And ­really hard for me to get on the tram with Siemens has provided many of the city’s a stroller. Today, parents with young chilclosely integrated infrastructure solutions: dren can easily board the ultra-low floor metro trains and their electrification, traftrams – now that’s what I call progress!” fic management systems, power distribuJulia Köhler loves living with her family in tion solutions, energy-efficient building Vienna – a city that repeatedly ranks among technologies and security systems for pubthe world’s most livable urban centers. She lic squares, metro stations and stadiums. and her family regularly use public transportation. Mayor Michael Häupl knows Vienna’s decision-makers recognized early how important the city’s buses, metros and on that a healthy environment is a pre­ trams are to the inhabitants of Vienna. requisite for ensuring quality of life. Major Summing up the city’s formula for success, investments in energy-efficient and envihe says, “like any successful business ronmentally friendly technologies and in launching a new product, we surveyed our public transportation are not inconsistent customers. The feedback we received was with a city’s prosperity. Mayor Häupl is that Vienna’s residents want public trans­convinced that a higher quality of life also portation that operates reliably and on fosters economic success. “Today, Vienna schedule, and the system should also be generates 48% of Austria’s total tax reveattractive and comfortable.” That’s why nue,” he says. “We have a healthy, prosperthe city opted, for example, for Siemens’ ous mix of industry, financial and other Ultra Low Floor (ULF) trams, with their services, and highly creative businesses.” ­extra-wide doors and floor height of just And it’s this mix that gives the city the 19 centimeters. ­flexibility it needs to implement innovative infrastructure solutions and thus further State-of-the-art trams are just one small enhance its residents’ quality of life. piece of the quality-of-life mosaic in this metropolis on the Danube. Mayor Häupl sees his city as “a mixture of grand classical traditions and innovative technologies. In addition to being steeped in history and abounding in culture, Vienna is a business and science hub.” For a more detailed picture, just ask the city’s residents. Julia Köhler appreciates “all the green spaces 1 and the vibrant cultural scene. And Vienna is a family-friendly city – a wonderful place 2 to raise children.” Her husband, Dr. Georg Freimüller, who’s an attorney, says that 1 – The Viennese want their mass transit system to be both attractive the quality of life in Vienna can also be atand comfortable. Combining these tribut­ed to the magnificent backdrop of the features, our Ultra Low Floor (ULF) trams are as much a part of Vienna’s city’s many historic buildings and its safety cityscape as the Opera House or and cleanliness. Their children – Carlotta, St. Stephen’s Cathedral. The trams’ Max and Elsa – feel that Vienna can hold its ultra-low floors are a particular boon for the elderly and for passengers who own against any city in the world. are wheelchair-bound or traveling with baby carriages or strollers. ULF It’s no coincidence that the residents of vehicles also save the city the expense of building costly station platforms. the Austrian capital give their hometown such high marks for quality of life. Under 2 – The Freimüller-Köhler family on Mayor Häupl, Vienna has taken systematic the go in their hometown of Vienna steps to enhance its livability over the past 65 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life What’s being done to enhance And it’s also cheaper since I don’t have to the quality of life in Vienna? pay for parking.” Georg Freimüller also preAsk the Viennese and you’ll hear lots of fers to use his annual transport pass when praise for their city’s transportation system. commuting to his office or the courthouse The Freimüller-Köhlers take the metro, or when running errands. “The city has trams and buses as often as possible, even done a lot for public transportation,” he though they have driver’s licenses and says. “In recent years, the network has own several cars. “Public transportation in ­become denser, and the buses, metro and ­ Vienna is fast, convenient, comfortable trams run more often.” And as the statistics and cheap,” says Carlotta, a university stushow, ridership is up: thanks to Vienna’s dent. “I only take the car when I have to.” master transit plan, the use of public transHer mother, Julia, who works at the univerportation within the city limits rose to a sity, needs the car for her commute but worldwide record of 39% in 2012, up from leaves it at home when running errands. “I 34% in 2001. Nevertheless, Vienna’s motorlove the flair of Vienna’s markets and the ists are not at a disadvantage compared to variety they offer,” she says. “The bus and their counterparts in other big cities. While tram get me there a lot faster than my car. ­Vienna makes it easy to travel by bicycle, 66 2 1 1 – Vienna’s open-air markets are Julia Köhler’s favorite places to shop, and she gets there faster and cheaper by public transportation than by car. Today, she and her daughter Elsa are taking the metro to the city’s popular Naschmarkt. Thanks to our regenerative braking technology, the system’s trains are very energy­-efficient and eco­ friendly. 2 – The Naschmarkt is one of ­Vienna’s most popular attractions, drawing residents and tourists alike with its wide range of products. Julia Köhler comes here to buy not only fruit and vegetables from Austria but also specialties from southern Europe and Asia. Public transportation 39% In Vienna, 39% of all journeys are made using public transportation, well above the European average of 28%. The aim is to increase the figure for Vienna to 40% by 2020. metro, bus and tram, state-of-the-art traffic We’re keeping the traffic moving management technology keeps the city’s Traffic jams and delays are less frequent in car traffic moving smoothly. “We’re not Vienna than in other big cities, and anti-­driver, we’re pro-people,” emphasizes Siemens technology is playing a pivotal role Mayor Häupl. “We want the people in our in this success. Both the city’s road traffic city to live well and not be overwhelmed management center and its metro control by the traffic.” In general, however, public center rely on our intelligent solutions. The transportation always takes precedence metro control center manages both the over private transportation in Vienna. In ­system’s power supply and its operation, expanding its public transportation system, centrally monitoring all trains, platforms the city is investing heavily in innovative and display panels throughout the city. In technologies such as real-time intermodal addition, we’ve been supplying the local journey planners, smartphone-accessible public transport operator, Wiener Linien, timetable information and one of the with trains, electrification systems, interworld’s most advanced metro control lockings and automatic train control sys­centers. tems for decades. 67 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life 457 tons Living well with less electricity and water Annual reduction in CO2 emissions The emphasis on quality of life in Vienna dates back to the ancient Romans, who ­ enjoyed bathing and relaxing in sulfur At the Theresienbad pool complex, our springs on the site of the present-day Theresienbad. One of the city’s oldest ­ technologies have slashed heating use ­public swimming pools, the Theresienbad is more than a good place for quality by 52% and water consumption by 76% ­leisure time; it’s also a model of energy ­efficiency and climate protection. while reducing carbon emissions by In 2009, we installed state-of-the-art build457 metric tons a year. ing technology throughout the entire pool complex. As part of an energy performance contracting agreement, we made an upfront investment of €5.2 million, to be ­financed over 15 years through guaranteed water and energy savings. This arrangement was good for the city since Vienna didn’t have to contribute capital from its limited investment reserves. And the reCreative solutions sults were impressive: heating costs were for climate ­protection cut by 52% and water consumption slashed Energy-efficient buildings are a key factor by 76%. Savings have already exceeded the when it comes to making cities more contractually guaranteed level of nearly ­climate-friendly. On this front, there’s still €600,000 a year, benefiting not only city room for improvement in Vienna, accordcoffers but also the environment and thus ing to the European Green City Index, a all of Vienna’s residents. The Theresienbad Siemens-sponsored study that rates the ­ complex now emits 457 metric tons less environmental performance of 30 of the CO2 each year than before the energy upcontinent’s cities in the areas of sustaingrades. Energy performance contracting ability, natural resource use and commithas also reduced energy consumption, ment to environmentally sound practices. costs and CO2 emissions at 23 public Although Vienna achieved an admirable schools in Vienna. fourth place, the study found potential for improvement in the areas of carbon emisIn Vienna, as in many cities, buildings sions and air quality. Vienna got the mes­account for the lion’s share of the energy sage: the city’s first climate protection proconsumed. As a result, Mayor Michael gram reduced annual CO2 emissions by 3.1 Häupl has set up a city-wide energy-effimillion metric tons, and a second program ciency program in addition to implementis now aiming to cut another 1.4 million ing energy performance contracting solutons a year by 2020. Many of the planned tions for municipal properties. “We’re initiatives are technology-driven: climatepromoting energy upgrades and thermal neutral building construction, metro and insulation – which is one of my pet projects tram cars that recover traction power, and because it means that more money stays in electric buses for public transportation. people’s wallets,” he says. PAGE 79 68 1 2 1 – Located on the site of Vienna’s oldest public bath, the city’s ­Theresienbad swimming pool complex is equipped with leading-edge technologies from Siemens. 2 – Carlotta and Max enjoy a swim at the Theresienbad. The metro trip to the pool is fast, comfortable and ecofriendly. 69 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life FloriDa data center WienIT is the IT service provider for Vienna’s public utilities and all associated enterprises, such as Wien Energie and Wiener Linien. And the demand for IT solutions on the part of WienIT’s customers is booming – in part because infra­ about 30% structure solutions are becoming more and more intelligent. In 2013, WienIT completed its new Floridsdorfer Datacenter – FloriDa for short – and Siemens delivered the facility’s systems and solutions for building management and power distri­bution. In the future, FloriDa will be operated with the help of a data center infrastructure management (DCIM) software solution. Linking facility manage­ ment with IT control, our innovative software integrates information from indi­ vidual data center areas that until now have often been operated separately. Here, too, the results are impressive: the installation of a cold aisle containment system can increase the data center’s cooling efficiency by as much as 30%, thus enabling it to achieve an efficiency level unmatched by other same-size facilities. The Vienna metro The Viennese love their metro system. And thanks to state-ofthe-art Siemens technology, the system’s trains are very energy-­ efficient and environmentally friendly. For example, when they about 35% system brake, traction power is recovered and fed back into the metro’s power supply, cutting power consumption by 30%-35% compared to that of conventional metro systems – thus helping Vienna conserve precious natural resources. We provide the bulk of the metro’s power supply equipment. 70 Energy ­consumption at a glance Vienna’s grid operator, Wiener Netze, intends to create 100% transparency for consumers and energy producers alike. Plans call for equipping every household with a smart meter by 2020, 100% enabling Vienna’s residents to monitor their current energy consumption online and plan their future energy use. The data gathered will also allow Wiener Netze to forecast demand more accurately, plan its operations more efficiently and optimize grid expansion. Our software solutions, which have already been implemented in more than 70 million smart meters around the world, are being used to record consumption data in this pilot project. Vienna’s airport In the area of power supply and distribution, maximum efficiency can be achieved only if a system’s components, software and related services are optimally geared to one 22 million another. Vienna’s airport embraced this single-­source approach when expanding its power distribution system. Our planning software, known as SIMARIS design, supported the selection of the facility’s electrical equip­ ment, most of which we also supplied, and ensured that the components worked together perfectly. Our tech­ nology is thus helping ensure the smooth operation of Vienna’s airport, which accommodates some 22 million passengers each year. 71 Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life “ The Viennese want their public ­transportation to be attractive and comfortable.” Dr. Michael Häupl has been the mayor of Vienna since 1994. It’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomed in recent decades. Ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­ national surveys, the Austrian capital has also attracted a large number of new residents. But the city isn’t resting on its laurels. To ensure continued development, systematic invest­ ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions. Mayor Häupl, what makes Vienna so livable? Dr. Michael Häupl : Vienna is a mixture of grand classical traditions and hightech innovations. The city stands for lifestyle and culture, on the one hand, and for business and science, on the other. The Viennese are very hard-working, but they also know how to enjoy life. Maybe that’s what makes us a little different from other Europeans: we work to live, we don’t live to work. According to a recent international study, Vienna is the “smartest” major city in the world. Dr. Michael Häupl : When I took office nearly 20 years ago, I saw it as my mission to turn Vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and technology. I consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in v­ arious 72 areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management. In Vienna, Strategic 39% of all travel is via public transportation, context well above the average of 28% for the rest of Europe’s cities. Our answers to What’s your formula for success? Dr. Michael Häupl: We listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and the challenges of they want public transportation that not only runs frequently and on schedule but is also attractive and comfortable. That’s long been part of who we are in Vienna. What’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold urbanization an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1. This report opens with a question: “More quality of life or more economic growth?” Is it possible to have both? Percentage Dr. Michael Häupl: We ofsee world population it happening hereinincities, Vienna, 2011whereand48% 2050 of Austria’s tax revenue is generated. A flourishing economy is the basis for our success. In the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy economic foundation. ~ 70% > + 20% The Siemens Green 50%City Index gave Vienna high marks for sustainability but saw room for improvement in CO2 emissions. What is Vienna doing to protect the climate? Dr. Michael Häupl: Our record isn’t so bad. Vienna, a major metropolis, Total world has 1 2 population lower Total CO2world emissions per capita than all the Austrian states – 9.6 butbillion even that’s population too high for us. That’s why we’ve defined emission limits for all new and reno7.2 billion vated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. I have high hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic management, 1 – Dr. Michael Häupl has been the mayor of Vienna since 1994. After for example, or enable 2011 public transportation to run at more 2050 frequent intervals. completing his university studies in But since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing zoology and biology, he began his career at Vienna’s Natural History concepts – above all, ideas we can implement in cooperation with businesses. Museum. From 1988 until his election Total population in cities Total population in rural areas as mayor, Dr. Häupl headed the city’s Source: UN Habitat Office of Environmental Protection What is the optimal energy mix for Vienna? and Sports. Dr. Michael Häupl: About 75% of the electricity we use is generated in Vienna. 2 – “aspern Vienna’s Urban Lakeside” In the In 2011, for the years ahead,firstwe’ll ever, the timegreatly number expand of people the amount ofaround thewe produce electricity is one of the largest urban developworld living in urban areas exceeded the number from hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. At the same time, we’ll in rural areas – introduce ment projects in Europe. The Vienna and this trend is continuing. Increasing urbanization smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of and its conBusiness Agency, which, in keeping with its charter, provides support for sequences power with are actualputting demand. strains on infrastructure systems worldthe city’s economic development, is wide – infrastructures that are the backbone of economic growth the project lead. One of the first and prosperity. As a result, cities and companies that fail to invest buildings constructed in the commuWhat initiatives would you like to launch in Vienna nity was the aspern IQ technology in their infrastructures will quickly lose their competitiveness in a center, pictured above. The Center is in the coming globalized world. years? home to Aspern Smart City Research, a joint project of Siemens, Wien Dr. Michael Häupl: Our city’s growing, and that’s a very good thing. We’re buildEnergie and Wiener Netze. The Andhousing ing that’s where Siemens and roads, andcomeswe want in. With our broad to safeguard portfolio Vienna’s highandquality of life project’s experts are looking for decades of experience and expertise, we’re making for future generations. One example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an infrastructures ways to intelligently network environmental, energy and building and urban cities smarter, greener development project calledand more“aspern competitive. Vienna’s Urban Our products, Lakeside.” It’s a brand technologies in order to promote services and solutions are helping customers new community where a wide range of technological innovations around the globe will ensure sustainable urban development. make better intelligent use ofdistribution power their existing andinfrastructures, maximum energy improve efficiency, efficiency. Our local power cut operating provider, Wienexpenses Energie, and andour enhance safety and grid operator, resilience Netze,while Wiener are cooperating with Siemensenvironmental minimizing in an accompanying impact. project it’s hereonthat And focused our city networking intelligently account managers infrastructure are playing technologies vital role by supporting in ana environment comprisingmunicipal housing, office space decision-makers and commercial areas. worldwideAnother in the criticalisplanning initiative the Vienna phase of inframunicipal utility’s public structure platform projects. “Wir denken Wiener Zukunft,” which translates as “We’re thinking about Vienna’s future.” In keeping with Vienna’s smart city concept, the platform We’re provides aiming a venue to blaze new trails for discussing topics cutting-edge withrelated infrastructure to the city’s future development. solutions. The following pages illustrate how we’re living up to this aspiration in the areas of power supply, mobility, logistics What contribution would you like to see Siemens make to and building technologies. the future of Vienna? Dr. Michael Häupl: Siemens has had a profound influence on Vienna ever since the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our city. I hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare. 73 77 Things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in some areas. Making infrastructures more intelligent Power supply Enhancing quality of life Reliable and efficient power supply Automated grids are safeguarding the power supply Communication 8 5 6 7 10 11 2 3 9 1 4 Electricity 1 Transformer stations 2 Microgrids 3 Smart electricity meters 4 Power system control 5 Meta data management 6 Switchgear 7 Energy storage 8 Demand management “ The Viennese want their public 9 Power monitoring 10 Traction power supply 11 Consumption management transportation A reliable power supply is critical toforbe attractive economic growth and energyand comfortable. ” security. But existing grids are often ill-equipped to meet the growing demand for power, and the increasing share of fluctuating supplies from renewable sources are a further challenge. Around Dr. the Michael world, power Häuploutages been by hascaused the mayor storms, of Vienna overloads since 1994. and aging It’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomedand infrastructure are taking a significant toll on households in recent businesses alike. Studies have found that storm-related power decades. Ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­ outages cost the U.S. economy between €15 billion and €41 billion national each year. surveys, the Austrian capital has also attracted a large number of new residents. But the city isn’t resting on its laurels. To ensure Our end-to-end solutions continued ensure thedevelopment, reliable and efficient distribuinvest­ systematic tion of lowand medium-voltage power. In ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions. addition to switchgear, distribution systems and protection and monitoring equipment, we also supply energy storage units for better integrating electricity Mayor Häupl, what makes Vienna so livable? from renewables into power grids. Our intelligent software solutions Dr. link power Michael Vienna is a installations Häupl : distribution mixture of grand classical to building industrial and highand traditions tech innovations. automation systems.TheAnd standsgrids city smart for lifestyle are also and culture, a keyon playing role in one hand, the and powerfor distribution. business andOur science, on the products andother. solutions for smart are The Viennese grids arehard-workvery ing, but they making also know it possible how to enjoy to achieve a better Maybe that’s life.balance between makes us a little whatenergy different from other Europeans: we work to supply and demand by managing the bi-directional flow of powerlive, we don’t live to work. and data between suppliers and consumers, even as more and According more consumers to aare recent international power. study, Vienna is the also producing “smartest” major city in the world. Dr. Michael Häupl : When I took office nearly 20 years ago, I saw it as my mission to turn Vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and technology. I consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in various 72 74 areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management. In Vienna, Mobility and39% of all travel is via public transportation, logistics well above the average of 28% for the rest of Europe’s cities. What’s your formula for success? Moving people and goods – Dr. Michael Häupl: We listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and quickly, safely,thatreliably they want public transportation not only runs frequently andand on schedule but is also attractive and comfortable. That’s long been part of who we are in cost-effectively Vienna. What’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1. This report opens with a question: “More quality of life or more economic growth?” Is it possible to have both? IT solutions Dr. Michael Häupl: Weare seeenhancing it happeningmobilityhere in Vienna, where 48% of Austria’s tax revenue is generated. A flourishing economy is the basis for our success. In the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy economic foundation. The Siemens Green City Index gave Vienna high marks for sustainability but saw room for improvement in CO2 emissions. What is Vienna doing to protect the climate? Dr. Michael Häupl: Our record isn’t so bad. Vienna, a major metropolis, has Communication 1 2 lower CO2 emissions per capita than all the Austrian states – but even that’s 1 too high for us. That’s 2 why we’ve 3 defined 4 emission 5 limits for all new and10reno6 7 9 vated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. I have high hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic 8 management, 1 – Dr. Michael Häupl has been the mayor of Vienna since 1994. After for example, or enable public transportation to run at more frequent intervals. completing his university studies in Electricity But since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing zoology and biology, he began his career at Vienna’s Natural History concepts – above 1 Traffic all, signals and ideas2we controls can Level crossings 3 Vehicle in implement cooperation devices and componentswith businesses. 4 Tolling systems Museum. From 1988 until his election 5 Integrated traffic management 6 Interlockings and train control systems 7 eTicketing as mayor, Dr. Häupl headed the city’s 8 Driverless metro systems 9 Commuter and high-speed trains 10 Rail signalling and electrification Office of Environmental Protection What is the optimal energy mix for Vienna? and Sports. Dr. Michael Häupl: About 75% of the electricity we use is generated in Vienna. 2 – “aspern Vienna’s Urban Lakeside” As the In theyears world’s population ahead, continues we’ll greatly expand to boom, the amounttrendsoflike increas-we produce electricity is one of the largest urban developing globalization and urbanization are creating from hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. At the same time, we’ll an urgent need for introduce ment projects in Europe. The Vienna mobility solutions. Today’s transportation systems smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of are often operBusiness Agency, which, in keeping with its charter, provides support for ating powerbeyond with actual capacity, demand. negatively impacting people’s quality of the city’s economic development, is life. Businesses too have an interest in finding solutions to these the project lead. One of the first challenges. Each year, the price tag for traffic congestion is some buildings constructed in the commuWhat initiatives would you like to launch in Vienna nity was the aspern IQ technology €5.3 billion in the UK and about €74 billion in the U.S. center, pictured above. The Center is in the coming years? home to Aspern Smart City Research, Urban andHäupl: interurban mobility is being a joint project of Siemens, Wien Dr. Michael Our city’s growing, and greatly that’s a enhanced very good thing.by theWe’re buildEnergie and Wiener Netze. The use housing ing of intelligent, automated and roads, and we want toAnd systems. safeguard that ourhigh it’s hereVienna’s infraquality of life project’s experts are looking for structure solutions are helping. In the rail segment, for future generations. One example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an we supply ways to intelligently network environmental, energy and building trains, metros, locomotives, urban development project calledtrams and light-rail “aspern Vienna’svehicles for local It’s a brand Urban Lakeside.” technologies in order to promote and long-distance passenger services as new community where a wide range of technological innovations well as for logistics transwill ensure sustainable urban development. port. Rounding out these offerings, our customized intelligent power distribution and maximum energy efficiency. Our local power hardware, software provider, Wien Energie,packages and service and our grid are optimizing operator, Wienerroad, rail, Netze,harbor are cooperating withairport and Siemens transportation in an accompanying networks. project focused on intelligently networking infrastructure technologies in an environment comprising housing, office space and commercial areas. Another initiative is the Vienna municipal utility’s public platform “Wir denken Wiener Zukunft,” which translates as “We’re thinking about Vienna’s future.” In keeping with Vienna’s smart city concept, the platform provides a venue for discussing topics related to the city’s future development. What contribution would you like to see Siemens make to the future of Vienna? Dr. Michael Häupl: Siemens has had a profound influence on Vienna ever since the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our city. I hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare. 75 77 Things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in some areas. Making infrastructures more intelligent Building technologies Enhancing quality of life Effective heating, cooling, lighting and surveillance Increased efficiency, safety and competitiveness Communication 4 8 9 3 5 6 2 7 10 1 Electricity 1 Building automation systems 2 Access control 3 Remote surveillance 4 Control and surveillance centers 5 Sustainability and energy monitoring 6 Building surveillance 7 Evacuation 8 Sensors 9 Fire safety 10 Data centers “ The Viennese want their public transportation Around the world, people want toto feel attractive becomfortable and in their homes, comfortable. ” workplaces and public spaces. And they want to live in energyefficient, low-emission buildings – a daunting challenge, given that buildings today account for some 40% of worldwide energy Dr. Michaeland consumption Häupl 21% ofhasCObeen the mayor of Vienna since 1994. 2 emissions. It’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomed in recent We’re a trusted technology partner for safe, energy-efficient, decades. Ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­ ecofriendly building infrastructure. Our integrated systems autonational surveys, mate the control the Austrian of heating, air conditioning, has also capitallighting, fireattracted safety a large number and security of new systems. residents. By making But buildings the citywe’re intelligent, resting on its isn’thelping laurels. To ensure ensure workplace continued safety and business development, process security, which in invest­ systematic turn promotes entrepreneurial productivity ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions. and competitiveness. Mayor Häupl, what makes Vienna so livable? Dr. Michael Häupl : Vienna is a mixture of grand classical traditions and hightech innovations. The city stands for lifestyle and culture, on the one hand, and for business and science, on the other. The Viennese are very hard-working, but they also know how to enjoy life. Maybe that’s what makes us a little different from other Europeans: we work to live, we don’t live to work. According to a recent international study, Vienna is the “smartest” major city in the world. Dr. Michael Häupl : When I took office nearly 20 years ago, I saw it as my mission to turn Vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and technology. I consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in various 72 76 areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management. In Vienna, 39% of all travel is via public transportation, well above the average of 28% for the rest of Europe’s cities. What’s your formula for success? Dr. Michael Häupl: We listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and they want public transportation that not only runs frequently and on schedule but is also attractive and comfortable. That’s long been part of who we are in Vienna. What’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1. This report opens with a question: “More quality of life or more economic growth?” Is it possible to have both? Dr. Michael Häupl: We see it happening here in Vienna, where 48% of Austria’s tax revenue is generated. A flourishing economy is the basis for our success. In the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy economic foundation. The Siemens Green City Index gave Vienna high marks for sustainability but saw room for improvement in CO2 emissions. What is Vienna doing to protect the climate? Dr. Michael Häupl: Our record isn’t so bad. Vienna, a major metropolis, has 1 2 lower CO2 emissions per capita than all the Austrian states – but even that’s too high for us. That’s why we’ve defined emission limits for all new and renovated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. I have high hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic management, 1 – Dr. Michael Häupl has been the mayor of Vienna since 1994. After for example, or enable public transportation to run at more frequent intervals. completing his university studies in But since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing zoology and biology, he began his career at Vienna’s Natural History concepts – above all, ideas we can implement in cooperation with businesses. Museum. From 1988 until his election as mayor, Dr. Häupl headed the city’s Office of Environmental Protection What is the optimal energy mix for Vienna? and Sports. Dr. Michael Häupl: About 75% of the electricity we use is generated in Vienna. 2 – “aspern Vienna’s Urban Lakeside” In the years ahead, we’ll greatly expand the amount of electricity we produce is one of the largest urban developfrom hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. At the same time, we’ll introduce ment projects in Europe. The Vienna Business Agency, which, in keeping smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of with its charter, provides support for power with actual demand. the city’s economic development, is the project lead. One of the first buildings constructed in the commuWhat initiatives would you like to launch in Vienna nity was the aspern IQ technology center, pictured above. The Center is in the coming years? home to Aspern Smart City Research, a joint project of Siemens, Wien Dr. Michael Häupl: Our city’s growing, and that’s a very good thing. We’re buildEnergie and Wiener Netze. The ing housing and roads, and we want to safeguard Vienna’s high quality of life ­project’s experts are looking for for future generations. One example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an ways to intelligently network ­environmental, energy and building urban development project called “aspern Vienna’s Urban Lakeside.” It’s a brand technologies in order to promote new community where a wide range of technological innovations will ensure sustainable urban development. intelligent power distribution and maximum energy efficiency. Our local power provider, Wien Energie, and our grid operator, Wiener Netze, are cooperating with Siemens in an accompanying project focused on intelligently networking infrastructure technologies in an environment comprising housing, office space and commercial areas. Another initiative is the Vienna municipal utility’s public platform “Wir denken Wiener Zukunft,” which translates as “We’re thinking about Vienna’s future.” In keeping with Vienna’s smart city concept, the platform provides a venue for discussing topics related to the city’s future development. What contribution would you like to see Siemens make to the future of Vienna? Dr. Michael Häupl: Siemens has had a profound influence on Vienna ever since the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our city. I hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare. 77 Things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in some areas. Making infrastructures more intelligent Enhancing quality of life 1 2 3 1 / 2 – Austria’s progressive capital is one of the few cities in the world to deploy battery-powered electric buses in regular service. Dr. Georg ­Freimüller never ceases to be amazed by how quiet and comfortable it is to ride the city’s 2A and 3A electric bus lines. 3 – The Freimüller-Köhler family on the way to the Karlsplatz metro ­station. From there, home is just a 78 short, comfortable metro ride away. Vienna is growing – and its quality of life is increasing Energy savings with electric buses 25% Many Viennese don’t realize it, although they experience it every day: Siemens is Zero-emission electric buses equipped creating real quality of life in their city. One prime example is the twelve zero-emission with our drive technology consume electric buses running on lines 2A and 3A in the city center. In 2013, this very well-resome 25% less energy than diesel or ceived electric fleet earned Wiener Linien accolades that included the State Prize for ­natural-gas buses. ­Mobility, the highest honor awarded by Austria’s Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Georg Freimüller sees the buses as a crowning achievement for public new ideas for energy-efficient urban infratransportation in Vienna. “The electric buses structures on a community-wide level. are quiet, comfortable and fast – and they Working with Siemens, we’ll test new types emit no carbon dioxide,” he says. Thanks to of links to the low-voltage grid and inteour drive concept, the buses consume grate schools, homes and offices in the some 25% less energy than diesel or natupower grid.” ral-gas buses. What’s more, the electric buses run on green electricity. About 75% of Vienna is a growing city that’s optimally the energy consumed in V ­ ienna is proequipped for the future. Mayor Michael duced in the city – at facilities which inHäupl sees the aspern community and the clude one of Europe’s largest biomass research project with Siemens as steps power plants. Plans call for increasing the clearly geared toward further enhancing share of renewables in the city’s energy mix the city’s quality of life by introducing to 50% by 2030. And that target entails a smart, automated infrastructure solutions: new set of challenges, since the amount of “This isn’t just about building roads and energy derived from the wind and the sun housing. We also want to ensure that future naturally fluctuates. Reinhard Brehmer, one generations enjoy the same high quality of of the managing directors at grid operator life that Vienna has already achieved.” Wiener Netze, is already working on the solution. “To achieve a balance between WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-IC supply and demand, we’re introducing WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/REPORT-IC-MOVIE smart grids in Vienna,” he says. “A pilot project to test smart electricity meters and their integration into the grid is already underway.” Siemens is supplying the software that manages the consumption data – one more intelligent infrastructure solution for Vienna. A living laboratory for the city of the future Wien Energie, Wiener Netze and Siemens are working together on the smart infrastructure of the future at a new community called “aspern Vienna’s Urban Lakeside.” The new district, which is being developed on the site of a former airfield, will be home to 20,000 people and create 20,000 jobs by 2030. Reinhard Brehmer, who’s also the managing director of Aspern Smart City Research, has high hopes for the “living lab.” As he explains, “In aspern, we have a unique o ­ pportunity to try out smart 79 Making visions a reality Targeting actions One Siemens – Our framework for sustainable value creation Energy efficiency, industrial produc­ Questions and answers about our strategy tivity, next-generation healthcare and intelligent infrastructure solutions – What are Siemens’ goals? What was the basis for develop­ these are the ­topics that define our ing the current strategy? actions and are pioneering fields for We want to sustainably increase the value the future. The four reports on the pre­ of our Company for all our stakeholders – Our Company, our customers and our marceding pages provide concrete exam­ for our shareholders, employees and cuskets are subject to both long-term trends ples of what we’re doing to make our tomers as well as for society as a whole. and short-term economic developments. vision a reality. They show how we’re Demographic change, urbanization, climate acting sustainably, leveraging busi­ change and globalization are megatrends ness opportunities and mastering the How is our Company strategy that entail major challenges for policymakchallenges we face. structured? ers, entrepreneurs and scientists around the world. At the same time, however, they ofOur strategy points the way: with clear We’ve formulated strategic perspectives for fer tremendous business opportunities that financial targets, strategic directions different timeframes. The basis is our longwe intend to rigorously exploit. We also conand concrete focus areas. How do term vision: “Siemens – The pioneer in sider economic development forecasts, obthese elements interlock? Where do energy efficiency, industrial productivity, ­ serve our competitive environment and we currently stand? And what are the next‑generation healthcare and intelligent leverage our particular strengths as a technext steps? The following pages pro­ infrastructure solutions.” Based on this vinology Company. To be viable, our strategy vide the answers. sion, we’re steering the Company with a must be consistent with the values esmedium-term strategy. Our One Siemens poused by Siemens and build on our ComWWW.SIEMENS.COM/STRATEGY framework concretizes this strategy. Within pany’s long tradition of success. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ONE-SIEMENS this Company-wide strategic setup, we forC.1.3 STRATEGY ON PAGES 170-172 mulate business strategies for the various markets. 80 What strategy is Siemens pursu­ ­ nnual Report is for the first time a comA How is the strategy put ing to reach its goals? bined Annual and Sustainability Report is into practice at Siemens? further proof of our overarching underWe’re gearing our efforts to what we call standing of sustainability. Our report on the modernization of the our three strategic directions: focus on inno­Kirishi power plant ON PAGES 4-21 illusvation-driven growth markets; get closer to trates how we’re implementing our stratour customers; and use the power of How does the strategy address egy. Siemens is a pioneer in the market for Siemens. Each of these directions is broken changes in markets? combined-cycle power plants – a market down into three focus areas that have trethat is thriving thanks to the development mendous potential for achieving a sustainTo continuously occupy leading market and of advanced technologies – and has been able increase in Siemens’ value. For examtechnology positions, unrelenting efforts continuously boosting the efficiency of gasple, we’re expanding our service business and perseverance are required. Pioneering based power generation for years. The and encouraging lifelong learning and detopics in research and development, for explant’s upgraded Unit 6 combusts natural velopment among our employees. ample, often bear fruit only after years. At gas with record efficiency while producing the same time, changes are taking place in less environmentally harmful carbon dioxever-shorter cycles. That’s why we continuide than its predecessors. That’s typical of Is Siemens following a separate ally monitor and evaluate the impact on our the products in our Environmental Portfolio. sustainability strategy? business of new developments in the econAnd the twelve-year service contract we omy, technology and society. New opportulanded for Kirishi is an exemplary success Sustainability and business success are two nities are currently arising, such as the enstory in the strategic focus area that aims at sides of the same coin for us, as we’ve alergy transition in Germany, the new natural expanding our service business. ready showcased in numerous examples in gas extraction boom in the U.S. and the this Report. Siemens is sustainably manrapidly growing demand for affordable aged. That’s why we’ve consciously dehealthcare in the emerging markets. Be­ How does Siemens measure cided not to formulate a separate sustainginning in fiscal 2013, our Company-wide the success of its strategy? ability strategy, since our Company strategy Siemens 2014 program has been supportis already geared to making long-term ing our One Siemens framework – thus We measure our success primarily in terms progress in terms of profitability, the enviempowering us to recapture a leading of the development of the key financial figronment and society. The fact that this competitive position. ures for revenue growth, capital efficiency and profitability as well as for capital structure. For further information, please see C.2 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SYSTEM on pages 173-178 of this Annual Report. 81 Making visions a reality Targeting actions Strategic direction Focus on innovation-driven growth markets Throughout history, many of our business successes have been closely linked with pioneering ­technological achievements. Harnessing our creativity and spirit of invention, we want to continue capturing, maintaining and expanding our leading positions in innovation-driven growth markets. Where necessary, we’re strengthening Siemens’ portfolio. Our Environmental Portfolio is an ­example of how we’re systematically leveraging the opportunities provided by sustainable business activities in growth markets. Be a pioneer in Strengthen our portfolio Provide a leading ­technology-driven markets environmental portfolio For generations, innovative Siemens engiTo achieve sustainable, profitable growth, Our Environmental Portfolio serves as an neers have been conquering new markets we keep our business activities focused on example of how we strive to align our busiand tapping growth fields. With this special particularly attractive future markets. Active ness activities with ­major trends of our times, strength, we want to continue achieving portfolio management – based on the prinin this case climate change. In addition to its leading positions in new business fields ciple that all our businesses should capture environmental benefits, our Environmental characterized by growth and technological and maintain No. 1 or No. 2 positions in Port­folio enables us to compete successfully innovation. We’re strengthening our power their respective markets – is a key part of in attractive markets and generate profitof innovation by leveraging synergies our focus. Why? Because leading market poable growth. In fiscal 2013, revenue from worldwide and increasingly utilizing extersitions are a prerequisite for profitability and continuing operations from the Environnal expertise. More than 1,000 cooperative growth and enable us to sustainably inmental Portfolio amounted to €32.3 billion, research projects with universities, research crease Siemens’ value. As our Company’s which accounted for 43% of our revenue in institutes and industry partners are already history proves, size is not the only driver of this fiscal year. Technologies from our En­ enabling us to gain valuable knowledge for success. Often Siemens has been most sucvironmental Portfolio enabled customers our future business. cessful when we’ve been at the forefront of worldwide to slash their CO2 emissions by technological innovation. 377 million m­ etric tons in fiscal 2013, which is the equivalent of the following twelve cities’ combined yearly emissions: Berlin, Cape Town, London, Los Angeles, Melbourne, Mexico City, Moscow, New York City, São Paulo, Seoul, Singapore and Tokyo. 82 Strategic direction Get closer to our customers Siemens is close to its customers throughout the world. While maintaining our strong position in our established markets, we want to expand our position in the world’s rapidly growing emerging coun­ tries. To build strong partnerships in these new markets, it’s necessary to expand local development and production capacities and create solutions tailored to regional requirements. In the emerging as in the industrialized countries, the important factors for success are outstanding innovative services and rigorous customer orientation. Grow in emerging markets Expand our service business Intensify our customer focus We want to be present in attractive markets We want to be the supplier of choice for all Many of our successful products and soluworldwide and participate in the enormous follow-up investments. That’s why we offer tions are developed in close cooperation economic expansion now taking place in perfect services as well as perfect products. with our customers. Proceeding from an inthe emerging countries, where we’ve alOur local service employees, who – in many depth understanding of their unique reready achieved strong growth over the past cases – have been fulfilling their customers’ quirements, our employees all around the few years. In those countries the demand needs and requirements for decades, are world create tailored solutions for our cusfor economical products and entry-level one of our greatest assets. By expanding our tomers. That’s why we invest in the ongoing solutions is intensifying. We’re addressing service business, we want to increase custraining of our consultants and engineers. this demand through our SMART initiative. tomer loyalty. And it’s here that our valIt’s also why we’ve set up consulting for We’re increasingly offering entry-level produe-added services are making a contribularge customers in a way that enables them ucts that are simple, maintenance-friendly, tion. Going beyond conventional product to obtain everything they need from a affordable, reliable and timely-to-market. services, we apply the knowledge we’ve ­single source – the whole range of prodgained in our product and solutions busiucts, solutions and services offered by our ness to advise our customers effectively and technology Company. In a nutshell: we’re accurately. All in all, more service business enhancing our reputation as a strong local can enable us to generate steadier revenue partner by providing consulting with added and leverage new potential for profitable value and by reacting quickly and flexibly growth. to local market requirements. 83 Making visions a reality Targeting actions Strategic direction Use the power of Siemens Highly qualified employees have always been the key to our success. For this reason, every Siemens employee can and should continuously expand his or her knowledge. It’s cooperative partnerships among men and women from different countries and cultural backgrounds that deliver the best out­ comes. We at Siemens draw great strength from such partnerships – a strength that is also based on a clear and unambiguous commitment to integrity. Our work is guided by binding principles to which we also expect our customers and suppliers to adhere. Encourage lifelong learning Empower our diverse and Stand for integrity and development engaged people worldwide Our employees have been the driving force Siemens is a Company with a strong interSiemens is committed to fair competition. In behind innovation for 166 years. Their exnational orientation. People from some 140 our drive to succeed on the world’s markets, pertise, abilities and passion will continue to countries work at our ten largest Regional we aim to comply with all applicable laws advance Siemens in the future. Our highly Companies alone. Collaboration in multifacand regulations. Therefore, the actions of developed culture of lifelong learning gives eted teams has proven to be a powerful our employees are guided by transparent them the tools they need: all around the source of inspiration. Working together, and binding principles of ethical entrepreworld and at all levels of our organization, people from different backgrounds and with neurial behavior. A clear and unequivocal we directly foster not only our people’s a broad range of skills, experiences and opposition to corruption is a further cornerknowhow but also their pioneering spirit, qualifications can generate a wealth of tostone of our Company culture. To the best initiative and their willingness to assume tally new ideas. This is how we understand of our ability, we fulfill our responsibilities to increasing responsibility. diversity, and we foster it in every possible the environment, society and our employcontext. We regularly conduct employee ees and thus use the power of Siemens, surveys to find out where we can further while meeting the highest standards of ocenhance our Company’s processes. The recupational safety and health management. sults of these surveys, which are conducted in 40 languages worldwide, provide us with valuable input that we systematically exploit. 84 Financial targets Revenue growth Growth > most relevant competitors Capital efficiency / Profitability Return on capital employed / top margins throughout business cycles Capital structure Adjusted industrial net debt / adjusted EBITDA We want to outpace our competitors over the long term and set the standards for operational and financial excellence in our industries. We measure and compare the success of our development on the basis of a target system that defines indicators for revenue growth, capital efficiency and profitability as well as for the optimization of our capital structure. Our goal is to sustainably increase Siemens’ value. Revenue growth Capital efficiency Capital structure and profitability The most important driver for sustainably Our aim is to be profitable and to use the Sustainable profit and revenue growth can increasing our Company’s value is profitable capital provided by our shareholders and be achieved only on the basis of a healthy revenue growth. Our concrete goal is to lenders as efficiently as possible. We meacapital structure. Therefore, in addition to achieve revenue growth that exceeds that sure our capital efficiency in terms of return our metrics for operations, we’ve defined a of our key competitors; to assess our perforon capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)). yardstick for managing our capital strucmance we compare our average revenue Simply expressed, this indicator is defined ture: the ratio of adjusted industrial net debt growth with theirs. We have also estabas income from continuing operations beto adjusted EBITDA. We intend to further lished strict criteria for acquisitions. fore interest divided by average capital emoptimize this ratio in order to better regulate ployed. We’ve set an ambitious target of our debt-to-equity ratio. We’re also aiming 15% to 20% for capital efficiency throughout to ensure unlimited access to debt financing Siemens. instruments in the capital markets as well as the servicing of our financial obligations. At the Sector level, we want to continuously achieve top EBITDA margins compared to those of the best competitors in our industries – throughout business cycles. For further information on our framework for sustainable value creation, please see C.1.3 STRATEGY on pages 170-172 and C.2 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SYSTEM on pages 173-178 of this Annual Report. 85 Company Report 2013 Energy solutions Healthcare solutions Industry solutions Infrastructure solutions Company strategy  Financial Report 2013 To our Shareholders Corporate Governance Combined ­Management Report Consolidated ­Financial Statements Additional ­Information Key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2 Volume % Change Further FY 2013 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 Profitability and Capital efficiency Further FY 2013 FY 2012 % Change information Total Sectors Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,141 9,329 (13)% Page 190 Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 (20)% Page 190 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 7.5 9.3 Continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,215 9,613 (15)% Page 190 Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 (9)% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 Continuing and discontinued operations Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% Page 182 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 Capital structure and Liquidity Further September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 information Cash and cash equivalents in millions of € 9,190 10,891 Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 Adjusted industrial net debt in millions of € 2,805 2,271 Page 193 Further FY 2013 FY 2012 information Continuing operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 Page 196 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, our Investor Relations website under orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ supple­ WWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 Orders – continuing operations (in millions of €) FY 2013 82,351 10% 3 Further FY 2012 75,939 FY 2013 FY 2012 information Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio 1 in billions of € 32.3 32.7 Page 218 in % of revenue from continuing operations in % 43 42 D. E. Research and development expenses 1 in billions of € 4.3 4.2 Page 213 Revenue in % – continuing of revenue operations from continuing operations (in millions of €) in % 5.7 5.5 FY 75,882 2013 and development Research employees 1, 2 in thousands 29.8 29.5 Page 213 (1)% 3 FY 2012 1, 3 Inventions 77,395 in thousands 8.4 8.8 Page 213 Contents Financial Report Patent first filings 1, 4 in thousands 4.0 4.6 Page 213 Key to references Income from continuing operations (in millions of €) REFERENCE WITHIN Consolidated FY 2013 4,212 Additional THE PUBLICATION (9)% Further Financial FY 2012 4,642 Statements Information FY 2013 FY 2012 REFERENCE TO information AN Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in millions of EXTERNAL PUBLICATION generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio 1 metric tons 377 333 Page 218 REFERENCE TO THE 254 EnergyD.1 Consolidated efficiency improvementStatements 358 in E.1 compared to baseline Responsibility fiscal 2010 1 statement in % 4 8 COMPANY REPORTPage 220 Basic earnings of Incomeper share – efficiency improvement Wastecontinuing compared operations (in €)4 to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 4 7 Page 220 REFERENCE TO THE Waste for disposal4.85 359 E.2 Independent reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 7 8 Page 220 FY 2013 INTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements Auditorʼs (6)% report FY 2012 dioxide Carbon emission improvement compared to baseline 5.15 efficiency Income in fiscal 2010 1 in % 13 13 Page 220 of Comprehensive 361 E.3 Statement of the 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing Board of Financial Position ROCE (adjusted) – continuing operations362 (in %) E.4 Five-year summary 257 D.4 FY 2013 Consolidated 13.8 Statements FY 2012 of Cash 15.5 Flows 364 E.5 Glossary 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 366 E.6 Index Target corridor: 15 – 20% of Changes in Equity Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Further 368 E.7 Company structure 2013 2012 information 260 D.6 Notes Total employees to Consolidated – continuing operations in thousands 362 366 Page 222 Financial Statements 370 E.8 Further information and Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East 5 in thousands 220 222 Page 222 therein Germany information resources in thousands 118 119 Page 222 348 D.7 Adjusted industrial net debt/ Supervisory Board and Asia, Adjusted AustraliaEBITDA – continuing operations (in millions of €)5 in thousands 64 63 Page 222 Managing Board 371 E.9 Financial calendar FYAmericas 2013 0.34 in thousands 78 81 Page 222 FY 2012 Total employees –0.24 continuing and discontinued operations in thousands 367 410 Further Target corridor: 0.5 – 1.0% FY 2013 FY 2012 information Employee turnover rate 6, 7 in % 10.8 10.7 Page 221 Free Female employees in –management cash flow continuing positions operations(percentage ofof (in millions all€)management positions) 6, 8 in % 15.6 15.3 Page 221 5,257 education 6, 9 FY 2013 for continuing Expenses in millions of € 265 283 Page 221 11% Expenses FY 2012 per employee 4,727 for continuing education 6, 9 in € 670 693 Page 221 4 Basic First filings earningsas part per of inventions share – attributable to shareholders submitted to 7 Employee of Siemens AG. turnover rate is defined as the ratio of 8 Employees in management positions include patent For offices. fiscal 2013 and 2012 weighted average shares outstanding (basic) voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during all managers with disciplinary responsibility, (in thousands) amounted to 843,819 and 876,053 shares, the fiscal year to the average number of employees. respectively. plus project managers. 5 Commonwealth of Independent States. 5 Calculated by dividing adjusted industrial net debt as of September 30, 9 Without travel expenses. 6 Continuing and discontinued operations. 2013 and 2012 by adjusted EBITDA. 89 91 101 Key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2 Volume Customers and Innovation Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio (in billions of €)1 FY 2013 32.3 % Change Further FYFY2012 2013 32.7 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 Patent first filings (in thousands)1, 4 FY 2013 4.0 FY 2012 4.6 Profitability and Capital efficiency Environment Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio (in millions of metric tons)1 FY 2013 377 Further FYFY2012 2013 333 FY 2012 % Change information Total Sectors Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,141 9,329 (13)% Page 190 Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 Energy efficiency improvement compared (20)% Page 190 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 7.5 to baseline in 9.3fiscal 2010 (in %)1 Continuing operations FY 2013 4 Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € FY8,215 2012 9,613 8 (15)% Page 190 Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 (9)% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 Continuing and discontinued operations Employees Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% Page 182 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 Employee turnover rate (in %)6, 7 FY 2013 10.8 FY 2012 10.7 Capital structure and Liquidity Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions)6, 8 FY 2013 15.6 Further FY 2012 September 30, 2013 15.3 September 30, 2012 information Cash and cash equivalents in millions of € 9,190 10,891 Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 Adjusted industrial net debt in millions of € 2,805 2,271 Page 193 Expenses per employee for continuing education (in €)6, 9 Further FY 2013 FY 2013670 FY 2012 information Continuing operations FY 2012 693 Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 Page 196 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and 1 Continuing of the most directly comparable IFRS operations. financial measures, our Investor Relations website under orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ 2 Average supplenumber of employeesWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP in fiscal year. . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 3 Number of inventions 2 October reported by the1,Business 2012 – September Units in an 30, 2013. internal report. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 90 Further FY 2013 FY 2012 information Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio 1 in billions of € 32.3 32.7 Page 218 in % of revenue from continuing operations in % 43 42 D. E. Research and development expenses 1 in billions of € 4.3 4.2 Page 213 in % of revenue from continuing operations in % 5.7 5.5 Research and development employees 1, 2 in thousands 29.8 29.5 Page 213 Inventions 1, 3 in thousands 8.4 8.8 Page 213 Contents Financial Report Patent first filings 1, 4 in thousands 4.0 4.6 Page 213 Key to references REFERENCE WITHIN Consolidated Additional THE PUBLICATION Further Financial Statements Information FY 2013 FY 2012 REFERENCE TO information AN Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in millions of EXTERNAL PUBLICATION generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio 1 metric tons 377 333 Page 218 REFERENCE TO THE 254 D.1 Energy Consolidated efficiency improvementStatements 358 in E.1 compared to baseline Responsibility fiscal 2010 1 statement in % 4 8 COMPANY REPORTPage 220 of Income Waste efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 4 7 Page 220 REFERENCE TO THE 359 E.2 Independent Waste for disposal reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 7 8 Page 220 INTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements Auditorʼs report Carbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 13 13 Page 220 of Comprehensive Income 361 E.3 Statement of the 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing Board of Financial Position 362 E.4 Five-year summary 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 364 E.5 Glossary 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 366 E.6 Index of Changes in Equity Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Further 368 E.7 Company structure 2013 2012 information 260 D.6 Notes Total employees to Consolidated – continuing operations in thousands 362 366 Page 222 Financial Statements 370 E.8 Further information and Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East 5 in thousands 220 222 Page 222 therein Germany information resources in thousands 118 119 Page 222 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Asia, Australia in thousands 64 63 Page 222 Managing Board 371 E.9 Financial calendar Americas in thousands 78 81 Page 222 Total employees – continuing and discontinued operations in thousands 367 410 Further FY 2013 FY 2012 information Employee turnover rate 6, 7 in % 10.8 10.7 Page 221 Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 6, 8 in % 15.6 15.3 Page 221 Expenses for continuing education 6, 9 in millions of € 265 283 Page 221 Expenses per employee for continuing education 6, 9 in € 670 693 Page 221 4 First filings as part of inventions submitted to 7 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of 8 Employees in management positions include patent offices. voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during all managers with disciplinary responsibility, the fiscal year to the average number of employees. plus project managers. 5 Commonwealth of Independent States. 9 Without travel expenses. 6 Continuing and discontinued operations. 91 101 Key figuresA.1 fiscal Letter 2013to1, 2our Shareholders Volume % Change Further FY 2013 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 Berlin and Munich, November 27, 2013 Profitability and Capital efficiency For the first time, I’m addressing you as the President and CEO of your Company. I’ve been at this wonderful organization for 33 years now. Leading Siemens today is not only an enormous task; it is also a mission that I embrace with respect and dedication. The fact that millions of people benefit every day from infrastructures Further supported by Siemens technologies is an inspiration FY 2013 andFY 2012 an obligation as well % Change as a information Total Sectors source of pride. What Siemens can do, and what Siemens does, is relevant to people Adjusted EBITDA all around the world, whetherinour millions of € customers, 8,141 employees users, 9,329 or shareholders. (13)% Page 190 Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 (20)% Page 190 Siemens stands for the electrification of the world. Digitization and automation in % of revenue (Total Sectors) are transforming this value chain – and in % offering 7.5 9.3 us major opportunities. Continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,215 9,613 (15)% Page 190 I’m well aware of the importance of this task and of the tremendous responsibility Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 (9)% Page 181 I now also have for our more than 360,000 employees. Let me assure you of one Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 thing: Siemens will continue to be guided by the values for which we’ve always Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 stood − innovation, quality, reliability and engineering excellence. This will remain Continuing and discontinued operations so in the future, and sustainability and responsibility will continue to inform our Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 actions. These values have made us strong throughout our 166-year history, and our Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% Page 182 commitment to them will endure beyond the present and into the future. Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 Many things at Siemens are going well – some, even very well. Many of our businesses are very well positioned and poised for long-term success, as examples Capital structure and Liquidity presented in this Annual Report show. This year, for the first time, the Report also includes our Sustainability Report, in which we clearly formulate our commitment to the aims of the United Nations Global Compact. The Annual Report provides a detailed account of a quite turbulent and eventful fiscal year in which there was much light but also some shadow. Further September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 information Cash and cash equivalents At €75.9 billion, revenue was 1% in millions belowofthe € prior-year level. 9,190 New orders climbed 10,891 to Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 €82.4 billion, a substantial 10% gain. Our order backlog now totals €100 billion. Adjusted industrial net debt Finally, income from continuing operations amounted to2,805 in millions of € €4.2 billion, including 2,271 Page 193 transformation costs of €1.3 billion related to our Siemens 2014 productivity proFurther FY 2013 FY 2012 information gram and an extraordinary gain in connection with the divestment of our shares Continuing operations in Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN). Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 Page 196 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, our Investor Relations website under orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ suppleWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 92 Respect “ Leading Siemens is a mission that All in all, these are solid results, but we’re not satisfied with them – because we fell clearly short of our potential and did not meet our initial forecast for the year. I embrace with respect In the summer, we had to retract the margin targets we’d set for our Sectors. Special burdens associated with projects in the areas of solar technology, high-speed trains, wind turbines and North Sea platforms for connecting offshore wind farms and dedication.” to the power grid put pressure on our profits. These burdens in operations were partially offset by the profits from the divestment of Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) and from the cross-Sector activities of Siemens Real Estate (SRE) and Financial D. E. Services (SFS). The spinoff and public listing of OSRAM was also a welcome success. Ourand Joe Kaeser – President CEO ofand diligence Siemens AG perseverance in preparing this move paid off, as the very gratifying development of the OSRAM share price over the past few months also confirms. Contents Financial Report Based on these and other achievements, we’ll again propose an unchanged dividend of €3.00 per share at the upcoming Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. You’ll also profit from the share buyback program that we intend to implement over the next two years, which will have a volume of up to €4 billion. Key to references Siemens has scored many successes recently – not just in fiscal 2013 but also between 2007 and 2011. Peter Löscher, my predecessor as President and CEO, playedREFERENCE WITHIN Consolidated Additional a pivotal role in our achievements during this period and, in particular, in the THE PUBLICATION Financial Statements exemplary investigationInformation of the corruption affair. On behalf of the Company and itsREFERENCE TO AN EXTERNAL PUBLICATION employees, I’d like to express my gratitude to Mr. Löscher and my high regard for hisStatements commitment while REFERENCE TO THE 254 D.1 Consolidated office 358 inE.1 Responsibility years. over the paststatement COMPANY REPORT of Income I’d also like to thank 359the E.2 two other members of the Managing Board who have left REFERENCE TO THE Independent INTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated the Company in recent months. Barbarareport Statements Auditorʼs Kux had been responsible for supply chain of Comprehensive Incomeand sustainability at our Company since 2008. Her work was instrumanagement mental in Siemens’361 beingE.3 – once of Statement ranked the this year – the most sustainable again 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing Board company across seven industries in the internationally renowned Dow Jones Susof Financial Position tainability Index. Brigitte Ederer also made many valuable contributions to the 362 E.4 Five-year summary Company 257 D.4 Consolidated Statementsas a member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and in her previous position as the long-time of Cash Flows 364 E.5 headGlossary of Siemens AG Österreich. On behalf of the entire Siemens workforce, I’d like to extend my sincere gratitude to both Ms. Kux and 258 D.5 Consolidated Ms.Statements Ederer for their366 dedicated service. E.6 Index of Changes in Equity 368resign Peter Y. Solmssen will Company E.7 from structure Board on December 31, 2013. He the Managing 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated played a central role in establishing a sustainable corporate culture of integrity Financial Statements which is viewed as 370 Further information E.8 worldwide. exemplary and This achievement will remain our benchinformation resources mark and 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and our beacon as we further align our legal and compliance organization. I’d Managing Board like to thank Mr. Solmssen most sincerely for his service and his collegiality as 371 E.9 Financial calendar a member of the Managing Board. My appreciation also goes to Dr. Gerhard Cromme and the members of the Supervisory Board for their farsighted support for the work of the Managing Board. I’m very pleased that the Supervisory Board has appointed Dr. Ralf P. Thomas, an outstanding financial expert, to serve as Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Thomas will be responsible for ensuring that Siemens’ financial strategy remains as sound as it has always been – because in the future, as in the past, we always want to have the resources we need for investments in growth, jobs and innovation as well as employee training and continuing education. 95 101 Key figuresA.1 fiscal Letter 2013to1, 2our Shareholders The future and values “ Siemens stands for Volume the electrification of the world. Digitiza­ % Change Further Continuing operations Orders tion and automation in millions of € FY 2013 82,351 FY 2012 75,939 Actual 8% Adjusted 3 10% information Page 179 Revenue Berlin and Munich, November 27, 2013 are transforming this in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 value chain – and offering us major Profitability and Capital efficiency opportunities.” For the first time, I’m addressing you as the President and CEO of your Company. I’ve been at this wonderful organization for 33 years now. Leading Siemens today is not only an enormous task; it is also a mission that I embrace with respect and Total Sectors “ Innovation, quality, dedication. The fact that millions of people benefit every day from infrastructures supported by Siemens technologies is an inspiration FY 2013 andFY 2012 an obligation as well % Change as a Further information source of pride. What Siemens can do, and what Siemens does, is relevant to people Adjusted EBITDA Total Sectors profit all around the world, whetherinour reliability and engi­ millions of € customers, in millions of € 8,141 employees users, 5,788 Siemens stands for the electrification of the world. Digitization and automation 9,329 or shareholders. 7,266 (13)% (20)% Page 190 Page 190 neering excellence offering 7.5 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 9.3 are transforming this value chain – and us major opportunities. Continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,215 9,613 (15)% Page 190 are the values for I’m well aware of the importance of this task and of the tremendous responsibility Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 (9)% Page 181 I now also have for our more than 360,000 employees. Let me assure you of one Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 thing: Siemens will continue to be guided by the values for which we’ve always which Siemens stands. Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 stood − innovation, quality, reliability and engineering excellence. This will remain Continuing and discontinued operations so in the future, and sustainability and responsibility will continue to inform our Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) And this will remain actions. These values have made us strong throughout our 166-year history, and our in € commitment to them will endure beyond the present and into the future. in % 5.08 13.5 4.74 13.1 7% Page 182 Page 173 so in the future.” Many things at Siemens are going well – some, even very well. Many of our businesses are very well positioned and poised for long-term success, as examples Capital structure and Liquidity presented in this Annual Report show. This year, for the first time, the Report also includes our Sustainability Report, in which we clearly formulate our commitment to the aims of the United Nations – President KaeserCompact. JoeGlobal The Annual of Siemens and CEOReport provides AG a detailed account of a quite turbulent and eventful fiscal year in which there was much light but also some shadow. Further September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 information Cash and cash equivalents At €75.9 billion, revenue was 1% in millions belowofthe € prior-year level. 9,190 New orders climbed 10,891 to Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 €82.4 billion, a substantial 10% gain. Our order backlog now totals €100 billion. Adjusted industrial net debt Finally, income from continuing operations amounted to2,805 in millions of € €4.2 billion, including 2,271 Page 193 transformation costs of €1.3 billion related to our Siemens 2014 productivity proFurther FY 2013 FY 2012 information gram and an extraordinary gain in connection with the divestment of our shares Continuing operations in Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN). Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 Page 196 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, our Investor Relations website under orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ suppleWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 92 All in all, these are solid results, but we’re not satisfied with them – because we fell clearly short of our potential and did not meet our initial forecast for the year. In the summer, we had to retract the margin targets we’d set for our Sectors. Special burdens associated with projects in the areas of solar technology, high-speed trains, wind turbines and North Sea platforms for connecting offshore wind farms to the power grid put pressure on our profits. These burdens in operations were partially offset by the profits from the divestment of Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) and from the cross-Sector activities of Siemens Real Estate (SRE) and Financial D. E. Services (SFS). The spinoff and public listing of OSRAM was also a welcome success. Our diligence and perseverance in preparing this move paid off, as the very gratifying development of the OSRAM share price over the past few months also confirms. Contents Financial Report Based on these and other achievements, we’ll again propose an unchanged dividend of €3.00 per share at the upcoming Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. You’ll also profit from the share buyback program that we intend to implement over the next two years, which will have a volume of up to €4 billion. Key to references Siemens has scored many successes recently – not just in fiscal 2013 but also between 2007 and 2011. Peter Löscher, my predecessor as President and CEO, playedREFERENCE WITHIN Consolidated Additional a pivotal role in our achievements during this period and, in particular, in the THE PUBLICATION Financial Statements exemplary investigationInformation of the corruption affair. On behalf of the Company and itsREFERENCE TO AN EXTERNAL PUBLICATION employees, I’d like to express my gratitude to Mr. Löscher and my high regard for hisStatements commitment while REFERENCE TO THE 254 D.1 Consolidated office 358 inE.1 Responsibility years. over the paststatement COMPANY REPORT of Income I’d also like to thank 359the E.2 two other members of the Managing Board who have left REFERENCE TO THE Independent INTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated the Company in recent months. Barbarareport Statements Auditorʼs Kux had been responsible for supply chain of Comprehensive Incomeand sustainability at our Company since 2008. Her work was instrumanagement mental in Siemens’361 beingE.3 – once of Statement ranked the this year – the most sustainable again 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing Board company across seven industries in the internationally renowned Dow Jones Susof Financial Position tainability Index. Brigitte Ederer also made many valuable contributions to the 362 E.4 Five-year summary Company 257 D.4 Consolidated Statementsas a member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and in her previous position as the long-time of Cash Flows 364 E.5 headGlossary of Siemens AG Österreich. On behalf of the entire Siemens workforce, I’d like to extend my sincere gratitude to both Ms. Kux and 258 D.5 Consolidated Ms.Statements Ederer for their366 dedicated service. E.6 Index of Changes in Equity 368resign Peter Y. Solmssen will Company E.7 from structure Board on December 31, 2013. He the Managing 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated played a central role in establishing a sustainable corporate culture of integrity Financial Statements which is viewed as 370 Further information E.8 worldwide. exemplary and This achievement will remain our benchinformation resources mark and 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and our beacon as we further align our legal and compliance organization. I’d Managing Board like to thank Mr. Solmssen most sincerely for his service and his collegiality as 371 E.9 Financial calendar a member of the Managing Board. My appreciation also goes to Dr. Gerhard Cromme and the members of the Supervisory Board for their farsighted support for the work of the Managing Board. I’m very pleased that the Supervisory Board has appointed Dr. Ralf P. Thomas, an outstanding financial expert, to serve as Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Thomas will be responsible for ensuring that Siemens’ financial strategy remains as sound as it has always been – because in the future, as in the past, we always want to have the resources we need for investments in growth, jobs and innovation as well as employee training and continuing education. 95 101 Key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2 Volume We’ll leave many things as they are while taking decisive action on other fronts. What was not so successful will have to be adjusted and improved – not through lots of talk, but through decisive action and hard work. We’ll work together to make this happen. The entire Managing Board and Siemens’ global management team are in the front rank here. % Change Further FY 2013 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations I’m aware that you, our shareholders, have high expectations of us – and rightly Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 so. We’ll work hard to meet your expectations. In doing so, we’ll act judiciously, Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 decisively and rigorously while maintaining an unwavering focus on the sustainability of our measures. Our actions are geared not to turning a quick profit but to ensuring the long-term success of our Company. And I know I have a team behind me that’s unmatched and highly esteemed around the world. That’s why I’d like to extend my special thanks to all our employees for their dedication and achievements. Profitability and Capital efficiency What we achieve as a team, the Siemens team, is the basis for our success. My personal conviction and my message to everyone at the Company is: Siemens will again take top priority at Siemens. This will be the guiding principle for each and every one of us – from Managing Board member to trainee, across all Sectors, Divisions and Regions as well as at the Company ’s headquarters. We’ll again focus Further more intensively on living Siemens’ virtues and FY 2013 values with FY 2012 renewed vigor every % Change information Total Sectors day: reliability and continuity, fairness and integrity, diligence and dedication, Adjusted EBITDA quality and innovation. in millions of € 8,141 9,329 (13)% Page 190 Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 (20)% Page 190 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 7.5 9.3 We don’t have to reinvent Siemens. Siemens is a company with a setup that spans Continuing operations the electrification value chain. The growing impact of digitization and the expandAdjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,215 9,613 (15)% Page 190 ing use of automation are shaping our markets, changing our businesses and Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 (9)% Page 181 opening up opportunities for innovation. We’ll profit more strongly than others Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 from the three pillars of electrification, digitization and automation. Many new Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 competitors from other industries and technology fields are trying to penetrate Continuing and discontinued operations our territory. We’re aware of this development and prepared to meet it. Many who Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 see our business fields as attractive and want to establish a foothold in them will Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% Page 182 soon realize that we’re already on the scene. Nevertheless, we’re taking changes Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 in technologies and customer behavior seriously. We’re closely following and preparing ourselves for paradigm shifts in our markets, businesses and environment, whether these shifts are driven by social media, data analytics – that is, Capital structure and Liquidity the processing of enormous amounts of data – or biotechnology. To leverage these changes for the benefit of our Company, we need unparalleled expertise in innovative technologies and unfailingly high productivity. And we must be willing to change in order to prevail against our competitors in hotly Further September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 information contested markets and maintain the upper hand. The best driver for any company Cash and cash equivalents in millions of € 9,190 is growth – controlled, focused, value-creating and, above all, sustainable growth. 10,891 Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 It’s essential that we set the right priorities for achieving growth. We must make Adjusted industrial net debt in millions of € 2,805 2,271 Page 193 wise investments, and this applies to everything from R&D expenditures to acquisitions and the systematic tapping of attractive markets. Further FY 2013 FY 2012 information Continuing operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 Page 196 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, our Investor Relations website under orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ suppleWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 96 A company like ours must aim to be a leader not only in technology but also in long-term profitability. This has nothing to do with greed – but everything to do with maintaining our innovative strength, enhancing our competitiveness and safeguarding jobs while remaining a trusted and attractive partner for our shareholders and investors worldwide. We’re continuing to rigorously implement key elements of our Siemens 2014 program. We’ll bring the program to a successful conclusion, and it will drive our D. E. profitability. All the steps we’re taking must be geared to the long term, strengthen us on an ongoing basis and have an impact that extends beyond 2014. Because we don’t want a brief margin-boosting flash in the pan, but changes that will keep Contents Financial Report Siemens on the road to lasting success in order to preserve jobs and reinforce our technology and market leadership. These changes will position us to narrow and, in the medium term, close the gap in profitability to our competitors. One thing is clear: Siemens will still be around after 2014. In fiscal 2013 – exactly a hundred years after the construction of our Berlin-Siemensstadt location, the Key to references site of our Company headquarters until 1949 – we laid the cornerstone for our new headquarters in Munich. We’ve now also begun planning a new Siemens campus REFERENCE WITHIN Consolidated Additional in Erlangen, Germany. Both of these construction projects are more than a comTHE PUBLICATION Financial Statements mitment to the future of Information two locations steeped in Company tradition. They also REFERENCE TO AN EXTERNAL PUBLICATION reflect our sense of obligation. We accept the responsibility that we have, day after 254 dayStatements D.1 Consolidated and year after year, 358 forE.1theResponsibility future of ourstatement Company. Generations of Siemens REFERENCE TO THE COMPANY REPORT of Income employees have done their part to ensure that the Company in which you hold a stake is intrinsically REFERENCE TO THE 359sound E.2 today. I want our successors to be able to say the Independent INTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements Auditorʼs report same thing about us in 20 or 30 years. Through our work, diligence and dedication, of Comprehensive we – theIncome Managing Board and the Company ’s more than 360,000 employees around the world – can play361a key role Statement E.3 the Company ’s future. Joining forces, in shapingofyour 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing Board we’ll act as though Siemens were our own company. That’s our pledge to you. of Financial Position 362 E.4 Five-year summary 257 ForStatements D.4 Consolidated the Managing Board of Cash Flows 364 E.5 Glossary 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 366 E.6 Index of Changes in Equity 368 E.7 Company structure 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 348 D.7 Joe Kaeser Supervisory Board and Managing President Board and CEO of Siemens AG 371 E.9 Financial calendar 97 101 Key A.2 figures Managing fiscal 2013 Board 1, 2 of Siemens AG Volume % Change Further FY 2013 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 Profitability and Capital efficiency Joe Kaeser Further Corporate Development, FY 2013 FY 2012 % Change information Governance & Markets, Roland Busch Total Sectors Communications and Infrastructure & Cities, Adjusted EBITDA Government Affairs, in millions of € 8,141 9,329 (13)% Page 190 Corporate Sustainability Office Legal and Compliance Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 Asia (excluding Japan), Australia(20)% Page 190 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 7.5 9.3 Customer proximity Continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,215 9,613 (15)% Page 190 Income from continuing operations in millions of € Performance 4,212 4,642and commitment (9)% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 4.85 5.15 (6)% Page 326 Return on capitalstands Siemens employed for: (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.8 15.5 Page 173 Continuing and discontinued operations 4,409 4,282 Net income in millions of € Fairness and integrity 3% Page 181 Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% Page 182 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 Capital structure and Liquidity Further September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 information Cash and cash equivalents in millions of € 9,190 10,891 Page 204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 28,111 30,855 Page 206 Adjusted industrial net debt in millions of € 2,805 2,271 Page 193 Further FY 2013 FY 2012 information Continuing operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 Siegfried Russwurm 4,700 Page 196 Industry, Corporate Supply Chain Management, Information Technology, Corporate Security Office Europe, Commonwealth 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, ofour Independent States, Investor Relations Africaunder website orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ suppleWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 98 D. E. Consolidated Klaus Helmrich Human Resources, Corporate Technology Financial Statements Additional Information Hermann Requardt Key to references REFERENCE WITHIN THE PUBLICATION REFERENCE TO AN EXTERNAL PUBLICATION Contents Financial Report REFERENCE TO THE 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements 358 E.1 Responsibility statement COMPANY REPORT Healthcare of Income South America, Japan REFERENCE TO THE 359 E.2 Independent INTERNET 255 D.2Consolidated Statements Auditorʼs report Quality and innovation of Comprehensive Income 361 E.3 Statement of the 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements Managing BoardFinancial solidity of Financial Position Engineering excellence 362 E.4 Five-year summary 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 364 E.5 Glossary 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 366 E.6 Index of Changes in Equity 368 E.7 Company structure 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 371 E.9 Financial calendar Ralf P. Thomas Finance and Controlling, Financial Services, Siemens Real Estate, Michael Süß Global Shared Services, Energy Equity Investments North America, Middle East As of January 1, 2014 99 101 Key Contents figures fiscal Financial 2013 1,Report 2 Volume % Change Further FY 2013 FY 2012 Actual Adjusted 3 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 82,351 75,939 8% 10% Page 179 A . B. C. Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% Page 179 Profitability and Capital efficiency To our Shareholders Corporate Combined Further Governance FY 2013 FY 2012 Management % Change Report information Total Sectors Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 8,141 9,329 (13)% Page 190 92 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders 118 B.1 Corporate Governance 156 C.1 Business and Total Sectors profit in millions of € 5,788 7,266 (20)% Page 190 Report economic environment in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 7.5 9.3 98 A.2 Managing Board of Continuing operations Siemens AG 124 B.2 Corporate Governance 173 C.2 Financial performance Adjusted EBITDA € in millions ofstatement 8,215 pursuant9,613 to (15)% system Page 190 Income 102 from continuing A.3 Report operations of the in millions ofSection € 4,212 of the4,642 289a (9)% Page 181 Basic earnings per share Supervisory 4 Board inGerman € Commercial 4.85 Code 5.15 179 C.3 Results of operations (6)% Page 326 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in(part % of the13.8Combined 15.5 Page 173 111andA.4 Continuing The Siemens discontinued operations Management Report) 192 C.4 Financial position Net income Share / Investor Relations in millions of € 4,409 4,282 3% Page 181 126 B.3 Compliance Report 204 C.5 Net Basic earnings per share 4 in € 5.08 4.74 7% assets position Page 182 Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) in % 13.5 13.1 Page 173 129 B.4 Compensation Report 207 C.6 Overall assessment of (part of the Combined the economic position Management Report) Capital structure and Liquidity 209 C.7 Subsequent events 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant information (pursuant to 210 C.8 Sustainability Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German 227 C.9 Report on expected Commercial Code) and developments and Further explanatory report30, 2013 September September 30, 2012 information associated material Cash and cash equivalents in millions of(part € of the Combined 9,190 10,891 opportunities andPage risks204 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions ofManagement € Report) 28,111 30,855 Page 206 Adjusted industrial net debt in millions of € 2,805 245 C.10 2,271 Compensation Report, Page 193 Corporate Governance Further FY 2013 FY statement 2012 pursuantinformation Continuing operations to Section 289a of the German Commercial Free cash flow in millions of € 5,257 4,727 Page 196 Code, Takeover-relevant Continuing and discontinued operations information and Free cash flow in millions of € 5,328 4,700 explanatory reportPage 196 246 C.11 Siemens AG (Discussion on basis of 1 Orders; Adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, German our Investor Relations Commercial website under Code) orders; Total Sectors profit; ROCE (adjusted); Free cash information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ suppleWWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . flow; Adjusted EBITDA; Adjusted industrial net debt are mental financial measures, the limitations associated 2 October 1, 2012 – September 30, 2013. or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions with these measures and reconciliations to the most 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion comparable IFRS financial measures are available on 3 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. 88 100 statements D. E. Consolidated ­Financial Statements Additional ­Information Key to references REFERENCE WITHIN THE PUBLICATION REFERENCE TO AN ­E XTERNAL PUBLICATION Contents Financial Report REFERENCE TO THE 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements 358 E.1 Responsibility statement ­C OMPANY REPORT of Income REFERENCE TO THE 359 E.2 Independent ­I NTERNET 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements ­Auditorʼs report of Comprehensive Income 361 E.3 Statement of the 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements ­Managing Board of Financial Position 362 E.4 Five-year summary 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 364 E.5 Glossary 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 366 E.6 Index of Changes in Equity 368 E.7 Company structure 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 371 E.9 Financial calendar 101 A.3 Report of the Supervisory Board Berlin and Munich, November 27, 2013 Fiscal 2013 was an eventful year. The Supervisory Board had to make a number of difficult decisions – decisions that were, however, necessary in the interest of the Company. Our most important decisions concerned changes in the composition of the Managing Board. At our meeting on July 31, 2013, we approved the termination by mutual consent of Peter Löscher’s appointment as a full member of the Managing Board and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG as well as the termination agreement regarding his Managing Board employment contract. The Supervisory Board has great respect for Mr. Löscher’s achievements. Starting on July 1, 2007, he led Siemens in the challenging times of the compliance crisis and the global financial crisis. Through his efforts, he restored our Company’s high reputation. The Supervisory Board thanked Mr. Löscher for his services. The Supervisory Board has appointed Joe Kaeser the Company’s new President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kaeser – who has held management positions at Siemens both in and outside Germany for more than 30 years – was appointed to a new term of office as a full member of the Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG, effective August 1, 2013 to July 31, 2018. At our meeting on September 18, 2013, we appointed Dr. Ralf P. Thomas a full member of the Managing Board and Head of the Managing Board area Finance and Controlling, effective September 18, 2013 to September 17, 2018. At the same meeting, we approved the termination by mutual consent of Brigitte Ederer’s appoint­ ment as a full member of the Managing Board and as Labor Director, effective the end of September 30, 2013, as well as the termination agreement regarding her Managing Board employment contract. We thanked Ms. Ederer for her many years of exemplary commitment and her many successes in the service of the Company. Klaus Helmrich was appointed to succeed Ms. Ederer as Labor Director and Head of the Managing Board area Human Resources. He will continue to serve the Company as Chief Technology Officer. In view of the growing demand for qualified experts worldwide and the importance of innovation leadership and leading technology positions for Siemens’ competitiveness, we consider this close inte­ gration of the Managing Board responsibilities for technology and human resources to be an advantage – particularly with regard to strengthening the recruiting and development of top talents in the areas of science, research and technology. Barbara Kux’s appointment as a full member of the Managing Board expired at the end of November 16, 2013. We thanked Ms. Kux for her achievements as Head of Supply Chain Management and in connection with the Company’s sustainability-related activities. 102 Leveraging business opportunities “ For Siemens, 2013 was an eventful year marked Peter Y. Solmssen will resign from the Managing Board on December 31, 2013. Mr. Solmssen joined Siemens at a difficult time and played a key role in investigating the compliance by major changes. affair at our Company. By establishing a strong compliance organization, he performed a major service and made important contributions to steering Siemens through a chal­ lenging phase and restoring its good reputation. We thanked Mr. Solmssen for these We must now join forces achievements. under Mr. Kaeser’s There were also changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board due, in particular, to the scheduled new election of Supervisory Board members at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. Following the expiration of the Supervisory Board’s five­year leadership in order to term of office, shareholder representatives Jean­Louis Beffa, Håkan Samuelsson and Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel, and employee representative Walter Mönius left the Supervisory narrow the gap to our Board. We thanked the departing members for their professional commitment and their contributions to the Company’s success. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting elected Gérard Mestrallet, Güler Sabancı and Werner Wenning to serve as new shareholder representa­ competitors.” tives on the Supervisory Board. Robert Kensbock was elected to serve as a new employee representative on the Supervisory Board in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act. In addition, Dr. Josef Ackermann left the Supervisory Board at his own request at the end of September 30, 2013, following many years of service. The Super­ Dr. Gerhard Cromme – Chairman of the Supervisory Board visory Board expressed its gratitude to Dr. Ackermann for his service and commitment to Siemens. Dr. Ackermann was succeeded by Jim Hagemann Snabe, whose initial appoint­ ment is by court order. Mr. Snabe will stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in January 2014. At our meeting on September 18, 2013, we elected Werner Wenning to succeed Dr. Ackermann as Second Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board, effective October 1, 2013. In fiscal 2013, the Supervisory Board engaged in particularly intensive deliberations con­ cerning the delays relating to grid connections for wind farms in the North Sea, the delayed delivery of ICE trains to Deutsche Bahn, business developments that were below expecta­ tions and the retraction of the targets defined by the Siemens 2014 program. It is now vital to master the challenges associated with our major projects step­by­step and to imple­ ment the Siemens 2014 program in such a way that the measures initiated will have a long­ term impact and enable the Company to narrow the gap to its competitors and achieve a sustainable increase in profitability. In this connection, the Company will focus even more intensively on the technological trends of the future – trends like digitization, software and IT. The Company’s long­term development must be oriented toward profitable, capital­ efficient growth and the expansion of our technology leadership in key businesses. This is the only way to create sustainable value for our employees and shareholders. In fiscal 2013, the Supervisory Board performed with great diligence the duties assigned to it by law, the Siemens Articles of Association and the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board. We regularly advised the Managing Board on the management of the Company and moni­ tored the Managing Board’s activities. We were directly involved in all major decisions regarding the Company at an early stage. In written and oral reports, the Managing Board regularly provided us with timely and comprehensive information on Company planning and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of the Company. On the basis of reports submitted by the Managing Board, we considered in detail business development and all decisions and transactions of major significance to the Company. Deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and inten­ sively discussed. The Managing Board coordinated the Company’s strategic orientation with us. The proposals made by the Managing Board were approved after in­depth exam­ ination and consultation. In my capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I was also in regular contact with the Managing Board and was kept up­to­date on current develop­ ments in the Company’s business situation and on key business transactions. At separate strategy meetings, I discussed with the Managing Board the prospects for and the future orientation of individual businesses at the Company. 105 A.3 Report of the Supervisory Acting responsibility Board “ On behalf of the Super­ visory Board, I would like to thank the members of the Managing Board Berlin and Munich, November 27, 2013 and the employees and employee representa­ tives at all Siemens com­ panies for their out­ Fiscal 2013 was an eventful year. The Supervisory Board had to make a number of difficult standing commitment.” decisions – decisions that were, however, necessary in the interest of the Company. Our most important decisions concerned changes in the composition of the Managing Board. At our meeting on July 31, 2013, we approved the termination by mutual consent of Peter Löscher’s appointment as a full member Dr. Gerhard Cromme Board of the Managing – Chairman and as of the Supervisory Board President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG as well as the termination agreement regarding his Managing Board employment contract. The Supervisory Board has great respect for Mr. Löscher’s achievements. Starting on July 1, 2007, he led Siemens in the challenging times of the compliance crisis and the global financial crisis. Through his efforts, he restored our Company’s high reputation. The Supervisory Board thanked Mr. Löscher for his services. The Supervisory Board has appointed Joe Kaeser the Company’s new President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kaeser – who has held management positions at Siemens both in and outside Germany for more than 30 years – was appointed to a new term of office as a full member of the Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG, effective August 1, 2013 to July 31, 2018. At our meeting on September 18, 2013, we appointed Dr. Ralf P. Thomas a full member of the Managing Board and Head of the Managing Board area Finance and Controlling, effective September 18, 2013 to September 17, 2018. At the same meeting, we approved the termination by mutual consent of Brigitte Ederer’s appoint­ ment as a full member of the Managing Board and as Labor Director, effective the end of September 30, 2013, as well as the termination agreement regarding her Managing Board employment contract. We thanked Ms. Ederer for her many years of exemplary commitment and her many successes in the service of the Company. Klaus Helmrich was appointed to succeed Ms. Ederer as Labor Director and Head of the Managing Board area Human Resources. He will continue to serve the Company as Chief Technology Officer. In view of the growing demand for qualified experts worldwide and the importance of innovation leadership and leading technology positions for Siemens’ competitiveness, we consider this close inte­ gration of the Managing Board responsibilities for technology and human resources to be an advantage – particularly with regard to strengthening the recruiting and development of top talents in the areas of science, research and technology. Barbara Kux’s appointment as a full member of the Managing Board expired at the end of November 16, 2013. We thanked Ms. Kux for her achievements as Head of Supply Chain Management and in connection with the Company’s sustainability­related activities. 102 Peter Y. Solmssen will resign from the Managing Board on December 31, 2013. Mr. Solmssen joined Siemens at a difficult time and played a key role in investigating the compliance affair at our Company. By establishing a strong compliance organization, he performed a major service and made important contributions to steering Siemens through a chal­ lenging phase and restoring its good reputation. We thanked Mr. Solmssen for these achievements. There were also changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board due, in particular, to the scheduled new election of Supervisory Board members at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. Following the expiration of the Supervisory Board’s five-year term of office, shareholder representatives Jean-Louis Beffa, Håkan Samuelsson and Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel, and employee representative Walter Mönius left the Supervisory Board. We thanked the departing members for their professional commitment and their contributions to the Company’s success. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting elected Gérard Mestrallet, Güler Sabancı and Werner Wenning to serve as new shareholder representa­ tives on the Supervisory Board. Robert Kensbock was elected to serve as a new employee representative on the Supervisory Board in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act. In addition, Dr. Josef Ackermann left the Supervisory Board at his own request at the end of September 30, 2013, following many years of service. The Super­ visory Board expressed its gratitude to Dr. Ackermann for his service and commitment to Siemens. Dr. Ackermann was succeeded by Jim Hagemann Snabe, whose initial appoint­ ment is by court order. Mr. Snabe will stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in January 2014. At our meeting on September 18, 2013, we elected Werner Wenning to succeed Dr. Ackermann as Second Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board, effective October 1, 2013. In fiscal 2013, the Supervisory Board engaged in particularly intensive deliberations con­ cerning the delays relating to grid connections for wind farms in the North Sea, the delayed delivery of ICE trains to Deutsche Bahn, business developments that were below expecta­ tions and the retraction of the targets defined by the Siemens 2014 program. It is now vital to master the challenges associated with our major projects step-by-step and to imple­ ment the Siemens 2014 program in such a way that the measures initiated will have a longterm impact and enable the Company to narrow the gap to its competitors and achieve a sustainable increase in profitability. In this connection, the Company will focus even more intensively on the technological trends of the future – trends like digitization, software and IT. The Company’s long-term development must be oriented toward profitable, capital-­ efficient growth and the expansion of our technology leadership in key businesses. This is the only way to create sustainable value for our employees and shareholders. In fiscal 2013, the Supervisory Board performed with great diligence the duties assigned to it by law, the Siemens Articles of Association and the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board. We regularly advised the Managing Board on the management of the Company and moni­ tored the Managing Board’s activities. We were directly involved in all major decisions regarding the Company at an early stage. In written and oral reports, the Managing Board regularly provided us with timely and comprehensive information on Company planning and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of the Company. On the basis of reports submitted by the Managing Board, we considered in detail business development and all decisions and transactions of major significance to the Company. Deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and inten­ sively discussed. The Managing Board coordinated the Company’s strategic orientation with us. The proposals made by the Managing Board were approved after in-depth exam­ ination and consultation. In my capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I was also in regular contact with the Managing Board and was kept up-to-date on current develop­ ments in the Company’s business situation and on key business transactions. At separate strategy meetings, I discussed with the Managing Board the prospects for and the future orientation of individual businesses at the Company. 105 Topics at the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board We held a total of seven regular meetings and two extraordinary meetings in the report­ ing year. We also made one decision outside meetings. Furthermore, four times in fiscal 2013, the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board made decisions relating to the exercise of ownership rights required under the German Codetermination Act. Attend­ance at Supervisory Board meetings by current members was over 94%. In addition to the above-mentioned decisions regarding changes in the composition of the Managing Board, regular topics of discussion at our plenary meetings were revenue, profit and employment development at Siemens AG, at the Sectors and at the Siemens Group as well as the Company’s financial position, profitability and major investment and divestment projects. One important focus was the Siemens 2014 program, which aims to strengthen the Company’s competitiveness and profitability. In this context, we jointly discussed key measures to cut costs and strengthen Siemens’ core business through major investment and divestment projects. At an extraordinary meeting on October 9, 2012, the Managing Board reported on the state of the Company and informed the Supervisory Board of the implementation status of the Siemens 2014 program. At our meeting on November 7, 2012, we discussed the key financial figures for fiscal 2012 and the budget for 2013. We also determined the compensation of Managing Board mem­ bers for fiscal 2012 on the basis of a calculation of their target achievement. The appropri­ ateness of this compensation was confirmed by an internal review. We also discussed the spinoff of OSRAM and approved the sale of key activities of the Industry Sector’s Water Technologies Business Unit. At our meeting on November 28, 2012, we discussed the financial statements and the ­Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group as of September 30, 2012 as well as the agenda for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. We also discussed the Annual Report for 2012 and the Corporate Governance Report included therein. We approved the budget for 2013, the settlement with former Managing Board member Dr. Thomas Ganswindt and the regular extension of the bond issuance program. We also approved the acquisition of the Rail Division of the British company Invensys plc, the planned divestment of the business of the Logistics and Airport Solutions Business Unit, the spinoff of OSRAM and the related adjustment of the special rights of Managing Board members granted under share-based compensation programs. In addition, we defined the targets for Managing Board compensation for fiscal 2013 and decided to adjust the base compensation of individual Managing Board members in fiscal 2013 and to annually review the base compensation of all Managing Board members s­ tarting in fiscal 2014. We also received a report on the activities of Corporate Supply Chain Management. At our meeting on January 22, 2013, the Managing Board reported to us on the current busi­ ness and financial position following the conclusion of the first quarter. We also approved the extension of the global commercial paper program. The five-year term of office of the Supervisory Board elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2008 ended with the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. At this meeting, the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board were elected to a new term of office, which will extend from 2013 to 2018. The employee representatives had already been elected on September 25, 2012, effective as of the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. At the Supervisory Board’s constitutive meeting at the conclusion 106 of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013, the Chairman, the First Deputy Chairman and the Second Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board were confirmed in their positions and the composition of the Supervisory Board committees was determined. Following the decision by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of January 23, 2013 to spin off OSRAM and the successful completion of a so-called judicial release procedure, the spinoff was entered in the German Commercial Register. At our meeting on April 30, 2013, the Managing Board reported on the Company’s busi­ ness and financial position following the conclusion of the second quarter. The report focused on the status of the Siemens 2014 program and the delivery of Velaro D (ICE) and Velaro Eurostar high-speed trains. The Industry Sector also reported on its business situa­ tion. In connection with our decision to dissolve the Managing Board area Supply Chain Management, we adjusted the assignment of responsibilities within the Managing Board and amended the Bylaws for the Managing Board accordingly. At an extraordinary meeting on June 30, 2013, we approved the termination of the Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture as well as the sale of Siemens’ 50% stake in the business to co-owner Nokia. We received positive feedback from the capital market regarding the sale of the NSN stake and the successful IPO of OSRAM. At our meeting on July 31, 2013, we discussed the Company’s business and financial posi­ tion following the conclusion of the third quarter and the progress made in connection with the Siemens 2014 program. It became clear at this meeting that the target margins set under the program for 2014 did not appear to be achievable. The same day, the Energy Sector also provided us with a report on its current business situation. In addition, we established a Compensation Committee, elected its members and amended the relevant Bylaws accordingly. At our meeting on September 18, 2013, we determined the compensation for Joe Kaeser in his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG. The Healthcare Sector reported on its current business situation. In addition, we were provided with an overview of the Company-wide top+ program and discussed the efficiency review of our activities. However, our primary focus was on the Managing Board’s report on the state of the Company shortly before the end of fiscal 2013. Corporate Governance Code The Supervisory Board concerned itself with the contents of and the amendments to the German Corporate Governance Code. At our meeting on July 31, 2013, we discussed the amendments to the German Corporate Governance Code contained in the new version of May 13, 2013. At our subsequent meeting on September 18, 2013, we adjusted the concrete goals for the Supervisory Board’s composition – which are set out in B.1 CORPORATE GOVERB.1 SEE PAGES NANCE REPORT on pages 118-121 of this Annual Report – in light of the Board’s new compo­ 118-121 sition since January 2013 and determined that, in our estimation, the Supervisory Board had an appropriate number of independent members. Information on corporate gover­ nance and a detailed report on the level and structure of the compensation paid to the mem­ bers of the Supervisory and Managing Boards is provided in B.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B.1 SEE PAGES REPORT on pages 118-123 and in B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT on pages 129-147 of this Annual 118-123 Report. The issuance of a Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of the B.4 ­German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) – stating that the Company complies with SEE PAGES 129-147 all the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code in the version of 107 May 13, 2013 and will continue to do so in the future – was approved by the Supervisory Board at its meeting on September 18, 2013 and by the Managing Board in a decision of September 20, 2013. Details regarding the recommendations in Section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 and Section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1 of the Code have been explained in the Declaration of Conformity. Siemens’ Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code is permanently available to shareholders on the Company’s website B.2 and is set out in B.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE GERMAN SEE PAGE 124 COMMERCIAL CODE on page 124 of this Annual Report. Work in the Supervisory Board committees To ensure the efficiency of its work, the Supervisory Board has established seven standing committees, which prepare proposals and issues to be dealt with at the Board’s plenary meetings. The Supervisory Board’s decision-making powers have also been delegated to these committees within the permissible legal framework. The committee chairpersons report to the Supervisory Board on their committees’ work at the subsequent Board meet­ ings. The members of the individual Supervisory Board committees, the number of com­ D.7 mittee meetings and the number of committee decisions are set out in D.7 SUPERVISORY SEE PAGES BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD , on pages 348-351 of this Annual Report. 348-351 The Chairman’s Committee met nine times in fiscal 2013. In addition, three decisions were made outside meetings. Between meetings, I discussed topics of particular impor­ tance with the members of the Chairman’s Committee. The Committee dealt with corporate-­governance-related matters, including the preparation of the Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code, with the assumption by Manag­ ing Board members of positions at other companies and institutions, and with a variety of personnel-related topics. Prior to the establishment of the Compensation Committee, the Chairman’s Committee dealt with the preparation of decisions concerning Managing Board compensation and recommended to the Supervisory Board that a Compensation Committee be established. The Chairman’s Committee also made a recommendation to the Supervisory Board regarding the termination of the Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture. The Nominating Committee met five times in fiscal 2013. The Committee focused on preparing the new election of shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013 and on preparing the assign­ ment of shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board’s committees. The ­Nominating Committee also dealt with succession planning for the Supervisory Board. The Compliance Committee met five times in fiscal 2013. Dr. Theo Waigel took part in the Committee’s meetings until the end of his term of office as Monitor. The Compliance Committee concerned itself primarily with the quarterly reports and the annual report submitted by the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Counsel Compliance. It also submitted a recommendation to the Supervisory Board regarding the settlement with former Managing Board member Dr. Thomas Ganswindt. In November 2013, it was decided to expand the Committee to include one additional shareholder representative from the Supervisory Board and one additional employee representative from the ­Supervisory Board. The Mediation Committee was not required to meet in fiscal 2013. 108 The Compensation Committee was established by a Supervisory Board decision of July 31, 2013. The Committee prepares proposals regarding the compensation system and the deter­ mination of Managing Board compensation, including the targets for variable Managing Board compensation. It also prepares the full Supervisory Board’s regular review of the compensation system and the appropriateness of Managing Board compensation as well as the approval of the Compensation Report. In fiscal 2013, the Compensation Committee met once in a constitutive meeting. Mr. Wenning expressed his willingness to serve as chair­ man. The Committee also made one decision outside meetings. An independent external compensation specialist was commissioned to provide expert support relating to Manag­ ing Board compensation. The Finance and Investment Committee met three times. The focuses of its meetings included the preparation of the decision regarding the budget for fiscal 2013 and the preparation and/or approval of the Company’s investment and divestment projects such as the spinoff of OSRAM. Since the scope of its work will be expanded to include innovation-­ related issues, the Committee will be renamed the Innovation and Finance Committee. The Audit Committee met six times. In the presence of the independent auditors, the President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel, the Committee discussed the financial statements and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group, the proposal for the appropriation of net income and the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the Audit Committee made a recommendation to the Supervisory Board regarding the Supervisory Board’s proposal to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting concern­ ing the election of the independent auditors. The Audit Committee gave in-depth con­ sideration to the appointment of the independent auditors for fiscal 2013, including the ­definition of the audit focal points, to the monitoring of the auditors’ independence and qualifications as well as the additional services they perform, to the determination of their fee and to the discussion of the results of their audit reviews of the Company’s quarterly financial reports and half-year financial report. In addition, the Audit Committee dealt with the Company’s financial reporting process and risk management system and with the effectiveness, resources and findings of the internal audit as well as with reports ­concerning potential and pending legal disputes. The Audit Committee also focused on Company compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and on the results of the internal audit’s examination of the effectiveness of Siemens’ internal controls, regulatory compliance and the integrity of its financial reporting. In November 2013, it was decided to expand the Committee to include one additional shareholder rep­ resentative from the Supervisory Board and one additional employee representative from the Supervisory Board. Detailed discussion of the financial statements Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft audited the stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group for fiscal 2013 and issued an unqualified opinion. The stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group were prepared in accordance with the requirements of German law. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union (EU), and with 109 the additional requirements of German law set out in Section 315a (1) of the German ­Commercial Code (HGB). The financial statements also comply with the IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The independent auditors conducted their audit in accordance with Section 317 of the HGB and in compliance with the generally accepted German standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the ­Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) and with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The above-mentioned documents as well as the Managing Board’s proposal for the appro­ priation of net income were submitted to us by the Managing Board in a timely manner. The Audit Committee discussed the dividend proposal in detail at its meeting on November 5, 2013. It discussed the stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Con­solidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined Management Report in detail at its meeting on November 26, 2013. The audit reports prepared by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft were distributed to all members of the Supervisory Board and comprehensively reviewed at the Supervisory Board’s meeting on November 27, 2013 in the presence of the independent auditors, who reported on the main findings of their audit. The independent auditors also reported that there were no major weaknesses in the Company’s internal audit or risk man­ agement systems. At this meeting, the Managing Board explained the financial statements of Siemens AG and the Siemens Group as well as the Company’s risk management system. The independent auditors also discussed the scope, focal points and costs of the audit. The Supervisory Board concurs with the results of the audit. Following the definitive find­ ings of the Audit Committee’s examination and our own examination, we have no objec­ tions. The Managing Board prepared the stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group. We approved the standalone Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements. In view of our approv­al, the stand-alone Financial Statements are accepted as submitted. At our meeting on November 27, 2013, we endorsed the Managing Board’s proposal that the net income available for distribution be used to pay out a dividend of €3.00 per share entitled to a dividend and that the amount of net income attributable to shares of stock not entitled to receive a dividend for fiscal 2013 be carried forward. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank the members of the Managing Board and the employees and employee representatives at all Siemens companies for their outstanding commitment and constructive cooperation over the last few unsettled months at our Company. For Siemens, 2013 was an eventful year marked by major changes. We must now join forces under Mr. Kaeser’s leadership in order to narrow the gap to our competitors. For the Supervisory Board Dr. Gerhard Cromme Chairman 110 A.4 The Siemens Share / Investor Relations Change in the value of an investment in Siemens shares in fiscal 2013 (with dividends and the corresponding value of the OSRAM spinoff reinvested; indexed) in % September 30, 2012 September 30, 2013 140 135 130 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 Siemens DAX® MSCI World The Siemens share price developed positively over the course The Managing Board and Supervisory Board will propose a divof fiscal 2013, but did not perform as well as the share prices of idend payment of €3.00 per share for fiscal 2013. Representing major benchmark companies. Due to uncertainties regarding a planned payout ratio of 57%, this proposal is in accordance economic growth in Europe and the emerging countries, the with our One Siemens dividend policy, with which we ensure stock markets were highly volatile in the reporting period. that our shareholders participate appropriately in the CompaDuring the first half of fiscal 2013, Siemens’ share price develny ’s profit development. The share buyback program launched opment was largely in line with the overall market trend. In in August 2012 was ­concluded in November 2012. SubsequentJuly, several events led to a positive development of the ly, Siemens repurchased further shares in order to keep the Siemens share. At the beginning of the month, we sold our number of Siemens’ shares outstanding constant until the stake in the Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) joint venture to spinoff of OSRAM Licht AG. We acquired treasury shares with Nokia. A few days later, OSRAM Licht AG was spun off from a total value corresponding to about €3.1 billion, of which Siemens. As a result of these events, shareholders profited roughly €1.3 billion was attributable to fiscal 2013. Siemens AG both from an increase in the Siemens share price and from continues to have a very sound financial basis. In an environa grant of OSRAM shares free of charge. At the end of July ment in which the ratings of m ­ any countries have come under 2013, our Supervisory Board unanimously appointed the longpressure, the Company continues to enjoy good investment-­ time CFO Joe Kaeser as President and CEO of Siemens AG. In grade credit ratings. August and September 2013, the Company ’s share price gained substantially, reaching a new high for the year. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 111 A.4.1 Development of the Siemens share A long-term comparison also illustrates the strength of the Siemens share: the assets of an investor who acquired Siemens Over the first two months of fiscal 2013, the markets were stock worth €1,000 at the beginning of fiscal 2004 and rein­volatile. Then, at the beginning of December 2012, share prices vested the dividends and the corresponding value of the started to rise steadily. Following some fluctuations and a setOSRAM spinoff in additional Siemens shares would have inback on the German stock market, in particular, in February creased to €2,312 by the end of fiscal 2013. This annual return 2013, share prices reached an interim high at the end of May of 8.7% is above the results for MSCI World (7.6%) but below 2013. They subsequently declined again until the beginning of those for the DAX 30 (10.2%). July 2013, when a strong upturn began, resulting in new highs for the year at the end of fiscal 2013. A.4.2 Dividend proposal Long-term performance of Siemens shares compared with leading indices (average annual performance with dividends At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, the Managing Board and and the corresponding value of the OSRAM spinoff reinvested) the Supervisory Board will propose an unchanged dividend Ten-year period FY 2004 – FY 2013 payment of €3.00, which represents a payout ratio of 57%. This Siemens 8.7% proposal continues without change our tradition of paying atDAX® 10.2% tractive dividends to our investors. MSCI World 7.6% A.4.3 Share buyback program Over the entire fiscal year, Siemens stock performed relatively In August 2012, against the backdrop of favorable capital marwell in the market environment, closing at €89.06 per share on ket conditions, Siemens began to improve its capital structure September 30, 2013. For shareholders who reinvested their divand repurchase treasury shares with a total value correspondidends and their proceeds from the OSRAM spinoff, this ing to up to €3 billion. This program was concluded in Novemamounted to a gain of 22.8% (fiscal 2012: a gain of 18.6%) comber 2012 with a repurchase volume of about €2.9 billion. pared to the price on September 28, 2012. The Siemens share Siemens subsequently repurchased further shares in order to outperformed the leading index of the German stock market, keep the number of Siemens’ shares outstanding constant the DAX (which rose 19.1%), and the leading international in­until the spinoff of OSRAM Licht AG. The Company acquired a dex, MSCI World (which advanced 20.2%). total of about 40.4 million shares at an average price of €77.21, for a total value corresponding to roughly €3.1 billion. Of this amount, some €1.3 billion was attributable to fiscal 2013. Dividend Fiscal year FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Dividend per share in € 3.001 3.00 3.00 2.70 1.60 Dividend yield 2 in % 3.4 3.9 3.9 2.9 2.4 Ex-dividend date Jan. 29, 2014 Jan. 24, 2013 Jan. 25, 2012 Jan. 26, 2011 Jan. 27, 2010 Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 5,899 3,881 2,448 Total dividend payout in millions of € 2,5343 2,528 2,629 2,356 1,388 Payout ratio 4 in % 57 56 41 58 56 1 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. 3 Based on currently estimated number of shares entitled 4 Excluding non-cash items in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 to dividend payment. (NSN and DX impairment charges), the payout ratio 2 Dividend payout / Siemens share price on day of equaled 34% in fiscal 2009 and 46% in fiscal 2010. Annual Shareholders’ Meeting; for fiscal 2013: dividend payout / Siemens share price at fiscal year-end. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 112 92 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders 98 A.2 Managing Board of Siemens AG 102 A.3 Report of the ­Supervisory Board 111 A.4 The Siemens Share / ­Investor Relations Investor type and regional distribution U.K.: 8% Private investors: 18%  Germany: 29% U.S.: 16% Unidentified  Institutional investors: investors: 17% 59%  Switzerland: 6% Unidentified: 17%  France: 6% Siemens family members: 6% Rest of world: 10%  Rest of Europe: 8% A.4.4 Spinoff of OSRAM Licht AG A.4.6 Credit ratings With the aim of focusing even more strongly on its core busiSiemens AG has good, investment-grade credit ratings. ness, Siemens spun off 80.5% of the shares of OSRAM Licht AG “Aa3/P-1/outlook negative” from Moody ’s Investors Service and to Siemens shareholders in July 2013. For every ten Siemens “A+/A-1+/outlook stable” from Standard & Poor’s are very posishares held, one share of OSRAM Licht AG was allocated free of tive ratings – particularly when compared to those of our comcharge. In addition, following this transaction, the Siemens petitors in the industry segment. Our solid financial position share price rose substantially. After an initial listing of €24 per gives us unrestricted access to the international financial and share on July 8, 2013, OSRAM stock rose to €34.70 per share by capital markets. September 30, 2013. For ­ further ­ information, please see NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND ­D ISCONTINUED OPERATIONS At the end of fiscal 2013, the net debt of Siemens AG was in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS , pages €10,663 million, with cash and cash equivalents of €9,190 ­273-278. million. For further information on our credit ratings and ­ ­financial obligations, please see NOTE 28 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEA.4.5 Shareholder structure MENTS , pages 305-306. With some 690,000 shareholders, Siemens AG is one of the Credit ratings world’s largest publicly owned companies. Siemens has a staSeptember 30, 2013 September 30, 2013 ble shareholder structure that has changed only slightly over Moody ’s Moody ’s Investors Standard & Investors Standard & time. In August 2013, we mandated an external institute to Service Poor’s Service Poor’s conduct an analysis of our shareholder structure. Based on an Long-term debt Aa3 A+ Aa3 A+ evaluation of publications from institutional investors and on Short-term debt P -1 A -1+ P -1 A -1+ statistical estimates, its analysis showed that shareholders in Germany hold the largest percentage of our shares outstanding, about 29% of all shares outstanding. Shareholders in the U.S. hold roughly 16% and shareholders in the U.K. around 8%, while investors in France hold 6% and in Switzerland 6%. Some 59% of Siemens’ shares outstanding are currently held by institutional investors, about 18% by private shareholders and around 6% by members of the Siemens family. For further information on our shareholder structure, please see WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SHAREHOLDERSTRUCTURE . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 113 A.4.7 Siemens on the capital market A.4.8 Profit-sharing culture / Stock-based compensation programs We take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue with the capital market very seriously. Cultivating close conSiemens has set itself the goal of more intensively fostering a tacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all profit-sharing culture at the Company and encouraging em­major developments throughout Siemens. ployees to become shareholders. That’s why we offer various share-based payment programs to our workforce. In fiscal As part of our investor relations work, we provide information 2013, 3,878,899 Siemens shares were issued to service these on our Company ’s development in quarterly, semiannual and programs, namely, the Stock Awards program, the Share annual reports. Our CEO and CFO also maintain close contact Matching Program (including the Base Share Program, the with investors through roadshows and conferences. In addiShare Matching Plan and the Monthly Investment Plan) and tion, Siemens holds Sector Capital Market Days, at which the the Jubilee Program. Non-vested and outstanding grants unmanagement of our Sectors informs investors and analysts der the various plans will result in additional share issuances about the Sectors’ business strategies and market environto employees in the future. For more detailed information ments. on share-based payment, please see NOTE 33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS , Stock market information pages 323-326. FY 2013 1 FY 2012 1 Stock price range Our Company-wide Share Ownership Guidelines specify that (Xetra closing price) the members of the Managing Board and roughly 550 other High in € 90.33 79.71 ­senior executives must hold an interest in Siemens equal in Low in € 76.00 63.06 value to between 50% and 300% of their base compensation Fiscal year-end in € 89.06 77.61 for the period in which they hold office. For further informaNumber of shares issued tion on our employee share programs, please see NOTE 33 (September 30) in millions 881 881 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Market capitalization 2 in millions of € 75,078 66,455 STATEMENTS , pages 323-326. Basic earnings per share 3 in € 5.08 4.74 Diluted earnings per share 3 in € 5.03 4.69 Dividend per share in € 3.004 3.00 1 Fiscal year from October 1 to September 30. 2 On the basis of outstanding shares. 3 Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R. The prior year is presented on a comparable basis. 4 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. We also provide extensive information online. Quarterly, semiannual and annual reports, analyst presentations and press releases as well as our financial calendar for the current year (please see E.9 FINANCIAL CALENDAR , page 371), which includes all major publication dates as well as the date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, are available at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ INVESTORS . In fiscal 2013, we launched the Siemens Shareholder Letter, a quarterly publication which is addressed primarily to our private investors and provides a brief summary of key ­developments during the quarter under review. 114 B. Corporate Governance B. Corporate Governance 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant information 118 B.1.1 Management and control structure (pursuant to Sections 289 para. 4 Corporate and 315 para. 4 of the German 122 B.1.2 Purchase or sale of the Company ’s shares Governance Commercial Code) and explanatory 122 B.1.3 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and report (part of the Combined investor relations Management Report) 122 B.1.4 Significant differences between Siemens ’ 148 B.5.1 Composition of common stock corporate governance and NYSE Corporate Governance Standards 148 B.5.2 Restrictions on voting rights or transfer of shares 148 B.5.3 Equity interests exceeding 10% 124 B.2 Corporate Governance statement of voting rights pursuant to Section 289a of 148 B.5.4 Shares with special rights conferring the German Commercial Code powers of control (part of the Combined Management Report) 148 B.5.5 System of control of any employee share scheme where the control rights are not exercised directly by ComplianceReport 126 B.3 Governance Report the employees Corporate 149 B.5.6 Legislation and provisions of the 126 B.3.1 Compliance priorities articles of association applicable to 126 B.3.2 Further information, indicators the appointment and removal of and legal proceedings members of the Managing Board 126 B.3.3 Compliance training and governing amendment to the Corporate GovernanceArticles statement of Association 127 B.3.4 Employee survey on compliance 127 B.3.5 Business partners and suppliers 149 B.5.7 Powers of the Managing Board to issue and repurchase shares 127 B.3.6 Siemens Integrity Initiative 151 B.5.8 Significant agreements which take 127 B.3.7 Transfer of responsibility effect, alter or terminate upon a for data privacy change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Compliance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 152 B.5.9 Compensation agreements with (part of the Combined members of the Managing Board Management Report) or employees in the event of a Compensation 129 B.4.1 Remuneration of members Report takeover bid of the Managing Board 146 B.4.2 Remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board 147 B.4.3 Other Takeover-relevant information 117 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Corporate Governance chapter may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. A.4.7 Siemens on the capital Goodmarket corporate governance A.4.8 Profit-sharing is the basis culture / for our decision-making Stock-based and compensation control programs We take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue processes and comprises with the capital market very seriously. Cultivating close contacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all responsible, Siemens has set itself the goal of more intensively fostering a profit-sharing culture at the Company and encouraging emmajor developments throughout Siemens. value-based management ployees to become and monitorshareholders. That’s why we offer various ing focused on long-term As part of our investor relations work, we provide information success, share-based payment programs to our workforce. In fiscal 2013, 3,878,899 Siemens shares were issued to service these on our Company ’s development in goal-oriented quarterly, semiannual and and programs, namely, cooperation efficient the Stock Awards program, the Share annual reports. Our CEO and CFO also maintain close contact Matching Program (including the Base Share Program, the with investors through roadshows between and conferences. our Managing In addiShare Matchingand SuperPlan and the Monthly Investment Plan) and visory boards, respect tion, Siemens holds Sector Capital Market Days, at which the management of our Sectors informs investors and analysts for the interests the Jubilee Program. Non-vested and outstanding grants under the various plans will result in additional share issuances about the Sectors’ business strategies of our shareholders and market environandinemployees, to employees the future. For more detailed information ments. on share-based payment, please see transparency and responsibility in all NOTE 33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS , Stock market information our entrepreneurial decisions and anpages 323-326. FY 2013 1 FY 2012 1 Stock price range appropriate risk management Our Company-wide Share system. Ownership Guidelines specify that (Xetra closing price) the members of the Managing Board and roughly 550 other High in € 90.33 79.71 senior executives must hold an interest in Siemens equal in Low WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE in € 76.00 63.06 value to between 50% and 300% of their base compensation Fiscal year-end in € 89.06 77.61 for the period in which they hold office. For further informaNumber of shares issued tion on our employee share programs, please see NOTE 33 (September 30) in millions 881 881 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Market capitalization 2 in millions of € 75,078 66,455 STATEMENTS , pages 323-326. Basic earnings per share 3 in € 5.08 4.74 Diluted earnings per share 3 in € 5.03 4.69 Dividend per share in € 3.004 3.00 1 Fiscal year from October 1 to September 30. 2 On the basis of outstanding shares. 3 Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R. The prior year is presented on a comparable basis. 4 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. We also provide extensive information online. Quarterly, semiannual and annual reports, analyst presentations and press releases as well as our financial calendar for the current year (please see E.9 FINANCIAL CALENDAR , page 371), which includes all major publication dates as well as the date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, are available at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ INVESTORS . In fiscal 2013, we launched the Siemens Shareholder Letter, a quarterly publication which is addressed primarily to our private investors and provides a brief summary of key developments during the quarter under review. 114 B. Corporate ­Governance B. Corporate Governance 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information 118 B.1.1 Management and control structure (pursuant to ­Sections 289 para. 4 Corporate and 315 para. 4 of the ­German 122 B.1.2 Purchase or sale of the Company ’s shares ­Governance Commercial Code) and explanatory 122 B.1.3 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and report (part of the Combined investor relations Management Report) 122 B.1.4 Significant differences between Siemens ’ 148 B.5.1 Composition of common stock corporate governance and NYSE ­Corporate Governance Standards 148 B.5.2 Restrictions on voting rights or ­transfer of shares 148 B.5.3 Equity interests exceeding 10% 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement of ­voting rights pursuant to Section 289a of 148 B.5.4 Shares with special rights conferring the ­German Commercial Code powers of control (part of the Combined ­Management Report) 148 B.5.5 System of control of any employee share scheme where the control rights are not exercised directly by 126 B.3 Compliance Report the employees 149 B.5.6 Legislation and provisions of the 126 B.3.1 Compliance priorities ­articles of association applicable to 126 B.3.2 Further information, indicators the appointment and removal of and legal proceedings ­members of the Managing Board 126 B.3.3 Compliance training and governing amendment to the 127 B.3.4 Employee survey on compliance ­Articles of Association 127 B.3.5 Business partners and suppliers 149 B.5.7 Powers of the Managing Board to issue and repurchase shares 127 B.3.6 Siemens Integrity Initiative 151 B.5.8 Significant agreements which take 127 B.3.7 Transfer of responsibility effect, alter or terminate upon a for data privacy change of control of the Company ­following a takeover bid 129 B.4 Compensation Report 152 B.5.9 Compensation agreements with (part of the Combined ­members of the Managing Board ­Management Report) or employees in the event of a ­takeover bid 129 B.4.1 Remuneration of members of the Managing Board 146 B.4.2 Remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board 147 B.4.3 Other 117 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­Corporate Governance chapter may not add up ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. B.1 Corporate Governance Report Siemens AG complies with the currently applicable recommenheadquarters and the effectiveness of the related control sysdations of the German Corporate Governance Code (Code) in tems. Their confirmation provides a basis for our CEO and CFO the version of May 13, 2013. to certify our financial statements to the SEC. Consistent with the requirements of the SOA, we have procedures for handling The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG accounting complaints in place as well as a Code of Ethics for have discussed compliance with the Code’s recommendations Financial Matters. This Code of Ethics for Financial Matters in detail. Based on their deliberations, the boards have approved was last updated in 2010. the annual Declaration of Conformity as of October 1, 2013 with two supplementary explanations regarding compliance with certain recommendations. This document is posted on B.1.1 Management and control structure our website and presented in chapter B.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE G ­ ERMAN COMB.1.1.1 SUPERVISORY BOARD MERCIAL CODE on page 124 of this Annual Report. Siemens AG is subject to German corporate law. It has a two-­tier board structure, consisting of a Managing Board and a Siemens voluntarily complies with the Code’s non-binding ­Supervisory Board. As required by the German Codetermination suggestions, with the following exceptions: Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz), the Company ’s shareholders and its employees each select one-half of the Supervisory Board’s >> According to the revised Section 3.7 para. 3, in the case of a members. The term of office of the members of the ­Supervisory takeover offer, the Management Board should convene an Board will expire at the close of the Annual Shareholders’ Meetextraordinary General Meeting at which shareholders dising 2018. As successor to Dr. Josef Ackermann, who resigned cuss the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions from the Supervisory Board effective September 30, 2013, Jim (previously: only in appropriate cases). The convening of a Hagemann Snabe has been appointed to the S ­ upervisory Board shareholders’ meeting – even taking into account the shortby court order in accordance with Section 5.4.3 sentence 2 of the ened time limits stipulated in the German Securities AcquiCode until the end of the Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting 2014. sition and Takeover Act (WpÜG) – is an organizational challenge for large publicly listed companies. It appears doubtful The Supervisory Board most recently amended the objectives whether the associated effort is justified in cases where no for its composition in line with Section 5.4.1 of the Code in fisrelevant decisions by the shareholders’ meeting are intendcal 2012. Due to the new election of shareholder and employee ed. Therefore, extraordinary shareholders’ meetings shall, as representatives, which took effect at the end of the Annual in the past, be convened only in appropriate cases. Shareholders‘ Meeting on January 23, 2013, the Supervisory >> Since the Managing Board appointments made in 2011, the Board modified these objectives at its meeting on September suggestion in Section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Code 18, 2013, and reapproved them as follows: that the maximum possible appointment period of five years should not be the rule for first-time appointments to the >> The composition of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG Management Board has not been followed. shall be such that qualified control and advising for the Managing Board is ensured. The candidates proposed for Our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) subjects us election to the Supervisory Board shall have the expertise, to a number of provisions under U.S. securities laws (including skills and professional experience necessary to carry out the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, SOA) as well as to the rules and regufunctions of a Supervisory Board member in a multinational lations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) company and safeguard the reputation of Siemens in public. and the NYSE. To, inter alia, facilitate our compliance with the In particular, care shall be taken in regard to the personality, SOA, we have, among other things, established a Disclosure integrity, commitment, professionalism and independence Committee, comprising the heads of a number of our Corpoof the individuals proposed for election. The goal is to enrate Units. This committee is responsible for reviewing certain sure that, in the Supervisory Board, as a group, all knowfinancial and non-financial information and advising our Manhow and experience is available that is considered essential aging Board in its decisions regarding disclosure. We also have in view of Siemens’ activities. procedures in place that require the members of the manage>> Taking the company ’s international orientation into acment of our Sectors, Divisions, Financial Services, Cross-Sector count, care shall also be taken to ensure that the SupervisoServices, Regional Clusters and certain Corporate Units – supry Board has an adequate number of members with extenported by certifications provided by the management of entisive international experience. Our goal is to make sure that ties under their direction – to confirm the correctness of the the present considerable share of Supervisory Board memfinancial data that they have reported to Siemens’ corporate bers with extensive international experience is maintained. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 118 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) >> In its election proposals, the Supervisory Board shall also pay The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing particular attention to the appropriate participation of womBoard in its management of the Company ’s business. At regular en. Qualified women shall already be included in the initial intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses business developprocess of selecting potential candidates for new elections or ment, planning, strategy and implementation. It reviews the for the filling of Supervisory Board positions that have become Stand-Alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolivacant and shall be considered, as appropriate, in nominadated Financial Statements of Siemens Group, Management tions. We have meanwhile been able to increase the number ­Reports on these financial statements and the proposal for the of women on our Supervisory Board to five. Our goal is to appropriation of net income. It also discusses Siemens’ quarterly maintain and, if possible, to increase this number. It is also and half-yearly reports and approves the Stand-Alone Financial intended that – as is currently the case – at the minimum one Statements of Siemens AG as well as the Consolidated Financial woman should be a member of the Nominating Committee. Statements of Siemens Group, taking into account both the >> An adequate number of independent members shall belong ­reports issued by the independent auditors thereon and the to the Supervisory Board. Material and not only temporary ­results of the review conducted by the Audit Committee. In adconflicts of interest, such as organizational functions or addition, the Supervisory Board and the Com­pliance Committee, visory capacities with major competitors of the company, which is described in more detail below, concern themselves shall be avoided. Under the presumption that the mere exerwith the Company ’s adherence to statutory pro­visions, official cise of Supervisory Board duties as an employee representaregulations and internal Company policies (compliance). The tive gives no cause to doubt the compliance with the indeSupervisory Board also appoints the members of the Managing pendence criteria pursuant to Section 5.4.2 of the Code, the Board and determines each member’s duties. Important ManagSupervisory Board shall have a minimum of sixteen meming Board decisions – such as those regarding major acquisibers who are independent in the meaning of the Code. In tions, divestments and financial measures – r­ equire Supervisory any case, the Supervisory Board shall be composed in such a Board approval, unless the B ­ ylaws for the ­Supervisory Board way that a number of at least six independent shareholder specify that such authority be delegated to the Finance and Inrepresentatives in the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the Code vestment Committee of the Supervisory Board. In the Bylaws for is achieved. In addition, the Supervisory Board members the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board has established shall have sufficient time to be able to devote the necessary the rules that govern the work of the Managing Board – in regularity and diligence to their mandate. ­particular, the rules regarding the allo­cation of duties among >> The age limitation established in the Bylaws for the Super­ ­individual Managing Board members, the matters reserved for visory Board will be taken into consideration. In addition, no the Managing Board as a whole and the quorum required for more than two former members of the Managing Board of Managing Board decisions. Siemens AG shall belong to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board currently has seven committees whose The objectives for the Supervisory Board‘s composition that duties, responsibilities and procedures fulfill the requirements were approved in the last fiscal year have been taken into acof the German Stock Corporation Act and the Code, reflect apcount in the proposals for the election of the Supervisory plicable SOA requirements and incorporate applicable NYSE Board members and have been fully achieved. The considerrules as well as certain NYSE rules, with which Siemens AG able share of Supervisory Board members who are currently complies voluntarily. The Chairmen of the committees provide engaged in international activities and/or have many years of the Supervisory Board with regular reports on the activities of international experience has been maintained. The number of the committees. female Supervisory Board members has increased from four to five. Furthermore, Dr. Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller has been The Chairman’s Committee, which comprises the Chairman elected to the Nominating Committee. The Supervisory Board and Deputy Chairmen of the Supervisory Board as well as one has an adequate number of independent members. In the further employee representative elected by the Supervisory opinion of the Supervisory Board, a minimum of sixteen SuperBoard, performs the collective tasks of a “nominating and corvisory Board members are independent in the meaning of Secporate governance committee” to the extent that such tasks are tion 5.4.2 of the Code. Some Supervisory Board members not performed by the Nominating Committee and German law hold – or have held in the past year – high-ranking positions at does not require that such tasks be performed by the full Superother companies with which Siemens does business. Nevervisory Board. In particular, the Chairman’s Committee makes theless, transactions between Siemens and such companies proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of Managare carried out on an arm’s length basis. We believe that these ing Board members and handles contracts with members of transactions do not compromise the independence of the the Managing Board. In preparing recommendations on the ­Supervisory Board members in question. appointment of Managing Board members, the Chairman’s 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 119 Committee takes into account a candidate’s professional qualiand the regulations of the SEC. The Audit Committee oversees fications, international experience and leadership qualities, the accounting process. It also prepares the ­ Supervisory the age limit specified for Managing Board members, the Board’s recommendation to the A ­ nnual Shareholders’ Meeting board’s long-range plans for succession as well as the board’s concerning the election of the independent auditors and subdiversity and, in particular, the appropriate consideration of mits the corresponding pro­posal to the full Supervisory Board. women. The Chairman’s Committee concerns itself with quesIn addition to the work performed by the independent auditions regarding the Company ’s corporate governance and pretors, the Audit Committee also discusses the Company ’s finanpares the resolutions to be approved by the Supervisory Board cial statements, which are prepared by the Managing Board regarding the Declaration of Conformity with the Code, includquarterly, half-yearly and annually. On the basis of the indeing the explanation of deviations from the Code, and regarding pendent auditors’ report on the annual financial statements, the approval of the Corporate Governance Report, and the the Audit Committee makes, after its own review, recommen­Report of the Supervisory Board to the Annual Shareholders‘ dations to the Supervisory Board regarding the a ­ pproval of the Meeting. Furthermore, the Chairman’s Committee submits re­c­ Stand-Alone ­Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Conommendations to the Supervisory Board regarding the composolidated ­Financial Statements of Siemens Group. It concerns sition of Supervisory Board committees and decides whether itself with the Company ’s risk monitoring system and oversees to approve business transactions with Managing Board memthe effectiveness of the internal control system as this relates, bers and parties related to them. in particular, to financial ­reporting, the risk management system and the internal audit system. The Internal Audit DepartThe Compensation Committee, which was newly formed by ment reports regularly to the Audit Committee. The Audit Comthe Supervisory Board on July 31, 2013, and comprises the mittee awards the audit contract to the independent ­auditors members of the Chairman’s Committee of the Supervisory elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and monitors the Board as well as one of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder independent audit of the financial statements – including, in representatives and one of the Supervisory Board’s employee particular, the auditors’ ­independence, professional expertise representatives, prepares the proposals for decisions by the and services – and performs other functions assigned to it Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings regarding the system of ­under the SOA. Managing Board compensation, including the implementation of this system in the Managing Board contracts, the definition The Compliance Committee comprises the Chairman of the of the targets for variable Managing Board compensation, the Supervisory Board, two of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder determination and review of the appropriateness of the total representatives and three of the Supervisory Board’s employee compensation of individual Managing Board members and the representatives. In November 2013, it was decided to increase approval of the annual Compensation Report. In addition, the the number of Committee members by one additional shareCompensation Committee prepares the regular review by the holder representative and one additional employee representaSupervisory Board’s plenary meetings of the system of Managtive. The Compliance Committee concerns itself, in particular, ing Board compensation. with the Company ’s adherence to statutory provisions, official regulations and internal Company policies. The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman of the Super­ visory Board, two of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder repreThe Nominating Committee, which comprises the Chairman sentatives and three of the Supervisory Board’s employee and the Second Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board as ­representatives. In November 2013, it was decided to increase well as two further members to be elected by the shareholder the number of Committee members by one additional sharerepresentatives of the Supervisory Board from among their holder representative and one additional employee representanumber, is responsible for making recommendations to the tive. Under German law, the Audit Committee must include at Supervisory Board on suitable candidates for election as shareleast one independent Supervisory Board member with knowlholder representatives of the Supervisory Board by the Annual edge and experience in the application of accounting princiShareholders’ Meeting. In preparing these recommendations, ples or the auditing of financial statements. The Chairman of the objectives specified by the Supervisory Board regarding its the Audit Committee, Dr. Hans Michael Gaul, fulfills these statcomposition are to be taken into account as well as the required utory requirements. The Supervisory Board has designated knowledge, abilities and experience of the proposed candiDr. Hans Michael Gaul – in addition to Dr. Gerhard Cromme – dates; attention shall also be paid to independence, diversity as an “audit committee financial ­expert,” as defined by the SOA and, in particular, the appropriate participation of women. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 120 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) The Mediation Committee, which comprises the Chairman of is presented in chapter B.3 COMPLIANCE REPORT on pages 126the Supervisory Board, the First Deputy Chairman (who is elect128 and in chapter C.8.10 COMPLIANCE on pages 224-226 of ed in accordance with the German Codetermination Act), one this Annual Report. The Managing Board and the ­Supervisory of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder representatives and one Board cooperate closely for the benefit of the Company. The of the Supervisory Board’s employee representatives, submits Managing Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly, proposals to the Supervisory Board in the event that the Supercomprehensively and without delay on all issues of visory Board cannot reach the two-thirds majority required for ­importance to the Company with regard to strategy, planthe appointment or dismissal of a Managing Board member. ning, business development, financial position, earnings, compliance and risks. When filling managerial positions at The Finance and Investment Committee 1 comprises the the Company, the Managing Board takes diversity into conChairman of the Supervisory Board, three of the Supervisory sideration and, in particular, aims for an appropriate considBoard’s shareholder representatives and four of the Supervisoeration of women. ry Board’s employee representatives. Based on the Company ’s overall strategy, which is the focus of an annual strategy meetCurrently, there is one Managing Board committee, the Equity ing of the Supervisory Board, the Committee prepares the disand Employee Stock Committee. This committee comprises cussions and resolutions of the Supervisory Board regarding three members of the Managing Board and oversees the utiliquestions relating to the Company ’s financial situation and zation of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of structure as well as its fixed asset and financial investments. employee stock and the implementation of certain capital meaIn addition, the Finance and Investment Committee has been sures. It also determines the scope and conditions of the shareauthorized by the Supervisory Board to decide on the approval based compensation components and/or programs for employof transactions and measures that require Supervisory Board ees and managers (with the exception of the Managing Board). approval and have a value of less than €600 million. The composition of the Managing Board and its committee is The composition of the Supervisory Board and its committees presented in chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING is presented in chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD on pages 352-354 of this Annual Report. Information on BOARD on pages 348-351 of this Annual Report. Information on the compensation paid to the members of the Managing Board the work of this body is provided in the A.3 REPORT OF THE is provided in the B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT on pages 129-145. SUPERVISORY BOARD on pages 102-110. The compensation paid to the members of the Supervisory Board is explained in chapter B.1.1.3 SHARE OWNERSHIP B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT on pages 146-147. As of October 13, 2013, the Managing Board’s current members held a total of 216,560 (2012: 293,808) Siemens shares repreB.1.1.2 MANAGING BOARD senting 0.02 (2012: 0.03)% of the capital stock of Siemens AG, As the Company ’s top management body, the Managing Board which totaled 881,000,000 shares. is committed to serving the interests of the Company and achieving sustainable growth in Company value. The members As of the same day, the Supervisory Board’s current members of the Managing Board are jointly responsible for the entire held Siemens shares representing less than 0.01 (2012: less management of the Company and decide on the basic issues than 0.01)% of the capital stock of Siemens AG, which totaled of business policy and corporate strategy as well as on the 881,000,000 shares. These figures do not include the 9,313,438 Company ’s annual and multi-year plans. (2012: 11,454,464) shares, or 1.06 (2012: 1.30)% of the capital stock of Siemens AG, which totaled 881,000,000 shares, over The Managing Board prepares the Company ’s quarterly and which the von Siemens-Vermögensverwaltung GmbH (vSV), a half-yearly reports, the Stand-Alone Financial Statements of German limited liability company, has voting control under Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements of powers of attorney based on an agreement between – among Siemens Group. In addition, the Managing Board must ensure others – members of the Siemens family, including Gerd von that the Company adheres to statutory provisions, official regBrandenstein, and vSV. These shares are voted together by ulations and internal Company policies (compliance) and works vSV based on proposals by the family partnership established to achieve compliance with these provisions and policies withby the Siemens family or by one of its committees. Gerd von in the Siemens Group. Further comprehensive information on Brandenstein is the current chairman of the executive committhe compliance program and related activities in fiscal 2013 tee and has a deciding vote in cases of deadlock. 1 In November 2013 renamed “Innovation and Finance Committee.” 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 121 B.1.2 Purchase or sale For communication purposes, Siemens makes extensive use of of the Company ’s shares the Internet. We publish quarterly, half-yearly and annual reports, earnings releases, ad hoc announcements, analyst presen­ Pursuant to Section 15a of the German Securities Trading Act tations, shareholder letters and press releases as well as the (WpHG), members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory ­financial calendar for the current year, which contains the pubBoard are legally required to disclose the purchase or sale of lication dates of significant financial communications and the shares of Siemens AG or of financial instruments based theredate of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, at WWW.SIEMENS. on if the total value of such transactions entered into by a COM/INVESTORS . Details of our investor relations activities are board member or any closely associated person reaches or provided in chapter A.4 THE SIEMENS SHARE / INVESTOR RELATIONS ­exceeds €5,000 in any calendar year. All transactions reported on pages 111-114 of this Annual Report. to Siemens AG in accordance with this requirement have been duly published and can be found on the Company ’s website CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES WWW.SIEMENS.COM/DIRECTORS-DEALINGS . Our Articles of Association, the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board and for its most important committees, the Bylaws for the Managing Board, all our Declarations of Conformity with B.1.3 Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting the Code and a variety of other corporate-governance-related and investor relations documents are posted on our website at  WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE . Shareholders exercise their rights in the Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting. An ordinary Annual Shareholders’ Meeting normally takes place within the first four months of each fiscal year. The B.1.4 Significant differences between Annual Shareholders’ Meeting decides, among other things, on Siemens’ corporate governance and the appropriation of the unappropriated net income, the ratification of the acts of the Managing and Supervisory Boards, and NYSE Corporate Governance Standards the appointment of the independent auditors. Amendments to the Articles of Association and measures that change the ComCompanies listed on the NYSE are subject to the Corporate Govpany ’s capital stock are approved at the Annual Shareholders’ ernance Standards of Section 303A (NYSE Standards) of the NYSE Meeting and are implemented by the Managing Board. The Listed Company Manual. Under the NYSE Standards, Siemens AG, Managing Board facilitates shareholder participation in this as a foreign private issuer, is permitted to follow its home-counmeeting through electronic communications – in particular, via try corporate governance practices in lieu of the NYSE Standards, the ­Internet – and enables shareholders who are unable to atexcept that it must comply with the NYSE Standards in having an tend the meeting to vote by proxy. Furthermore, shareholders audit committee whose members are independent within the may exercise their right to vote in writing or by means of elecmeaning of the SOA as well as with certain NYSE notification obtronic communications (voting by mail). The Managing Board ligations. In addition, the NYSE Standards require that foreign may enable shareholders to participate in the Annual Shareholdprivate issuers disclose any significant differences between their ers’ Meeting without the need to be present at the venue and own corporate governance practices and those that the NYSE without a proxy and to exercise some or all of their rights fully or Standards require of U.S. domestic companies. partially by means of electronic communications. Shareholders may submit proposals regarding the proposals of the Managing As a company incorporated in Germany, Siemens AG must and Supervisory Boards and may contest ­decisions of the Annucomply in the first instance with the German Stock Corporaal Shareholders’ Meeting. Shareholders owning Siemens stock tion Act and the German Codetermination Act and voluntarily with an aggregate notional value of €100,000 or more may also follows the recommendations of the German Corporate Goverdemand the judicial appointment of special auditors to examine nance Code as set out on pages 118-121 of this Annual Report. specific issues. The reports, documents and information reFurthermore, Siemens complies with all binding rules and quired by law, including the Annual Report, may be downloaded ­regulations of the markets on which its securities are listed, from our website. The same applies to the agenda for the such as the NYSE, and also voluntarily complies with many of ­Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and to possible counterproposals the NYSE requirements that by their terms apply only to U.S. or shareholders’ nominations, if any, that ­require disclosure. ­domestic issuers. As part of our investor relations activities, we inform our invesThe significant differences between our governance practices tors comprehensively about developments within the Company. and those of U.S. domestic NYSE issuers are as follows: 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 122 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) B.1.4.1 TWO-TIER BOARD STRUCTURE to its Nominating Committee. The Supervisory Board has also The German Stock Corporation Act requires Siemens AG to established a Compensation Committee. Nevertheless, certain have a two-tier board structure, consisting of a Managing responsibilities – for example, the determination of the comBoard and a Supervisory Board. This two-tier structure is charpensation of the members of the Managing Board – have not acterized by a strict separation of management and super­ been delegated to a committee because German law requires vision. The roles and responsibilities of each of the two that these functions be performed by the full Supervisory boards are clearly defined by law. The composition of the Board. The Audit Committee, the Chairman’s Committee and ­ Supervisory Board is determined in accordance with the the Compliance Committee have written bylaws – adopted by ­German Codetermination Act, which stipulates that one-half the Supervisory Board – that define their respective tasks and of the required 20 Supervisory Board members are to be electresponsibilities. The NYSE Standards were taken into considered by our employees in Germany. The Chairman of the Superation in drawing up these bylaws. visory Board is entitled to cast a deciding vote when the Supervisory Board is unable to reach a decision in two separate The Audit Committee of Siemens AG is subject to the requirerounds of voting. ments of the SOA and the Securities Exchange Act, as these apply to a foreign private issuer, and performs – in cooperation B.1.4.2 INDEPENDENCE with the Compliance Committee – functions similar to those In contrast to the NYSE Standards, which require a board of assigned to an audit committee under the NYSE Standards. ­directors to affirmatively determine the independence of the Nevertheless, German law prohibits delegating certain responindividual directors with reference to specific tests of indepensibilities – such as the selection of independent auditors (who, dence, German law does not require the Supervisory Board to under German law, must be elected at the shareholders’ meetmake such affirmative findings on an individual basis. German ing) – to a committee. law requires an audit committee to include at least one ­independent supervisory board member with knowledge and The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG also has a Finance and experience in the application of accounting principles or the Investment Committee and a Mediation Committee, the latter auditing of financial statements. In addition, the Bylaws for of which is required under German law. Neither of these comSiemens’ Supervisory Board contain several provisions to help mittees is required by the NYSE Standards. ensure the independence of our Supervisory Board’s advice and supervision. Furthermore, the members of our Super­ B.1.4.4 SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL OF EQUITY visory and Managing Boards are strictly independent of one ­COMPENSATION PLANS; STOCK REPURCHASES another: a member of one board is legally prohibited from The NYSE Standards generally require that the U.S. domestic ­being concurrently active on the other. Our Supervisory Board companies, i.e. U.S. companies listed on the NYSE, obtain members have independent decision-making authority and shareholder approval of all equity compensation plans (inare legally prohibited from following any direction or instruccluding stock option plans) and of any material revisions to tion. Moreover, they may not enter into consulting, service or such plans. Under German law, the creation of authorized or certain other contracts with Siemens, unless approved by the contingent capital in order to issue shares requires shareSupervisory Board. We also use the independence criteria of holder approval. Shareholders must also approve the key the Code as guiding principles. points of a stock option plan as part of a decision regarding the creation of contingent capital or the authorization for a B.1.4.3 COMMITTEES company to repurchase and use its own shares for servicing In contrast to the NYSE Standards, which require the creation a stock option plan. of several specific board committees, composed of independent directors and operating pursuant to written charters that Under German law, share buybacks generally require prior define their tasks and responsibilities, the Supervisory Board shareholder authorization. Such authorization was last given of Siemens AG has assigned many of the functions of a nomiat our Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011, and nating and corporate governance committee to its Chairman’s this matter will, as a general rule, be voted upon at the expiraCommittee and has delegated part of the remaining functions tion of each authorization. 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 123 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code The Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a In Section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1, the Code recommends of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) is an that, in concluding Management Board contracts, care be ­integral part of the Combined Management Report. In accor­ taken to ensure that payments made to a Management dance with Section 317 para. 2 sentence 3 of the German Com­ Board member on premature termination of his / her con­ mercial Code, the disclosures made within the scope of Section tract, including fringe benefits, do not exceed the value of 289a of the German Commercial Code are not subject to the two years’ compensation (severance payment cap) and audit by the auditors. compensate no more than the remaining term of the ­employment contract. DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY WITH THE GERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The current Managing Board contracts contain a corre­ The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG sponding severance payment cap, and it is intended to in­ approved the following Declaration of Conformity pursuant to clude such a cap in all future Managing Board contracts. Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act as of October Therefore, the agreements concluded with Mr. Löscher 1, 2013: and Ms. Ederer on the premature termination of their Managing Board activities specify severance payments ­ “Declaration of Conformity by the Managing Board and the that do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation. Supervisory Board of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft with the Further benefits that do not constitute compensation pay­ German Corporate Governance Code ments in the sense of Section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1 of the Code were also agreed upon with both Mr. Löscher and Siemens AG complies and will continue to comply with Ms. Ederer, Mr. Löscher in particular having signed a twothe currently applicable recommendations of the German year post-contractual non-compete clause. Details of the Corporate Governance Code (“Code”) in the version of agreements with Mr. Löscher and Ms. Ederer will be pro­ May 13, 2013, published by the Federal Ministry of Justice vided in the Compensation Report included in the Annual in the official section of the Federal Gazette (“Bundes­ Report for 2013. anzeiger”). Further details are as follows: Since making the last Declaration of Conformity dated In Section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6, the Code recommends ­October 1, 2012, Siemens AG has complied with the recom­ capping the amount of Management Board compensation, mendations of the Code in the prior version of May 15, both overall and for individual compensation components. 2012. Plans call for implementing this recommendation effective Berlin and Munich, October 1, 2013 October 1, 2013. The current Managing Board contracts specify caps for bonuses and long-term, stock-based com­ Siemens Aktiengesellschaft pensation. However, these caps are defined as a percent­ age of each target amount; they are not specific figures. In The Managing Board The Supervisory Board“ line with the principle that agreements must be honored, retroactive intervention in these contracts would be inap­ propriate. It could not be implemented by the company unilaterally and, in our opinion, is not required by Section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 124 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) INFORMATION ON Our Company’s values CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES and Business Conduct Guidelines Suggestions of the Code In the 166 years of its existence, our Company has built an ex­ Siemens voluntarily complies with the Code’s non-binding cellent reputation around the world. Technical performance, suggestions, with the following exceptions: innovation, quality reliability, and international engagement have made Siemens one of the leading companies in electronics According to the revised Section 3.7 para. 3, in the case of a and electrical engineering. It is top performance with the takeover offer, the Management Board should convene an highest ethics that has made Siemens strong. This is what the ­extraordinary General Meeting at which shareholders discuss Company should continue to stand for in the future. the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions (pre­ viously: only in appropriate cases). The convening of a share­ The Business Conduct Guidelines provide the ethical and holders’ meeting – even taking into account the shortened ­legal framework within which we want to maintain successful time limits stipulated in the German Securities Acquisition and activities. They contain the basic principles and rules for our Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbsund Übernahmegesetz, conduct within our Company and in relation to our external WpÜG) – is an organizational challenge for large publicly partners and the general public. They set out how we meet ­listed companies. It appears doubtful whether the associated our ethical and legal responsibility as a company and give effort is justified in cases where no relevant decisions by the ­expression to our corporate values of being “Responsible – shareholders’ meeting are intended. Therefore, extraordinary ­Excellent – Innovative.” shareholders’ meetings shall, as in the past, be convened only in appropriate cases. The Business Conduct Guidelines can be downloaded from the Internet on: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . Since the Managing Board appointments made in 2011, the suggestion in Section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Code that OPERATION OF THE MANAGING BOARD, the maximum possible appointment period of five years should THE SUPERVISORY BOARD, AND COMPOSITION not be the rule for first-time appointments to the Management AND OPERATION OF THEIR COMMITTEES Board has not been followed. The composition of the committees of the Managing and Su­ pervisory Boards is given under chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY The Code can be downloaded from the Internet at: BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD on pages 348-354, respectively of WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . the Annual Report, as is a description of the composition of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. The composi­ Further Corporate Governance Practices applied beyond legal tions can be accessed via the Internet on: requirements are contained in our Business Conduct Guidelines. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . A general description of the functions and operation of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board can be found ­under the heading B.1.1 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL STRUCTURE under chapter B.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on pages 118123 and via the Internet on: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . Further details regarding the operation of the Managing Board and ­ Supervisory Board can be derived from the description of the committees as well as from the bylaws for the corporate bodies concerned. These documents can be found at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 125 B.3 Compliance Report For Siemens, promoting integrity means acting in accordance B.3.2 Further information, indicators with our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – and legal proceedings wherever we do business. A key element of integrity is com­ pliance: adherence to the law and to our own internal regula­ For information on compliance risks, please see C.9 REPORT tions. We have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND ASSOCIATED MATERIAL OPPORTUNITIES the principles of fair competition – and where they do occur, AND RISKS on pages 227-245 of this Annual Report. Detailed in­ we rigorously investigate. The fact that we uncovered com­ formation on our compliance priorities for fiscal 2013 and fiscal pliance violations in our Company in the past fiscal year is, 2014 and a list of our compliance indicators (with accompany­ in our view, a validation that our compliance system was ing notes) are set out in C.8.10 COMPLIANCE on pages 224-226. ­designed properly and implemented effectively. We report on corruption and antitrust proceedings in NOTE 29 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS on pages 306-312. Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all managers, employees and Managing Board members worldwide. They On our website, you’ll find extensive information on compli­ ­also apply to members of the Supervisory Board where relevant. ance at Siemens and an overview of the published Company Our Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our information on compliance within the structure of the guid­ compliance-related responsibilities. They ’re also an expression ance by the Global Compact and Transparency International on of our values and lay the foundation for our own internal regu­ reporting for the Global Compact’s tenth principle – anti-corrup­ lations. Our compliance system instills a permanent awareness tion: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ANTI-CORRUPTION-REPORTING-INDEX . of these responsibilities in all our managers and employees. We actively support the ratification and enactment of the B.3.3 Compliance training ­United Nations Convention against Corruption, which – like the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact – pro­ One focus of our preventive measures under the compliance vides ­important guidance for our entire organization. We’re system is to provide training to all managers and employees ­also ­actively involved in the Global Compact and engaged in a who hold positions with a particular risk profile. The Compli­ ­variety of its local networks. ance Officers of the relevant Company units identify the man­ agers and employees whose participation is required and en­ sure they attend the training seminars. They monitor and con­ B.3.1 Compliance priorities firm the fulfillment of these requirements at regular intervals. Since their introduction in fiscal 2011, our compliance priori­ The assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the oper­ ties have taken into account and fulfilled the continuously ating units and at Group level ( C.9 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELevolving r­equirements in the field of compliance – require­ OPMENTS AND ASSOCIATED MATERIAL OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS ) offers ments that reflect both our own work and the changing market important indicators that help us develop and define the focus conditions and compliance risks of our business activities. of our training activities, including the selection of the themed Each fiscal year, we focus our activities on the compliance pri­ modules for the annual events held in conjunction with the orities that provide the basis for the ongoing development of Integrity Dialog, which we introduced Siemens-wide in fiscal our compliance system. This approach has proven its worth. 2013. Our operating units address specific challenges by ­enhancing their training activities with additional topics from their own businesses. In this way, the training reflects both Siemens-wide topics and the key topics specific to the operat­ ing units. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 126 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) B.3.4 Employee survey on compliance B.3.6 Siemens Integrity Initiative We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees If real progress is to be made in combating corruption and perceive the topic of compliance. Since fiscal 2010, this has fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible been a fixed component of the Company-wide Siemens Global must act in concert. That’s why we’ve joined forces with Engagement Survey. The next survey is planned for fiscal 2014. other organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical markets through collective action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. B.3.5 Business partners and suppliers Siemens introduced the second funding round of the Siemens All business partners who function as intermediaries between Integrity Initiative on June 27, 2013. Information on the process Siemens and its customers must undergo standardized and a description of the selection criteria are published on our ­Company-wide risk assessment before business relations com­ corporate website at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRIT Y-­I NITIATIVE . mence. Business partners are assigned a risk class based on cer­ I­ nformation on the projects supported in the first funding round tain risk indicators such as the risk of corruption in the l­ocal and their status can be found in the second a ­ nnual report of country. The risk class determines how business relations – the Siemens Integrity Initiative, which is also available on our ­license requirements, mandatory contract clauses, etc. – proceed. corporate website. In the year under review, we made our business partner check more risk-oriented. We also provided all Siemens operating B.3.7 Transfer of responsibility units with standardized recommendations for the ongoing for data privacy monitoring of business partner activities. Fiscal 2014 will see the Siemens-wide transfer of operational Our Code of Conduct for Siemens suppliers requires our sup­ responsibility for data privacy to the compliance organization. pliers to behave in a lawful manner generally and to comply The related tasks include risk assessments, monitoring activi­ with our anti-corruption principles, in particular. This Code of ties, training for all managers and employees and complaint Conduct is based on the ten principles of the United Nations handling. The corporate legal department is providing legal Global Compact. We take a risk-based approach with system advice. We’re adapting our compliance system processes ­ checks and on-site inspections to monitor whether our sup­ ­accordingly – for example, by updating the compliance risk pliers are in compliance with the Code’s requirements. For more ­assessment for our operating units to include data privacy. information, please see C.8.3 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT on page 215 of this Annual Report. The Siemens compliance organization has an active presence with a firm foothold in our operating units. The Compliance In fiscal 2013, we developed information and recommenda­ Officers work with the CEOs of the operating units, and our tions designed to help our employees deal with routine risks employees contact their local Compliance Officer with any from corruption, fraud and embezzlement in the area of pur­ questions or reports about possible misconduct. We’re now chasing. Here, we drew upon our experience with a similar ­applying this same efficient, established structure to data pri­ guide to antitrust regulations, which we provided to employ­ vacy. We believe this will make our data privacy management ees as part of our antitrust compliance program. more effective while optimizing efficiency. 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 127 Siemens Compliance System Management responsibility Prevent Detect Respond > Compliance risk management > Whistleblowing channels “Tell us” > Consequences for misconduct > Policies and procedures and ombudsman > Remediation > Training and communication > Compliance controls > Global case tracking > Advice and support > Monitoring and compliance reviews > Integration in personnel processes > Compliance audits > Collective action > Compliance investigations All Siemens managers are responsible for compliance – this For further information, please see: continues to be the central element of our compliance system, C.9 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND ASSOCIATED MATERIAL with its three action levels: Prevent, Detect and Respond. In OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS on pages 227-245, C.8.10 COMPLIANCE addition to specifying a role-model function for senior man­ on pages 224-226 and NOTE 29 LEGAL ­P ROCEEDINGS on pages agement, this responsibility goes further: all our managers 306-312 of this Annual Report. must exemplify compliance and ensure that business deci­ WWW.SIEMENS.COM/COMPLIANCE sions and actions in their areas of responsibility are always in complete accordance with the relevant legal requirements and our own values and guidelines. The further development of our compliance system entails continuously adapting it to the evolving requirements in the field of compliance. Our overall aim remains unchanged: we want to anchor integrity permanently throughout our Compa­ ny to ensure that we make sound business decisions based on clear principles of integrity. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 128 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) B.4 Compensation Report The Compensation Report outlines the principles underlying aim is for their remuneration to be commensurate with the the determination of the total compensation of the members Company ’s size and economic position. Exceptional achieveof the Managing Board of Siemens AG, and sets out the strucments are to be rewarded adequately, while falling short of ture and level of the remuneration of the Managing Board goals is intended to result in an appreciable reduction in remumembers. It also describes the policies governing, and levels neration. The Managing Board’s compensation is also strucof, the compensation paid to Supervisory Board members. tured so as to be attractive in comparison to that of competitors, with a view to attracting outstanding managers to our This section is based on the recommendations of the German Company and keeping them with us for the long term. Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) and includes disclosures in accordance with the requirements of the German CommerThe system and levels for the remuneration of the Managing cial Code (HGB), German Accounting Standards (DRS), and Board are determined and reviewed regularly by the full SuperInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The ­ visory Board, based on proposals from the Chairman‘s Com­ ­Compensation Report is an integral part of the Combined mittee, or, beginning with July 2013 the Compensation Com­Management Report. mittee. The Supervisory Board reviews remuneration levels annually to ensure that they are appropriate. In that process, the Company ’s economic situation, performance and outlook, B.4.1 Remuneration of members as well as the tasks and performance of the individual Managof the Managing Board ing Board members, are taken into account. In addition, the Supervisory Board considers the common level of remuneraB.4.1.1 REMUNERATION SYSTEM tion in comparison with the peer companies and with the The remuneration system for the Managing Board at Siemens compensation structure in place in other areas of the Compais intended to provide an incentive for successful corporate ny, taking due account of the relationship between the Managmanagement with an emphasis on sustainability. Members of ing Board’s remuneration and that of senior management and the Managing Board are expected to make a long-term comstaff, both overall and with regard to its development over mitment to and on behalf of the Company, and may benefit time. The remuneration system that has been used for the from any sustained increase in the Company ’s value. In the inManaging Board members since fiscal 2011 was approved by terest of that aim, a substantial portion of their total remuneraa large majority at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on Janution is linked to the performance of Siemens stock. A further ary 25, 2011. Remuneration system for Managing Board members Compensation Granted in Timing Long-term compensation Restriction period (target parameter: stock price compared and period for to 5 competitors) target measurements Variability: 0 – 200% Stock Awards 4 years ­(forfeitable Stock-based Long-term stock-based compensation grants of stock) Performance period compensation (target parameter: Ø earnings per share) 3 years, including year of compensation; Variability: 0 – 200% subsequent restriction period: 4 years Variable compensation (bonus) Bonus Awards Performance period (target parameters: revenue growth (non-forfeitable Year of compensation; subse(organic), ROCE (adjusted), free cash flow) grants of stock) quent waiting period: 4 years Variability: 0 – 200%; Possibility of adjustment Performance period by the Supervisory Board: ± 20 % Year of compensation Cash Cash compensation Base compensation and fringe benefits FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Share Ownership Obligation to hold shares for duration of membership in Managing Board Guidelines Non-performance-based components Performance-based components Performance-based components with deferred payout 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 129 In fiscal 2013, the remuneration system for the Managing option may also be exercised in recognition of Managing Board Board had the following components: members’ individual achievements. Non-performance-based components The bonus is paid half in cash, and half in the form of non-forBase compensation feitable stock commitments (Bonus Awards). After a four-year Base compensation is paid as a monthly salary. It is reviewed waiting period, the beneficiary will receive one share of annually, and revised if appropriate. The base compensation of Siemens stock for each Bonus Award. Instead of the transfer of the President and CEO Joe Kaeser has been €1,845,000 per Siemens stock, an equivalent cash settlement may be effected. year since his appointment on August 1, 2013. The base compensation of the CFO and those members of the Managing Long-term stock-based compensation Board who have responsibilities for Sector portfolios has been Long-term stock-based compensation consists of a grant of for€967,500 per year since October 1, 2012. The base compenfeitable stock commitments (Stock Awards). The beneficiaries sation of the other members of the Managing Board has will receive one free share of Siemens stock for each Stock Award ­remained unchanged at €900,000 per year since O ­ ctober 1, after a restriction period. Beginning with the award for fiscal 2010. 2011, the restriction period for Stock Awards ends at the close of the second day after publication of the preliminary operating Fringe benefits ­results for the fourth calendar year after the date of the award. Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as proviIn the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments that sion of a Company car, contributions toward the cost of insurhave an impact on the stock price, the Supervisory Board may ance, reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and decide to reduce the number of promised Stock Awards retroaccommodation and moving expenses, including a gross-up actively, or it may decide that in lieu of a transfer of Siemens for any taxes that have to be borne in this regard, as well as stock only a cash settlement in a defined and limited amount costs relating to preventive medical examinations. will be paid, or it may decide to postpone transfers of Siemens stock for payable Stock Awards until the developments have Performance-based components ceased to have an impact on the stock price. Variable compensation (bonus) The variable compensation (bonus) is based on the Company ’s In the event of a 100% target attainment, the annual target business performance in the past fiscal year. The targets for amount for the monetary value of the Stock Awards committhe variable compensation are derived from “One Siemens”, ment will be €1.9 million for the President and CEO (effective our target system for sustainably enhancing corporate value. August 1, 2013), and €1 million for each of the other members On the basis of this target system, the Supervisory Board at of the Managing Board. Beginning with fiscal 2011, the Superthe beginning of each fiscal year defines specific targets. visory Board has the option of increasing, on an individual ba­Corresponding target parameters – in addition to other facsis, the target amount for a member of the Managing Board tors – also apply to senior managers, with a view to establishwho has been reappointed by as much as 75% above the ing a consistent t­ arget system throughout the Company. amount of €1 million, for one fiscal year at a time. This option enables the Supervisory Board to take account of the ManagFor a 100% target attainment (target amount) the amount of ing Board member’s individual accomplishments and experithe bonus equals the amount of base compensation. The ence as well as the scope and demands of his or her function. ­bonus is subject to a ceiling (cap) of 200%. If targets are subThis rule does not apply to the President and CEO. stantially missed, the variable compensation may not be paid at all. The performance-based component of long-term stock-based compensation is likewise founded on the One Siemens target The Supervisory Board is entitled to revise the amount resultsystem. The allocation rules for long-term stock-based coming from attaining targets, by as much as 20% upward or pensation take this focus into account as follows: downward, at its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes ­Ermessen); the adjusted amount of the bonus paid can be >> On the one hand, half of the annual target amount for the as much as 240% of the target amount. In choosing the factors annual Stock Awards is linked to the average basic earnings to be considered in deciding on possible revisions of the bonus per share for the last three completed fiscal years from payouts (±20%), the Supervisory Board takes account of in­continuing and discontinued operations (EPS). In principle, centives for sustainable corporate management. The revision the target value is the average basic EPS from the past three 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 130 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) fiscal years completed prior to the year of compensation. At Evidence that this obligation has been met must first be prothe end of each fiscal year, the Supervisory Board decides on vided after the buildup phase, and updated annually there­ a figure that represents that year’s target attainment, which after. If the value of the accrued holdings declines below may lie between 0% and 200% (cap). This target attainment the minimum to be evidenced from time to time because the will then determine the actual monetary value of the award market price of Siemens stock has fluctuated, the member of and the resulting number of Stock Awards. the Managing Board must acquire additional shares. >> On the other hand, the development of the performance of Siemens’ stock relative to its competitors is to have a direct Pension benefit commitments effect on compensation. For this purpose, with respect to The members of the Managing Board, like all Siemens AG emthe other half of the annual target amount for the Stock ployees, are included in the Siemens Defined Contribution Awards, the Supervisory Board will first grant a number of Benefit Plan (BSAV). Under the BSAV, members of the ManagStock Awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the ing Board receive contributions that are credited to their pertarget amount on the date of the award. The Supervisory sonal pension account. The amount of the annual contribuBoard will also decide on a target system (target value for tions is based on a predetermined percentage which refers to 100% and target curve) for the performance of Siemens the base compensation and the target amount for the bonus. stock relative to the stock of competitors (at present, ABB, This percentage is decided upon annually by the Supervisory General Electric, Philips, Rockwell and Schneider). The referBoard; most recently it was set at 28%. In making its decision, ence period for measuring the target will be the same as the the ­Supervisory Board takes account of the intended level of four-year restriction period for the Stock Awards. After this provision for each individual, also considering the length of restriction period expires, the Supervisory Board will detertime for which the individual has been a Managing Board mine how much better or worse Siemens stock has permember, as well as the annual and long-term expense to the formed relative to the stock of its competitors. This determiCompany as a result of that provision. The non-forfeitability of nation will yield a target attainment of between 0% and pension benefit commitments is in compliance with the pro­ 200% (cap). If target attainment is above 100%, an additional visions of the German Company Pensions Act (Betriebsrenten­ cash payment corresponding to the outperformance is efgesetz). Special contributions may be granted to Managing fected. If target attainment is less than 100%, a number of Board members on the basis of individual decisions of the Stock Awards equivalent to the shortfall from the target will ­Supervisory Board. In the case of new appointments of memexpire without replacement. bers of the Managing Board from outside the Company, these contributions may be defined as non-forfeitable from their With regard to the further terms of the Stock Awards, generally inception. If a member of the Managing Board earned a ­ the same principles apply for the Managing Board and for sepension benefit entitlement from the Company before the ­ nior managers; these principles are discussed in more detail in BSAV was introduced, a portion of his or her contributions NOTE 33 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . went toward financing this prior commitment. That note also includes further information about the stockbased employee investment plans. Members of the Managing Board are entitled to benefits under the BSAV on reaching age 60, at the earliest. As a rule, the Share Ownership Guidelines accrued pension benefit balance is paid out to the Managing The Siemens Share Ownership Guidelines are an integral part Board member in twelve annual installments. At the request of the remuneration system for the Managing Board and s­ enior of the Managing Board member or of his or her surviving deexecutives. These guidelines require the members of the pendents, the pension benefit balance may also be paid out Managing Board – after a certain buildup phase – to hold ­ in fewer installments or as a lump sum, subject to the CompaSiemens stock worth a multiple of their base compensation ny ’s consent. The accrued pension benefit balance may also (300% for the President and CEO, 200% for the other members be paid out as a pension. As a further alternative, the Managof the Managing Board) during their term of office on the ing Board member may choose a combination of payment in ­Managing Board. The determining figure in this context is the one to twelve installments and payment of a pension. If the average base compensation that the relevant member of the pension option is chosen, a decision must be made as to Managing Board has drawn over the four years of the buildup whether it should include pensions for surviving dependents. phase. Accordingly, changes that have been made to the base If a member of the Managing Board dies while receiving a compensation in the meantime are included. Non-forfeitable pension, benefits will be paid to the member’s surviving destock awards (Bonus Awards) are taken into account in deterpendents if the member has chosen such benefits. The Commining compliance with the Share Ownership Guidelines. pany will then provide a limited-term pension to surviving 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 131 children until they reach age 27, or age 25 in the case of comis entitled to a severance payment in the amount of not more mitments made on or after January 1, 2007. than two years’ compensation. The calculation of the annual compensation includes not only the base compensation and Benefits from the retirement benefit system that was in place the target amount for the bonus, but also the target amount before the BSAV are normally granted as pension benefits with for the Stock Awards, in each case based on the most recent a surviving dependents’ pension. In this case as well, a payout completed fiscal year prior to termination of the contract. The in installments or a lump sum may be chosen instead of penstock-based components for which a firm commitment already sion payments. exists will remain unaffected. There is no entitlement to a ­severance payment if the Managing Board member receives Members of the Managing Board who were employed by the benefits from third parties in connection with a change of Company on or before September 30, 1983, are entitled to transi­control. Moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change tion payments for the first six months after retirement, equal to of control occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a the difference between their final base compensation and the Managing Board member‘s retirement. retirement benefits payable under the corporate pension plan. Additionally, compensatory or severance payments cover Commitments in connection with termination non-monetary benefits by including an amount of 5% of the of Managing Board membership total compensation or severance amount. Compensatory Managing Board contracts provide for a compensatory payor severance payments will be reduced by 15% as a lump-sum ment if membership on the Managing Board is terminated preallowance for discounted values and for income earned elsematurely without serious cause. The amount of this payment where. However, this reduction will apply only to the portion must not exceed the value of two years‘ compensation and of the compensatory or severance payment that was calcucompensate no more than the remaining term of the contract lated without taking account of the first six months of the (cap). The amount of the compensatory payment is calculated ­remaining term of the Managing Board member’s contract. on the basis of the base compensation, the variable compensation (bonus), and the long-term stock-based compensation If a member leaves the Managing Board, the variable compo(Stock Awards) actually received during the last fiscal year benent (bonus) is determined pro rata temporis after the end of fore termination. The compensatory payment is payable in the the fiscal year in which the appointment was terminated and month when the member leaves the Managing Board. In addiis settled in cash at the usual payout or transfer date, as the tion, a one-time exceptional contribution is made to the BSAV. case may be. If the employment contract is terminated in the The amount of this contribution is based on the BSAV contricourse of an appointment period, the non-forfeitable stock bution that the Board member received in the previous year, awards (Bonus Awards) for which the waiting period is still in and on the remaining term of the appointment, but is limited progress remain in effect without restriction. If the employto not more than two years’ contributions (cap). The above ment agreement is terminated because of retirement, disabilibenefits are not paid if an amicable termination of the memty or death, a Managing Board member’s Bonus Awards will be ber’s activity on the Managing Board is agreed upon at the settled in cash as of the date of departure from the Board. member‘s request, or if there is serious cause for the Company to terminate the employment relationship. Stock commitments that were made as long-term stock-based compensation (Stock Awards), and for which the restriction In the event of a change of control that results in a substantial period is still in progress will normally forfeit without replacechange in the position of the Managing Board member (e.g., ment if the employment agreement is terminated in the course due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the Manof an appointment period. The same applies if the employaging Board member’s duties and responsibilities), the memment agreement is not extended after the end of an appointber of the Managing Board has the right to terminate his or ment period, either at the Board member’s request or because her contract with the Company for good cause. A change of there is serious cause that would have entitled the Company to control exists if one or more shareholders acting jointly or in revoke the appointment or terminate the contract. However, concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in Siemens AG once granted, Stock Awards do not forfeit if the employment and exercise a controlling influence, or if Siemens AG becomes agreement is terminated because of retirement, disability, a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an interor death, or in connection with a spinoff, the transfer of an company agreement within the meaning of Section 291 of the operation, or a change of activity within the corporate group. ­ German Stock Corporation Act, or if Siemens AG is to be In this case, the Stock Awards will remain in effect upon termimerged into an existing corporation or other entity. If this nation of the employment agreement and will be honored on right of termination is exercised, the Managing Board member expiration of the restriction period. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 132 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) The remuneration system for the Managing Board members Variable compensation (bonus) The number of stock commitments (Bonus Awards and Stock agreed with Ms. Ederer to reimburse out-of-pocket expenses applicable as of fiscal 2014 will be submitted for approval to the In setting the targets for the variable compensation (bonus) at Awards) granted was based on the closing price of Siemens up to a maximum of €30,000 plus value-added tax. The Stock Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting on January 28, 2014. For a dethe beginning of fiscal 2013, the Supervisory Board took into stock in Xetra trading on the date of award less the present Awards that were granted in the past for fiscal 2010, 2011 and scription of the revisions compared to the remuneration system account that the Company continues to focus on a sustainable value of dividends expected during the holding period, be2012 and for which the restriction period is still in effect, will currently in place, see B.4.1.4 REVISIONS OF THE REMUNERATION appreciation of value. This focus is intended to enable the cause beneficiaries are not entitled to receive dividends. This be absolutely maintained, see B.4.1.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SYSTEM FOR THE MANAGING BOARD FOR FISCAL 2014 . Company to maintain its financial flexibility and hold its own figure for determining the number of commitments amountON STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION INSTRUMENTS IN FISCAL 2013 . against competitors in periods of high market volatility: ed to €80.88 (2012: €64.93). B.4.1.2 REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS In determining the amount of the compensatory payments for OF THE MANAGING BOARD FOR FISCAL 2013 > The emphasis in terms of the sustainable enhancement of Benefits associated with termination Mr. Löscher and Ms. Ederer, in accordance with the terms of On the basis of our One Siemens target system, at the beginvalue is on capital efficiency and capital structure. This was of Managing Board membership their contracts with the Company, the base compensation for ning of the fiscal year the Supervisory Board set the targets taken into account in weighting the two target parameters In connection with the mutually agreed premature termination fiscal 2013 and the variable compensation and long-term stockand weighting for the unchanged parameters compared to the of ROCE adjusted, and Free cash flow. of the Managing Board membership of former President and based compensation actually received for fiscal 2012 were apprevious year: organic revenue growth, return on capital em> The target for organic revenue growth allowed for the great CEO Peter Löscher as of July 31, 2013, it was agreed that his plied and limited, as applicable, to either two annual payments ployed (ROCE) adjusted, and Free cash flow, in each case on the uncertainty of the competitive environment and the goal of contract with the Company would terminate as of September in total or the compensation for the remaining terms of their basis of continuing operations, together with EPS. The definicapital-efficient growth. 30, 2013. His entitlements agreed under the contract remained appointments. The portion of compensatory payments that tion of these parameters and their weighting acknowledges a > The target for ROCE adjusted allowed for the first-time appliin effect until that date. A compensatory payment in a gross was calculated excluding the first six months of the remaining sustainable enhancement of corporate value. An internal recation of the revised IAS 19R reporting standard. The expecamount of €14,803,005 was agreed upon with Mr. Löscher in contract term was reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance view of the appropriateness of the Managing Board’s compentations for business in fiscal 2013 as well as the “Siemens connection with the mutually agreed premature termination for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere. In adsation for fiscal 2013 has confirmed that the remuneration of 2014” program were also considered. of his activity as President and CEO, together with a one-time dition, non-monetary benefits were covered by a payment in the Managing Board resulting from the target attainment for > The target for Free cash flow was maintained at the prior special contribution of €2,240,000 to the BSAV, to be credited the amount of 5% of the compensatory payment. fiscal 2013 is to be considered appropriate. Following the deciyear’s level, which represented a noticeable increase at that in January 2014. It was also agreed with Mr. Löscher that his sion on determining the achievement of the targets set at the time. The trend towards lower advance payments by cuslong-term stock-based compensation (Stock Awards) for fiscal Total compensation beginning of the fiscal year, the Supervisory Board decided at tomers was also taken into account. 2013 will be calculated after the actual target attainment is On the basis of the decisions by the Supervisory Board its meeting on November 6, 2013, to set the variable compenavailable and awarded at the usual date. These 28,077 Stock described above, Managing Board compensation for fiscal 2013 sation component (bonus), the Stock Awards to be granted As a consequence, the following targets were set and attained Awards will be settled in cash according to the provisions of totaled €34.58 million, a decrease of 12.7% (2012: €39.61 miland the pension benefit contributions as follows: with respect to the variable compensation (bonus): the contract as no employment relationship will be in place at lion). Of this total amount, €16.98 million (2012: €17.45 million) the date of award. The Company has furthermore agreed with was attributable to cash compensation and €17.60 million Mr. Löscher to reimburse out-of-pocket expenses up to a max(2012: €22.16 million) to stock-based compensation. Thus, Target parameter Weight 100% of target Actual 2013 figure Target attainment imum of €100,000 plus value-added tax. For his part, Mr. more than half of the compensation was paid in the form of Revenue growth (organic) 1 20% (0.5)% (1.1)% 87.80% Löscher has agreed not to work for any significant competitor stock-based instruments with waiting or restriction periods of ROCE adjusted 1 40% 15.1% 13.8% 67.75% of Siemens AG for a period of two years after the end of his four years, and therefore on a deferred basis. Free cash flow 1 40% €3,600 million €5,257 million 155.24% employment contract, i.e., until September 30, 2015; Siemens Target attainment (calculative) 106.76% will not provide additional compensation for this postThe compensation for fiscal 2013 presented in the following contractual non-compete commitment. However, the Stock table not only takes account of the applicable reporting stan1 Continuing operations. Awards that were granted in the past for fiscal 2010, 2011 and dards, but also of the new recommendations of the GCGC 2012 and for which the restriction period is still in effect, will with regard to the disclosure of remuneration of the ManagThe values measured for target attainment were not adjusted. Long-term stock-based compensation be absolutely maintained, see B.4.1.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMAing Board. Consequently, the information is set forth in a In an overall assessment of all relevant aspects, the Supervisory For half of the annual target amount for the Stock Awards, an TION ON STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION INSTRUMENTS IN FISCAL 2013 . model table recommended by the Code and shows the value Board decided, exercising its duty-bound discretion (pflichtaverage basic EPS of €5.46 was determined for fiscal years 2011 of benefits granted for the year under review. The figures pregemäßes Ermessen), to adjust the bonus payout amounts rethrough 2013, yielding a target attainment of 118%. In connection with the mutually agreed premature terminasented also include the attainable minimums or maximums, sulting from target attainment downward for all Managing tion of the Managing Board membership of former Managing as applicable. The fair values shown for granted stock-based Board members resulting in target attainment of 95% for the For the other half of the annual target amount for the Stock Board member Brigitte Ederer as of September 30, 2013, it compensation were calculated on the basis of the applicable determination of the payout amounts of the variable compenAwards, the Supervisory Board approved a number of Stock was agreed upon that her contract with the Company would reporting standards. The transfer of one share per award will sation (bonus). In its decision, the Supervisory Board, among Awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target end at the same time. A compensatory payment in a gross not take place until the expiration of the four-year waiting or other factors took into account that the Company did not meet amount on the award date. The amount by which these stock amount of €5,600,019 was agreed upon with Ms. Ederer in restriction period, i.e., not until November 2017. The number its expectations compared to competitors, especially with recommitments must be adjusted – or an additional cash payconnection with the mutually agreed premature termination of Stock Awards linked to the performance of the price of gard to profitability. ment must be made – after the end of the restriction period of her activity as Managing Board member, together with a Siemens stock will be adjusted after the end of the restriction will depend on the performance of Siemens stock compared to one-time special contribution of €882,000 to the BSAV, to be period, on the basis of the actual target attainment. AccordIn addition, the Supervisory Board reflected the performance of the stock of five competitors (ABB, General Electric, Philips, credited in January 2014. It was also agreed with Ms. Ederer ingly, the value of the actual shares transferred may be highindividual Managing Board members and decided upon further Rockwell, Schneider) over the coming four years, and will that her long-term stock-based compensation (Stock Awards) er or lower than shown here, also depending on the stock individual adjustments for certain Managing Board members. therefore not be determined until after the end of fiscal 2017. for fiscal 2013 will be calculated after the actual target attainprice in effect at the time of transfer. ment is available and awarded at the usual date. These 13,477 Stock Awards will be settled in cash according to the proviThe compensation presented on the following pages was sions of the contract as no employment relationship will be in granted to the members of the Managing Board for fiscal 2013 place at the date of award. The Company has furthermore (individualized disclosure) 155 C. Combined Management Report 253 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 357 E. Additional Information 133 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Joe Kaeser 8 Dr. Roland Busch Brigitte Ederer 9 President and CEO since August 1, 2013 Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio Member of the Managing Board FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 (amounts in €) (min) (max) (min) (max) (min) (max) Non-performanceFixed compensation (base compensation) 900,000 1,113,750 1,113,750 1,113,750 900,000 967,500 967,500 967,500 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 based components Fringe benefits1 72,935 71,843 71,843 71,843 49,771 48,591 48,591 48,591 27,697 42,571 42,571 42,571 Total 972,935 1,185,593 1,185,593 1,185,593 949,771 1,016,091 1,016,091 1,016,091 927,697 942,571 942,571 942,571 Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component (GCGC) 2 450,000 556,875 0 1,336,500 450,000 483,750 0 1,161,000 450,000 900,000 0 2,160,000 with long-term incentive Multi-year variable compensation 3, 4 2,796,444 2,542,970 0 4,886,500 1,799,038 1,551,574 0 3,161,000 1,860,202 1,117,734 0 2,000,000 effect, stock-based Variable compensation (bonus) – Bonus Awards 2, 5 611,965 558,881 0 1,336,500 550,801 433,840 0 1,161,000 611,965 0 0 0 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 4 years) Target attainment depending on EPS for past three fiscal years 5 1,347,557 1,047,315 0 3,550,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 Target attainment depending on future stock performance 6 836,922 936,774 478,232 527,714 478,232 527,714 Total 4,219,379 4,285,438 1,185,593 7,408,593 3,198,809 3,051,415 1,016,091 5,338,091 3,237,899 2,960,305 942,571 5,102,571 Service cost 530,970 504,323 504,323 504,323 547,713 520,736 520,736 520,736 552,904 525,886 525,886 525,886 Total (GCGC) 7 4,750,349 4,789,761 1,689,916 7,912,916 3,746,522 3,572,151 1,536,827 5,858,827 3,790,803 3,486,191 1,468,457 5,628,457 Total compensation of all Managing Board members for fiscal 2013, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €34.58 million (2012: €39.61 million). The granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the GCGC for the one-year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component 2 611,955 558,849 550,760 433,819 611,955 855,148 Total compensation 4,381,334 4,287,412 3,299,569 3,001,484 3,399,854 2,915,453 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 8 Peter Y. Solmssen 10 Dr. Michael Süß Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio Member of the Managing Board Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 (amounts in €) (min) (max) (min) (max) (min) (max) Non-performanceFixed compensation (base compensation) 900,000 967,500 967,500 967,500 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 967,500 967,500 967,500 based components Fringe benefits1 42,146 42,134 42,134 42,134 33,498 32,977 32,977 32,977 49,089 36,158 36,158 36,158 Total 942,146 1,009,634 1,009,634 1,009,634 933,498 932,977 932,977 932,977 949,089 1,003,658 1,003,658 1,003,658 Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component (GCGC) 2 450,000 483,750 0 1,161,000 450,000 450,000 0 1,080,000 450,000 483,750 0 1,161,000 with long-term incentive Multi-year variable compensation 3, 4 1,860,202 1,856,952 0 3,661,000 1,860,202 1,545,347 0 3,080,000 1,860,202 1,577,456 0 3,161,000 effect, stock-based Variable compensation (bonus) – Bonus Awards 2, 5 611,965 459,722 0 1,161,000 611,965 427,613 0 1,080,000 611,965 459,722 0 1,161,000 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 4 years) Target attainment depending on EPS for past three fiscal years 5 770,005 737,545 0 2,500,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 Target attainment depending on future stock performance 6 478,232 659,685 478,232 527,714 478,232 527,714 Total 3,252,348 3,350,336 1,009,634 5,831,634 3,243,700 2,928,324 932,977 5,092,977 3,259,291 3,064,864 1,003,658 5,325,658 Service cost 546,850 519,915 519,915 519,915 553,236 526,160 526,160 526,160 558,008 530,392 530,392 530,392 Total (GCGC) 7 3,799,198 3,870,251 1,529,549 6,351,549 3,796,936 3,454,484 1,459,137 5,619,137 3,817,299 3,595,256 1,534,050 5,856,050 Total compensation of all Managing Board members for fiscal 2013, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €34.58 million (2012: €39.61 million). The granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the GCGC for the one-year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component 2 611,955 459,642 611,955 427,574 611,955 459,642 Total compensation 3,414,303 3,326,228 3,405,655 2,905,898 3,421,246 3,040,756 1 Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivaIn addition, the Supervisory Board made further B.4.1.4. REVISIONS OF THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM €1,493,576), Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt €1,686,929 €500,000 (2012: €500,026), Brigitte Ederer €500,000 80 The Supervisory Board increased the annual target lent, of non-monetary benefits and other perquiadjustments on an individual basis as follows: Joe FOR THE MANAGING BOARD FOR FISCAL 2014 . (2012: €1,605,244), Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm €1,653,844 (2012: €500,026), Klaus Helmrich €500,000 amount for the monetary value of the Stock Awards sites, such as provision of Company cars in the Kaeser upward by 5%; Dr. Roland Busch downward (2012: €1,571,872), Peter Y. Solmssen €1,566,874 (2012: (2012: €500,026), Barbara Kux €500,000 (2012: €500,026), commitment for fiscal 2013 by 75% for Joe Kaeser, to 4 The expenses recognized for stock-based comamount of €239,301 (2012: €257,855), contribuby 5% and Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt upward by 15%. €1,566,372), Dr. Michael Süß €1,091,934 (2012: €735,167) Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt €625,041 (2012: €500,026), €1,750,000, and by 25% each for Prof. Dr. Hermann pensation (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) and tions toward the cost of insurance in the amount and Dr. Ralf P. Thomas €19,572 (2012: €0). The corresponding Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm €625,041 (2012: €500,026), Requardt and Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm, to 3 The figures for individual maximums for multi-year for the Share Matching Plan for members of the of €88,827 (2012: €87,429), reimbursement of fees expense recognized for former President and CEO Peter Peter Y. Solmssen €500,000 (2012: €500,026), Dr. Michael €1,250,000. variable compensation reflect the possible maxiManaging Board in accordance with IFRS in fiscal for legal advice, tax advice and accommodation Löscher came to €8,261,949 (2012: €3,757,710). Süß €500,000 (2012: €500,026) and Dr. Ralf P. Thomas mum as of the date of award; depending on stock 2013 and 2012 amounted to €23,160,536 and 90 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board and moving expenses, including any taxes that €18,117 (2012: €0). The corresponding monetary value price performance, this value may be higher at the €15,995,543, respectively. The following amounts 5 For Stock Awards for which the target attainment depends effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. have been assumed in this regard as well as costs for former President and CEO Peter Löscher amounted to disbursement date after the expiration of the fourpertained to the members of the Managing on the EPS for the past three fiscal years, and for Bonus According to the provisions of the contract, the variable connected with preventive medical examinations, €1,041,654 (2012: €1,250,032). year waiting or restriction period. Beginning in Board in fiscal 2013: Joe Kaeser €2,099,925 Awards, the fair value at the date of award is equivalent to compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted in the amount of €176,221 (2012: €135,625). fiscal 2014, in keeping with the recommendations (2012: €1,781,626), Dr. Roland Busch €1,091,572 the respective monetary value. 7 The total compensation reflects the current fair value of fully in cash and the Siemens Stock Awards for fiscal 2 The Supervisory Board adjusted the bonus payout of the GCGC, maximum amount limits apply for (2012: €735,167), Brigitte Ederer €3,062,678 stock-based compensation components. On the basis of 2013 will be settled in cash. 6 The monetary values referred to a 100% target attainment amounts resulting from target attainment for all multi-year variable compensation and for compen(2012: €950,250), Klaus Helmrich €1,058,299 the current monetary values of stock-based compensation amounted to €6,197,430 (2012: €6,125,302). The following 10 Peter Y. Solmssen will be reimbursed for relocation Managing Board members downward by 11%. sation overall; these are explained in Section (2012: €735,167), Barbara Kux €1,566,960 (2012: components, total compensation amounted to €34,236,151 amounts pertained to the members of the Managing Board: expenses incurred by him upon termination of his (2012: €39,874,058). Joe Kaeser €887,577 (2012: €875,062), Dr. Roland Busch membership on the Managing Board. Klaus Helmrich Barbara Kux Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 8 Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 (min) (max) (min) (max) (min) (max) 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 967,500 967,500 967,500 76,961 68,329 68,329 68,329 33,960 68,048 68,048 68,048 64,132 65,544 65,544 65,544 976,961 968,329 968,329 968,329 933,960 968,048 968,048 968,048 964,132 1,033,044 1,033,044 1,033,044 450,000 450,000 0 1,080,000 450,000 450,000 0 1,080,000 450,000 483,750 0 1,161,000 1,860,202 1,545,347 0 3,080,000 1,860,202 1,545,347 0 3,080,000 1,921,431 1,934,354 0 3,661,000 611,965 427,613 0 1,080,000 611,965 427,613 0 1,080,000 673,194 537,124 0 1,161,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 770,005 590,020 0 2,000,000 770,005 737,545 0 2,500,000 478,232 527,714 478,232 527,714 478,232 659,685 3,287,163 2,963,676 968,329 5,128,329 3,244,162 2,963,395 968,048 5,128,048 3,335,563 3,451,148 1,033,044 5,855,044 547,675 520,698 520,698 520,698 552,800 525,734 525,734 525,734 526,202 499,761 499,761 499,761 3,834,838 3,484,374 1,489,027 5,649,027 3,796,962 3,489,129 1,493,782 5,653,782 3,861,765 3,950,909 1,532,805 6,354,805 611,955 427,574 611,955 427,574 673,151 537,110 3,449,118 2,941,250 3,406,117 2,940,969 3,558,714 3,504,508 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas Peter Löscher 11 CFO since September 18, 2013 Member of the Managing Board and President and CEO until July 31, 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 (min) (max) – 34,938 34,938 34,938 2,000,000 1,666,667 – 2,465 2,465 2,465 30,720 25,689 – 37,403 37,403 37,403 2,030,720 1,692,356 – 17,469 0 41,926 1,000,000 1,666,667 – 57,134 0 114,148 4,480,553 2,328,604 – 16,661 0 41,926 1,359,959 0 – – 21,352 0 72,222 1,925,045 1,229,214 – 19,121 1,195,549 1,099,390 – 112,006 37,403 193,477 7,511,273 5,687,627 – 208,034 208,034 208,034 1,235,653 1,171,716 – 320,040 245,437 401,511 8,746,926 6,859,343 – 16,598 1,359,900 1,583,607 – 111,135 7,871,173 5,604,567 11 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board effective July 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended effective September 30, 2013. In addition to Mr. Löscher’s reported total compensation as a member of the Managing Board and as President and CEO, he also received the following compensation for the remaining term of his employment contract in the months of August and September 2013: Fixed compensation of €333,333, fringe benefits of €5,138, proportional variable compensation (bonus) of €316,721, and proportional Siemens Stock Awards of €465,690. According to the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted fully in cash and the Siemens Stock Awards for fiscal 2013 will be settled in cash. 137 Allocations were subscribed, as well as the expense of pension benefits. In The following table shows allocations during or for fiscal 2013, deviation from the multi-year variable compensation granted as the case may be, for fixed compensation, fringe benefits, for fiscal 2013 and shown above, this table includes the actual one-year variable compensation, and multi-year variable comfigure for multi-year variable compensation granted in previpensation, broken down by the relevant years for which they ous years and allocated in fiscal 2013. Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Joe Kaeser President and CEO since August 1, 2013 (amounts in €) FY 2012 FY 2013 Non-performanceFixed compensation (base compensation) 900,000 1,113,750 based components Fringe benefits1 72,935 71,843 Total 972,935 1,185,593 Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component 2 611,955 558,849 with long-term incentive Multi-year variable compensation 2,212,054 1,426,193 effect, stock-based Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012) 0 1,299,629 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2008 – 2011) 1,935,766 0 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012) 0 126,564 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2009 – 2011) 276,288 0 Other 0 0 Total 3,796,944 3,170,635 Service cost 530,970 504,323 Total (GCGC) 4,327,914 3,674,958 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio (amounts in €) FY 2012 FY 2013 Non-performanceFixed compensation (base compensation) 900,000 967,500 based components Fringe benefits1 42,146 42,134 Total 942,146 1,009,634 Performance-based without long-term incentive One-year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non-stock-based Cash component 2 611,955 459,642 with long-term incentive Multi-year variable compensation 2,288,812 1,342,022 effect, stock-based Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012) 0 1,299,629 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2008 – 2011) 1,935,766 0 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012) 0 42,393 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2009 – 2011) 353,046 0 Other 0 0 Total 3,842,913 2,811,298 Service cost 546,850 519,915 Total (GCGC) 4,389,763 3,331,213 1 Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of costs connected with preventive medical examinations, Dr. Roland Busch downward by 5% and Prof. Dr. Hermann non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as in the amount of €176,221 (2012: €135,625). Requardt upward by 15%. The one-year variable comprovision of Company cars in the amount of €239,301 pensation (bonus) – cash component – presented above 2 The Supervisory Board adjusted the bonus payout (2012: €257,855), contributions toward the cost of therefore includes the amount awarded for fiscal 2013, amounts resulting from target attainment for all Managinsurance in the amount of €88,827 (2012: €87,429), which will be paid out in January 2014. ing Board members downward by 11%. In addition, the reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and Supervisory Board made further adjustments on an 3 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board accommodation and moving expenses, including any individual basis as follows: Joe Kaeser upward by 5%; effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. taxes that have been assumed in this regard as well as 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 138 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) Dr. Roland Busch Brigitte Ederer 3 Klaus Helmrich Barbara Kux Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Member with responsibilities Member of the Member of the Member of the Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board for Sector portfolio FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 900,000 967,500 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 967,500 49,771 48,591 27,697 42,571 76,961 68,329 33,960 68,048 64,132 65,544 949,771 1,016,091 927,697 942,571 976,961 968,329 933,960 968,048 964,132 1,033,044 550,760 433,819 611,955 855,148 611,955 427,574 611,955 427,574 673,151 537,110 273,058 183,382 304,566 227,441 391,094 292,379 0 1,192,671 2,167,117 1,381,376 0 178,145 0 227,441 0 292,379 0 1,137,126 0 1,299,629 215,579 0 304,566 0 310,250 0 0 0 1,935,766 0 0 5,237 0 0 0 0 0 55,545 0 81,747 57,479 0 0 0 80,844 0 0 0 231,351 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,773,589 1,633,292 1,844,218 2,025,160 1,980,010 1,688,282 1,545,915 2,588,293 3,804,400 2,951,530 547,713 520,736 552,904 525,886 547,675 520,698 552,800 525,734 526,202 499,761 2,321,302 2,154,028 2,397,122 2,551,046 2,527,685 2,208,980 2,098,715 3,114,027 4,330,602 3,451,291 Peter Y. Solmssen Dr. Michael Süß Dr. Ralf P. Thomas Peter Löscher 4 Member of the Member with responsibilities CFO Member of the Managing Board for Sector portfolio since September 18, 2013 Managing Board and President and CEO until July 31, 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 900,000 900,000 900,000 967,500 0 34,938 2,000,000 1,666,667 33,498 32,977 49,089 36,158 0 2,465 30,720 25,689 933,498 932,977 949,089 1,003,658 0 37,403 2,030,720 1,692,356 611,955 427,574 611,955 459,642 0 16,598 1,359,900 1,583,607 2,379,441 1,299,629 647,466 477,239 0 0 4,839,378 3,248,954 0 1,299,629 0 477,239 0 0 0 3,248,954 1,935,766 0 647,466 0 0 0 4,839,378 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 443,675 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,924,894 2,660,180 2,208,510 1,940,539 0 54,001 8,229,998 6,524,917 553,236 526,160 558,008 530,392 0 208,034 1,235,653 1,171,716 4,478,130 3,186,340 2,766,518 2,470,931 0 262,035 9,465,651 7,696,633 According to the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation and CEO, presented above, Peter Löscher received the following compen­ (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted fully in cash. sation for the remaining term of his employment agreement, for the months of August and September 2013: fixed compensation of €333,333, 4 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board effective July 31, 2013; his fringe benefits of €5,138, and a proportionate variable compensation employment agreement ended effective September 30, 2013. According to (bonus) of €316,721. the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted fully in cash. In addition to the compensation paid to him for fiscal 2013 as a member of the Managing Board and as President 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 139 Pension benefit commitments The contributions under the BSAV are added to the personal For fiscal 2013, the members of the Managing Board were pension accounts each January following the close of the fisgranted contributions under the BSAV totaling €6.4 million cal year, with value date on January 1. Until the beneficiary ’s (2012: €5.7 million), based on a resolution of the Supervisory time of retirement, the pension account is credited with an anBoard dated November 6, 2013. Of this amount, €6.3 million nual interest payment (guaranteed interest), currently 1.75%, (2012: €5.6 million) related to contributions to their personal on January 1 of each year. pension accounts and the remaining €0.1 million (2012: €0.1 million) to funding of pension commitments earned prior to The following table shows individualized details of the contritransfer to the BSAV. butions (additions) under the BSAV for fiscal 2013 as well as the defined benefit obligations for the pension commitments. Total contributions 1 for Defined benefit obligation 2 for all pension ­commitments excluding deferred compensation 3 (Amounts in €) FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Joe Kaeser 1,033,200 504,000 5,580,345 4,388,859 Dr. Roland Busch 541,800 504,000 2,008,718 1,446,910 Brigitte Ederer 4 504,000 504,000 2,446,9512 1,102,958 Klaus Helmrich 504,000 504,000 2,248,901 1,723,759 Barbara Kux 504,000 504,000 2,740,4792 2,201,9632 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 541,800 504,000 5,094,071 4,433,581 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 541,800 504,000 3,490,629 2,893,761 Peter Y. Solmssen 504,000 504,000 15,750,8832 14,862,4702 Dr. Michael Süß 541,800 504,000 2,353,756 1,789,619 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 5 19,565 – 1,970,651 – Former members of the Managing Board Peter Löscher 6 1,120,000 1,120,000 18,307,5542 14,717,3952 Total 6,355,965 5,656,000 61,992,938 51,936,101 1 The expenses (service costs) recognized in accordance €882,000 (2012: €0) for Brigitte Ederer, €340,000 4 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board with IFRS in fiscal 2013 for Managing Board members’ (2012: €340,000) for Barbara Kux and €10,518,000 ­effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. entitlements under the BSAV in fiscal 2013 amounted (2012: €10,518,000) for Peter Y. Solmssen. 5 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas was elected a full member of the to €6,053,355 (2012: €6,152,011). 3 Deferred compensation totals €8,595,135 (2012: Managing Board effective September 18, 2013. 2 The defined benefit obligations reflect one-time spe€7,543,061), including €2,914,462 for Joe Kaeser 6 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board cial contributions to the BSAV of €22,480,000 (2012: (2012: €2,755,189), €276,893 for Klaus Helmrich ­effective July 31, 2013; his employment agreement €19,358,000) for new appointments from outside the (2012: €269,147), €4,082,366 for Barbara Kux ended effective September 30, 2013. Company, as well as special contributions in connection (2012: €3,280,486), €1,275,259 for Prof. Dr. Hermann with departure from the Managing Board, in the amount Requardt (2012: €1,238,239) and €46,155 (2012: €0) of €10,740,000 (2012: €8,500,000) for Peter Löscher, for Dr. Ralf P. Thomas. Former members of the Managing Board and their surviving compensation for the remaining term of his employment condependents received emoluments within the meaning of Sectract, i.e. for the months of August and September 2013, as tion 314 para. 1 No. 6 b of the HGB totaling €33.1 million (2012: well as a one-time special contribution to the BSAV. Former €15.8 million) in fiscal 2013. This figure includes cash compenPresident and CEO of the Managing Board Peter Löscher resation for the stock commitments for former Managing Board ceived 5,615 Stock Awards pro-rata for the months of August member Wolfgang Dehen as a result of the spinoff of OSRAM and September 2013, which will be settled in cash according from the corporate group. Furthermore it includes the comto the provisions of the contract. Other than this, former pensatory payment connected with the mutually agreed pre­ Managing Board members and their surviving dependents mature termination of the Managing Board membership of ­received no Stock Awards (2012: no Stock Awards). former President and CEO Peter Löscher as of July 31, 2013, the 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 140 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) The defined benefit obligation (DBO) of all pension commitB.4.1.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON STOCK-BASED ments to former members of the Managing Board and their COMPENSATION INSTRUMENTS IN FISCAL 2013 surviving dependents as of September 30, 2013, amounted to This section provides information concerning the stock com€192.5 million (2012: €181.6 million). This figure is included in mitments held by members of the Managing Board that were NOTE 23 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . components of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2013 and prior years, and also concerning the Managing Board memOther bers’ en­ titlements to matching shares under the Siemens No loans or advances from the Company are provided to memShare Matching Plan. bers of the Managing Board. Stock commitments The following table shows the changes in the stock commitments (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) held by Managing Board members in fiscal 2013: Balance at beginning of Granted during fiscal year 1 Vested and Forfeited Balance at end of fiscal 2013 transferred­ during fiscal 2013 2 during fiscal year fiscal year Forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards NonNon(Target (Target CommitNonforfeitable Forfeitable forfeitable attainment attainment ments of forfeitable Forfeitable commitcommitcommitdepending depending Bonus Commitcommitcommitments of ments of ments of on EPS for on future Awards and ments of ments of ments of Bonus Stock Bonus past three stock perStock Stock Bonus Stock (Amounts in number of units) Awards Awards Awards fiscal years) formance) Awards Awards Awards Awards3 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2012 Joe Kaeser 15,394 49,657 9,425 20,754 13,477 16,451 – 24,819 67,437 Dr. Roland Busch 7,697 16,490 8,483 11,859 7,701 2,255 – 16,180 33,795 Brigitte Ederer 4 15,394 26,788 9,425 11,859 7,701 2,879 – 24,819 43,469 Klaus Helmrich 7,697 19,836 9,425 11,859 7,701 3,701 – 17,122 35,695 Barbara Kux 15,394 47,600 9,425 11,859 7,701 14,394 – 24,819 52,766 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 15,394 49,657 10,368 11,859 7,701 16,451 – 25,762 52,766 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 15,394 49,657 9,425 11,859 7,701 16,451 – 24,819 52,766 Peter Y. Solmssen 15,394 49,657 9,425 11,859 7,701 16,451 – 24,819 52,766 Dr. Michael Süß 7,697 24,913 9,425 11,859 7,701 6,041 – 17,122 38,432 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 5 – 18,899 – 5,218 3,388 5,264 – – 22,241 Former members of the Managing Board Peter Löscher 6 34,208 124,139 20,945 29,648 19,252 41,126 – 55,153 131,913 Total 149,663 477,293 105,771 150,492 97,725 141,464 – 255,434 584,046 1 The weighted average fair value as of the grant-date for 3 The number of forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards 4 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board fiscal 2013 was €64.16 per granted share. shown here for Brigitte Ederer and Peter Löscher as ­effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. of the end of fiscal 2013 remains in effect in full on the 2 Amounts do not include stock commitments (Bonus 5 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas was elected a full member of the basis of the agreements in connection with their deparAwards and Stock Awards) awarded in November 2013 Managing Board effective September 18, 2013. ture from the Managing Board; the number of Stock for fiscal 2013. For details, see below. However, these Awards linked to future stock performance will be 6 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board effecamounts may include Stock Awards received as compen­revised as a result of actual target attainment after the tive July 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended sation by the Managing Board member before joining end of the restriction period. effective September 30, 2013. the Managing Board. 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 141 The following table shows the stock (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) awarded in November 2013 for fiscal 2013: Awarded for fiscal 1 Non-forfeitable commitments Forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards of Bonus Awards (Target attainment depending (Target attainment depending (Amounts in number of units) on EPS for past three fiscal years) on future stock performance) Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Joe Kaeser 6,910 12,949 10,974 Dr. Roland Busch 5,364 7,295 6,182 Brigitte Ederer 2 0 7,295 6,182 Klaus Helmrich 5,287 7,295 6,182 Barbara Kux 5,287 7,295 6,182 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 6,641 9,119 7,728 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 5,684 9,119 7,728 Peter Y. Solmssen 5,287 7,295 6,182 Dr. Michael Süß 5,648 7,295 6,182 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 3 206 264 224 Former members of the Managing Board Peter Löscher 4 0 15,198 12,879 Total 46,350 90,419 76,625 1 See the information on PAGES 135-137 for the corre3 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas was elected a full member of the Mansee information on PAGE 136 . Regarding the Stock sponding fair values. aging Board effective September 18, 2013. Awards awarded for his remaining contract term, for the months of August and September 2013, see information 2 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board effec4 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board effective on PAGE 140 . tive at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. The July 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended effective Siemens Stock Awards for fiscal 2013 will be settled in September 30, 2013. The Siemens Stock Awards for fiscal cash. The cash settlement is calculated on the basis of the 2013 will be settled in cash. The cash settlement is cal­ monetary value of the Stock Awards on the award date; culated on the basis of the monetary value of the Stock this monetary value reflects target attainment of 100% Awards on the award date; this monetary value reflects for Stock Awards for which target attainment depends on target attainment of 100% for Stock Awards for which future stock performance, see information on PAGE 136 . target attainment depends on future stock performance, 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 142 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) Shares from the Share Matching Plan matching share of Siemens stock for every three Siemens In fiscal 2011, the members of the Managing Board were entishares acquired and continuously held under the plan, providtled for the last time to participate in the Siemens Share ed the participants were employed without interruption at Matching Plan, and under the plan were entitled to invest up Siemens AG or a Siemens company until the end of the vesting to 50% of the annual gross amount of their variable cash comperiod. The following table shows the development of the pensation component (bonus) determined for fiscal 2010 in matching share entitlements of the individual members of the Siemens shares. After expiration of a vesting period of approxManaging Board in fiscal 2013. imately three years, the plan participants will receive one free Balance at beginning Due during Forfeited during Balance at end of fiscal 2013 1 fiscal year fiscal year of fiscal 2013 1, 2 Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to (Amounts in number of units) matching shares matching shares matching shares matching shares Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Joe Kaeser 3,806 1,590 – 2,216 Dr. Roland Busch 66 66 – – Brigitte Ederer 3 – – – – Klaus Helmrich 3 – – 3 Barbara Kux 698 698 – – Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 2,413 1,027 – 1,386 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 533 533 – – Peter Y. Solmssen – – – – Dr. Michael Süß – – – – Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 4 2,969 123 – 2,846 Former members of the Managing Board Peter Löscher 5 – – – – Total 10,488 4,037 – 6,451 1 Amounts may include entitlements acquired before the €152,696 (2012: €0). The entitlement of former Manag4 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas was elected a full member of the member joined the Managing Board. ing Board member Peter Löscher has the following fair Managing Board effective September 18, 2013. The value: €0 (2012: €0). The above fair values also take stated balance at the end of fiscal 2013 also includes 2 The entitlements of the Managing Board members into account that the shares acquired under the Base the granted entitlements of matching shares (780 serving as of September 30, 2013 had the following fair Share Program as part of the Share Matching Plan were shares) for fiscal 2013 prior to election as a full member values: Joe Kaeser €146,901 (2012: €222,277), Dr. Roland provided with a Company subsidy (for additional inforof the Managing Board. Busch €0 (2012: €3,464), Brigitte Ederer €0 (2012: €0), mation on the Base Share Program see NOTE 33 in Klaus Helmrich €527 (2012: €527), Barbara Kux €0 5 Peter Löscher resigned from the Managing Board D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ). (2012: €33,282), Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt €92,011 ­effective July 31, 2013; his employment agreement (2012: €140,823), Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm €0 3 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board ended effective September 30, 2013. (2012: €25,487), Peter Y. Solmssen €0 (2012: €0), ­effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. Dr. Michael Süß €0 (2012: €0) and Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 143 Share Ownership Guidelines following table shows the number of Siemens shares held by Different deadlines apply for the individual members of the Managing Board members in office at September 30, 2013, as Managing Board to provide their first-time proof of compliance of the deadline in March 2013 for showing compliance with with the Siemens Share Ownership Guidelines, depending on the Share Ownership Guidelines, and the number of Siemens when the member was appointed to the Managing Board. The shares to be held permanently with a view to future deadlines. Obligations under Share Ownership Guidelines (Amounts in number of units or €) Required value 1 Required number of shares 2 Proven number of shares 3 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2013, and required to show proof as of March 8, 2013 Joe Kaeser 1,719,062 21,730 77,685 Barbara Kux 1,705,000 21,552 34,957 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 1,719,062 21,730 67,789 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 1,719,062 21,730 66,916 Peter Y. Solmssen 1,705,000 21,552 68,530 Total 8,567,186 108,294 315,877 1 The amount of the obligation is based on a member’s 2 Based on the average Xetra opening price of €79.11 for 3 As per March 8, 2013 (date of proof), including 2011 and average base compensation for the four years prior to the fourth quarter of 2012 (October – December). 2012 Bonus Awards. each review of his or her achievement of the targets defined by the Share Ownership Guidelines. The following table shows the proof-of-compliance obligations of the other Managing Board members in view of the Share Ownership Guidelines: Obligations under Share Ownership Guidelines Due date for initial (Amounts in number of units or €) Required value 1 Required number of shares 2 measurement of adherence Managing Board members required to show proof in subsequent years Dr. Roland Busch 1,829,348 23,124 March 2016 Klaus Helmrich 1,800,000 22,753 March 2016 Dr. Michael Süß 1,829,348 23,124 March 2016 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 1,935,000 24,460 March 2018 Total 7,393,696 93,461 1 The amount of the obligation is based on a member’s defined by the Share Ownership Guidelines. The amount 2 Based on the average Xetra opening price of €79.11 for average base compensation for the four years prior to shown here is based on average base compensation the fourth quarter of 2012 (October – December). each review of his or her achievement of the targets since the member’s initial appointment. B.4.1.4 REVISIONS OF THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM time, it offers members of the Managing Board a chance to FOR THE MANAGING BOARD FOR FISCAL 2014 benefit from any sustained increase in the Company ’s value. For At its meeting on November 6, 2013, the Supervisory Board performance-based components, the target attainment range ­decided to revise the remuneration system for the Managing continues to remain between 0% and 200%, and the Super­ Board as of October 1, 2013, so as to comply with the new recvisory Board, as was previously the case, may revise bonus payommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code in ments (± 20%). The new revisions define maximum amounts the version of May 13, 2013. The remuneration system remains for stock-based components (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards), focused on providing an incentive for successful corporate effective from fiscal 2014 onwards. Moreover the compensation management with an emphasis on sustainability. At the same overall is limited to a maximum amount of compensation. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 144 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) Specifically, the following changes to the remuneration sysBeginning with fiscal 2014, it cannot exceed 1.7 times the tem for the Managing Board were adopted by the Supervisory target compensation. The target compensation comprises Board as of fiscal 2014: base compensation, the target amount for the variable compensation (bonus), and the target amount for long-term >> For stock commitments (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards), stock-based compensation, excluding fringe benefits and the maximum amount of compensation at the time of transpension benefit commitments. Including fringe benefits and fer of Siemens stock after the end of the waiting or restricpension benefit commitments of the respective fiscal year, tion period is now limited to not more than 300% of the rethe maximum amount of compensation for the compensaspective target amounts. If this maximum amount of comtion overall increases by corresponding amounts. pensation is exceeded, the entitlement to any number of >> The bonus is paid 75% in cash and 25% in the form of shares associated with the excess will forfeit without reSiemens stock commitments (Bonus Awards). The waiting placement. For the variable compensation (bonus) paid in period remains four years. Consistent with legal requirecash, the maximum amount of compensation remains unments and with common practice in the market, the payout changed at 200% of the respective target amounts plus the of more than 60% of the performance-based components is discretionary possibility of upward revision by 20% by the extended over several years.  Supervisory Board. >> In addition to the forfeiture rules to maintain the maximum Furthermore, to take greater account of Managing Board memamounts of compensation for variable compensation (bobers’ individual performance, individual targets will be agreed nus) and long-term stock-based compensation, a maximum for fiscal 2014 at target setting for the variable compensation amount for the compensation overall must also be observed. (bonus). Maximum amounts of compensation using the example of the President and CEO for fiscal 2014 (in €) 2,850,000 Maximum amounts of compensation for stock-based components max. 300% of the 2,850,000 respective target amounts Maximum amount 1,383,750 of compensation for compensation overall 950,000 Long-term stock-based compensation max. 1.7 times of target > target parameter: stock price compared compensation (base Stock-based to 5 competitors 9,503,0001 compensation, target compensation 950,000 > target parameter: Ø earnings per share Bonus (cash) amount Bonus and max. 200% target target amount 461,250 3,321,000 attainment add. Long-term stock-based Variable compensation (bonus) + 20% adjustment compensation) Target amount: 1,845,000� 1,383,750 75% granted in cash and 25% in Bonus Awards Cash compensation 1,845,000 Base compensation 1,845,000 Base compensation Target Compensation after expiration of waiting compensation or restriction period at transfer of Siemens stock. for fiscal 2014: Systemic achievable maximum total: 5,590,000 12,249,750 Non-performance-based components Performance-based components with deferred payout Compensation overall (without fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments) Performance-based components 1 Including fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments, the maximum amount Including the values of fiscal 2013, a maximum amount of compensation for the ­compensation of compensation for the compensation overall increases by corresponding amounts. overall of €10,608,043 would result. 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 145 B.4.2 Remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board FY 2013 FY 2012 Additional comAdditional comBase pensation for Base pensation for (Amounts in €) compensation committee work 1 Total compensation committee work 1 Total Supervisory Board members serving as of September 30, 2013 Dr. Gerhard Cromme 280,000 280,000 560,000 280,000 280,000 560,000 Berthold Huber 2 211,852 77,037 288,889 220,000 80,000 300,000 Dr. Josef Ackermann 211,852 134,815 346,667 207,778 75,556 283,333 Lothar Adler 2 140,000 160,000 300,000 140,000 160,000 300,000 Gerd von Brandenstein 140,000 40,000 180,000 140,000 40,000 180,000 Michael Diekmann 140,000 – 140,000 140,000 – 140,000 Dr. Hans Michael Gaul 140,000 160,000 300,000 140,000 160,000 300,000 Prof. Dr. Peter Gruss 140,000 – 140,000 140,000 – 140,000 Bettina Haller 2 129,630 74,074 203,704 140,000 80,000 220,000 Hans-Jürgen Hartung 2 129,630 – 129,630 140,000 – 140,000 Robert Kensbock 2, 3 105,000 – 105,000 – – – Harald Kern 2 140,000 30,000 170,000 140,000 – 140,000 Jürgen Kerner 2 140,000 120,000 260,000 105,000 90,000 195,000 Dr. Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller 134,815 – 134,815 132,222 – 132,222 Gérard Mestrallet 3 98,000 28,000 126,000 – – – Güler Sabancı 3 98,000 – 98,000 – – – Prof. Dr. Rainer Sieg 140,000 – 140,000 140,000 – 140,000 Birgit Steinborn 2 140,000 120,000 260,000 140,000 120,000 260,000 Sibylle Wankel 2 140,000 40,000 180,000 140,000 40,000 180,000 Werner Wenning 3 98,000 28,000 126,000 – – – Former Supervisory Board members Jean-Louis Beffa 4 42,778 12,222 55,000 132,222 37,778 170,000 Werner Mönius 2, 4 46,667 13,333 60,000 140,000 40,000 180,000 Håkan Samuelsson 4 38,889 11,111 50,000 140,000 40,000 180,000 Dieter Scheitor 2, 4 – – – 46,667 40,000 86,667 Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel 4 42,778 24,444 67,222 140,000 80,000 220,000 Total 3,067,889 1,353,037 4,420,9265 3,083,889 1,363,333 4,447,2225 1 Dr. Gerhard Cromme as Chairman of the Supervisory as member of the Compliance Committee; and Werner received meeting fees of €39,000 (2012: €34,500), Board and of the Chairman’s Committee, the Compliance Wenning as member of the Finance and Investment Dr. Josef Ackermann received meeting fees of €34,500 Committee, and the Finance and Investment Committee, Committee, each received an additional fixed compen­ (2012: €22,500), Birgit Steinborn received meeting fees as well as a member of the Audit Committee; Berthold sation for their committee work. of €28,500 (2012: €22,500), Berthold Huber received Huber as Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board and meeting fees of €27,000 (2012: €18,000), Jürgen Kerner 2 Both the employee representatives on the Supervisory member of the Chairman’s Committee; Dr. Josef Ackerreceived meeting fees of €27,000 (2012: €12,000), Board who represent the employees pursuant to Section mann as Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board and ­Bettina Haller received meeting fees of €25,500 (2012: 3 para. 1 No. 1 of the German Codetermination Act (Mitmember of the Chairman’s Committee, the Compliance €25,500), Sibylle Wankel received meeting fees of bestimmungsgesetz) and the representatives of the trade Committee and the Audit Committee; Lothar Adler as €22,500 (2012: €16,500), Gerd von Brandenstein reunions on the Supervisory Board declared their readiness member of the Chairman’s Committee, the Compliance ceived meeting fees of €18,000 (2012: €13,500), Harald to transfer their compensation to the Hans Boeckler Committee and the Finance and Investment Committee; Kern received meeting fees of €16,500 (2012: €9,000), Foundation, in accordance with the guidelines of the Jean-Louis Beffa as member of the Finance and InvestProf. Dr. Peter Gruss received meeting fees of €15,000 Confederation of German Trade Unions (DGB). ment Committee; Gerd von Brandenstein as member (2012: €9,000), Dr. Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller received of the Finance and Investment Committee; Dr. Hans 3 Robert Kensbock, Gérard Mestrallet, Güler Sabancı and meeting fees of €15,000 (2012: €7,500), Prof. Dr. Rainer Michael Gaul as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Werner Wenning were newly elected as members of Sieg received meeting fees of €15,000 (2012: €9,000), member of the Compliance Committee; Bettina Haller the Supervisory Board as of the end of the Annual ShareLord Iain Vallance of Tummel received meeting fees of as member of the Audit Committee and the Compliance holders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. €15,000 (2012: €25,500), Michael Diekmann received Committee; Harald Kern as member of the Finance and 4 Jean-Louis Beffa, Werner Mönius, Håkan Samuelsson meeting fees of €13,500 (2012: €9,000), Hans-Jürgen Investment Committee; Jürgen Kerner as member of and Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel resigned from the Hartung received meeting fees of €10,500 (2012: €9,000), the Audit Committee and the Finance and Investment Supervisory Board as of the end of the Annual Share­ Werner Mönius received meeting fees of €9,000 (2012: Committee; Gérard Mestrallet as member of the Finance holders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. Dieter Scheitor €13,500), Jean-Louis Beffa received meeting fees of and Investment Committee; Werner Mönius as member resigned from the Supervisory Board as of the end of €7,500 (2012: €9,000), Robert Kensbock received meetof the Finance and Investment Committee; Håkan the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 24, 2012. ing fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), Gérard Mestrallet received ­Samuelsson as member of the Finance and Investment meeting fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), Werner Wenning Committee; Dieter Scheitor as member of the Audit 5 In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board are received meeting fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), Güler Sabancı Committee and the Finance and Investment Committee; entitled to receive a meeting attendance fee of €1,500 received meeting fees of €6,000 (2012: €0) and Birgit Steinborn as member of the Audit Committee (2012: €1,500) for each meeting of the Supervisory Håkan Samuelsson received meeting fees of €6,000 and the Finance and Investment Committee; Lord Iain Board and its committees that they attend. In fiscal 2013, (2012: €13,500). Vallance of Tummel as member of the Compliance Dr. Gerhard Cromme received meeting fees of €57,000 ­Committee and the Audit Committee; Sibylle Wankel (2012: €48,000), Lothar Adler received meeting fees of €40,500 (2012: €30,000), Dr. Hans Michael Gaul 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 146 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) The compensation shown on the previous page was deterbers of the Committee will receive €60,000. If applicable, commined for each of the members of the Supervisory Board for pensation received for work on the Chairman‘s Committee will fiscal 2013 (individualized disclosure). be taken into account in determining compensation for work on the Compensation Committee. The current remuneration policies for the Supervisory Board were authorized at the Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting held on If a Supervisory Board member does not attend a meeting of January 25, 2011. Details are set out in Section 17 of the Articles the Supervisory Board, one third of the aggregate compen­ of Association of Siemens AG. The remuneration of the Supersation due to that member is reduced by the percentage of visory Board consists entirely of fixed compensation. The re­Supervisory Board meetings not attended by the member in muneration of the members of the Supervisory Board reflects relation to the total number of Supervisory Board meetings the responsibilities and scope of work of the Supervisory Board held during the fiscal year. In the event of changes in the commembers. The Chairman and Deputy Chairmen of the Super­ position of the Supervisory Board and/or its committees, comvisory Board, as well as the Chairmen and members of the pensation is paid pro rata temporis, rounding up to the next ­Audit Committee and the Chairman‘s Committee, and – to a full month. lesser degree – the Compliance Committee and the Finance and Investment Committee, receive additional compensation. In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board are entitled to receive a meeting attendance fee of €1,500 for each meeting According to current rules, members of the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board and its committees that they attend. receive an annual base compensation of €140,000; the ­Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives a base compen­ The members of the Supervisory Board are reimbursed for outsation of €280,000, and each of the Deputy Chairmen receives of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their duties €220,000. and for any value-added taxes to be paid on their remuneration. For the performance of his duties, the Chairman of the The members of the Supervisory Board committees receive the Supervisory Board is furthermore entitled to an office with secfollowing additional fixed compensation for their work on retarial support and use of the Siemens carpool service. those committees: the Chairman of the Audit Committee receives €160,000, and each of the other members receives No loans or advances from the Company are provided to mem€80,000; the Chairman of the Chairman’s Committee receives bers of the Supervisory Board. €120,000, and each of the other members receives €80,000; the Chairman of the Finance and Investment Committee ­receives €80,000, and each of the other members receives B.4.3 Other €40,000; the Chairman of the Compliance Committee receives €80,000, and each of the other members receives €40,000. The Company provides a group insurance policy for board and However, no additional compensation is paid for work on the committee members and certain employees of the Siemens Compliance Committee if a member of that committee is al­organization that is taken out for one year and renewed annuready entitled to compensation for work on the Audit Commitally. The insurance covers the personal liability of the insured tee. Plans call for a proposal to be made at the Annual Sharein the case of a financial loss associated with employment holders’ Meeting in January 2014 that as of October 1, 2013, the functions. The insurance policy for fiscal 2013 includes a deChairman and members of the newly established Compen­ ductible for the members of the Managing Board and the sation Committee will also receive additional compensation. Supervisory Board in compliance with the requirements of ­ Based on this proposal, the Chairman of the Compensation the German Stock Corporation Act and the German Corporate Committee will receive €100,000, and each of the other memGovernance Code. 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 147 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report The Takeover-Relevant Information pursuant to Sections 289 The von Siemens-Vermögensverwaltung GmbH (vSV) has, on a para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code (Handels­ sustained basis, powers of attorney allowing it to exercise the gesetzbuch) and Explanatory Report are part of the Combined voting rights for 9,313,438 shares on behalf of members of the Management Report. Siemens family as of October 13, 2013, whereby aforementioned shares constitute a part of the overall number of shares held by members of the Siemens family. The vSV is a German B.5.1 Composition of common stock limited liability company and party to an agreement with, among others, members of the Siemens family (family agreeAs of September 30, 2013, the Company ’s common stock ­totaled ment). In order to bundle and represent their interests, the €2.643 billion (2012: €2.643 billion) divided into 881,000,000 members of the Siemens family established a family partner(2012: 881,000,000) registered shares with no par value and a ship. This family partnership makes proposals to the vSV with notional value of €3.00 per share. The shares are fully paid in. respect to the exercise of the voting rights at Shareholders’ In accordance with Section 4 para. 3 of the Company ’s Articles Meetings of the Company, which are taken into account by the of Association, the right of shareholders to have their ownervSV when acting within the bounds of its professional dis­ ship interests evidenced by document is excluded, unless such cretion. Pursuant to the family agreement, the shares under evidence is required under the regulations of a stock exchange powers of attorney are voted by the vSV collectively. on which the shares are listed. Collective share certificates may be issued. Pursuant to Section 67 para. 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), only those persons reB.5.3 Equity interests exceeding 10% corded in the Company ’s stock register will be recognized as of voting rights shareholders of the Company. We are not aware of, nor have we during the fiscal year 2013 All shares confer the same rights and obligations. At the Annual been notified of, any shareholder directly or indirectly holding Shareholders’ Meeting, each share of stock has one vote and 10% or more of the voting rights. accounts for the shareholders’ proportionate share in the Company ’s net income. Excepted from this rule are treasury shares held by the Company, which do not entitle the Company to any B.5.4 Shares with special rights rights. The shareholders’ rights and obligations are governed ­conferring powers of control by the provisions of the German Stock Corporation Act, in particular by Sections 12, 53a et seq., 118 et seq. and 186 of this There are no shares with special rights conferring powers German Stock Corporation Act. of control. B.5.2 Restrictions on voting rights B.5.5 System of control of any employee or transfer of shares share scheme where the control rights are Shares issued to employees worldwide under the employee not exercised directly by the employees share program implemented since the beginning of fiscal 2009, in particular the Share Matching Plan, are freely transferable. Shares of stock issued by Siemens AG to employees under its However, participants are required to own and hold the shares employee share program and / or as stock-based compensation issued to them under the rules of the program for a vesting are transferred directly to the employees. The beneficiary period of about three years, during which the participants ­employees who hold shares of employee stock may exercise have to have been continuously employed by Siemens AG or their control rights in the same way as any other shareholder another Siemens company, in order to receive one matching directly in accordance with applicable laws and the Articles of share free of charge for each three shares. The right to receive Association. matching shares is forfeited, if the underlying shares are sold, transferred, hedged on, pledged or hypothecated in any way during the vesting period. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 148 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) B.5.6 Legislation and provisions of the 2009). The Managing Board is authorized to exclude, with the articles of association applicable to the approval of the Supervisory Board, preemptive rights of shareholders in the event of capital increases against contributions appointment and removal of members in kind. In addition, preemptive rights of shareholders may be of the Managing Board and governing excluded in the event of capital increases against cash contriamendment to the Articles of Association butions, (1) to make use of any fractional amounts, (2) in order to grant holders of conversion or option rights issued by the The appointment and removal of members of the Managing Company or any of its subsidiaries, as protection against the Board is subject to the provisions of Sections 84 and 85 of the effects of dilution, preemptive rights to subscribe for new German Stock Corporation Act and Section 31 of the German shares, and (3) if the issue price of the new shares is not sigCodetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz). According to nificantly lower than their stock market price and the total of Section 8 para. 1 of the Articles of Association, the Managing the shares issued in accordance with Section 186 para. 3 senBoard is comprised of several members, the number of which tence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act (against cash is determined by the Supervisory Board. Pursuant to Section contributions not significantly below the stock market price, 84 of the German Stock Corporation Act and Section 9 of the with shareholders’ subscription rights excluded) together with Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board may appoint a other shares issued or disposed of by direct or mutatis mutanPresident of the Managing Board as well as a Vice President. dis application of this statutory regulation during the effective period of this authorization until the date of using this authoAccording to Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act, rization does not exceed 10% of the capital stock at that point any amendment to the Articles of Association requires a resoin time. lution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The authority to adopt purely formal amendments to the Articles of Association Furthermore, the Managing Board is authorized to increase, was transferred to the Supervisory Board under Section 13 with the approval of the Supervisory Board, the capital stock ­para. 2 of the Articles of Association. In addition, by resolution until January 24, 2016 by up to €90 million through the issuof the Annual Shareholders’ Meetings on January 27, 2009 and ance of up to 30 million registered shares of no par value against January 25, 2011, the Supervisory Board has been authorized contributions in cash (Authorized Capital 2011). Preemptive to amend Section 4 of the Articles of Association in accordance rights of existing shareholders are excluded. The new shares with the utilization of the Authorized Capital 2009 and the shall be issued under the condition that they are offered exclu­Authorized Capital 2011, and after expiration of the then-applisively to employees of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries. The cable authorization period. new shares may also be issued to a suitable bank that assumes the obligation to use these shares for the sole purpose of Resolutions of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting require a simgranting them to employees of Siemens AG and any of its conple majority vote, unless a greater majority is required by law. solidated subsidiaries. To the extent permitted by law, employPursuant to Section 179 para. 2 of the German Stock Corporaee shares may also be issued in such a manner that the contrition Act, amendments to the Articles of Association require a bution to be paid on such shares is covered by that part of the majority of at least three-quarters of the capital stock repreannual net income which the Managing Board and the Supersented at the time of the casting of the votes, unless another visory Board may allocate to other retained earnings under capital majority is prescribed by the Articles of Association. Section 58 para. 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act. As of September 30, 2013, the total unissued authorized capital B.5.7 Powers of the Managing Board of Siemens AG therefore consisted of €610.8 million nominal to issue and repurchase shares that may be issued in installments with varying terms by issuance of up to 203.6 million registered shares of no par value. For The Managing Board is authorized to increase, with the apdetails, please refer to Section 4 of the Articles of Association. proval of the Supervisory Board, the capital stock until January 26, 2014 by up to €520.8 million through the issuance of up to By resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of January 26, 173.6 million registered shares of no par value against cash 2010, the Managing Board is authorized until January 25, 2015 contributions and / or contributions in kind (Authorized Capital to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of up to 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 149 €15 billion with conversion rights or with warrants attached, bonds or warrant bonds issued until January 24, 2016 by the or a combination of these instruments, entitling the holders to Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance subscribe to up to 200 million new registered shares of Siemens with the authorization of the Managing Board adopted by the AG of no par value, representing a pro rata amount of up to €600 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011, the capital million of the capital stock. The bonds under this authorizastock was conditionally increased by €270 million through the tion are to be issued against cash or non-cash contributions. issuance of up to 90 million no-par value shares registered in the names of the holders (Conditional Capital 2011). Additionally, by resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of January 25, 2011, the Managing Board is authorized until The total of the shares to be issued on the basis of bond issues January 24, 2016 to issue bearer or registered bonds in an agunder these authorizations pursuant to Section 186 para. 3 sengregate principal amount of up to €15 billion with conversion tence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act, in combination rights or with bearer or registered warrants attached or a comwith other shares issued or sold by direct or mutatis mutandis bination of these instruments, entitling the holders to subapplication of this statutory regulation during the effective scribe to up to 90 million new registered shares of Siemens AG ­period of these authorizations, does not exceed 10% of the capiof no par value, representing a pro rata amount of up to €270 tal stock at the date of using these authorizations. This l­imit also million of the capital stock. The bonds under this authorizaincludes shares of stock issued up to this point in time against tion are to be issued against cash contributions. non-cash contributions, under exclusion of shareholders’ subscription rights, on the basis of the Authorized Capital 2009. In For further details of the authorizations please refer to the readdition, the issue of convertible bonds and / or warrant bonds spective resolutions of the Annual Shareholders’ Meetings. In pursuant to both authorizations shall be limited to convertible particular, the bonds are, as a matter of principle, to be offered bonds and / or warrant bonds that entitle or oblige to subscribe to shareholders for subscription, including the possibility of to a maximum number of 200 million Siemens shares represent­issuing them to banks with the obligation that they must be ing a pro rata amount of €600 million of the capital stock while offered to shareholders for subscription. However, the Managboth authorizations are simultaneously effective. ing Board is authorized to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights with the approval of the Supervisory Board (1) provided In February 2012 Siemens issued bonds with warrant units that the issue price of the bonds is not significantly lower than with a volume of US$3 billion. The bonds with warrant units their theoretical market price computed in accordance with with a minimum per-unit denomination of US$250,000 were generally accepted actuarial methods, (2) to the extent the exoffered exclusively to institutional investors outside the U.S. clusion is necessary with regard to fractional amounts resultPre-emptive rights of Siemens shareholders were excluded. ing from the subscription ratio, (3) in order to grant holders of The bonds issued by Siemens Financieringsmaatschappij N.V. conversion or option rights or conversion or option obligations are guaranteed by Siemens AG and complemented with waron Siemens shares subscription rights as compensation for the rants issued by Siemens AG. The warrants entitle their holders effects of dilution, and (4) to the extent that bonds were isto receive Siemens shares against payment of the exercise sued against non-cash contributions, in particular within the price in Euros. At issuance, the warrants resulted in option context of business combinations or when acquiring comparights relating to a total of about 21.7 million Siemens shares. nies or interests therein. The terms and conditions of the warrants enable Siemens to service exercised option rights also by delivering treasury In order to grant shares of stock to holders of convertible stock as well as to buy back the warrants. The bonds with warbonds or warrant bonds issued until January 25, 2015 by the rant units were issued in two tranches with maturities of 5.5 Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance and 7.5 years, respectively. The maturities refer to both the with the authorization of the Managing Board adopted by the bonds and the related warrants. After issuance, the warrants Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 26, 2010, the capital can be detached from the bonds, the option period comstock was conditionally increased by €600 million through the menced on March 28, 2012. The bonds with warrant units, the issuance of up to 200 million no-par value shares registered in bonds detached from warrants and the warrants detached are the names of the holders (Conditional Capital 2010). In order to listed by Deutsche Bank AG in the Open Market segment of the grant shares of stock to holders or creditors of convertible Frankfurt Stock Exchange (Freiverkehr). 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 150 118 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 129 B.4 Compensation Report 124 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 148 B.5 T  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 126 B.3 Compliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) The Company may not repurchase its own shares unless so or interests therein; (4) sold, with the approval of the Supervi­authorized by a resolution duly adopted by the shareholders at sory Board, to third parties against payment in cash if the price a general meeting or in other very limited circumstances set at which such Siemens shares are sold is not significantly lowforth in the German Stock Corporation Act. On January 25, er than the market price of Siemens stock at the time of sell2011, the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting authorized the Coming, or (5) used to meet obligations or rights to acquire pany to acquire until January 24, 2016 up to 10% of its capital Siemens shares arising from, or in connection with, convertstock existing at the date of adopting the resolution or – if this ible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the Company or any of value is lower – as of the date on which the authorization is its subsidiaries. The aggregate volume of shares used under exercised. The aggregate of shares of stock of Siemens AG the authorization pursuant to (4) and (5) by mutatis mutandis ­repurchased under this authorization and any other Siemens application of the provisions of Section 186 para. 3 sentence 4 shares previously acquired and still held in treasury by the of the German Stock Corporation Act together with other Company or attributable to the Company pursuant to Sections shares issued or sold by direct or mutatis mutandis application 71d and 71e of the German Stock Corporation Act, may at no of this statutory regulation during the effective period of this time exceed 10% of the then existing capital stock. Any repurauthorization until the date of using this authorization must chase of Siemens shares shall be accomplished at the discrenot exceed 10% of the capital stock at that point in time. tion of the Managing Board either (1) by acquisition over the stock exchange or (2) through a public share repurchase offer. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is authorized by resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011 The Managing Board is additionally authorized, with the apto use shares acquired on the basis of this or any previously proval of the Supervisory Board, to complete the repurchase of given authorization to meet obligations or rights to acquire Siemens shares in accordance with the authorization described Siemens shares that were or will be agreed with members of above, by using certain equity derivatives (such as put and call the Managing Board within the framework of rules governing options, forward purchases and any combination of these deManaging Board compensation. In particular, repurchased rivatives). In exercising this authorization, all stock repurchases shares may be offered for acquisition, or awarded and / or based on the equity derivatives are limited to a maximum voltransferred, subject to a restriction period, by the Supervisory ume of 5% of Siemens‘ capital stock existing at the date of Board to the members of the Managing Board, provided that adopting the resolution at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Managing Board membership existed at the time of the offer An equity derivative’s term of maturity must, in each case, not or award commitment. exceed 18 months and must be chosen in such a way that the repurchase of Siemens shares upon exercise of the equity As of September 30, 2013, the Company held 37,997,595 (2012: derivative will take place no later than January 24, 2016. 24,725,674) shares of stock in treasury. Besides selling them over the stock exchange or through a For further information on the authorized and conditional cappublic sales offer to all shareholders, the Managing Board is itals and on the treasury stock of the Company as of Septemauthorized by resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting ber 30, 2013 see NOTE 26 EQUIT Y in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIon January 25, 2011 to also use Siemens shares repurchased on DATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages 301-303. the basis of this or any previously given authorization as follows: such Siemens shares may be (1) retired; (2) offered for purchase to individuals currently or formerly employed by the B.5.8 Significant agreements which take Company or any of its subsidiaries as well as to board members effect, alter or terminate upon a change of any of the Company ’s subsidiaries, or awarded and / or transferred to such individuals with a vesting period of at least two of control of the Company following a years, provided that the employment relationship or board takeover bid membership exists at the time of the offer or award commitment; (3) offered and transferred, with the approval of the Siemens AG maintains two lines of credit in an amount of €4 ­Supervisory Board, to third parties against non-cash contribubillion and an amount of US$3 billion respectively which protions, particularly in connection with business combinations or vide its lenders with a right of termination in the event that (1) the acquisition of companies, businesses, parts of businesses Siemens AG becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 151 person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effecof the issuer regarding the change of control, as determined tive control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise decisive by the issuer or (2) 30 days after the change of control first beinfluence over its activities (Art. 3 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) comes publicly known. The strike price adjustment decreases 139 / 2004). In addition, Siemens AG has a bilateral credit line at depending on the remaining term of the warrants and is deterits disposal in the amount of €450 million which may be termimined in detail in the terms and conditions of the warrants. In nated by the lender if major changes in Siemens AG’s corpothis context, a change of control occurs if a person or persons rate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly repayment acting in concert, respectively, acquires or acquire control of of the credit. the Company. In March 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and Siemens AG as guarantor entered into two bilateral loan agreeB.5.9 Compensation agreements with ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of members of the Managing Board or US$500 million. Both agreements provide their respective lender with a right of termination in the event that (1) employees in the event of a takeover bid Siemens AG becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a In the event of a change of control that results in a substantial person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effecchange in the position of a Managing Board member (e.g., due tive control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise decisive to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the Managing influence over its activities (Art. 3 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) Board member’s duties and responsibilities), the member of 139 / 2004). the Managing Board has the right to terminate his or her contract with the Company for good cause. A change of control Framework agreements concluded by Siemens AG under Interexists if one or several shareholders acting jointly or in concert national Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. documen­ acquire a majority of the voting rights in Siemens AG and exertation (ISDA Agreements) grant the counterparty a right of cise a controlling influence, or if Siemens AG becomes a depen­termination upon the occurrence of the following events: (1) dent enterprise as a result of entering into an intercompany the Company consolidates with, merges into, or transfers at agreement within the meaning of Section 291 of the German least substantially all its assets to a third party and (i) the reStock Corporation Act, or if Siemens AG is to be merged into an sulting entity ’s creditworthiness is materially weaker than the existing corporation or other entity. If this right of termination Company ’s immediately prior to such event, or (ii) the resultis exercised, the Managing Board member is entitled to a seving entity fails to simultaneously assume the Company ’s oblierance payment in the amount of not more than two years’ gations under the ISDA Agreement; or (2) additionally some compensation. The calculation of the annual compensation inISDA Agreements grant the counterparty a right of termination cludes not only the base compensation and the target amount upon a third party acquiring the beneficial ownership of equity for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock awards, securities having the power to elect a majority of the Compain each case based on the most recent completed fiscal year ny ’s Supervisory Board or otherwise acquiring the power to prior to termination of the contract. The stock-based compencontrol the Company ’s material policy-making decisions and sation components for which a firm commitment already exists the creditworthiness of the Company is materially weaker than will remain unaffected. There is no entitlement to a severance it was immediately prior to such event. In either situation, payment if the Managing Board member receives benefits ­ISDA Agreements are designed such that upon termination all from third parties in connection with a change of control. outstanding payment claims documented under them are to Moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of conbe netted. trol occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a Managing Board member’s retirement. Additionally, the severance In February 2012 Siemens issued bonds with warrant units payments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount with a volume of US$3 billion. In case of a change of control, of 5% of the total severance amount. Severance payments will the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their holdbe reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance for discounted ers to receive a higher number of Siemens shares in accorvalues and for income earned elsewhere. However, this reducdance with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option tion will apply only to the portion of the severance payment rights within a certain period of time after the change of conthat was calculated without taking account of the first six trol. This period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30 months of the remaining term of the Managing Board memdays and no more than 60 days after publication of the notice ber’s contract. 152 C. Combined Management Report 156 C.1 Business and 210 C.8 Sustainability economic environment 210 C.8.1 Sustainability at Siemens Combined 156 C.1.1 The Siemens Group 211 C.8.2 Research and development Management Report 166 C.1.2 Economic environment 215 C.8.3 Supply chain management 170 C.1.3 Strategy 216 C.8.4 Production 216 C.8.5 Quality management 173 C.2 Financial performance system 217 C.8.6 Distribution and customer relations 173 C.2.1 Overview 218 C.8.7 Environmental Portfolio C. Combined Management Report 173 C.2.2 Revenue growth 220 C.8.8 Environmental performance 173 C.2.3 Profitability and capital efficiency 221 C.8.9 Employees 174 C.2.4 Capital structure 224 C.8.10 Compliance 175 C.2.5 Dividend and share buybacks 226 C.8.11 Corporate citizenship 175 C.2.6 Additional measures 176 C.2.7 Additional information for 227 C.9 Report on expected developments financial performance measures and associated material Business and economic environment opportunities and risks 179 C.3 Results of operations 227 C.9.1 Report on expected developments 179 C.3.1 Results of Siemens 232 C.9.2 Risk management 183 C.3.2 Segment information analysis 234 C.9.3 Risks Financial performance242 system C.9.4 Opportunities 190 C.3.3 Reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) 244 C.9.5 Significant characteristics of the accounting-related internal control and risk management system 192 C.4 Financial position Results of operations | Financial position | Net assets position 192 C.4.1 Principles and objectives of financial management Compensation Report, 245 C.10 Corporate Governance statement 193 C.4.2 Capital structure pursuant to Section 289a of the 194 C.4.3 Credit rating German Commercial Code, 195 C.4.4 Investing activities Takeover-relevant information Overall assessment of the economic position and explanatory report 196 C.4.5 Cash flows 198 C.4.6 Capital resources and requirements 246 C.11 Siemens AG 204 C.5 Net assets position (Discussion on basis of German Commercial Code) 246 C.11.1 Business and economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 246 C.11.2 Results of operations 247 C.11.3 Net assets and financial position Subsequent events 248 C.11.4 Employees 209 C.7 Subsequent events 249 C.11.5 Subsequent events 249 C.11.6 Risks and opportunities 249 C.11.7 Outlook Sustainability 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements Report on expected developments Risks and opportunities 155 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Combined Management Report may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. In our Combined ofManagement person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effecthe issuer regarding theReport, change of control, as determined tive control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise decisive by the issuer or (2) 30 days after the change of control first bewe analyze our business influence over its activities (Art. 3 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) comes publicly activities known. The strike price adjustment decreases in the reporting mined 139 / 2004). In addition, Siemens AG has a bilateral credit line at its disposal in the amount of €450 million which may be termias well yearin detail depending on the as term remaining theof the warrants and is deterin the terms and conditions of the warrants. In current state of Siemens nated by the lender if major changes in Siemens AG’s corpoworldwide this context, a change of control occurs if a person or persons and Siemens AG.theStarting rate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly repayment of the credit. from a acting in concert, respectively, acquires or acquire control of Company. description of our business, economic In March 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and Siemens AG as guarantor entered into environment andB.5.9 two bilateral loan agreestrategy, Compensationwe present agreements with our financial target ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of US$500 million. Both agreements provide their respective members system of the and a Managing Board or lender with a right of termination detailed explanation in the event that (1) employeesof ourinprofit, the event assetof a takeover bid Siemens AG becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a In the event of a change of control that results in a substantial person or a group of persons acting and financial in concert position. acquires effecchange in the We also position reportBoard member (e.g., due of a Managing on various aspects tive control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise decisive influence over its activities (Art. 3 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) of sustainability to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the Managing Board member’s duties and responsibilities), the member of 139 / 2004). at Siemens and on expected the Managing Board has developthe right to terminate his or her contract with the Company for good cause. A change of control Framework agreements concludedments by Siemens and AG under Intermaterial their opportunities exists if one or several shareholders acting jointly or in concert national Swaps and Derivatives and risks. Association Inc. documenacquire a majority of the voting rights in Siemens AG and exertation (ISDA Agreements) grant the counterparty a right of cise a controlling influence, or if Siemens AG becomes a depentermination upon the occurrence of WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/COMBINEDthe following events: (1) dent enterprise as a result of entering into an intercompany MANAGEMENT-REPORT the Company consolidates with, merges into, or transfers at agreement within the meaning of Section 291 of the German least substantially all its assets toAdditional a third party and (i) theindicators Sustainability reStockareCorporation available at:Act, or if Siemens AG is to be merged into an sulting entity ’s creditworthiness is materially weaker than the existing corporation or other entity. If this right of termination WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/SUSTAINABILIT Y-FIGURES Company ’s immediately prior to such event, or (ii) the resultis exercised, the Managing Board member is entitled to a seving entity fails to simultaneously assume the Company ’s oblierance payment in the amount of not more than two years’ gations under the ISDA Agreement; or (2) additionally some compensation. The calculation of the annual compensation inISDA Agreements grant the counterparty a right of termination cludes not only the base compensation and the target amount upon a third party acquiring the beneficial ownership of equity for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock awards, securities having the power to elect a majority of the Compain each case based on the most recent completed fiscal year ny ’s Supervisory Board or otherwise acquiring the power to prior to termination of the contract. The stock-based compencontrol the Company ’s material policy-making decisions and sation components for which a firm commitment already exists the creditworthiness of the Company is materially weaker than will remain unaffected. There is no entitlement to a severance it was immediately prior to such event. In either situation, payment if the Managing Board member receives benefits ISDA Agreements are designed such that upon termination all from third parties in connection with a change of control. outstanding payment claims documented under them are to Moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of conbe netted. trol occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a Managing Board member’s retirement. Additionally, the severance In February 2012 Siemens issued bonds with warrant units payments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount with a volume of US$3 billion. In case of a change of control, of 5% of the total severance amount. Severance payments will the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their holdbe reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance for discounted ers to receive a higher number of Siemens shares in accorvalues and for income earned elsewhere. However, this reducdance with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option tion will apply only to the portion of the severance payment rights within a certain period of time after the change of conthat was calculated without taking account of the first six trol. This period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30 months of the remaining term of the Managing Board memdays and no more than 60 days after publication of the notice ber’s contract. 152 C. Combined ­Management Report 156 C.1 Business and 210 C.8 Sustainability ­economic ­environment 210 C.8.1 Sustainability at Siemens Combined 156 C.1.1 The Siemens Group 211 C.8.2 Research and development ­Management Report 166 C.1.2 Economic environment 215 C.8.3 Supply chain management 170 C.1.3 Strategy 216 C.8.4 Production 216 C.8.5 Quality management 173 C.2 Financial performance system 217 C.8.6 Distribution and customer relations 173 C.2.1 Overview 218 C.8.7 Environmental Portfolio C. Combined Management Report 173 C.2.2 Revenue growth 220 C.8.8 Environmental performance 173 C.2.3 Profitability and capital efficiency 221 C.8.9 Employees 174 C.2.4 Capital structure 224 C.8.10 Compliance 175 C.2.5 Dividend and share buybacks 226 C.8.11 Corporate citizenship 175 C.2.6 Additional measures 176 C.2.7 Additional information for 227 C.9 Report on expected developments ­financial ­performance measures and associated material ­opportunities and risks 179 C.3 Results of operations 227 C.9.1 Report on expected developments 179 C.3.1 Results of Siemens 232 C.9.2 Risk management 183 C.3.2 Segment information analysis 234 C.9.3 Risks 190 C.3.3 Reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA 242 C.9.4 Opportunities (­continuing operations) 244 C.9.5 Significant characteristics of the accounting-related internal control and risk management system 192 C.4 Financial position 192 C.4.1 Principles and objectives of ­financial management 245 C.10 Compensation Report, ­Corporate Governance statement 193 C.4.2 Capital structure pursuant to Section 289a of the 194 C.4.3 Credit rating German Commercial Code, 195 C.4.4 Investing activities Takeover-­relevant information 196 C.4.5 Cash flows and explanatory report 198 C.4.6 Capital resources and requirements 246 C.11 Siemens AG 204 C.5 Net assets position (­Discussion on basis of German Commercial Code) 246 C.11.1 Business and economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the ­economic position 246 C.11.2 Results of operations 247 C.11.3 Net assets and financial position 248 C.11.4 Employees 209 C.7 Subsequent events 249 C.11.5 Subsequent events 249 C.11.6 Risks and opportunities 249 C.11.7 Outlook 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking ­statements 155 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­Combined Management Report may not add up ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. C.1 Business and economic environment C.1.1 The Siemens Group ing results. They therefore have “right of way” over the regional units in business matters. During fiscal 2013 our regional units C.1.1.1 ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION were organized in Clusters and Countries, which were responWe are a globally operating technology company with core sible for the local customer relationship management and for ­activities in the fields of energy, healthcare, industry, and inimplementing the business strategies of the Sectors and SFS frastructure, and we occupy leading market positions worldas well as the requirements set by the corporate functions. wide in the majority of our businesses. We can look back on a successful history spanning 166 years, with groundbreaking In addition to their particular authority to issue binding comand revolutionary innovations such as the invention of the pany-wide guidelines and to their monitoring and coordinatdynamo, the first commercial light bulb, the first electric ­ ing responsibilities, the heads of selected corporate functions streetcar, the construction of the first public power plant, and (Finance and Controlling, Legal and Compliance and Human the first images of the inside of the human body. On a continuResources, for example) have an unrestricted right to issue ing basis, we have around 362,000 employees as of September ­instructions in relation to a function across all parts of the 30, 2013 and business activities in nearly all countries of the Company to the extent legally permissible. world and reported consolidated revenue of €75.882 billion in fiscal 2013. We operate in excess of 290 major production and Below the Managing Board, Siemens is structured organizamanufacturing plants worldwide. In addition, we have office tionally into Sectors, SFS which acts as business partner for buildings, warehouses, research and development facilities or the Sectors and also conducts its own business with external sales offices in almost every country in the world. customers, Cross-Sector Services that support other Siemens units, Corporate Units with specific corporate functions, and Siemens comprises Siemens AG, a stock corporation under the regional Clusters. The Sectors are principally broken down into Federal laws of Germany, as the parent company and a total of Divisions and these in turn into Business Units. about 900 legal entities, including minority investments. Our Company is incorporated in Germany, with our corporate Our business activities focus on our four Sectors, Energy, headquarters situated in Munich. Siemens operates under the Healthcare, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities. These Sectors leadership of its Managing Board, which comprises the Presiform four of our reportable segments. In addition to our four dent and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Sectors, we have two additional reportable segments: Equity ­Officer (CFO) as well as the heads of selected corporate funcInvestments and SFS. tions and the CEOs of the Sectors. Within this combined management report, we provide finanOur fundamental organizational principles are: cial measures for our four Sectors and for two Businesses, each combining two Divisions within a Sector as well as for >> the CEO principle, eight Divisions of our Sectors. These financial measures in>> the end-to-end business responsibility of the Sectors, clude: ­ orders, revenue, profit and profit margin. Divisions ­Divisions and Business Units, and within a Sector may do business with each other, leading to >> the unrestricted right of selected corporate functions to corresponding orders and revenue. Such orders and revenues ­issue instructions in relation to a function to the extent are only eliminated on a Sector level. Furthermore, our report­legally permissible. able segments may do business with each other, leading to corresponding orders and revenue. Such orders and revenue The Siemens Managing Board is the sole management body are eliminated on the Siemens level within Eliminations, Corand has overall business responsibility in accordance with the porate Treasury and other reconciling items and are not German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, AktG). At all ­included in orders and revenue with external customers (ex­other organizational levels within our Company, management ternal orders and external revenue, respectively) reported in responsibility is assigned to individuals who make decisions this document. Free cash flow and further information is and assume personal responsibility (CEO principle). This prin­reported for each reportable segment in the Notes to Consoliciple establishes clear and direct responsibilities and fosters dated Financial Statements. For information related to the efficient decision-making. definition of these financial measures and to the reconci­ liation of segment financial measures to the Consolidated Our Sectors, Divisions, Business Units and Financial Services ­Financial Statements, see C.12 NOTES AND FORWARD-LOOKING (SFS) are “global entrepreneurs” and have end-to-end business STATEMENTS and NOTE 36 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED responsibility worldwide, including with regard to their operat­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 156 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Basis of presentation as of September 30, 2013 Reporting structure Energy Healthcare Industry Infrastructure & Cities Equity Financial Sector Sector Sector Sector Investments Services Fossil Power Diagnostics Industry Automation Transportation & Generation Drive Technologies Logistics Wind Power Power Grid Oil & Gas Solutions & Products Power Transmission Building Technologies Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements Eliminations, Centrally managed Corporate items Siemens Real Estate Corporate Treasury and portfolio activities and pensions other reconciling items On a geographic basis, Siemens was subdivided into 14 Regional C.1.1.2 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Clusters as of September 30, 2013, which were in turn assigned Energy to one of our three reporting regions. We report financial meaThe Energy Sector offers a wide spectrum of products, solusures for these three regions: tions and services for generating and transmitting power, and for extracting, converting and transporting oil and gas. It Regional structure as of September 30, 2013 ­primarily addresses the needs of energy providers, but also serves industrial companies, particularly in the oil and gas Regional structure ­industry. External revenue of the Energy Sector was €26.386 billion in Europe, fiscal 2013, representing 35% of Siemens revenue. The followAsia, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Americas ing chart provides a geographic breakdown of the Energy Australia Middle East ­Sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Revenue share in % (location of customer) As of November 2013, following the close of fiscal 2013, we disAsia, Australia: 19% banded our Regional Cluster organization. Following this orgaAmericas: 27% nizational change, we have designated 30 Lead Countries Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East: 54% therein U.S.: 14% which are individually responsible for managing a number of other countries regarding market penetration. Each Lead therein Germany: 8% Country reports directly to the Managing Board. In addition, we report financial information at Group level for 1 Commenwealth of Independent States. certain major countries within each region, including Germany (within the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East), the U.S. (within the region Americas), and China (within the region Asia, Australia). 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 157 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report In fiscal 2013, the Energy Sector comprised five Divisions: Fossil on the project mix between onshore and offshore projects in Power Generation; Wind Power; Oil & Gas; Power Transmission; any given period. A significant part of the Division’s business and Energy Service. In addition, the Sector includes two secactivities take place offshore and in countries in the northern tor-led businesses: Solar and Hydro. Results for these businesshemisphere. Therefore, its production and sales figures are es are included in results for the Sector. Siemens has decided typically higher during the hemisphere’s spring and summer to exit solar activities after completion of projects under execumonths, when weather conditions facilitate the installation of tion. In the Hydro business, we are active in small and large wind turbines. hydro power stations, via our minority stake in Voith H ­ ydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG. Furthermore, our Hydro business also The Oil & Gas Division has a comprehensive portfolio of comprises our activities in ocean power tidal turbines. As of highly efficient rotating machinery (gas turbines, steam fiscal 2014, the Fossil Power Generation Division and the ­turbines, compressors with associated equipment) and elecOil & Gas Division were combined into a single Division under trical, instrumentation and telecommunication (EIT) soluthe name Power Generation. tions. This portfolio is the basis of our offerings to all our markets, predominantly the oil and gas industry, process The Fossil Power Generation Division offers high-efficiency ­industry and industrial power generation industry for appliproducts and solutions for fossil-based power generation. cations ranging from cogeneration to offshore production, These solutions include substantial innovation and engineerwater treatment and subsea processing. As mentioned ing know-how aimed at converting fossil fuels to power with above, as of fiscal 2014, the Oil & Gas Division was combined high efficiency, which increases return on investment for cuswith the Fossil Power Generation Division to form the Power tomers and helps them improve their environmental perforGeneration ­Division. mance. The Division concentrates on products and solutions for gas and steam turbines, turbo generators, heat recovery The Power Transmission Division provides customers with steam generators including control systems, with an emphaturnkey power transmission solutions as well as discrete prodsis on combined-cycle power plants. It also develops solutions ucts, systems and related engineering and services. It covers for instrumentation and control systems for all types of power high-voltage transmission solutions, power and distribution plants and for use in power generation. These solutions intransformers, high-voltage switching and non-switching prodclude information technology solutions providing manageucts and systems, and innovative alternating and direct curment applications from the plant to the enterprise level. The rent transmission systems. The Division supplies energy utiliDivision is also working on developing and producing comties and large industrial power users with equipment, systems mercial systems based on emerging technologies such as and services used to process and transmit electrical power ­integrated gasification, coal liquefaction, and carbon capture from the source, such as power plants and onshore and offand storage. Due to the broad range of the Division’s offershore wind farms, to various points along the power transmisings, the revenue mix may vary from reporting period to sion network. The Division is working with joint ventures in ­reporting period depending on the share of revenue attributChina involving different partners and has a joint venture with able to products, solutions and services and the revenue’s reInfineon Technologies in Germany for the design, manufacgional distribution in the respective periods. As mentioned ture and sale of high-performance semiconductors. above, as of fiscal 2014, the Fossil Power Generation Division was combined with the Oil & Gas Division to form the new The Energy Service Division offers comprehensive services Power Generation Division. for products, solutions and technologies, covering performance enhancements, maintenance services, customer trainThe Wind Power Division manufactures wind turbines for onings and consulting services for the Divisions Fossil Power shore and offshore applications, including both geared turGeneration, Wind Power and Oil & Gas. Financial results relatbines and direct drive machines. The product portfolio is based ing to the Energy Service Division are included in these Divion four product platforms, two for each of the onshore and offsions. shore applications. The onshore products have power ratings between 2.3 to 3.0 megawatts and rotor diameters ranging The Energy Sector distributes its products and services through from 93 to 113 meters. The power rating for offshore products its own dedicated sales force, supported by Siemens’ worldranges from 3.6 to 6.0 megawatts, with rotor diameters rangwide network of regional companies. Additional sales chaning from 107 to 154 meters. The revenue mix of the Division nels include joint ventures and licensing partners, especially may vary from reporting period to reporting period depending in markets requiring a high degree of local knowledge. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 158 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks The Sector’s principal customers are large power utilities, indewith a significant potential for modernization and new instalpendent power producers, and industrial companies, particulation such as the U.S. larly in the oil and gas industry. Because certain significant ­areas of the Sector’s business, such as power plant construcThe Energy Sector’s business activities vary widely in size, tion, involve working on mediumto long-term projects for from selling components and performing comparatively small customers who may not require the Sector’s services again in projects up to major turnkey contracts, such as for the conthe short term, the Sector’s most significant customers tend to struction of a new power plant. vary significantly from year to year. While the Sector historically competed primarily with large inThe Fossil Power Generation Division competes in all regions dustrial companies from industrialized countries, emerging of the global fossil energy markets with demand in Europe and market competitors have become more and more important, in the U.S. driven mainly by the need to replace aged existing as they are increasingly expanding their operations beyond inefficient and inflexible power plants, while demand in the borders of their home markets. The Sector’s competitors emerging countries is driven by capacity additions required as vary by Division. a result of economic growth. The Fossil Power Generation Division’s competition consists of The Wind Power Division is active in both the onshore and the a relatively small number of equipment manufacturers, some offshore market segments around the world, and has mainwith very strong positions in their domestic markets, as well as tained a leading position in the global offshore market for seva large number of engineering, procurement and construction eral years. The Division focuses on markets where it can entercontractors. Its principal competitors in gas turbines are Alstom, tain a profitable business, such as the U.S., the U.K. and ScanGeneral Electric and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, whereas its dinavia, although debates over subsidy schemes in these main competitors in steam turbines are Alstom, Bharat Heavy countries are causing some uncertainty and ultimately are exElectricals Limited, General Electric and Toshiba. In China, pected to lead to increased price pressure. Selected emergmanufacturers have historically been mainly focused on their ing-market countries are increasing their focus on wind energy large home market, but they have begun to evolve from local as a way to increase resource independence, thus offering a to international suppliers. Korean engineering and procuresound business perspective. ment companies offer a large range of products and solutions, and position themselves as one-stop-shops that offer customOil and gas, addressed by our Oil & Gas Division, continue to er solutions from a single supplier. In instrumentation and play a vital role in the world’s energy supply due to the increascontrols, ABB and Emerson Electric are the Division’s principal ing demand for energy. Oil has very little spare global produccompetitors. tion capacity and, even in a weak global economy, demand still outstrips supply. On a regional level, growth in the oil and gas The principal competitors in the onshore market served by the market is mainly driven by the U.S., the Middle East, Russia, Wind Power Division are Enercon, Gamesa, General Electric, Brazil, and Africa. To keep up with increasing demand and the Goldwind, REpower and Vestas. In the offshore market the depletion of existing reservoirs, the oil and gas industry is goprincipal competitors are Alstom, Areva and REpower. Furthering deeper offshore and exploring unconventional resources more, Vestas and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries have announced and state-of-the-art enhanced oil and gas recovery techniques that they are going to combine their individual capabilities to such as subsea processing. In addition, stricter environmental also enter this market segment. The competitive situation difregulations to reduce waste and emissions are putting presfers between the market segments. In the market for onshore sure on the oil and gas industry to improve energy efficiency, wind farms, competition is widely dispersed without any one creating opportunities for a leading solution and technology company holding a dominant share of the market. In contrast, provider like Siemens. there are only a few major players in the market for technologically more complex offshore wind farms. Overall, the wind The main drivers in the markets addressed by the Power power industry suffers from overcapacity and is widely regardTransmission Division are expanding infrastructure in emerged as being in an early stage of consolidation. ing countries, equipment replacement and modernization in mature economies, and integration of renewable energies. The principal competitors of the Oil & Gas Division vary by The most important geographical markets are emerging counproduct; in automation and electrical equipment, they are ABB tries including Brazil, China, and India, and mature markets and Honeywell above all, whereas in compressors and steam 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 159 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report and gas turbines, they are Dresser Rand, General Electric, MAN The Imaging & Therapy Systems Division provides large-scale Diesel & Turbo and Solar Turbines. Overall, competition in the medical devices for diagnostic imaging and for image-guided markets served by the Oil & Gas Division is characterized by a therapies. Imaging equipment includes computed tomorelatively small number of companies, some with a very strong graphs, magnetic resonance imaging equipment, angiography position in the broader market and some with a regional focus, systems for diagnostics, and positron emission tomography. playing key roles. Siemens is the market leader in these fields. Image-guided therapies mainly comprise angiography systems for minimally The primary competitors of the Power Transmission Division invasive procedures and computed tomographs in radiation are ABB with its Power Products and Power Systems divisions therapy planning. By increasing the synergy between imaging and the Grid division of Alstom. A few notable manufacturers equipment and therapy solutions, the Division aims to help such as Toshiba, China XD Group or Crompton Greaves in cerhealthcare providers achieve better results with more efficient tain regions and niche specialists (e.g., TBEA) represent anothprocesses. er group of competitors. International competition is increasing from manufacturers in emerging countries such as China, The Clinical Products Division mainly comprises the busiIndia and Korea. ness with ultrasound and X-ray equipment including mammography. In addition to providing innovative high-end soluHealthcare tions, the Clinical Products Division focuses on the developThe Healthcare Sector offers customers a comprehensive ment of cost-efficient, less complex equipment that meets portfolio of medical solutions across the treatment chain – essential customer requirements, particularly in emerging ranging from medical imaging to in-vitro diagnostics to intereconomies. The Clinical Products Division also comprises the ventional systems and clinical information technology sysinternal supplier Components and Vacuum Technology which tems – all from a single source. In addition, the Sector provides also provides components to the Imaging & Therapy Systems technical maintenance, professional and consulting services, Division. and, together with Financial Services (SFS), financing to assist customers in purchasing the Sector’s products. The Diagnostics Division offers products and services in the area of in-vitro diagnostics. In-vitro diagnostics is based on the External revenue of the Healthcare Sector was €13.598 billion analysis of bodily fluids such as blood or urine, and supplies in fiscal 2013, representing 18% of Siemens revenue. The vital information for detecting and managing disease and confollowing chart provides a geographic breakdown of the ­ ducting patient risk assessments. The Division’s product portHealthcare Sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013. folio represents a comprehensive range of diagnostic testing systems and consumables, including offerings for clinical Revenue share in % (location of customer) chemistry and immunodiagnostics, molecular diagnostics (i.e., testing for nucleic acids), hematology, hemostasis, microAsia, Australia: 25% biology, point-of-care testing and clinical laboratory automaEurope, C.I.S.,1 tion solutions. Africa, Middle East: 34% therein Germany: 7% Americas: 41% The Customer Solutions Division provides healthcare infortherein U.S.: 35% mation technology (HIT) systems. It is responsible for the Sector’s service business and customer relationship management on a global level. HIT supports users in connection with their tasks in the clinical, administrative and financial workflow to 1 Commenwealth of Independent States. support efficient, safe and quality patient care delivery. The portfolio is comprised of integrated financial and clinical sysThe Healthcare Sector includes four Divisions: Imaging & Thertems, electronic health record and health information exapy Systems, Clinical Products, Diagnostics and Customer change as well as an expanding offering of systems optimizaSolutions. The Sector also includes one sector-led Business tion services. The service business is intended to leverage the Unit, Audiology Solutions. In addition to its Sector-level finanSector’s installed base of imaging and diagnostics systems cial results, Healthcare also separately breaks out financial worldwide. In particular, the Division’s experience in remote ­results for the Diagnostics Division. and proactive services, innovative service and educational offerings, and logistics processes is intended to differentiate it 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 160 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks from competition and drive process efficiency. The Division alCerner and Allscript for healthcare information technology so manages the global sales force of the Sector and defines the systems and Sonova, GN Resound and William Demant for regional go-to-market approach to support a diverse customer ­audiology (hearing aids). The trend toward consolidation in base with solutions for patient care. the Sector’s industry continues. Competition among the leading companies in the field is strong, including with respect The sector-led Business Unit, Audiology Solutions, provides to price. hearing aids. Industry The customers of the Healthcare Sector include healthcare The Industry Sector offers a broad spectrum of products, soluproviders such as hospital groups and individual hospitals, tions and services that help customers use resources and energroup and individual medical practices, reference and physigy more efficiently, improve productivity, and increase flexibilician office laboratories, and outpatient clinics. The Sector sells ty. The Sector’s integrated technologies and holistic solutions the majority of its products and services through its in-house primarily address industrial customers, particularly those in sales staff, which is grouped in its Customer Solutions Divithe process and manufacturing industries. The portfolio spans sion, supported by dedicated product specialists. In some industry automation, industrial software, drive products and countries, the Sector also uses dealers, particularly for the sale services, system integration, and solutions for industrial plant of low-end products (such as low-end ultrasound and X-ray businesses. The Sector has further strengthened its industrial equipment). The Sector’s products are serviced primarily by its software business with the acquisition of LMS International own dedicated personnel. NV (LMS), which was completed in fiscal 2013. Because a large part of Healthcare’s revenue stems from recurExternal revenue of the Industry Sector was €16.943 billion in ring business, the Sector’s business activities are to a certain fiscal 2013, representing 22% of Siemens revenue. The followextent resilient to short-term economic trends but are depening chart provides a geographic breakdown of the Industry dent on regulatory and policy developments around the world. Sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013. Under regulations passed as part of the U.S. Affordable Care Revenue share in % (location of customer) Act, which became effective at the beginning of calendar year 2013, the U.S. medical technology industry is subject to an exAsia, Australia: 26% cise tax on certain medical devices. Currently, this tax impacts our diagnostics and imaging businesses. Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East: 55% Americas: 19% In fiscal 2013, the Healthcare Sector continued implementing therein Germany: 25% therein U.S.: 12% Agenda 2013, a global initiative launched in fiscal 2012 to increase its innovative capacity and competitiveness. Agenda 2013 is the Sector’s proactive response to the challenges 1 Commenwealth of Independent States. emerging from a changing market environment. To meet these challenges, Agenda 2013 provides for measures targeting innovation, regional presence, competitiveness, and human reThe Industry Sector consists of three Divisions: Industry Autosource development. These measures include focused investmation, Drive Technologies and Customer Services. The Sector ments in product development and expanded sales activities also includes a sector-led Business Unit, Metals Technologies. in growth markets. Agenda 2013 also encompasses a realignIn addition to its Sector-level financial results, Industry also ment of the radiation therapy business unit and a related breaks out financial results for the Industry Automation Divi­research and development and sales cooperation with Varian sion and the Drive Technologies Division. Financial results Medical Systems. In addition, Agenda 2013 includes a program ­relating to the Customer Services Division are included in reto improve the cost position in the Diagnostics Division. sults for Industry Automation, Drive Technologies and Metals Technologies. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Sector The Healthcare Sector’s principal competitors in medical imag­announced its plan to dispose of its business of mechanical, ing are General Electric, Philips, Toshiba, Hitachi and Hologic. biological and chemical water treatment and processing. Other competitors include Roche, Abbott, Danaher, Alere, During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, this business fulfilled bioMérieux and Sysmex for in-vitro diagnostics, McKesson, the ­requirements to be reported as discontinued operations. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 161 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report R ­ esults for prior periods are reported on a comparable basis. In capability includes mechanical equipment, drives, motors, November 2013, Siemens announced the sale of this business. electrics, automation, mechatronics, technological packages The transaction is subject to regulatory approval. and environmental systems. The Industry Automation Division offers a range of standard The Industry Sector’s principal customers are industrial cusproducts and system solutions for automation technologies tomers in a broad range of markets, including transportation used in the manufacturing and process industries. As one of and logistics, metals and mining, machinery, utilities and the leading providers of industry software, the Division can automotive. The Sector is active worldwide, including in ­ help manufacturing companies optimize their entire value emerging markets, especially those in the Asia, Australia rechain: from product design and development, through pro­ gion, which Sector management believes to have long-term duction, to sales and service. The Division’s offerings include growth potential. Apart from the Siemens brand, the Sector automation systems and software, motor controls, machine-­ markets some parts of its portfolio under different brand to-machine communication products, sensors, product and names (such as Flender for gears or Winergy for wind turbine production lifecycle management products, and software for components) depending on geography and technology. simulating and testing mechatronic systems. In fiscal 2013, the Division acquired LMS, a provider of mechatronic simulation The Sector sells its products primarily through dedicated software that expands and complements the Division’s prod­personnel in Siemens’ worldwide network of regional sales uct lifecycle management portfolio. As noted above, the diunits. In addition, it uses original equipment manufacturers, vestment of the mechanical, biological and chemical water solution providers, installers, general contractors, third-party treatment business was decided in fiscal 2013 and this busidistributors and independent agents. ness is reported as discontinued operations for all periods covered in this Annual Report. The sale of this business, The Sector has manufacturing locations worldwide, especially which is subject to regulatory approval, was announced in throughout North and South America, Western and Eastern ­November 2013. Europe, and Asia, allowing it to stay close to its major customers. In recent years, material costs have been subject to signifiThe Drive Technologies Division offers products and comprecant price volatility for metals, energy and other raw materials. hensive systems across the entire drive train. These offerings The Sector continues to work on reducing the use of hazardare customized to the respective application and include nuous materials (e.g., lead) and to replace them in its products merical control systems, inverters, converters, motors (geared and processes. Sustainable products and processes, such as and gearless), drives and couplings. In addition, Drive Technolcoking coal free iron production processes (COREX), energy ogies supplies integrated automation systems for machine ­efficient motors and energy management play a major role in tools and production machines. The Division also offers inteits innovation strategy. grated lifecycle solutions and services for industries such as shipbuilding, cement, mining, and pulp and paper. With its Product lifetimes in the Sector’s product businesses typically e-Car business, the Division develops motors and inverters for range from three to twenty years from introduction. Lifecycles electric cars. tend to be shorter for products in which software and electronics play an important role. The lifecycles in the solutions busiThe Customer Services Division offers a comprehensive portnesses tend to be longer, as the Sector supports its customers folio of services and supports industrial customers in their with significant services through the whole life of their invest­efforts to increase their productivity. The portfolio includes ment. The Industry Sector can be strongly affected by economproduct-related services and software solutions like condition ic cycles, because markets for some of its business activities monitoring designed to enhance the reliability, profitability, tend to react very quickly to changes in the overall economic ­efficiency and environmental performance of industrial plants. environment. This pattern includes many of the business ­activities of the Industry Automation Division and those busiThe Sector-led Metals Technologies Business Unit offers ness activities of the Drive Technologies Division that serve ­engineering and plant-building services for the iron and steel customers in the manufacturing industries. The markets for industry, and for the rolling sector of the aluminum and other business activities within the Sector generally show a non-ferrous industries. The Business Unit provides technolomore delayed response to changes in the overall economic gies, solutions, and services for metallurgical plants, integrat­environment. This pattern includes those business activities of ed steelworks and minimills. Its vertically integrated supply the Drive Technologies Division that serve customers in 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 162 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks ­ rocess industries, the energy and the infrastructure sector p External revenue of the Infrastructure & Cities Sector was and activities of the Metals Technologies Business Unit. €17.128 billion in fiscal 2013, representing 23% of Siemens revenue. The following chart provides a geographic breakdown of Competitors of the Industry Sector can be grouped into two the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s external revenue in fiscal categories: multinational companies that offer a relatively 2013. broad portfolio, and companies that are active only in certain of the geographic or product markets served by the Industry Revenue share in % (location of customer) Sector. The Sector’s principal competitors with broad portfolios are multinational companies such as ABB, Emerson Electric, Asia, Australia: 14% Schneider Electric and Rockwell. In the industries in which the Americas: 25% Sector is active, consolidation is occurring on several levels. In Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East: 61% therein U.S.: 19% particular, suppliers of automation solutions have supplemented their activities with actuator or sensor technology, therein Germany: 15% while suppliers of components and products have supplemented their portfolio with complementary products for their sales channels. 1 Commenwealth of Independent States. The main competitors of the Industry Automation Division are ABB, Schneider Electric, Rockwell and Emerson Electric. The Sector consists of five Divisions: Rail Systems; Mobility Within its product lifecycle management business, the Diviand Logistics; Low and Medium Voltage; Smart Grid; and Buildsion also competes with, among others, Dassault Systèmes ing Technologies. Financial results of the Rail Systems and the and PTC. Competitors of the Drive Technologies Division inMobility and Logistics Divisions are combined and reported clude companies with broad business portfolios such as ABB, ­together as the results of the Sector’s Transportation & Logistics Emerson Electric and Mitsubishi Electric but also specialist Business. Financial results of the Divisions Low and Medium companies such as Fanuc, Yaskawa, WEG and SEW. The main Voltage and Smart Grid are combined and reported together as competitors of the Metals Technologies Business Unit are the Sector’s Power Grid Solutions & Products Business. Danieli and SMS. The Rail Systems Division comprises Siemens’ rail vehicle Asian competitors are generally focused on large-scale producbusiness, encompassing the entire spectrum of rolling stock – tion and cost-cutting. European and U.S. competitors are typiincluding high-speed trains, commuter trains, passenger cally focused on high-quality lifecycle service. Nevertheless, coaches, metros, people movers, light rail vehicles, locomomost major competitors have established global bases for their tives, bogies, traction systems and rail-related services. The businesses. In addition, competition in the field has become Division combines its expertise in the fields of mass transit, increasingly focused on technological improvements and regional and long-distance transportation, driverless systems, price. Intense competition, customer budget constraints and traction systems, bogies and onboard power supplies in order rapid technical progress within the industry continue to cause to offer comprehensive know-how for sustainable, efficient significant downward pressure on prices. In addition, competiand reliable rail vehicles. tors continue to shift their production to low-cost countries. The Mobility and Logistics Division primarily provides prodInfrastructure & Cities ucts, solutions (including IT solutions) and services for rail The Infrastructure & Cities Sector offers a wide range of techtransportation operating systems, such as central control sysnologies for increasing the sustainability of metropolitan centems, interlockings and automated controls. The Division also ters and urban infrastructures worldwide, such as integrated provides offerings for road traffic, including traffic detection, mobility solutions, building and security systems, power information and guidance systems. In fiscal 2013, the Division ­distribution equipment, smart grid applications and low and announced its plans to divest its airport logistics business for medium-voltage products. While the Sector has decided to cargo tracking and baggage handling and its postal automa­divest its airport logistics and postal automation business, it tion business for letter and parcel sorting. In fiscal 2013, the has acquired the rail automation business of Invensys plc., Division acquired the rail automation business of Invensys, U.K. (Invensys) to expand and complement its rail automation which has a leading position as provider of signal services and business. rail control and communication solutions. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 163 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report The Low and Medium Voltage Division supplies electrical tion, the Divisions of the Sector use, to varying degrees, grid operators, large industrial electricity consumers and conthird-party distributors, panel builders, original equipment struction markets with medium and low-voltage electrical manufacturers, value added partners, installers and general power equipment. Furthermore, the Division provides prodcontractors. ucts, systems and services for distributing electrical power from high-voltage transmission grid access to medium or Overall, the Sector’s principal customers are industrial, infralow-voltage grids and for directing electrical power to end constructure and public customers in a broad range of markets, sumers and their access points. Medium voltage equipment including construction and real estate, transportation and includes distribution switchgear, control gear, circuit breakers ­logistics and utilities. The timing and extent to which a Diviand components for distributing and switching of electrical sion of the Infrastructure & Cities Sector is affected by econompower coming from the high voltage transmission grid to the ic cycles depends largely on the kind of business activities it medium voltage distribution grid and within the medium voltconducts. Business activities that tend to react very quickly to age grid itself. The low voltage portfolio consists of power dischanges in the overall economic environment include those in tribution boards, busbar trunking systems, distribution boards the Low and Medium Voltage Division. Business activities that and terminal blocks, as well as products for protecting, switchare generally affected later by changes in the overall economic ing, measuring and monitoring devices and socket outlets. environment include those in the Smart Grid and Building Technologies Divisions. The development of markets served by The Smart Grid Division provides energy automation soluour Divisions Rail Systems, Mobility and Logistics and parts of tions, smart grid applications, transmission and distribution Smart Grid is driven primarily by public spending. Customers services and rail infrastructure electrification solutions for of these Divisions usually have multi-year planning and implemainline and mass transit applications. In addition, the Divimentation horizons, and their contract tenders therefore tend sion offers meter data management solutions and services to be independent of short-term economic trends. ­relating to the planning of electric network grids and the operation and maintenance of transmission and distribution prodThe Sector’s principal competitors are multinational com­ ucts, systems and solutions. panies such as ABB, Alstom, Ansaldo, Bombardier, General Electric, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Schneider Electric and The Building Technologies Division offers products, services ­Tyco. The Sector’s competitors vary by Division. The main comand solutions for commercial, industrial, public and residential petitors of the Rail Systems Division and the Mobility and buildings. Primary applications include building operation and ­Logistics Division are Alstom, Ansaldo STS, Bombardier and automation, comfort, safety and security. In addition, the DiviGeneral Electric. The primary competitors of the Low and sion offers energy solutions and energy management ser­Medium Voltage Division are ABB, Eaton and Schneider Elecvices aimed at improving a building’s energy cost, reliability, tric. The principal competitors of the Smart Grid Division are comfort and performance, while minimizing its impact on ABB, Alstom, General Electric and Schneider Electric. The main the en­ vironment. The Division’s offerings include heating competitors of the Building Technologies Division are Honeyand ventilation controls, security systems and devices for well, Johnson Controls, Schneider Electric and Tyco. Infraintruder detection, video surveillance and building access ­ structure & Cities also faces competition from niche compe­ control, total room automation systems, and fire safety solutitors and from new entrants, such as utility companies tions for fire detection, protection alarms and non-waterand consulting firms, exploiting the fragmented energy effibased fire extinguishing. ciency market. The Sector’s solution businesses also compete with engineering, procurement and construction providers, Until the end of fiscal 2013, the Infrastructure & Cities Sector and competitors in the service field often include small local also held the Atos S.A. (AtoS) shares, which Siemens received players. following the sale of Siemens IT Solutions and Services to AtoS. Due to a change in management responsibility related to Equity Investments Siemens’ shares in AtoS, the shares have been included within In general, the segment Equity Investments comprises equity Equity Investments since the beginning of fiscal 2014. stakes held by Siemens that are accounted for by the equity method, at cost or as current available-for-sale financial assets The Infrastructure & Cities Sector distributes its products and and for strategic reasons are not allocated to a Sector, SFS, Censervices through its own dedicated sales force, supported by trally managed portfolio activities, Siemens Real Estate (SRE), Siemens’ worldwide network of regional companies. In addiCorporate items or Corporate Treasury. Our main investments 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 164 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks within Equity Investments are our stake of 50% in BSH Bosch tions. Their offerings comprise debt financing, equity parti­ und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH), our stake of 17% in cipations and financial advisory services. In addition, the OSRAM Licht AG (OSRAM) as well as our 49% stake in Enter­ Project, Structured & Leveraged Finance Healthcare Business prise Networks Holdings B.V. (EN). In the fourth quarter of fisUnit offers leveraged solutions across all Siemens businesses. cal 2013, Siemens closed the sale of its 50% stake in Nokia Siemens Networks Holding B.V. (NSN) to the other shareholder These four Business Units each have a global mandate. The foNokia Corporation. OSRAM was formerly wholly owned by cus of their activities is directly or indirectly related to Siemens Siemens. Effective July 5, 2013, Siemens spun off OSRAM. The Sectors’ businesses, predominantly in the energy, healthcare, spin-off was made on the basis of the Spin-Off and Transfer industry and infrastructure markets. Their customers comprise Agreement dated November 28, 2012, authorized by the Annual Siemens Sector customers as well as third-party vendors. The Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens AG on January 23, 2013. Business Units serve customers of all sizes including smallWith the spin-off, Siemens shareholders received one OSRAM and medium-sized enterprises, corporations and public sector share per ten Siemens AG shares. A total of 80.5% of the organizations. OSRAM shares became widely held shares. Following the ­spin-off, a further 2.5% of the shares were transferred to the The Venture Capital Business Segment’s main task, together Siemens Pension Trust e.V. On July 8, 2013 OSRAM started with Siemens’ Sectors, is to identify and finance young compatrading on the stock exchange. Due to a change in managenies worldwide during their start-up phase, thereby helping ment responsibility ­ related to Siemens’ shares in AtoS, the Siemens’ Sectors to access new technological solutions and shares, which were held by the Infrastructure & Cities Sector tap new markets. until the end of fiscal 2013, are included within Equity Investments effective with the ­beginning of fiscal 2014. The Treasury Business Unit operates the global Corporate Treasury of the Siemens Group, with SFS employees thereby Financial Services managing liquidity, cash and financial risks (interest, foreign Financial Services (SFS) provides a variety of financial serexchange, commodities) on behalf of Corporate Treasury. vices and products to other Siemens units and their customers and to third parties. SFS has three strategic pillars: supporting The Financing & Investment Management Business Unit manSiemens units with finance solutions for their customers, ages fee-based receivables and offers investment management managing financial risks of Siemens and offering third-party services. SFS operates the Credit Warehouse, i.e., it is engaged finance services and products. Financial Services intends to in the process of monitoring and warehousing short-term grow its business in a profitable, controlled manner. trade receivables originated by the operating units and par­ tially transferred to Corporate Treasury. The investment manSFS’ business can be divided into capital business and fee agement services focus on pension asset management for business. While capital business predominantly relates to Siemens as well as selected external clients. financial assets on SFS’ statements of financial position ­ ­generating income from customers of Siemens’ Sectors and The Insurance Business Unit acts primarily as an insurance other third parties, fee business mainly comprises internal broker for Siemens and external customers. The Business Unit services provided to Siemens. SFS conducts its business supports Siemens and non-affiliated companies in all insurthrough seven Business Units, one Business Segment (Venance-related matters such as claims management as well as ture Capital) and two functions: Corporate Pensions and risk transfer to insurance and financial markets, including Trade Finance Advisory. structured solutions using own re-insurance capacities. It also acts as broker of selected Siemens-financed insurance policies The Commercial Finance Business Unit offers a comprehenfor employees. sive range of solutions for equipment financing, leasing, rental and related financing for equipment supplied by Siemens or SFS’ products and services are provided through a network of third-party providers. companies, located throughout Europe (including Russia), Asia Pacific (including China and India) and North America, The Project & Structured Finance Energy; Project, Struccomprising non-regulated, partially or fully regulated entities, tured & Leverage Finance Healthcare and Project & Strucsuch as Siemens Bank GmbH. Siemens Bank GmbH’s banking tured Finance Infrastructure and Cities & Industry Business license, which was granted by the German Federal Financial Units offer a broad range of project & structured financing soluSupervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleis253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 165 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report tungsaufsicht), covers engaging in loan and guarantee business economy does not yet bring annual growth figures back to as well as in deposit taking and enables access to the deposit ­prior-year level. Global GDP growth is expected to slow to 2.4% and refinancing facilities of the Deutsche Bundesbank. In its in calendar 2013 from 2.7% in calendar 2012. Growth of global transactions with Siemens and third parties, SFS observes fixed investment spending and value added manufacturing – ­international banking industry standards, where applicable. both important indicators for Siemens as a producer of capital goods – is projected to decline to an even greater degree: fixed SFS’ competition mainly includes commercial finance operainvestments from 4.1% in 2012 to 3.1% in 2013, and value-added tions of banks, independent commercial finance companies, manufacturing from 2.9% in 2012 to 2.1% in 2013. These global captive finance companies and asset management companies. aggregate figures reflect fairly divergent developments. On the International competitors include BNP Paribas Equipment one hand, most advanced countries’ economies were gaining ­Finance, De Lage Landen, General Electric Commercial Finance, momentum in the course of calendar 2013. On the other hand Macquarie, Société Générale Equipment Finance and Sumitomo many emerging countries were losing momentum compared to Mitsui Financial Group. Particularly in the commercial finance higher growth rates in the past. business, SFS’ competitors are often local financial institutions and competition therefore varies from country to country. In most of the larger European economies the recession has ended. For the first time after six quarters of shrinking GDP, Euro zone production increased again in the spring quarter of C.1.2 Economic environment 2013. In addition, government bond yields receded clearly in the countries most affected by the sovereign debt crisis, which C.1.2.1 WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT reduced their borrowing costs and put government budgets on The beginning of fiscal 2013 was accompanied by a further a more sustainable path. The crisis in Cyprus – the fifth counslowdown of the global economy. Although European financial try in the European Union to receive an international bail-out markets calmed in reaction to a statement by the European Cen– had only a temporary effect on yields and volatility in finantral Bank (ECB) president committing the ECB to preserve the cial markets. As governments kept tightening their budgets, Euro, worldwide economic activity decreased thereafter. Global fiscal austerity remained a drag on the European economy. In gross domestic product (GDP) growth hit a trough of less than addition, unresolved problems in the banking sector restricted 2% in the fourth quarter of calendar 2012, and this continued credit supply to the private sector. This lack of sufficient funds through the first quarter of calendar 2013. Since then, the world to finance investments still has the potential to stifle the reeconomy has been reaccelerating, due to a slightly stronger U.S. gion’s recovery. Exchange rate developments involving the economy, a recovery in Europe, the stabilization of Chinese ­Euro did not support Euro zone exports. In the Middle East growth (which slowed at the beginning of 2013), and substaneconomic recovery continued to be very weak. In Egypt, the tial improvements in Japan. World GDP growth has picked up to political crisis intensified again and the conflict in Syria con­ more than 3% for the rest of 2013. However, because of the tinued to escalate. Oil-exporting countries were affected by weak start to the year the recent reacceleration of the global the slowdown of the world economy. GDP growth in these World real GDP growth (in % compared to previous period) 1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 8 6 4.8 4.5 5.0 4.4 3.6 3.5 3.8 3.7 3.4 3.3 3.0 3.3 4 2.5 2.8 3.1 2.4 2.7 2.4 2.0 2.4 1.8 1.8 2 1.4 0 –2 (1.6) –4 –6 –8 (6.6) Quarterly GDP growth (seasonally adjusted annual rate)  Annual GDP growth Quarterly GDP growth forecast (seasonally adjusted annual rate)  Annual GDP growth forecast 1 Siemens AG, based on an IHS Global Insight report as of October 15, 2013. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 166 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks countries was decreasing below historical trends. Despite some caused foreign capital to exit the country and the Rupee to moderation in commodity prices, GDP growth in Africa picked lose one fifth of its value against the U.S. dollar within one up slightly. However, uncertainty on the economic and political year. These adverse developments for the Asia, Australia refronts poses a continuing threat to African economic developgion were counterbalanced by the recovery of the Japanese ment. Economic activity in the C.I.S. countries, which is mainly economy. The government’s unusual measures to kick-start determined by its largest member, Russia, was weak again in the Japanese economy out of its deflationary spiral seem to be 2013. Similar to some other emerging countries, Russia sufsuccessful: GDP expanded by a 4% annual rate in the first half fered from a reversal of capital flows out of the country. In sum, of 2013. Although GDP growth for the Asia, Australia region rethe region Europe, C.I.S., Africa and Middle East in 2013 is proj­ mained stable in 2013, growth of fixed investment and valected to grow at nearly the same modest rate of 1% as in 2012. ue-added manufacturing slowed by roughly one percentage Investment spending performed even worse: it contracted 1% point, to 5.4% and 3.6%, respectively compared to 2012. in 2013, after it had already shrunk 0.4% in 2012. Value added manufacturing also stagnated in 2013 after a decline in 2012. Real GDP growth per region (change in % compared to prior year)1 World Europe, C.I.S.,3 Americas Asia, Africa, Australia The Americas region saw significantly slower growth in 2013: Middle East GDP increased 1.8%, after growth of 2.7% in 2012. The U.S. was the main factor, due to budget tightening measures (the “se5 4.8 4.7 quester”) which started at the beginning of calendar 2013. 4 ­According to an International Monetary Fund estimate, the 3 2.7 2.7 2.4 ­sequester reduced the country ’s 2013 growth rate by as much 2 1.8 as 1.75 percentage points. Accordingly, GDP figures for the U.S. 1.0 1.1 1 are masking a gradual improvement in the private sector. For example, the construction sector was recovering further, consumer spending was growing moderately, and fixed invest2013 2 2012 1 Source: Siemens AG, based on an IHS Global Insight as of October 15, 2013. ments – which were affected most by the political uncertainGrowth rates provided by calendar year. ties and even went to negative growth at the beginning of 2 Estimate for calendar year 2013. 2013 – were picking up. Monetary policy continued to be very 3 Commonwealth of Independent States. expansionary, although fears of a gradual reduction (“tapering”) of “quantitative easing” measures caused long-term interThe partly estimated figures presented here for gross domestic est rates to rise. Latin American growth was low and roughly product, fixed investments and manufacturing value added unchanged compared to 2012. After a very low GDP increase of are calculated by Siemens AG based on an IHS Global Insight 0.9% in 2012, the Brazilian economy accelerated modestly to report dated October 15, 2013. 2.4% in 2013. Because the Brazilian economy is estimated to operate near its potential, supply-side constraints have held Our businesses are dependent on the development of raw maback growth and exacerbated inflationary pressures. For the terial prices. Key materials to which we have significant cost Americas region overall, growth of investment spending and exposure include copper, various grades and formats of steel value-added manufacturing both slowed in 2013: fixed investand aluminum. In addition, within stainless steel we have exment growth from 4.6% in 2012 to 3.0% in 2013, value-added posure related to nickel and ferro-alloy materials. manufacturing from 4.3% to 1.8%. The average monthly price of copper (denominated in € per In Asia, Australia GDP growth in 2013 is expected to remain at metric ton) for September 2013 was 15% lower than the aver4.8%, virtually the same level as in the two previous years. In age monthly price in September 2012, reflecting a more moderthe first half of 2013, the Chinese economy continued to slow ate economic sentiment during fiscal 2013 and increasing prodown to 7.5% GDP growth year-over-year because global deduction from new or extended mine projects. Prices on a fismand for Chinese products was weaker and concerns emerged cal-year average were 5% lower in fiscal 2013 than the average about the health of the country ’s financial system and the susfor fiscal 2012. Because copper is produced in multiple locatainability of its public debt. India had to deal with even more tions and traded in multiple locations, such as the London severe problems. The slowing economy, a current account Metal Exchange, the risk to Siemens is primarily a price risk deficit, high inflation and unresolved structural problems rather than a supply risk. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 167 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Development of raw material prices (Index: Beginning of fiscal 2009 = 100) FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 Copper Aluminum (HG) Steel HRC Source: London Metal Exchange (LME) for copper and aluminum, CRU HRC Germany for steel; cash prices in € per ton. Average monthly prices of aluminum traded at the London Siemens employs various strategies to reduce the price risk in Metal Exchange were 17% lower in September 2013 as comits project and product businesses, such as long-term contractpared to September 2012. Prices on a fiscal-year average were ing with suppliers, physical and financial hedging and price 8% lower in fiscal 2013 than the average for fiscal 2012. Higher escalation clauses with customers. premiums for physically delivered aluminum offset the erosion of exchange prices to some extent. Besides that, the alumiC.1.2.2 MARKET DEVELOPMENT num industry is suffering from oversupply due to a combinaOverall, markets served by our Energy Sector grew moderately tion of weaker investment sentiment among customers and in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012, with all of the Sector’s rapid expansion of production capacities by manufacturers. As businesses except for solar power benefiting from improved with copper, we see developments in the aluminum market as market conditions year-over-year. In particular, the markets for posing a price risk, rather than a supply risk. fossil power, wind power and power transmission recovered from market declines in fiscal 2012 and returned to the levels The average monthly steel prices for September 2013 declined reached in fiscal 2011. by 10% compared to the average monthly prices in September 2012. Prices on a fiscal-year average were 8% lower in fiscal Growth for the markets served by our Fossil Power Genera2013 than the average for fiscal 2012 (source: CRU, an indepention Division benefited from a shift towards larger, more effident business analysis and consultancy group focused on, cient units with higher power output. Globally, customers in among other things, the mining and metals sectors). emerging markets mainly added new capacities while customers in advanced economies mainly replaced existing power Our main exposure to the prices of copper and related prodplants that are now considered relatively inefficient and inflexucts, and to carbon steel and stainless steel, is in the Sectors ible. Despite the overall growth of fossil markets, the market Energy, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities. Our main price exfor advanced gas power plants remained approximately at the posure related to aluminum is in the Energy Sector. In addisame level as in fiscal 2012. Demand in Europe was held back tion, Siemens is generally exposed to energy and fuel prices, by an ongoing slow economic development and uncertainties both directly (electricity, gas, oil) and indirectly (energy used in regulatory frameworks. Political instability impacted market in the manufacturing processes of suppliers, fuels included in development in the Middle East despite social and economic logistics costs). pressure to add capacity. Within the Americas region, the U.S. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 168 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks added gas turbines to replace aging infrastructure and take adparticular strength in the U.S. On a geographic basis, markets vantage of the country ’s ongoing natural gas boom. Fossil in Asia, Australia grew in the high single digits, including doumarkets in the Asia, Australia region remained strong, with a ble-digit growth rates in China. Markets in the Americas number of nations adding capacity. These included China and ­including the U.S. grew moderately. Growth in the U.S. was India for coal-fired power generation and South Korea for gassupported by strong demand for healthcare IT solutions driven fired power plants. by the HITECH Act and the relevant portions of the Affordable Care Act. In contrast, markets in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle In the markets served by our Wind Power Division, growth East declined slightly. In Europe, markets experienced a came from new offshore wind projects. Also onshore wind ­further decline in spending for healthcare in southern and markets returned to a moderate growth path compared to western European countries, which continued to suffer from ­fiscal 2012, except in the U.S. where concerns about potential the sovereign debt crisis. expiration of tax incentives had led to a market boom due to project pre-drawings in 2012. The overall market for our Industry Sector as well as for the Divisions Industry Automation and the Drive Technologies deThe markets served by our Oil & Gas Division rose on increased clined in fiscal 2013. While the pharmaceutical, chemical, autoinvestment demand for exploration and production of oil and motive and food and beverage markets grew slightly compared gas. On a geographic basis, market growth for the Division’s to the prior fiscal year, this growth was more than offset by compression and oil and gas solutions business came mainly declines in other markets including particularly machine buildfrom the U.S., the Middle East, Africa, Russia, and Brazil. Growth ing and Industry ’s markets for solutions and products for wind in the Division’s industrial power markets was led by Asia, the power. On a regional basis, markets in Asia, Australia and the Middle East, and parts of Europe. While market for small steam Americas did not offer growth opportunities year-over-year, turbines remained on previous year’s level, demand was stronwhile markets in Europe declined, particularly in Southwest ger for small-scale combined-cycle power plants. Europe. Within the Asia, Australia region, growth accelerated somewhat in China in the second half of fiscal 2013 following a The markets served by our Power Transmission Division reweak development in the first half of the fiscal year. Within the covered from weakness a year earlier. While markets grew Americas, market development in the U.S. was supported by slightly in most regions, year-over-year, growth was strongest lower energy prices due largely to a greater supply of energy in North-East Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the Americas. produced in the U.S., primarily natural gas. But momentum In emerging countries, growth was driven mainly by expan­declined somewhat during the fiscal year. sion of infrastructure. In industrialized economies, customers mainly replaced and modernized equipment and also integratWithin the markets served by our Industry Automation Divied renewable sources into their transmission grids. Despite sion, short-cycle manufacturing industries saw de-stocking by the larger pattern of global growth, power transmission marcustomers which held back market development. Industrial IT kets also suffered from overcapacities in certain segments, markets grew moderately, but slightly below their expected ­especially power transformers. long-term average growth rate. In fiscal 2013, markets addressed by our Healthcare Sector Markets served by our Drive Technologies Division also saw grew moderately year-over-year. Growth was clearly driven by de-stocking effects within short-cycle industries. Markets for emerging markets, as these countries continue to expand industrial infrastructure industries, including the Division’s ­access to healthcare for a broader population and build up markets for solutions and products for wind power and rail their healthcare infrastructure. In contrast, markets in indusmarkets, declined or showed no growth momentum. Markets trialized countries grew only modestly compared to the prior for long-cycle industries such as mining and oil and gas grew fiscal year as demand was held back by healthcare reforms and only slightly year-over-year, or even declined. In some indusbudgetary constraints, particularly in Europe. Healthcare IT tries customers delayed or postponed large infrastructure markets grew faster than the healthcare market as a whole, on projects. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 169 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Overall, the market for the Infrastructure & Cities Sector grew C.1.3 Strategy moderately in fiscal 2013. While markets served by the Transportation & Logistics Business showed a steady recovery C.1.3.1 GLOBAL MEGATRENDS ­including tenders for a number of large projects, markets for Global megatrends are long-term developments that are exthe Power Grid Solutions & Products Business and the Building pected to have an impact on all humanity. We at Siemens Technologies Division showed little or no growth. Customers view demographic change, urbanization, climate change and cut spending in both these markets, and also delayed project globalization as megatrends that will drive global demand in awards in the power grid solutions market. coming decades. We have aligned our strategy with these ­developments and accordingly have organized our business In fiscal 2013, markets served by our Transportation & Logisinto four Sectors: Energy, Healthcare, Industry, and Infrastructics Business showed a steady recovery from the weak enviture & Cities. ronment a year earlier. Moderate growth was driven by large contract awards, particularly in the U.K. and the Middle East. Demographic change includes two major trends: the world’s Furthermore, market growth was positively influenced by population continues to grow steadily, and it continues to get ­demand from major cities, which continued to invest in public older. Together, these two trends will challenge the ability of transport systems. On a regional basis, the highest growth future healthcare systems to make healthcare available to rates came from Asia, Australia, driven by strong demand from ­everyone. Urbanization refers to the growing number of China. Demand in the Americas was also clearly up year-overdensely-populated metropolitan centers around the world. year. Within Europe, market development was divided between This trend intensifies the already strong demand for sustainnorthwestern countries, which kept their public transport able and energy-efficient infrastructures for buildings, trans­investments stable and southern countries, which held back portation systems, energy and water. We view climate change investments as part of wider austerity programs. As a result, as a fact and that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is vital markets in the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East region to counteract the increasingly drastic effects on our eco­ showed the lowest growth of all regions. system. There is a strong need for innovative technologies to ­increase efficiency and reduce the emissions related to energy Demand in the markets served by our Power Grid Solutions & generation and consumption. Globalization refers to the Products Business remained weak across all regions in fiscal ­increasing integration of the world’s economies, politics, cul2013. Higher demand from industrial customers was more ture and other areas of life. Globalization leads to increased than offset by delayed project awards and reduced grid investcompetitive pressure and demand for economical, timely-to-­ ments by utility companies. Reduced investments were particmarket, high-quality products and solutions. ularly evident in southern Europe. Investment sentiment was also affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment, C.1.3.2 STRATEGY OF THE SIEMENS GROUP such as in Germany which is undertaking a massive shift to Our vision is to be a pioneer in renewable energy (“Energiewende”). Demand in the U.S. showed signs of recovery in the industry and construction cat>> energy efficiency, egories, but investment in power grid solutions by utilities >> industrial productivity, ­remained weak. >> next-generation healthcare, and >> intelligent infrastructure solutions. Markets served by our Building Technologies Division held steady year-over-year as customers were hesitant to increase Our company strategy guides us in turning our vision into realinvestments. Markets in the solution business suffered from ity. We are aiming to be a market and technology leader in our ongoing price pressure due mainly to aggressive pricing by businesses, based on our values – to be responsible, excelsystem houses and large providers of building technologies lent and innovative. We believe that this will position us to solutions. On a regional basis, slight market growth in Asia, achieve sustainable, profitable growth and thereby continually Australia and the Americas was largely offset by a slight deincrease our company value. We intend to profit from the cline in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East. mega­trends described above. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 170 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Our strategy comprises what we call our three strategic and mostly located in emerging markets. A second focus area ­directions: is to expand our service business. We believe that the large installed base of our products and solutions at our clients pro>> focusing on innovation-driven growth markets, vides promising growth opportunities for our service business. >> getting closer to our customers, and Services play a key role in profitable growth at Siemens and, >> using the power of Siemens. in addition, long-term service agreements are less likely to be impacted by economic fluctuations. To intensify our customer One Siemens is our framework for sustainable value creation, focus is our third focus area. We believe that customer proximwith a financial target system for capital-efficient growth and ity and local presence are important factors in being able to the goal of continuous improvement relative to the market and ­respond quickly to changing market requirements. our competitors. In the strategic direction of using the power of Siemens, our One Siemens defines financial key performance indicators for first focus area is to encourage lifelong learning and developrevenue growth, for capital efficiency and profitability, and for ment of our employees. We invest continuously in expanding the optimization of our capital structure. In addition, we set the expertise of our people through tailored training and eduhurdle rates that generally need to be considered before we cation programs. We aim to develop the potential of our proceed to make acquisitions. Further, we defined an indicator ­employees worldwide by identifying talent and offering chaltargeted at an attractive dividend policy. We believe that these lenging tasks. To empower our diverse and engaged people indicators will play a key role in driving the value of our Comworldwide is our second focus area. We believe that the strong pany. For further information, see C.2 FINANCIAL PERFORpotential of our employees’ skills, experience and qualificaMANCE SYSTEM . tions can give us a clear competitive advantage in our global markets. The third focus area is to stand for integrity. On the To achieve our One Siemens goal of sustainably enhancing the basis of our values, we have formulated clear and binding value of Siemens and exploiting the full potential of our Comprinciples of conduct that cover all aspects of our entreprepany, we have defined three concrete focus areas along each neurial activities. of the three strategic directions set forth above, which we aim to address in the years ahead. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we have been implementing “Siemens 2014,” a company-wide program supporting the One Siemens In the strategic direction of focusing on innovation-driven framework for sustainable value creation. The goal of the progrowth markets, our first focus area is to be a pioneer in techgram is to reduce cost, increase competitiveness, and become nology-driven markets. Here, we intend to concentrate on faster and less bureaucratic. Our Sectors are continuing to exe­markets that are widely expected to have future growth potencute a broad range of measures expected to yield sustainable tial, such as software and IT. Our second focus area is to productivity gains. strengthen our portfolio. We are actively and systematically managing our portfolio with the principal aim of having our C.1.3.3 SECTOR STRATEGIES businesses achieve or maintain a No. 1 or No. 2 position in All Sectors share the common target established in our One their respective markets. To provide a leading environmental Siemens framework: to grow faster than our competitors withportfolio is our third focus area: Our Environmental Portfolio out compromising profitability in order to reach or maintain a increases our Company ’s revenue and makes a significant conleading position in their respective markets. tribution to ­climate protection. Our Energy Sector is one of the world’s leading suppliers of a In the strategic direction of getting closer to our customers, wide range of products, solutions and services in the field of one of our focus areas is to grow in emerging markets while energy technology. Its know-how, products, solutions and key maintaining our position in our established markets. We plan components span the entire energy generation and transmisto offer more products, solutions and services for the rapidly sion chain. The Energy Sector focuses its business and portfolio growing entry-level segments, which are more price-sensitive on large and strongly growing markets such as gas turbines, 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 171 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report wind turbines, and the oil and gas industry. Through strong cations in automation, drive train systems and service. Its onand continuing innovation efforts, it aims to ensure the techgoing strategic approach is to continuously drive innovation nological leadership of its products, solutions and services. The and seamlessly integrate the different software for product deSector is active on a global basis with special emphasis on cersign, engineering, and collaboration with digital manufacturtain countries and regions such as the U.S., China, the Middle ing and production execution. The Sector is an established East, and Europe. The Sector aims to ensure its market position player in discrete manufacturing industries such as the autothrough a balanced business model that includes not only motive industry and aims to grow its business in hybrid and highly competitive products, but also comprehensive solutions process industries (e.g. food and beverage). which demonstrate its integration competence. This offering is supplemented by strong services which help the Sector secure The drive train system business in manufacturing and process customer proximity and enable a constant flow of revenue. industries, and energy and infrastructure builds on the integration of gears, motors, inverters and motion control and is seamOur Healthcare Sector strives to be the pioneer in next-generlessly integrated with the Sector’s software and IT solutions. ation healthcare. It aims to outpace its respective markets and The Sector’s product business is complemented by its service generate high returns by helping customers gain efficiencies business: in addition to servicing its installed base, the Sector in healthcare delivery. These efficiencies are a key imperative is growing technology based value-added services such as in meeting globally increasing demand for healthcare in bud­energy and environmental services. In its solution business, it get-constrained environments. In anticipation of increased offers a complete set of solutions for specific i­ndustries such ­demand in economically challenging times, the Sector had as Automotive. In addition, its Metals Technologies Business launched and completed “Agenda 2013,” which started in fiscal Unit – a life-cycle partner for customers of ­metallurgical plants – 2012 and was implemented by the end of fiscal 2013. “Agenda drives innovation and continues to e ­xpand its presence in 2013” was a program to drive innovation and competitiveness emerging countries. Regionally, the core markets of the Sector across the portfolio, to broaden the regional footprint and to are in developed and emerging economies with a large indusdrive people excellence across the Sector. trial base, in particular in Ger­many, China and the U.S. Healthcare constantly renews its portfolio to ensure that it The strategy of Infrastructure & Cities Sector is to focus on meets the future needs of its customers, both in terms of qualthree areas: strategies to grow beyond; effective go-to-market; ity and price, and to continuously improve its cost position. and profitability of the core business. The Sector endeavors to improve operational excellence in its various businesses, and make use of new growth opportuniIn the focus area to grow beyond, the Sector defines its offerties in healthcare. These opportunities arise from closer inteings for targeted growth markets. One focus is to increase the gration between diagnostics and therapy, and increasing offering of entry-level products. In addition, the Sector aims to ­demand from emerging markets. The Sector’s integrated apincrease market shares for its vertical IT and software-based proach covers the entire medical treatment chain – from prebusiness, and for its intelligent infrastructure solutions. It also vention and early detection to diagnosis, therapy and aftercare. strives for focused capital allocation and portfolio expansion. It combines medical imaging and therapy systems, laboratory In the effective go-to-market area, the Sector aims to strengthdiagnostics and healthcare IT systems. en its sales approach in the city and infrastructure markets, e.g. by addressing infrastructure customers through one lead The Industry Sector aims to drive the productivity, efficiency Division. Another focus area is to secure and improve the profand flexibility of its customers by seamlessly integrating the itability of the Sector. Levers for this area are flawless order industry value chain. It is pursuing its strategic path to bebacklog execution; rigorous working capital management; excome a provider of a comprehensive portfolio of industrial cellence in procurement; an increase in global value sourcing; software and IT solutions. This portfolio will cover the entire containing selling, general and administrative expenses; esindustrial product design and production lifecycle. The Sector tablishing lean processing; and maintaining a global focus on also continues to add vertically integrated products and appliemployee development and recruiting. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 172 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.2 Financial performance system C.2.1 Overview C.2.3 Profitability and capital efficiency As part of One Siemens, we have developed a financial target Within the framework of One Siemens it is our goal to achieve system for capital-efficient growth that we believe will inmargins throughout the entire business cycle that are compacrease the value of our Company. Our goal is to achieve continrable to those of the best competitors within our markets. We uous improvement relative to the market and our competitors. seek to maintain or improve the profitability of our businesses The financial target system defines indicators for revenue as appropriate. Therefore we have defined adjusted EBITDA growth, profitability and capital efficiency, the optimization margin ranges for our four Sectors. These are defined as the of our capital structure, and our dividend policy. In addition, ratio of adjusted EBITDA (as presented in C.3.3 RECONCILIAwe set hurdle rates that generally must be considered before TION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (CONTINUING OPERATIONS) ) to revenue. we make acquisitions. Adjusted EBITDA target margin ranges for the Sectors, and their performance are shown in the chart below. In the following subchapters we describe financial performance measures which have been defined in accordance Adjusted EBITDA margins 1 with One Siemens and are used to manage and control activiMargin Target range ties at the Group level. These measures are or may be nonEnergy GAAP financial measures. Other companies that report or deFY 2013 9.9% scribe similarly titled financial measures may calculate them 10 – 15% FY 2012 8.9% differently. Healthcare FY 2013 19.8% 15 – 20% C.2.2 Revenue growth FY 2012 18.5% Industry We believe that profitable revenue growth is an important FY 2013 11.6% driver for increasing our Company ’s value over the long term. 11 – 17% FY 2012 15.5% Within the framework of One Siemens we have set ourselves the goal to grow our revenue faster than the average revenue Infrastructure & Cities growth of our most relevant competitors. For comparison with FY 2013 3.7% 8 – 12% our competitors, our revenue growth is calculated as the FY 2012 7.5% growth rate of reported revenue as presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For purposes of measuring, man1 Adjusted EBITDA margins of respective markets throughout business cycle. Target range aging and controlling the organic revenue growth this growth rate is adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. A detailed analysis regarding revenue growth is provided in In fiscal 2013, we used income from continuing operations at C.3.1.1 ORDERS AND REVENUE . the Group level to measure, manage and control profitability. For a detailed analysis of this measure refer to C.3.1.2 CONRevenue growth SOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME . Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2014, we use net income. This measure is the primary Revenue current period driver of basic earnings per share (EPS) from net income, – 1 × 100% Revenue prior-year period which we use for communicating with the capital markets. Within the framework of One Siemens we seek to work profitActual ably and as efficiently as possible with the capital of our shareFY 2013 (2)% holders and lenders. We manage and control our capital effiFY 2012 7% ciency using adjusted return on capital employed, or ROCE Adjusted 1 (adjusted), for continuing operations. This financial measure FY 2013 (1)% assesses our generated income from the point of view of our FY 2012 3% shareholders and lenders. ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operations is d ­ efined as income from continuing operations be1 Adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects. fore interest after tax divided by average capital employed. We 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 173 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report intend to achieve a target for ROCE (adjusted) for continuing Return on Equity (ROE) (after tax) operations of 15% to 20%. ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operations amounted to 13.8% in fiscal 2013, compared to 15.5% a SFS’ profit after tax × 100 % year earlier. The decrease was due to a combination of lower SFS’ average allocated equity income from continuing operations and higher average capital employed. ROCE (adjusted) for continuing and discontinued operations amounted to 13.5% in fiscal 2013, compared to 13.1% FY 2013 17.1% a year earlier. For information on the calculation of ROCE (adFY 2012 21.9% justed) and its components see C.2.7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES . Siemens’ weighted averTarget range: 15 – 20% age cost of capital (WACC) at the end of fiscal 2013 was approximately 7.5%. C.2.4 Capital structure Return on capital employed (ROCE (adjusted)) (continuing operations) A key consideration within the framework of One Siemens is to maintain ready access to the capital markets through various Income from continuing operations before interest after tax debt products and preserve our ability to repay and service our × 100% Average capital employed debt obligations over time. Therefore, we use the ratio of adjusted industrial net debt to adjusted EBITDA for managing and controlling our capital structure and as an indicator for the FY 2013 13.8% required period in years to repay the adjusted industrial net FY 2012 15.5% debt. Interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are not taken into consideration for purposes of this financial meaTarget range: 15 – 20% sure. Our goal is to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 – 1.0. The capital structure ratio as of September 30, 2013 increased to Our financial indicator for measuring capital efficiency at 0.34, compared to 0.24 a year earlier. This difference was due ­Financial Services (SFS) is return on equity after tax, or ROE to an increase of adjusted industrial net debt and a decrease of (after tax), in line with common practice in the financial seradjusted EBITDA (continuing operations). For more informavices industry. We define ROE (after tax) as SFS’ profit after tax, tion, see C.3.3 RECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (CONTINUING divided by SFS’ average allocated equity. For purposes of calcuOPERATIONS) and C.4.2 CAPITAL STRUCTURE . lating ROE (after tax), the relevant income tax is calculated on a simplified basis, by applying an assumed 30% flat tax rate to Capital structure (continuing operations) SFS’ profit, excluding income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net, which is basically net Adjusted industrial net debt of income tax already, and tax-free income components and Adjusted EBITDA others such as components which have already been taxed or are generally tax-free. We intend to achieve a target for ROE (after tax) of 15% to 20% at SFS. FY 2013 0.34 FY 2012 0.24 Target range: 0.5 – 1.0 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 174 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.2.5 Dividend and share buybacks Outlays for Siemens publicly announced share buybacks (excluding incidental transaction charges) during fiscal 2013 We intend to continue providing an attractive return to share­totaled €1.152 billion and represent 26% of net income. The holders. Therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a percentage for fiscal 2012 was 41% with outlays for share dividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fis­buybacks in the amount of €1.766 billion. cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a sum representing 40% to 60% of net income, which for this With the spin-off of OSRAM in fiscal 2013, Siemens shareholdpurpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional noners received one OSRAM share per ten Siemens AG shares. For cash effects. Furthermore, for fiscal 2014, we are taking proadditional information regarding the spin-off of OSRAM, see ceeds from the sale of the NSN stake in fiscal 2013 into considC.1.1.2 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION . eration. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout from Free cash flow. C.2.6 Additional measures At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, the Managing Board, in agreement with the Supervisory Board, will submit the followIn addition to the financial performance measures discussed ing proposal to allocate the unappropriated net income of above, we use several other financial measures to assess the Siemens AG for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013: to economic success of our business activities. To determine distribute a dividend of €3.00 on each no-par value share entiwhether a particular investment is likely to generate value for tled to the dividend for fiscal year 2013 existing at the date of Siemens, we use net present value or economic value added the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, with the remaining amount (EVA™). EVA™ considers the cost of capital in calculating value to be carried forward. Payment of the proposed dividend is creation by comparing the expected earnings of an investment contingent upon approval by Siemens shareholders at the against the cost of capital employed. EVA™ is also an indicator ­Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 28, 2014. The prior for measuring capital efficiency in our Sectors and at SFS. year dividend was €3.00 per share. To measure liquidity management of our operating activities, The proposed dividend of €3.00 per share for fiscal 2013 repwe analyze net operating working capital turns. In addition, resents a total payout of €2.529 billion based on shares outwe set hurdle rates that generally must be considered before standing as of September 30, 2013. Based on net income of we make acquisitions. In particular, acquisitions should have €4.409 billion for fiscal 2013, the dividend payout percentage the potential to be accretive to EVA™ within three years after would be 57%. The percentage for fiscal 2012 was 59%, based the integration and generate a 15% cash return within five on a total dividend payout of €2.528 billion and a net income of years. Cash return is defined as Free cash flow divided by aver€4.282 billion. Net income in fiscal 2012 was adjusted retroage capital employed. spectively for effects of adopting IAS 19R. Dividend payout percentage Total dividend payout × 100% Net income FY 2013 57% FY 2012 59% 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 175 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.2.7 Additional information for financial performance measures C.2.7.1 RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE (ADJUSTED)) As part of One Siemens, we monitor our capital efficiency usthis financial measure as defined under One Siemens and also ing the financial measure return on capital employed ROCE provide a reconciliation to ROCE (adjusted) for continuing and (adjusted) (continuing operations). The following tables report discontinued operations. (in millions of €) 09/30/2013 06/30/2013 03/31/2013 12/31/2012 09/30/2012 Capital employed Fiscal 2013 Total equity 28,625 27,909 26,620 30,551 31,424 Plus: Long-term debt 18,509 19,140 20,182 16,651 16,880 Plus: Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,656 2,752 3,709 3,826 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (6,071) (7,892) (7,823) (10,891) Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (601) (506) (533) (517) (524) Plus: Post-employment benefits 9,265 9,325 9,890 9,856 9,801 Less: SFS Debt (15,600) (15,004) (14,879) (14,490) (14,558) Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1 (1,247) (1,323) (1,473) (1,570) (1,670) Capital employed (continuing operations and discontinued operations) 31,706 37,127 34,667 36,367 34,289 Less: Assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations (768) (4,783) (4,616) (4,589) (4,693) Plus: Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal presented as discontinued operations 258 1,948 1,948 2,045 2,010 Capital employed (continuing operations) 31,195 34,291 31,999 33,823 31,606 1 Debt is generally reported with a value representing value mainly due to changes in interest rates. Accordfor the calculation presented above. For further infor­ approximately the amount to be repaid. However, for ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order mation on fair value hedges see NOTE 31 in debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful figure (in millions of €) 09/30/2012 06/30/2012 03/31/2012 12/31/2011 09/30/2011 Capital employed Fiscal 2012 Total equity 31,424 32,417 32,250 34,059 32,271 Plus: Long-term debt 16,880 15,234 14,731 14,566 14,280 Plus: Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 3,826 5,236 4,799 2,841 3,660 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (10,891) (8,963) (8,424) (8,977) (12,468) Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (524) (532) (542) (478) (477) Plus: Post-employment benefits 9,801 8,949 7,378 6,657 7,188 Less: SFS Debt (14,558) (13,644) (13,303) (13,424) (12,075) Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1 (1,670) (1,638) (1,474) (1,544) (1,470) Capital employed (continuing operations and discontinued operations) 34,289 37,058 35,414 33,699 30,909 Less: Assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations (4,693) (4,695) (4,893) (4,968) (4,666) Plus: Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal presented as discontinued operations 2,010 1,919 1,679 1,663 1,749 Capital employed (continuing operations) 31,606 34,283 32,201 30,394 27,993 1 Debt is generally reported with a value representing value mainly due to changes in interest rates. Accordfor the calculation presented above. For further infor­ approximately the amount to be repaid. However, for ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order mation on fair value hedges see NOTE 31 in debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful figure 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 176 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Income from continuing operations before interest after tax Net income 4,409 4,282 Plus/Less: Other interest expenses/income, net (455) (471) Less/Plus: SFS Other interest expenses/income 1 556 462 Plus: Interest expenses from post-employment benefits 297 310 Less: Taxes on interest adjustments 2 (111) (91) Income before interest after tax 4,695 4,493 Less/Plus: Income/loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (197) 360 Income from continuing operations before interest after tax 4,499 4,853 Return on capital employed (ROCE) (adjusted) (continuing and discontinued operations) (I) Income before interest after tax 4,695 4,493 (II) Average capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 3 34,831 34,274 (I) / (II) ROCE (adjusted) (continuing and discontinued operations) 13.5% 13.1% Return on capital employed (ROCE) (adjusted) (continuing operations) (I) Income from continuing operations before interest after tax 4,499 4,853 (II) Average capital employed (continuing operations) 3 32,583 31,295 (I) / (II) ROCE (adjusted) (continuing operations) 13.8% 15.5% 1 SFS Other interest income/expenses is included in Other 2 Effective tax rate for the determination of taxes on 3 Average capital employed for a fiscal year is determined interest income/expenses, net. Adding back SFS Other interest adjustments is calculated by dividing Income as a five-point average in capital employed of the interest income/expenses in the numerator corresponds tax expenses through Income from continuing respective quarters starting with the capital employed to the adjustment for SFS Debt in the denominator. ­operations before income taxes, both as reported as of September 30 of the previous fiscal year. in D.1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME . C.2.7.2 RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) (AFTER TAX) The following table reports the calculation of ROE (after tax) of SFS as defined under One Siemens. Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Calculation of income taxes of SFS Profit of SFS (Income before Income Taxes, IBIT) 409 479 Less/Plus: Income/loss from investments ­accounted for using the equity method, net of SFS 1 (85) (168) Less/Plus: Tax-free income components and others 2 (26) 57 Tax basis 298 368 Tax rate (flat) 30% 30% Calculated income taxes of SFS 89 110 Profit after tax of SFS Profit of SFS (IBIT) 409 479 Less: Calculated income taxes of SFS (89) (110) Profit after tax of SFS 320 368 ROE (after tax) of SFS (I) Profit after tax of SFS 320 368 (II) Average allocated equity of SFS 3 1,874 1,681 (I) / (II) ROE (after tax) of SFS 17.1% 21.9% 1 For information on Income (loss) from investments are reclassified from at equity to available-for-sale 3 Average allocated equity of SFS for a fiscal year is deteraccounted for using the equity method, net of SFS, f­ inancial assets and are therefore not included in the mined as a five-point average in allocated equity of SFS see C.3.3 RECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (Income) loss from investments accounted for using of the respective quarters starting with the allocated (CONTINUING OPERATIONS) . the equity method, net of SFS. Such results are already equity of SFS as of September 30 of the previous fiscal taxed or generally tax free. Others may also comprise year. 2 Tax-free income components include forms of financing an adjustment for material taxable Income (loss) from which are generally exempted from income taxes. investments accounted for using the equity method, Others comprise result components related to the net of SFS. (partial) sale/divestment of equity investments, which 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 177 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.2.7.3 DEFINITIONS OF Order backlog represents an indicator for the future revenues OTHER FINANCIAL MEASURES of our Company resulting from already recognized orders. We also use other financial measures in addition to the mea­Order backlog is calculated by adding the orders of the current sures described above, such as orders and order backlog for fiscal year to the balance of the order backlog as of the end of the assessment of our future revenue potential. We define and the prior fiscal year and then subtracting the revenue recogcalculate orders and order backlog as follows: nized in the current fiscal year. If the amount of an order already recognized in the current or the previous fiscal years is Under our policy for the recognition of orders, we generally modified or if an order from the current fiscal year is cancelled, recognize the total contract amount for an order when we enwe adjust orders for the current quarter and also our order ter into a contract that we consider legally effective and combacklog accordingly, but do not retroactively adjust previously pulsory based on a number of different criteria. The contract published orders. However, if an order from a previous fiscal amount is the agreed price or fee for that portion of the conyear is cancelled, orders of the current quarter and, accordingtract for which the delivery of goods and / or the provision of ly, the current fiscal year are generally not adjusted; instead, services has been irrevocably agreed. Future revenue from serthe existing order backlog is revised directly. Aside from canvice, maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognized as cellations, the order backlog is also subject to currency translaorders in the amount of the total contract value only if there is tion and portfolio effects. adequate assurance that the contract will remain in effect for its entire duration (e.g., due to high exit barriers for the cusThere is no standard system for compiling and calculating ortomer). Orders are generally recognized immediately when the ders and order backlog information that applies across comparelevant contract is considered legally effective and compulsonies. Accordingly, our orders and order backlog may not be ry. The only exceptions are orders with short overall contract comparable with orders and order backlog measures reported terms. In this case, a separate reporting of orders would proby other companies. We subject our orders and our order backvide no significant additional information regarding our perlog to internal documentation and review requirements. We formance. For orders of this type, the recognition of orders may change our policies for recognizing orders and order backthus occurs when the corresponding revenue is recognized. log in the future without previous notice. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 178 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.3 Results of operations C.3.1 Results of Siemens The following discussion presents selected information for Siemens for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013: C.3.1.1 ORDERS AND REVENUE Orders and revenue by Region in fiscal year 2013 and 2012 (location of customer) (in millions of €) Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East FY 2013 Orders 44,534 FY 2012 Change 38,536 16% FY 2013 Revenue 39,874 FY 2012 Change 39,947 0% Americas FY 2013 Asia, Australia Orders 22,219 FY 2012 Change 21,539 3% FY 2013 FY 2013 Orders 15,598 FY 2012 Change 15,863 (2)% Revenue 20,916 FY 2012 Change 22,078 (5)% FY 2013 Revenue 15,092 FY 2012 Change 15,370 (2)% Orders (location of customer) Revenue (location of customer) Year ended % Change therein Year ended % Change therein September 30, September 30, AdCurPort­AdCurPort­(in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual justed1 rency folio (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual justed1 rency folio Europe, C.I.S.,2 Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 44,534 38,536 16% 16% (1)% 1% Africa, Middle East 39,874 39,947 0% 0% (1)% 1% therein Germany 11,743 9,871 19% 19% 0% 0% therein Germany 10,750 11,049 (3)% (3)% 0% 0% Americas 22,219 21,539 3% 5% (3)% 1% Americas 20,916 22,078 (5)% (4)% (2)% 1% therein U.S. 14,635 14,727 (1)% (1)% (1)% 1% therein U.S. 14,179 15,946 (11)% (11)% (1)% 1% Asia, Australia 15,598 15,863 (2)% 0% (3)% 1% Asia, Australia 15,092 15,370 (2)% 0% (3)% 1% therein China 6,605 6,017 10% 8% 0% 2% therein China 6,140 6,322 (3)% (4)% 0% 1% Siemens 82,351 75,939 8% 10% (2)% 1% Siemens 75,882 77,395 (2)% (1)% (2)% 1% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 179 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Orders for fiscal 2013 totaled €82.351 billion, an 8% increase As previously disclosed, Siemens has decided that, subject to year-over-year, due primarily to higher volume from large certain limited exceptions, it will not enter into new contracts ­orders. In contrast, revenue came in at €75.882 billion, down with customers in Iran and has issued group-wide policies es2% from the prior year. This resulted in a book-to-bill ratio of tablishing the details of its general decision. In the fourth 1.09 for Siemens in fiscal 2013. On an organic basis, excluding quarter of fiscal 2012, as a result of an analysis of our contracts currency translation and portfolio effects, orders increased with Iranian customers in particular with respect to expected 10% and revenue came in 1% below the prior year. payment defaults and force majeure events, we recorded adjustments affecting several line items in our consolidated The order backlog (defined as the sum of order backlogs of our statements of income, in particular revenue and cost of sales, Sectors) was €100 billion as of September 30, 2013, up from recognized in prior periods from projects that were still per€97 billion a year earlier, despite negative currency translation mitted to be provided under these policies. For additional ineffects of €4 billion. formation, see C.9.3 RISKS . Orders related to external customers in fiscal 2013 increased Revenue related to external customers declined 2% com8% overall, with results varying among the Sectors. Infrastrucpared to fiscal 2012. A slight increase in Infrastructure & Cities ture & Cities reported double-digit growth on large orders at was more than offset by moderate declines in Energy and Transportation & Logistics, including a €3.0 billion contract ­Industry due to weak investment sentiment through most of win for trains and maintenance in the U.K. Orders for Energy fiscal 2013 and continuing softness in Industry ’s short-cycle were up 7%, driven by major contracts for wind power, and markets. Healthcare revenue came in near the prior-year level. were level in Healthcare. Order intake declined 3% in Industry On a global basis, emerging markets grew 1% and accounted due mainly to the challenging market environment for the Secfor €25.827 billion, or 34%, of total revenue in fiscal 2013. tor’s short-cycle businesses during most of fiscal 2013. On a global basis, orders from emerging markets, as these markets While revenue was stable year-over-year in the Europe, C.I.S., are defined by the International Monetary Fund, increased Africa, Middle East region, results within the region were 10%, faster than orders overall, and accounted for €28.702 bilmixed for the Sectors. Increases in Infrastructure & Cities and lion, or 35%, of total orders for fiscal 2013. Energy were offset by declines in Industry and Healthcare. Lower revenue in the Americas was due primarily to Energy, In the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East, orders inwhich experienced an order gap for wind-farms in the U.S. in creased 16%, including double-digit increases in Infrastructhe latter half of calendar 2012 due to uncertainties regarding ture & Cities and Energy driven by the major contract wins production tax incentives. The sharp drop in orders subsementioned above. The higher volume of large orders in both quently affected fiscal 2013 revenue development. In the Asia, Sectors was also the primary factor in order growth in GermaAustralia region, revenue declined 2% on decreases in Indusny. Orders for Healthcare and Industry in the region came in try and Energy that could not be offset by increases in the slightly below the level of fiscal 2012. Within moderate order ­other two Sectors. growth in the Americas, a 10% increase in Energy more than offset an 8% decline in Industry. Order intake in the Asia, Australia region showed a slight decrease in fiscal 2013. Orders and revenue by quarter (in millions of €) Orders Revenue Book-to-bill ratio Q4 2013 21,011 Q4 2013 21,168 0.99 Q3 2013 20,932 Q3 2013 19,009 1.10 Q2 2013 21,235 Q2 2013 17,779 1.19 Q1 2013 19,173 Q1 2013 17,925 1.07 Q4 2012 21,251 Q4 2012 21,444 0.99 Q3 2012 17,515 Q3 2012 19,271 0.91 Q2 2012 17,597 Q2 2012 19,033 0.92 Q1 2012 19,576 Q1 2012 17,648 1.11 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 180 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.3.1.2 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Income from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal 2013 declined to €5.843 billion from €6.636 billion a year earlier. Year ended September 30, % Change (in millions of €) 2013 2012 The largest factor in the decline was €1.276 billion in charges Gross profit 20,829 21,925 (5)% in the Sectors for the “Siemens 2014” program. These charges as percentage of revenue 27.4% 28.3% – resulted from measures taken in fiscal 2013 to reduce costs by Research and development improving regional footprints, adjusting capacity, and increas­expenses (4,291) (4,245) (1)% ing process efficiency. The charges are included in the followas percentage of revenue 5.7% 5.5% – ing functional costs: Selling and general ­administrative expenses (11,286) (11,043) (2)% as percentage of revenue 14.9% 14.3% – Other operating income 503 523 (4)% Year ended September 30, Other operating expenses (427) (364) (17)% (in millions of €) 2013 Income (loss) from investCost of sales (and accordingly, gross profit) 762 ments accounted for using the Research and development expenses 37 equity method, net 510 (333) n/a Selling and general administrative expenses 374 Interest income 948 939 1% Interest expenses (789) (760) (4)% Other financial income ­(expenses), net (154) (5) < (200)% Income from continuing In addition, charges of €104 million were included in other line ­operations before items, predominantly in Other operating expenses. For comincome taxes 5,843 6,636 (12)% parison, in fiscal 2012, Healthcare reported charges of €184 Income tax expenses (1,630) (1,994) 18% million under its “Agenda 2013” initiative, which began a year as percentage of income before the “Siemens 2014” program. In fiscal 2013, the Sector’s from continuing operations before income taxes 28% 30% – charges under this initiative are included within “Siemens Income from continuing 2014” charges. ­operations 4,212 4,642 (9)% Income (loss) from A number of factors in addition to the “Siemens 2014” charges ­discontinued ­operations, reduced gross profit year-over-year. These included continuing net of income taxes 197 (360) n/a Net income 4,409 4,282 3% market challenges, such as lower capacity utilization in IndusNet income attributable to try, pricing pressure and a less favorable revenue mix in a non-controlling interests 126 132 – number of our businesses. In addition, both years included Net income attributable to various charges and gains, including project charges in the shareholders of Siemens AG 4,284 4,151 3% Sectors Energy and Infrastructure & Cities. The most relevant of these charges are disclosed in C.3.2 SEGMENT INFORMATION ANALYSIS . While the net amounts of these items were significant at Group level in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, there was only a small change in the net amount year-over-year. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 181 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Income from continuing operations before income taxes beneThis substantial positive swing was due mainly to OSRAM, for fited from a sharply lower loss related to our stake in Nokia which the prior-year amount included a negative catch-up efSiemens Networks Holding B.V. (NSN), which narrowed to fect of €443 million (pretax), arising when we deemed it no €76 million from €741 million a year earlier. In addition, results longer highly probable to complete our original plan to dispose related to NSN in fiscal 2013 benefited from a positive effect of of OSRAM via an initial public offering. We subsequently com€301 million stemming from a partial reversal of a fiscal 2009 pleted the spin-off and listing of OSRAM in the fourth quarter impairment of our stake in NSN, and a gain of €76 million from of fiscal 2013. the sale of the NSN stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. These changes year-over-year are included in Income (loss) In addition, the item Other in fiscal 2012 included a burden from investments accounted for ­using the equity method. of €143 million (pretax) from a settlement related to Greece. For additional information on discontinued operations, see Including the developments described above, Income from NOTE 2 in D. 6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . continuing operations before income taxes declined 12% yearover-year. Due to a lower tax base and a lower effective tax rate As a result of the positive swing in income from discontinued compared to fiscal 2012, the decline in Income from continuoperations, Net income for Siemens was 3% higher than in ing operations year-over-year came in at 9%. the same period a year earlier. Net income attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG increased to €4.284 billion, from Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes €4.151 billion in fiscal 2012. in fiscal 2013 was €197 million, compared to a loss of €360 million in fiscal 2012, and was comprised of the following: Basic earnings per share were €5.08 in fiscal 2013, up from €4.74 in fiscal 2012, reflecting higher Net income attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG, and a lower number of weightYear ended September 30, % Change ed average shares outstanding due to share buybacks in fiscal (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013. For additional information, see NOTE 35 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . OSRAM 277 (135) n/a Siemens IT Solutions and Services 71 40 78% Other (151) (265) 43% 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 182 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.3.2 Segment information analysis C.3.2.1 ENERGY Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 1,955 1,901 3% Profit margin 7.3% 6.9% Orders 28,797 26,930 7% 8% (2)% 1% Total revenue 26,638 27,736 (4)% (3)% (2)% 0% External revenue 26,386 27,501 (4)% therein: Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 14,346 14,261 1% therein Germany 2,231 1,927 16% Americas 7,153 8,141 (12)% Asia, Australia 4,886 5,098 (4)% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Energy reported a profit of €1.955 billion in fiscal 2013, up 3% on a retrospective basis. The loss from the solar business was year-over-year. The Sector took €301 million in charges under nearly unchanged year-over-year, at €255 million, compared to the “Siemens 2014” program, primarily for reducing its cost €258 million a year earlier. In the current fiscal year, the loss structure, adjusting capacity and improving its regional footincluded impairments and costs associated with the rampprint. Fossil Power Generation contributed lower earnings down of the business of €181 million. In fiscal 2012, the loss than a year earlier, but still accounted for most of the Sector’s included impairments of €150 million. profit and was the highest profit performer among all Siemens Divisions. Profit at Oil & Gas increased year-over-year on subRevenue declined 4% compared to the prior-year period as stantially lower charges related to Iran. Wind Power’s profit re­declines at Fossil Power Generation and Power Transmission mained on the same level as in fiscal 2012, despite €94 million were only partially offset by increases at Wind Power and Oil & in charges related to turbine blades. Power Transmission cut Gas. On a regional basis, revenue rose in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, its loss nearly in half compared to the prior year, due mainly to Middle East and declined in other regions. Orders came in 7% substantially lower charges mainly related to grid-connections higher due mainly to large orders at Wind Power in Europe, to offshore wind-farms. These charges totaled €171 million in C.I.S., Africa, Middle East. Order intake was clearly higher in fiscal 2013 compared to €570 million in fiscal 2012. The solar the Americas, while orders declined significantly in the Asia, business was reclassified from discontinued operations to conAustralia region. The book-to-bill ratio for Energy was 1.08, and tinuing operations in fiscal 2013 and is reported within Energy its order backlog was €54 billion at the end of the fiscal year. Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Fossil Power Generation 10,682 11,116 (4)% (2)% (2)% 0% Wind Power 6,593 4,932 34% 34% (2)% 1% Oil & Gas 5,801 5,307 9% 9% (2)% 2% Power Transmission 5,700 5,824 (2)% 0% (2)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 183 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Fossil Power Generation 10,239 11,161 (8)% (7)% (1)% 0% Wind Power 5,174 5,066 2% 4% (2)% 1% Oil & Gas 5,152 5,115 1% 0% (1)% 2% Power Transmission 6,167 6,593 (6)% (4)% (2)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 % Change 2013 2012 Fossil Power Generation 1,693 1,933 (12)% 16.5% 17.3% Wind Power 306 304 1% 5.9% 6.0% Oil & Gas 433 218 99% 8.4% 4.3% Power Transmission (156) (302) 48% (2.5)% (4.6)% Fossil Power Generation generated profit of €1.693 billion in than compensated for a sharp decline in the Americas. The fiscal 2013, significantly below €1.933 billion in fiscal 2012. The sharp decline in the Americas was due to the onshore wind main drivers of the change were a decline in revenue in the farm business, where the U.S is the largest national market for solutions business and a less favorable revenue mix particularWind Power. New projects in the U.S. were halted or postponed ly in the products business. Both years included burdens on in the latter half of 2012 due to uncertainty regarding continuprofit. In the current year, the Division recorded €129 million in ation of production tax incentives. The resulting order gap led “Siemens 2014” charges. A year earlier, charges of €152 million to a steep drop in fiscal 2013 revenue in the Americas comrelated to the Olkiluoto project in Finland were partly offset by pared to a year earlier. Order intake was up 34% year-over-year, an €87 million gain on the Division’s divestment of its joint due mainly to a much higher volume from large orders, which venture stake in OAO Power Machines. Revenue was 8% lower included several large offshore wind-farms in Europe, C.I.S., year-over-year, resulting mainly from declining order intake for Africa, Middle East. turnkey projects. On a geographic basis, revenue declined significantly in the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East region. Order Profit at Oil & Gas almost doubled year-over-year, to €433 milintake was down 4%, as a substantial decrease in Asia, Australion, due primarily to substantially lower charges related to adlia and a moderate decline in the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa, justments for long-term construction and service contracts Middle East were partially offset by a significant increase in with customers in Iran. In fiscal 2013, the Division recorded the Americas. €46 million in these charges on Division profit in the first quarter as part of compliance with sanctions on Iran, primarily on Profit at Wind Power was €306 million in fiscal 2013, nearly its oil and gas industries, enacted in October 2012. In fiscal unchanged from fiscal 2012. Both fiscal years included burdens 2012, the Division recorded charges totaling €275 million relaton profit. In the current fiscal year, the Division took the €94 ed to Iran, mainly as a result of a revenue reduction of €282 million in charges mentioned above, for inspecting and retromillion. The Division also took €34 million in charges for the fitting installed onshore turbine blades, primarily in the U.S. “Siemens 2014” program. Revenue was slightly higher comA year earlier, profit was held back by a €32 million provision pared to the prior year on increases in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, related to a wind turbine component from an external supplier Middle East and the Americas, partially offset by a decrease in and a charge of €20 million related to capacity adjustment. Asia, Australia. Order intake was up 9% as growth in Asia, AusRevenue was slightly higher than in the prior year as increases tralia and Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East more than offset a in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East and Asia, Australia more decline in the Americas. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 184 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Power Transmission sharply reduced its loss compared to fisand orders booked in prior periods with significant pricing cal 2012, to €156 million, despite €129 million in charges for pressure. Operational challenges strongly cut back profit in the “Siemens 2014” program. The major factor in the change the high-voltage products business. Revenue for the Division was lower project charges related mainly to grid connections was down 6% year-over-year due to declines in Europe, C.I.S., to offshore wind-farms, which fell to €171 million from €570 Africa, Middle East and Asia, Australia. Orders came in 2% lowmillion a year earlier. These charges were due to project deer compared to the prior year, due in part to more selective lays resulting from regulatory complexity and the projects’ order intake. On a regional basis, a decline in Europe, C.I.S., challenging marine environment, which required revised estiAfrica, Middle East was partially offset by increases in other mates of resources and personnel. Profit development was regions. The Division expects continuing challenges in comheld back by margin compression related to these projects ing quarters. C.3.2.2 HEALTHCARE Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 2,048 1,815 13% Profit margin 15.0% 13.3% Orders 13,950 13,806 1% 4% (3)% 0% Total revenue 13,621 13,642 0% 2% (3)% 0% External revenue 13,598 13,600 0% therein: Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 4,544 4,593 (1)% therein Germany 995 1,056 (6)% Americas 5,631 5,692 (1)% Asia, Australia 3,422 3,315 3% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. The Healthcare Sector delivered €2.048 billion in profit in fischarges fell to €35 million from €80 million in fiscal 2012. Purcal 2013, up significantly from the prior-year level with all busichase price allocation (PPA) effects related to past acquisitions nesses contributing to profit growth. Results for the year were at Diagnostics were €169 million in fiscal 2013. A year earlier, positively influenced by lower charges associated with the SecDiagnostics recorded €173 million in PPA effects. tor’s “Agenda 2013” initiative, which declined to €84 million from €184 million in fiscal 2012. Healthcare intends to mainRevenue for Healthcare in fiscal 2013 was nearly unchanged tain the achievements of the initiative going forward, includcompared to fiscal 2012, while orders increased slightly yearing improvements in cost position and competitiveness. In over-year. On an organic basis, both revenue and orders were particular, expenses for research and development and selling up. On a geographic basis, revenue growth in Asia, Australia and general administrative expenses both declined compared was offset by declines in the other regions. Asia, Australia and to fiscal 2012. Effective January 1, 2013, results for Healthcare the Americas drove order growth due to increases in China and included negative effects on profit from an excise tax on medithe U.S. The book-to-bill ratio was 1.02, and Healthcare’s order cal devices which was introduced in the U.S., affecting most backlog was €7 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. businesses in the Sector. Revenue at Diagnostics declined 1% in fiscal 2013, from €3.969 Profit at Diagnostics came in at €350 million compared to €314 billion to €3.942 billion, and showed the same development million a year earlier. Profit development followed the pattern as the Sector with regard to the regions. On comparable basis of the Sector with regard to “Agenda 2013,” including lower ­revenue was up 2%. charges and improvements in cost position. In particular the 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 185 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.3.2.3 INDUSTRY Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 1,478 2,448 (40)% Profit margin 8.0% 12.6% Orders 18,417 18,962 (3)% (3)% (1)% 1% Total revenue 18,586 19,409 (4)% (4)% (1)% 1% External revenue 16,943 17,772 (5)% therein: Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 9,261 9,644 (4)% therein Germany 4,198 4,464 (6)% Americas 3,290 3,484 (6)% Asia, Australia 4,393 4,644 (5)% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. In fiscal 2013, profit at Industry fell sharply to €1.478 billion, signs of stabilizing towards the end of the period, revenue deimpacted by €424 million in charges for the “Siemens 2014” clined moderately year-over-year on broad-based decreases at program primarily for improving the Sector’s global footprint both Divisions and the metals technologies business. Orders and reducing costs associated with administrative processes. for the Sector declined 3% year-over-year, as reported growth Profit development was held back also by lower revenue and a on larger orders at the end of the year was more than offset by less favorable business mix, due mainly to continuing softness a low order intake through most of fiscal 2013. in the Sector’s short-cycle businesses. In addition, the Sector took €100 million in charges for two large projects at its metals On a geographic basis, Industry ’s orders and revenue both technologies business. showed a broad-based decline in all three reporting regions. The book-to-bill ratio was 0.99, and Industry ’s order backlog The market environment for Industry through most of fiscal declined to €10 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. 2013 was clearly more challenging than a year earlier. Despite Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Industry Automation 8,143 8,524 (4)% (5)% (1)% 2% Drive Technologies 9,024 9,395 (4)% (3)% (1)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Industry Automation 8,194 8,463 (3)% (3)% (1)% 1% Drive Technologies 9,208 9,640 (4)% (4)% (1)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 186 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 % Change 2013 2012 Industry Automation 1,038 1,316 (21)% 12.7% 15.6% Drive Technologies 527 970 (46)% 5.7% 10.1% Profit at Industry Automation declined substantially yearfrom deferred revenue adjustments and inventory step-ups reover year, due in part to €114 million in charges for “Siemens lated to LMS totaled an additional €43 million. Both fiscal years 2014.” Continuing softness in the Division’s short-cycle marunder review included PPA effects from the acquisition of UGS kets led to lower revenue year-over-year and reduced capacity Corp., acquired in fiscal 2007. These effects were €147 million utilization. The Division took measures to improve its busiin fiscal 2013 and €149 million a year earlier. ness mix via a ramp-down of certain low-margin activities, including the solar inverter business. In contrast, the Division’s Profit at Drive Technologies in fiscal 2013 came in at €527 milindustrial IT and software business contributed revenue and lion, a sharp decline from the prior-year level. The main impact order growth year-over-year, due in part to recent acquisitions was €243 million in charges for “Siemens 2014.” Profit developincluding LMS. Revenue for the Division overall came in 3% ment also included a revenue-driven decline due to challengbelow the prior year, on declines in the Americas and Europe, ing market conditions for the Division’s higher-margin C.I.S., Africa, Middle East. The Division’s moderate decline in short-cycle businesses and its offerings for renewable energy. orders year-over-year was evident in all three reporting reOn a geographic basis, both orders and revenue declined modgions, led by a clear decrease in the Americas. erately on lower volume in all three reporting regions, particularly including Asia, Australia which showed a clear decline In addition, the Division took PPA effects related to long-lived year-over-year. assets of LMS, which totaled €33 million for the year. Effects C.3.2.4 INFRASTRUCTURE & CITIES Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 306 1,102 (72)% Profit margin 1.7% 6.3% Orders 21,894 17,150 28% 28% (3)% 2% Total revenue 17,879 17,585 2% 1% (1)% 2% External revenue 17,128 16,731 2% therein: Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 10,482 10,121 4% therein Germany 2,633 2,880 (9)% Americas 4,283 4,344 (1)% Asia, Australia 2,363 2,267 4% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Profit at Infrastructure & Cities came in at €306 million in fisBuilding Technologies, which otherwise showed strong profit cal 2013, down from €1.102 billion a year earlier. The biggest performances. Transportation & Logistics took the largest part factor in this decline year-over-year was €468 million in of the Sector’s “Siemens 2014” charges. Furthermore, its profit “Siemens 2014” charges, taken primarily to improve the Secwas impacted by project charges of €270 million related to tor’s cost efficiency and regional footprint. These charges led high-speed trains. In the prior fiscal year, charges related to to declines in profit at Power Grid Solutions & Products and these matters were sharply lower at €86 million. Transaction 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 187 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report and integration costs related to its Invensys Rail acquisition, tics, which recorded a sharply higher volume from major orwhich closed in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, further imders compared to the prior fiscal year including €3.0 billion for pacted the Business’ profit year-over-year. As a result of the trains and maintenance in the U.K. Orders for Power Grid Soluabove mentioned factors, Transportation & Logistics posted a tions & Products were also higher year-over-year, while orders loss in the current fiscal year, compared to a profit in the prior for Building Technologies came in near the prior-year level. On fiscal year. a regional basis, revenue rose in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East and in Asia, Australia. Regional order development was Revenue was up 2% compared to the prior fiscal year, as insimilar but even more pronounced. The large contract awards creases at Transportation & Logistics and Power Grid Solumentioned above drove growth in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle tions & Products more than offset a slight decline at Building East. Orders in Asia, Australia were also up substantially. On a Technologies. Orders for the Sector rose substantially yearbook-to-bill ratio of 1.22, Infrastructure & Cities’ order backlog over-year. This growth was driven by Transportation & Logisrose to €29 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Transportation & Logistics 10,040 5,382 87% 85% (5)% 6% Power Grid Solutions & Products 6,392 6,275 2% 4% (2)% 0% Building Technologies 5,769 5,809 (1)% 0% (1)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Actual Adjusted 1 Currency Portfolio Transportation & Logistics 6,318 5,969 6% 2% (2)% 6% Power Grid Solutions & Products 6,102 6,068 1% 3% (2)% 0% Building Technologies 5,754 5,820 (1)% 0% (1)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 % Change 2013 2012 Transportation & Logistics (448) 236 n/a (7.1)% 4.0% Power Grid Solutions & Products 403 457 (12)% 6.6% 7.5% Building Technologies 351 379 (7)% 6.1% 6.5% Transportation & Logistics posted a loss of €448 million in tion & Logistics intends to sell. Profit development for the fiscal the current fiscal year, compared to profit of €236 million a year was also held back by low margins associated with large year earlier. The two main factors for the change were sharply long-term contracts. The acquisition of Invensys Rail during higher project charges year-over-year, which included the the third quarter of fiscal 2013 resulted in €76 million in transabove mentioned €270 million from delays for receiving certifiaction and integration costs for the fiscal year and PPA effects cation for new high-speed trains in fiscal 2013, up from €86 of €23 million. Revenue for the Business rose 6% while orders million for these matters in the prior fiscal year, and €267 milwere up 87%, due primarily to a sharply higher volume from lion in charges related to “Siemens 2014.” The latter charges major orders year-over-year, including the above-mentioned include a goodwill impairment of €46 million on the airport €3.0 billion order in the U.K. Both revenue and order growth logistics and postal automation business which Transportabenefited from the acquisition of Invensys Rail. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 188 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Profit at Power Grid Solutions & Products came in at €403 milProfit (defined as income before income taxes) at SFS came in lion, down from €457 million a year earlier. The decline was at €409 million, compared to €479 million in the prior-year due to €97 million in “Siemens 2014” charges. Revenue and or­period, which benefited from a €78 million gain on the sale of ders increased slightly year-over-year. On a regional basis, reva portion of SFS’s stake in Bangalore International Airport Limitenue was higher in Asia, Australia and the Americas and deed. SFS continued to successfully execute its growth strategy clined slightly in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East. Orders rose and higher total assets year-over-year helped generate a higher in Asia, Australia and Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East, only interest result compared to the prior-year. The current period partly offset by a decline in the Americas. was affected by burdens including a €52 million impairment of SFS’s equity stake in a power plant project in the U.S. Profit at Building Technology declined to €351 million in fiscal 2013, from €379 million a year earlier as the Division absorbed C.3.2.7 RECONCILIATION TO €100 million in “Siemens 2014” charges in the current period. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Selective order intake led to a more favorable business mix Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements includes compared to the prior fiscal year, particularly including BuildCentrally managed portfolio activities, Siemens Real Estate ing Technologies’ higher-margin product and service business. (SRE) and various categories of items which are not allocated It also led to a slight decline in revenue and orders year-overto the Sectors and to SFS because the Company ’s management year. On a regional basis, lower volume was due mainly to the has determined that such items are not indicative of the SecAmericas. tors’ and SFS’ respective performance. C.3.2.5 EQUITY INVESTMENTS Centrally managed portfolio activities In fiscal 2013, Equity Investments recorded a profit of €396 Centrally managed portfolio activities reported a loss of €12 million, compared to a loss of €549 million a year earlier. This million in fiscal 2013, compared to a loss of €29 million in fiscal improvement year-over-year was due mainly to a sharply lower 2012. loss related to our share in NSN, which declined to €76 million from €741 million a year earlier. In addition, results related to Siemens Real Estate (SRE) NSN in fiscal 2013 benefited from a positive effect of €301 milIncome before income taxes at SRE was €171 million in fiscal lion stemming from a partial reversal of a fiscal 2009 impair2013, compared to €115 million in fiscal 2012. This increase ment of our stake in NSN, and a gain of €76 million from the was due in part to higher income related to the disposal of real sale of the NSN stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. The estate. equity investment loss related to our share in EN widened to €96 million in fiscal 2013 from a loss of €23 million a year earliCorporate items and pensions er. The loss in the current period was due largely to additions Corporate items and pensions reported a loss of €839 million to Siemens’ net investment in EN, which resulted in the recogin fiscal 2013 compared to a loss of €668 million in fiscal 2012. nition of previously unrecognized losses. Profit at Equity InvestThe loss at Corporate items was €419 million, compared to a ments in both fiscal years included equity investment income loss of €261 million in fiscal 2012 which included positive related to our stake in BSH. ­effects related to legal and regulatory matters. Centrally carried pension expense totaled €420 million in fiscal 2013, comC.3.2.6 FINANCIAL SERVICES (SFS) pared to €407 million in fiscal 2012. Eliminations, Corporate Treasury Year ended September 30, % Change and other reconciling items (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Income before income taxes from Eliminations, Corporate Income before income taxes 409 479 (14)% Treasury and other reconciling items was a negative €70 milTotal assets 18,661 17,405 7% lion in fiscal 2013, compared to a positive €23 million in the same period a year earlier. The change year-over-year included lower results from Corporate Treasury activities, due mainly to lower interest income from liquidity compared to the prior-year period. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 189 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.3.3 Reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) The following table gives additional information on topics inIFRS is Net income as reported in our “Consolidated Statements cluded in Profit and Income before income taxes and provides of Income.” For further information regarding adjusted EBIT a reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA based on continuing operaand adjusted EBITDA, please see C.12 NOTES AND FORWARDtions. We report adjusted EBIT and adjusted EBITDA as a perforLOOKING STATEMENTS . mance measure. The closest comparable GAAP figure under For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 Profit1 Income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net2 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sectors Energy Sector 1,955 1,901 (39) 22 therein: Fossil Power Generation 1,693 1,933 32 41 Wind Power 306 304 (8) 6 Oil & Gas 433 218 – – Power Transmission (156) (302) 20 25 Healthcare Sector 2,048 1,815 8 8 therein: Diagnostics 350 314 – – Industry Sector 1,478 2,448 (4) 11 therein: Industry Automation 1,038 1,316 – 1 Drive Technologies 527 970 (5) 10 Infrastructure & Cities Sector 306 1,102 26 25 therein: Transportation & Logistics (448) 236 18 15 Power Grid Solutions & Products 403 457 8 9 Building Technologies 351 379 – 1 Total Sectors 5,788 7,266 (10) 66 Equity Investments 396 (549) 372 (568) Financial Services (SFS) 409 479 85 168 Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements Centrally managed portfolio activities (12) (29) 69 7 Siemens Real Estate (SRE) 171 115 – – Corporate items and pensions (839) (668) – – Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items (70) 23 (6) (5) Siemens 5,843 6,636 510 (333) 1 Profit of the Sectors as well as of Equity Investments and Siemens is Income from continuing operations before 3 Includes impairment of non-current available-for-sale Centrally managed portfolio activities is earnings before income taxes. For a reconciliation of Income from financial assets. For Siemens, Financial income (exfinancing interest, certain pension costs and income continuing operations before income taxes to Net inpenses), net comprises Interest income, Interest extaxes. Certain other items not considered performance come see D.1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME . penses and Other financial income (expenses), net as indicative by Management may be excluded. Profit of reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 2 Includes impairments and reversals of impairments of SFS and SRE is Income before income taxes. Profit of investments accounted for using the equity method. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 190 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Financial income Adjusted EBIT4 Amortization5 Depreciation and Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA margin (expenses), net3 impairments of property, plant and equipment and goodwill6 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 (27) 44 2,022 1,835 132 97 478 537 2,631 2,470 9.9% 8.9% (13) 67 1,674 1,825 19 21 143 142 1,835 1,988 (6) (5) 320 303 32 27 103 100 454 430 (3) (4) 436 222 49 38 79 71 564 330 (10) (20) (167) (308) 13 11 114 109 (39) (187) (18) 2 2,059 1,804 314 377 323 349 2,696 2,530 19.8% 18.5% (27) 9 377 305 196 232 211 226 784 763 (17) (14) 1,499 2,452 303 253 354 300 2,156 3,005 11.6% 15.5% (4) (7) 1,041 1,323 240 195 123 114 1,404 1,631 (11) (6) 542 966 56 48 219 172 817 1,187 2 29 278 1,048 154 112 226 165 657 1,324 3.7% 7.5% (7) (16) (459) 236 39 13 99 46 (321) 296 (6) (4) 401 452 57 39 78 71 536 562 – (2) 352 381 58 60 46 47 456 488 (60) 61 5,858 7,139 902 839 1,381 1,350 8,141 9,329 7 7 17 12 – – – – 17 12 389 385 (64) (73) 5 7 225 264 166 197 (2) – (80) (36) 2 4 2 2 (76) (31) (110) (112) 281 227 1 2 313 325 595 553 (249) (305) (590) (363) 17 16 74 51 (499) (296) 30 137 (94) (109) – – (34) (41) (128) (151) 5 173 5,328 6,796 927 867 1,960 1,950 8,215 9,613 4 Adjusted EBIT is Income from continuing operations before 5 Amortization and impairments, net of reversals, of intangi6 Depreciation and impairments of property, plant and income taxes less Financial income (expenses), net and ble assets other than goodwill. equipment, net of reversals. Includes impairments of Income (loss) from investments accounted for using the goodwill of €70 million in the current period and €85 equity method, net. million in the prior-year period, respectively. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 191 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.4 Financial position C.4.1 Principles and objectives C.4.1.2 CASH MANAGEMENT of financial management Cash management comprises the management of bank partner relationships and bank accounts as well as the execution Siemens is committed to a strong financial profile, which proof payments, including the administration of cash pools, on a vides the financial flexibility to achieve growth and portfolio global level. Siemens strives to raise efficiency and transparenoptimization goals largely independent of capital market concy through a high level of standardization and continuous ditions. ­advancement of payment processes. Where permissible, the execution of intercompany and third party payments is effectFinancial management at Siemens is executed according to aped centrally through group-wide tools with central controls to plicable laws and internal guidelines and regulations. It inensure compliance with internal and external guidelines and cludes the following activities: requirements. To ensure efficient management of Siemens’ funds, Corporate Treasury has established a central cash manC.4.1.1 LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT agement approach: to the extent legally and economically feaOur principal source of financing is cash inflows from operatsible, funds are pooled and managed centrally by Corporate ing activities. Corporate Treasury generally manages cash and Treasury. Conversely, funding needs within Siemens are covcash equivalents for Siemens and has primary responsibility ered centrally by Corporate Treasury via intercompany current for raising funds in the capital markets for Siemens through accounts and / or loans where legally and economically feasible. various debt products, with the exception of countries with conflicting capital market controls. The relevant consolidated C.4.1.3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT subsidiaries in these countries obtain financing primarily from Investments of cash and cash equivalents are subject to credit local banks. Siemens follows a prudent borrowing policy that requirements and counterparty limits. Corporate Treasury is aimed towards a balanced financing portfolio, a diversified pools and centrally manages Siemens’ interest rate, certain maturity profile and a comfortable liquidity cushion. As of Sepcommodity and currency risk exposures and uses financial detember 30, 2013, Siemens held €9.190 billion in cash and cash rivative instruments in transactions with external financial inequivalents, mainly in euro, which were predominantly manstitutions to offset such concentrated exposures. Especially aged by Corporate Treasury. Especially since the beginning since the beginning of the global financial market crisis, of the global financial markets crisis, Siemens monitors fundSiemens monitors counterparty risk in its financial assets and ing options available in the capital markets, trends in the availfinancial derivative instruments very closely. For more detailed ability of funds and the cost of such funding very closely in orinformation about financial risk management at Siemens, see der to evaluate possible strategies regarding its financial and NOTE 32 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . risk profile. C.4.1.4 MANAGEMENT Corporate Treasury enters into reverse repurchase agreements OF POST-EMPLOYMENT B ­ ENEFITS with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratOur funding policy for post-employment-benefits is part of our ings. Siemens holds securities as collateral under these agreeoverall commitment to sound financial management, which ments via a third party (Euroclear) and is permitted to sell or includes a continuous analysis of the structure of our pension re-pledge the securities. The extent to which Siemens engages liabilities. For more detailed information about our pension in transactions involving reverse repurchase agreements deplan funding, see C.4.6.4 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS . pends on its liquidity management needs and the availability of cash and cash equivalents which varies from time to time. C.4.1.5 CAPITAL STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT For further information on reverse purchase agreements, see To effectively manage its capital structure, we seek to maintain NOTE 30 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . ready access to the capital markets through various debt products and to preserve its ability to repay and service its debt obligations over time. For further information on capital structure management, see C.4.2 CAPITAL STRUCTURE . 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 192 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.4.2 Capital structure September 30, As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 our capital structure was as (in millions of €) 2013 2012 follows: Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1 1,944 3,826 Plus: Long-term debt 1 18,509 16,880 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (10,891) September 30, % Change Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (601) (524) (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Net debt 10,663 9,292 Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 28,111 30,855 (9)% Less: SFS Debt 2 (15,600) (14,558) As percentage of total capital 58% 60% Plus: Post-employment benefits 3 9,265 9,801 Short-term debt and current Plus: Credit guarantees 622 326 maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,826 Less: 50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4 (899) (920) Long-term debt 18,509 16,880 Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 5 (1,247) (1,670) Total debt 20,453 20,707 (1)% Adjusted industrial net debt 2,805 2,271 As percentage of total capital 42% 40% Total capital Adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) 8,215 9,613 (total equity and total debt) 48,564 51,561 (6)% Adjusted industrial net debt /adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) 0.34 0.24 For information on changes in equity and debt, see C.5 NET 1 The item Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the item Long-term debt included in total fair value hedge accounting adjustments of ASSETS POSITION . €1,247 million and €1,670 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 2 The adjustment considers that both Moody’s and S&P view SFS as a captive finance We believe that sustainable revenue and profit development company. These rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher levels can be achieved only on the basis of a healthy capital strucof debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit ratings. Following this concept, we exclude SFS Debt in order to derive an adjusted industrial ture. A key consideration of our capital structure management net debt which is not affected by SFS’s financing activities. is to maintain ready access to the capital markets through 3 To reflect Siemens’ total pension liability, adjusted industrial net debt includes line item Post-employment benefits as presented in D.3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS ­various debt products and to preserve our ability to repay and OF FINANCIAL POSITION . service our debt obligations over time. Siemens set a capital 4 The adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial ratio applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and structure target range of 0.5 – 1.0. The ratio is defined as the 50% as debt. This assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such item Adjusted industrial net debt divided by the item Adjusted as a long maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations. 5 Debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount EBITDA (continuing operations). This financial performance to be repaid. However, for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value measure indicates the approximate amount of time in years hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market value mainly due to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order to that would be needed to pay off Adjusted industrial net debt end up with an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. We believe this is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above. For further in­for­ through continuing income, without taking into account intermation on fair value hedges see NOTE 31 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED est, taxes, depreciation and amortization. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . We calculate the item Adjusted industrial net debt as set forth in the table below. For further information on the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations), see C.3.3 RECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (CONTINUING OPERATIONS) . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 193 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report SFS’ capital structure differs from the capital structure for our In fiscal 2014, we may again fulfill commitments for shareindustrial business, because SFS’ business is capital-intensive based compensation through treasury shares. For additional and requires larger amounts of debt to finance its operations, information with respect to treasury shares, see NOTE 33 in in particular to finance its asset growth strategy. The following D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . table provides information on the capital structure of SFS as of September 30, 2013 and 2012: C.4.3 Credit rating September 30, A key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our (in millions of €) 2013 2012 credit rating, which is affected by, among other factors, our Allocated equity 1,938 1,790 capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash flow, SFS Debt 15,600 14,558 geographic and product diversification and our competitive market position. Our current corporate credit ratings from Debt to equity ratio 8.05 8.13 Moody ’s Investors Service (Moody ’s) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) are noted as follows: For purposes of measuring capital efficiency at SFS, equity Moody’s S&P capital is allocated to SFS. Allocated equity capital differs from Long-term debt Aa3 A+ book capital as it is mainly determined and influenced by the Short-term debt P-1 A -1+ size and quality of its portfolio of commercial finance assets, project and structured finance assets (primarily loans and leases) and equity investments. This allocation is designed to cover the risks of the underlying business. The actual risk of the On May 14, 2013, Moody ’s changed its outlook for Siemens’ SFS portfolio is evaluated and controlled on a regular basis. credit rating from “stable” to “negative,” stating that “despite the The allocated equity is calculated quarterly. group’s substantial cost reduction initiatives, we expect its profitability, cash flow generation and capital structure to be weaker In August 2012 we announced, that we would adjust our capithan anticipated in 2013 and 2014.” A rating outlook is an opintal structure through share buybacks amounting to up to €3 ion regarding the likely direction of an issuer’s long-term credit billion by December 30, 2012. In fiscal 2012, we repurchased rating over the medium-term. Rating outlooks of Moody ’s fall 23,202,500 treasury shares at a weighted average share price into the following six categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable,” of €76.14. At the beginning of fiscal 2013 we repurchased a fur“developing,” “ratings under review” or “no outlook.” ther 14,746,786 treasury shares at a weighted average price of €78.14, and completed this share buyback program in NovemAt the same time, Moody ’s affirmed our “Aa3” long-term and ber 2012. In addition, in fiscal 2013, we repurchased as many our “P-1” short-term credit ratings. The classification “Aa” is the treasury shares as necessary to keep the number of treasury second highest category within Moody ’s long-term credit ratshares at a set level until the effective date of the spin-off of ing scale. The numerical modifier “3” indicates a ranking in the OSRAM and fulfilled commitments for share-based compensalower end of that category. The classification “P-1” is the hightion through treasury shares. est available rating in the prime rating system of Moody ’s, which assesses issuers’ ability to honor senior financial obligaIn November 2013, we announced a new share buyback protions and contracts. It applies to senior unsecured obligations gram. We intend to repurchase shares of up to €4 billion in with an original maturity of less than one year. volume within the next up to 24 months. The program will support our continued approach toward our capital structure S&P made no rating changes in fiscal 2013. S&P’s long-term target. The shares repurchased may be used for the purposes credit rating for Siemens is “A+” and the rating outlook is “staof cancellation and reduction of capital stock, issuances to ble.” Within S&P’s long-term credit rating scale, “A” is the employees, board members of affiliated companies and memthird-highest long-term rating category. The modifier “+” indibers of the Managing Board as well as to meet obligations cates that our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the “A” arising under and in connection with convertible bonds and category. Rating outlooks of S&P fall into the following four warrant bonds. categories: “positive,” ”negative,” ”stable” or “developing.” S&P’s 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 194 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks short-term rating is “A-1+,” which is the highest rating within Healthcare’s investments are mainly driven by the medical imS&P’s short-term rating scale. aging and therapy systems and laboratory diagnostics businesses. Large parts of the additions are related to intangible The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission granted Moody ’s assets, such as licenses as well as developing and implementand S&P the status of nationally recognized statistical rating ing software and IT solutions. organizations (NRSROs). Siemens does not have any agreements with other nationally recognized statistical rating orgaIndustry spends a large portion of its additions to intangible nizations to provide long-term and short-term credit r­ atings. assets, particularly software, and property, plant and equipment for additional capacities for innovative products, for optiWe believe that our high credit rating for our long-term debt mization of its global footprint; and for the replacement of applied by Moody ’s and S&P allows us to raise funds in the these fixed assets. capital markets with attractive conditions or to obtain flexible financing from banks. A high credit rating generally leads to Infrastructure & Cities spends large amounts of its additions to lower credit spreads and therefore our rating also positively intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for investaffects our funding costs. We expect no significant impact on ments in innovations at the Power Grid Solutions & Products our funding costs as a consequence of the changed rating Business, particularly including the Low and Medium Voltage outlook by Moody ’s. Division, and at the Building Technologies Division. The Sector also invests significant amounts in the replacement and exSecurity ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold pansion of technical equipment in order to improve productivisecurities. Credit ratings may be subject to revision or withty and its position in growing market segments, particularly at drawal by the rating agencies at any time and each rating the Transportation & Logistics Business. should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The changes of additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment from fiscal 2012 to 2013 were as follows: C.4.4 Investing activities Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (in millions of €) Due to tight control of capital expenditures, additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment from continuSiemens (continuing operations) ing operations decreased from €2.195 billion in the prior year FY 2013 1,869 (15)% to €1.869 billion in fiscal 2013. Within the Sectors, in fiscal 2013 FY 2012 2,195 we directed significant portions of €1.350 billion of our addiEnergy tions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to FY 2013 425 investments for technological innovations, extending our ca(22)% FY 2012 547 pacities for designing, manufacturing and marketing new solutions and for the necessary replacements of these fixed Healthcare assets. The majority of the additions in fiscal 2013 took place in FY 2013 291 the focus areas of investing activities described below, which (18)% FY 2012 354 will basically continue to be the focus areas regarding the investing activities of the Sectors in fiscal 2014. The remaining Industry portion in fiscal 2013, €519 million, related mainly to SRE and FY 2013 395 (5)% its responsibility for uniform and comprehensive management FY 2012 417 of Company real estate worldwide. Infrastructure & Cities FY 2013 239 Energy ’s additions include investments mainly in improving (18)% FY 2012 290 the Sector’s global footprint to secure organic growth and competitiveness by improving its cost position and strengthening technological innovations. These investments include further spending in the extension of capacities and facilities especially for the technology-driven wind power market, parFor information with respect to acquisitions of businesses, see ticularly in northern Europe. NOTE 4 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 195 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.4.5 Cash flows ed in the measure, such as dividends, debt repayment or acquisitions. We also use Free cash flow to compare cash generation The following discussion presents an analysis of our cash among the segments of our business. Free cash flow should not flows from operating, investing and financing activities for fisbe considered in isolation or as an alternative to measures of cal 2013 and 2012 for both continuing and discontinued operacash flow calculated in accordance with IFRS. For further infortions. Discontinued operations include primarily OSRAM and mation about the usefulness and limitations of this measure, Siemens IT Solutions and Services, which were classified as see C.12 NOTES AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS . discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and the Water Technologies Business Unit, which was Cash flows from operating activities – Continuing operaclassified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter tions provided cash for operating activities of €7.126 billion in of fiscal 2013. Siemens IT Solutions and Services was sold to fiscal 2013, compared to cash provided of €6.923 billion in the AtoS in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. In July 2013, Siemens prior-year period. In both periods, the major component of successfully completed its spin-off and listing of OSRAM. cash inflows was income from continuing operations, which was €4.212 billion in fiscal 2013 compared to €4.642 billion in The cash flows from operating activities are presented using fiscal 2012. Included therein were amortization, depreciation the indirect method, i.e. cash flows are determined by adjustand impairments of €2.888 billion and €2.818 billion, in fiscal ing net income by using a reconciliation, considering the 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. A build-up of operating net ­effects of non-cash items, changes during the period in assets working capital led to cash outflows of €1.8 billion in fiscal and liabilities, particularly in operating net working capital, 2013, compared to cash outflows of €0.8 billion in the priand all other items for which cash effects are investing or or-year. In both periods the increase in operating net working ­financing activities. Cash flows from investing and financing capital was due mainly to a decrease in billings in excess of activities are determined on the basis of the direct method, costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts and whereby major classes of cash flows are disclosed. related advances primarily in the Energy Sector. Fiscal 2013 benefited from positive cash flow effects relating to the change We report Free cash flow as a supplemental liquidity measure, of other assets and liabilities including the increase of personwhich is defined as cash flows from operating activities less nel-related liabilities compared to a decrease in the prior year. cash used for additions to intangible assets and property, plant Fiscal 2013 included cash outflows of approximately €0.4 biland equipment. We believe that a positive Free cash flow enlion corresponding to charges to income taken for the ables us to maintain a healthy capital structure, and that the “Siemens 2014” program. For comparison fiscal 2012 included presentation of Free cash flow also provides useful information cash outflows of approximately €0.3 billion related to the reto investors because it gives an indication of the long-term valuation of Healthcare’s particle therapy business for general cash-generating ability of our business and of our ability to pay patient treatment as well as Healthcare’s “Agenda 2013” initiafor discretionary and non-discretionary expenditures not includtive. Both fiscal years included interest received of €0.8 billion. Cash flows Continuing operations Discontinued operations Continuing and ­discontinued operations Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Cash flows from: Operating activities 7,126 6,923 214 188 7,340 7,110 Investing activities (4,836) (5,029) (240) (656) (5,076) (5,685) therein: Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1,869) (2,195) (142) (215) (2,012) (2,410) Free cash flow 1 5,257 4,727 71 (27) 5,328 4,700 Financing activities (3,422) (3,523) 26 468 (3,396) (3,055) 1 The closest comparable financial measure of Free cash continuing operations as well as from continuing and that report Free cash flow may define and calculate this flow under IFRS is the line item Cash flows from operatdiscontinued operations is reported in D.4 CONSOLImeasure differently. ing activities. Cash flows from operating activities from DATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS . Other companies 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 196 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Discontinued operations provided cash of €214 million in fiscal Free cash flow (in millions of €) 1 2013, compared to cash inflows of €188 million in the prior Q4 2013 4,357 year. In both periods cash inflows related primarily to OSRAM. Q3 2013 956 Q2 2013 1,360 Cash flows from investing activities – Cash used in investing Q1 2013 (1,416) activities for continuing operations amounted to €4.836 billion Q4 2012 4,328 in fiscal 2013, compared to cash used of €5.029 billion in the Q3 2012 870 prior-year period. Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acQ2 2012 534 quired, totaled €2.801 billion in the current period, including a Q1 2012 (1,004) preliminary purchase price payment (excluding cash acquired) of €1.987 billion for Infrastructure & Cities’ acquisition of Inven1 Continuing operations. sys Rail and €670 million for Industry ’s acquisition of LMS International NV. SFS continued to successfully execute its asset growth strategy, and cash outflows for the change in receivCash flows from financing activities – Continuing operaables from financing activities amounted to €2.175 billion and tions used cash for financing activities of €3.422 billion in fis€2.087 billion, in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. The prior cal 2013, compared to cash used of €3.523 billion in the same year included acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, period a year earlier. As described in C.4.6.1 DEBT AND CREDIT totaling €1.295 billion, including among others the acquisition FACILITIES , the current period included proceeds from the issuof the Connectors and Measurements Division of Expro Holdance of long-term debt of €3.772 billion related to the bonds ings UK 3 Ltd. In fiscal 2013 cash inflows of €2.463 billion for issued and term loans taken. These cash inflows were more the disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant than offset by the repayment of long-term debt of €2.927 billion and equipment included proceeds of €1.7 billion relating to the related mainly to the redemption of €2.0 billion fixed-rate-insale of our 50% stake in NSN and €0.3 billion relating to the struments and a US$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan and by sale of our AtoS convertible bonds. For comparison, cash inthe cash outflows for the purchase of treasury shares totaling flows of €753 million in the prior year included proceeds from €1.394 billion. The purchase of treasury shares was made prithe sale of our interest in OAO Power Machines. Due to tight marily under Siemens’ share buyback program, which was control of capital expenditures particularly within the Sectors, completed in November 2012. For comparison, prior-year proadditions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were €5.113 billion, ment from continuing operations decreased from €2.195 bilincluding the issuance of US$3.0 billion bonds with warrant lion in the prior year to €1.869 billion in fiscal 2013. units as well as the issuance of €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion in fixed-rate instruments in four tranches. These cash inflows Discontinued operations used cash of €240 million in fiscal were largely offset by the repayment of long-term debt of 2013, compared to cash used of €656 million in the prior year, €3.218 billion in the prior year for the redemption of €1.55 bilwhen cash outflows related to Siemens IT Solutions and Serlion in 5.25% fixed rate instruments, €0.7 billion in floating rate vices included payments of a mid triple-digit million euro assignable loans, US$0.5 billion in floating rate notes and amount. US$0.75 billion in 5.5% notes and by the cash outflows for the purchase of treasury shares totaling €1.721 billion. Both periFree cash flow from continuing operations increased to €5.257 ods included cash outflows for dividends paid to shareholders billion in fiscal 2013 from €4.727 billion a year earlier, reflecting of Siemens AG, which were €2.528 billion (for fiscal 2012) in a higher conversion of income into cash year-over-year. The infiscal 2013 compared to €2.629 billion in fiscal 2012 (for fiscal crease of Free cash flow year-over-year was due to higher cash 2011). In fiscal 2013 we recorded cash inflows of €298 million inflows from operating activities and lower additions to intanfor financing of discontinued operations, compared to cash gible assets and property, plant and equipment as discussed outflows of €506 million a year earlier. Discontinued operaabove. tions are financed generally from Corporate Treasury. How­ ever, fiscal 2013 included an external term loan in the amount On a sequential basis Free cash flow during fiscal 2013 and of €300 million, which was drawn by OSRAM near the effective ­fiscal 2012 developed as follows: date of its spin-off. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 197 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.4.6 Capital resources and requirements Net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. Management uses the Net debt measure for internal finance manageOur capital resources consist of a variety of shortand longment, as well as for external communication with investors, term financial instruments including, but not limited to, loans analysts and rating agencies, and accordingly we believe that from financial institutions, commercial paper, notes and presentation of Net debt is useful for those concerned. Net bonds, and credit facilities. In addition to cash and cash equivdebt should not, however, be considered in isolation or as an alents and available-for-sale financial assets, liquid resources alternative to short-term debt and long-term debt as presented consist of future cash flows from operating activities. in accordance with IFRS. For further information about the usefulness and limitations of Net debt, see C.12 NOTES AND Our capital requirements include, among others, schedFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS . uled debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash ­requirements from operating and SFS financing activities, ­including cash outflows related to the growth strategy of September 30, SFS, dividend payments, pension plan funding, portfolio ac(in millions of €) 2013 2012 tivities, and cash outflows in connection with “Siemens Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,826 2014,” a company-wide program aimed at improving profitLong-term debt 18,509 16,880 ability in the Sectors. Total debt 20,453 20,707 Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (10,891) C.4.6.1 DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES Available-for-sale financial assets (current) (601) (524) Total debt comprises our Notes and bonds, Loans from banks, Total liquidity (9,790) (11,415) Obligations under finance leases and Other financial indebtedNet debt 1 10,663 9,292 ness such as commercial paper. Total debt comprises Shortterm debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as 1 We typically need a considerable portion of our cash and cash equivalents as well Long-term debt, as stated on the Consolidated Statements of as current available-for-sale financial assets at any given time for purposes other Financial Position. Total liquidity refers to the liquid financial than debt reduction. The deduction of these items from total debt in the calculation of Net debt therefore should not be understood to mean that these items are assets we had available at the respective ends of the reporting ­available exclusively for debt reduction at any given time. Net debt comprises items as stated on D.3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION . periods to fund our business operations and pay for near-term obligations. Total liquidity comprises Cash and cash equivalents as well as current Available-for-sale financial assets, as The changes in Net debt from fiscal 2012 to 2013 may also be stated on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. presented as follows: Changes in Net debt (in millions of €) 9,292 1,787 (8,914) 4,836 3,186 476 10,663 Net debt as of Cash outflows for the Income and other Cash flows from Changes in certain Effect of deconsolidatiNet debt as of September 30, 2012 build-up of operating changes in cash investing activities 2 financing activities 3 on of OSRAM on cash September 30, 2013 net working capital 1 flows from and cash equivalents operating activities Total cash flows from operating activities 2 1 In fiscal 2013, cash outflows for the build-up of operating of €217 million and for billings in excess of costs and 3 Included cash flows relating to certain financing activities net working capital included cash outflows for inventories ­estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts and related such as dividends paid and purchase of treasury shares less advance payments received of €218 million, for trade advances of €1,060 million. as well as effects without cash flow impact such as effects and other receivables of €293 million, for trade payables of exchange rates and fair value hedge accounting 2 Continuing operations. adjustments. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 198 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Commercial paper program – We have a US$9.0 billion (€6.7 June 2018. In August 2008, we increased two of the three billion) global multi-currency commercial paper program in tranches of the €3.4 billion fixed-rate instruments by €750 place, which includes the ability to issue US$-denominated exmillion, comprising: €350 million in 5.25% p.a. instruments tendible notes. In fiscal 2013 we issued commercial paper in matured and redeemed at face value in December 2011 and varying amounts to fund our ongoing short-term capital re€400 million in 5.625% p.a. instruments due in June 2018. quirements. Our issuances of commercial paper typically have >> In March 2006, we issued US$1.0 billion in instruments in a maturity of less than 90 days. As of September 30, 2013, we two tranches, comprising: US$500 million in floating-rate had no commercial paper outstanding. All commercial paper instruments (three months LIBOR + 0.15% p.a.) matured and issued in fiscal 2013 was completely repaid within the year. redeemed at face value in March 2012 and US$500 million in 5.625% p.a. fixed-rate instruments due in March 2016. Notes and bonds – We have a “program for the issuance of debt instruments” (debt issuance program) of €15.0 billion in The nominal amount outstanding under the debt issuance proplace which we update on a regular basis. The last update was gram was €10.9 billion as of September 30, 2013. made in May 2013. Under this program, we issued the following instruments: In February 2012, Siemens issued US$ fixed-rate bonds with warrant units in an aggregate principal amount of US$3.0 bil>> In June 2013, we issued US$400 million in floating-rate inlion in two tranches, comprising: (1) US$1.5 billion in 1.05% struments due in June 2020 (private placement). p.a. instruments due in August 2017 and (2) US$1.5 billion in >> In March 2013, we issued €2.25 billion and US$500 million in 1.65% p.a. instruments due in August 2019. Each of the US$1.5 fixed-rate instruments in three tranches, comprising: €1.25 billion bonds were issued with 6,000 detachable warrants. The billion in 1.75% p.a. instruments due in March 2021, €1.0 bilwarrants’ exercise price was fixed in Euro. The warrants were lion in 2.875% p.a. instruments due in March 2028 and classified as equity instruments with a fair value of €126 milUS$500 million in 1.5% p.a. instruments due in March 2018. lion at issuance presented in capital reserves in line item Other >> Also in March 2013, we issued US$100 million in 3.5% p.a. changes in equity. The warrants entitle the holders, at their opfixed-rate instruments due in March 2028 (private placetion, to receive 1,806.1496 Siemens AG shares per warrant at an ment). exercise price per share of €104.0018 during the exercise period >> In September 2012, we issued €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion in for bond (1) and bond (2), which mature in August 2017 and Aufixed-rate instruments in four tranches, comprising: €400 gust 2019, respectively. After the spin-off of OSRAM in fiscal million in 0.375% p.a. instruments due in September 2014, 2013, the warrants entitle the holders to obtain OSRAM shares €1.0 billion in 1.5% p.a. instruments due in March 2020, in addition to Siemens shares. Accordingly, the warrants no lon£350 million in 2.75% p.a. instruments due in September ger qualify as equity instruments since the approval of the spin2025 and £650 million in 3.75% p.a. instruments due in Sepoff in January 2013 and the warrants’ fair value of €163 million tember 2042. was reclassified from line item Capital reserves to non-current >> In February 2012, we issued US$400 million in floating-rate other financial liabilities. The warrants result in option rights reinstruments (three months London Interbank Offered Rate lating to a total of 21.7 million Siemens AG shares. The equiva(LIBOR) + 1.4% p.a.) due in February 2019 (private placelent amount of these bonds excluding warrant units outstandment). ing was €2.2 billion as of September 30, 2013. >> In February 2009, we issued €4.0 billion in fixed-rate instruments in two tranches, comprising: €2.0 billion in 4.125% In September 2006, we issued a subordinated fixed-rate hybrid p.a. instruments matured and redeemed at face value in bond in two tranches, comprising: €900 million in 5.25% p.a. February 2013, €2.0 billion in 5.125% p.a. instruments due in instruments and £750 million in 6.125% p.a. instruments, both February 2017. tranches with a final legal maturity in September 2066. The >> In June 2008, we issued €3.4 billion in fixed-rate instruCompany has a call option after ten years or thereafter. If the ments in three tranches, comprising: €1.2 billion in 5.25% instruments are not called, both tranches will become floatp.a. instruments matured and redeemed at face value in Deing-rate instruments according to the conditions of the bond. cember 2011, €1.0 billion in 5.375% p.a. instruments due in The total nominal amount of our hybrid bond was €1.8 billion June 2014 and €1.2 billion in 5.625% p.a. instruments due in as of September 30, 2013. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 199 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report In August 2006, we issued US$5.0 billion medium-term notes + 0.15% p.a.) which was drawn in January 2007 and rein four tranches, comprising: US$750 million in floating-rate deemed at face value in August 2013 as well as an undrawn instruments (three months LIBOR + 0.05% p.a.) matured and US$3.0 billion revolving tranche. redeemed at face value in August 2009, US$750 million in 5.5% >> €4.0 billion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving p.a. fixed-rate instruments matured and redeemed at face valcredit facility provided by a syndicate of international banks ue in February 2012, US$1.750 billion in 5.75% p.a. fixed-rate with a five year tenor and two one-year extension options, instruments due in October 2016 and US$1.750 billion in which was signed in April 2012. In February 2013, we ex6.125% p.a. fixed-rate instruments due in August 2026. We may tended this facility by one year, until April 2018. One oneredeem, at any time, all or some of the fixed-rate instruments year extension option is still remaining. at the early redemption amount (call) according to the condi>> €450 million bilateral undrawn revolving credit facility protions of the instruments. The nominal amount of these US vided by a domestic bank expired in September 2013. This ­medium term notes outstanding was €2.6 billion as of Septemcredit facility has been extended to September 2014.  ber 30, 2013. The maturity profile of the loans, notes and bonds described Assignable and term loans above is presented below: >> In March 2013, we signed and fully drew two bilateral US$500 million floating-rate term loans (three months Loans, notes and bonds maturity profile (nominal amounts outstanding in billions of €) ­LIBOR +0.79% p.a.). Both loans are due in March 2018 and include options for two one-year extensions. The nominal amount outstanding was €0.7 billion as of September 30, 4.42 2013. >> In June 2008, we issued four tranches of assignable loans 2.7 2.2 with an aggregate amount of €1.1 billion: €370 million in 1.81 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.32 1.1 floating-rate instruments (six months European Interbank 1.81 0.8 Offered Rate (EURIBOR) + 0.55% p.a.) and €113.5 million in 0.3 0.4 0.4 5.283% p.a. fixed-rate instruments, both matured in June 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2025 2026 2028 2042 2066 2013 and €283.5 million in floating-rate instruments (six months EURIBOR + 0.7% p.a.) and €333 million in 5.435% p.a. 1 The maturity of the hybrid bond depends on the exercise of a call option: the bond is callable by us in September 2016 and thereafter, with a final legal fixed-rate instruments, both maturing in June 2015. Both maturity ending in September 2066. floating-rate instruments were called in August 2011 and 2 We may redeem, at any time, all or some of US$-notes, issued in August 2006, at the early redemption amount (call) according to the conditions of ­redeemed at face value in December 2011. In June 2013, we the notes. redeemed at face value the €113.5 million in 5.283% p.a. fixed-rate instruments. As mentioned above, we maintain two lines of credit, in the Credit facilities – We have three credit facilities at our disposamounts of €4.0 billion and US$3.0 billion, respectively. al for general corporate purposes. Our credit facilities as of These two lines of credit provide their lenders with a right of September 30, 2013, consisted of €6.7 billion in committed, untermination in the event that (1) Siemens AG becomes a subused lines of credit. These facilities included: sidiary of another company or (2) a person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires control over Siemens AG by >> US$3.0 billion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving being able to exercise decisive influence over its activities credit facility provided by a syndicate of international banks (Art. 3 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) 139 / 2004). In addition, with a five year tenor and two one-year extension options, Siemens AG has a bilateral credit line at its disposal in the which was signed in September 2013. It replaced a amount of €450 million as mentioned above which may be US$4.0 billion syndicated multi-currency credit facility which terminated by the lender if major changes in Siemens AG’s expired in August 2013. The US$4.0 billion facility comprised corporate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly a US$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan (three months LIBOR ­repayment of the credit. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 200 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks None of our credit facilities contains a material adverse change Debt – As of September 30, 2013, Siemens had €20.453 billion provision of the type often found in facilities of such nature, of shortand long-term debt, of which €1.944 billion will and none of our global commercial paper and debt issuance ­become due within the next twelve months. Short-term debt programs nor our credit facilities contain specific financial covincludes current maturities of long-term debt, as well as loans enants such as rating triggers or interest coverage, leverage or from banks coming due within the next twelve months. Furcapitalization ratios that could trigger remedies, such as accelther information about the components of debt is given in eration of repayment or additional collateral. NOTE 22 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . We mitigate the risk resulting from changes in the fair value of Debt for Siemens as of September 30, 2013 consisted of the future changes relating to our loans, notes and bonds by using ­following: derivative financial instruments which allow us to hedge fair value changes by swapping fixed rates of interest rates to variable rates. As of September 30, 2013, 41% of our underlying (in millions of €) Short-term Long-term Total loans, notes and bonds were changed from fixed interest rates Notes and bonds 1,431 17,060 18,491 into variable interest rates. In addition, in order to optimize our Loans from banks 412 1,233 1,645 position with regard to interest income and interest expense Other financial indebtedness 82 106 188 and to manage the overall financial interest rate risk with reObligations under finance leases 20 110 130 spect to valuation risk affecting profit and loss and economic Total debt 1,944 18,509 20,453 risk of changing interest rates, our Corporate Treasury performs a comprehensive corporate interest rate management, under which the interest rate risk relating to the SFS business and to the remaining group are managed separately. Further Purchase obligations – Purchase obligations include agreeinformation about our bonds and the other components of our ments to purchase goods or services, which are enforceable debt as well as about the use of financial instruments for hedgand legally binding and which specify all of the following ing purposes is provided in NOTES 22, 31 AND 32 in D.6 items: (1) fixed or minimum quantities, (2) fixed, minimum or NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . variable price provisions and (3) approximate timing of the transaction. As of September 30, 2013, Siemens had €19.977 C.4.6.2 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS billion in purchase obligations. These purchase obligations priIn the ordinary course of business, Siemens’ primary contracmarily related to agreements of our Sectors on the purchase of tual obligations regarding cash relate to debt, purchase obligagoods such as property, plant and equipment, intangible astions and operating leases. sets, raw materials and supplies or to the purchase of services such as advertising or maintenance. These purchase obligaThe following table summarizes our contractual obligations as tions have not been recognized as liabilities or expenses as of of September 30, 2013 that will result in future cash outflows: September 30, 2013. Payments due by period In December 2010, Siemens and AtoS signed an option agreeTotal Less than 1-3 years 4-5 years After ment (written call option) which granted AtoS the right to ac(in millions of €) 1 year 5 years quire Siemens IT Solutions and Services. The closing of the Debt 20,453 1,944 2,928 7,580 8,001 transaction was on July 1, 2011. Related to the transaction is a Purchase seven-year outsourcing contract worth around €5.5 billion, unobligations 19,977 14,441 3,037 1,148 1,350 der which AtoS provides managed services and system inteOperating leases 3,120 807 1,020 536 757 gration to Siemens. The expected remaining cash outflows Total contractual obligations 43,550 17,192 6,985 9,264 10,108 from the outsourcing contract are included in these purchase obligations. For further information on that transaction, see NOTE 4 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 201 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Operating leases – As of September 30, 2013, Siemens had post-employment benefits, see NOTE 23 in D.6 NOTES TO a total of €3.120 billion in total future payment obligations CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . ­under non-cancelable operating leases, mainly relating to SRE activities. For further information with respect to contractual obligations, see NOTE 32 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEOther – Siemens is subject to asset retirement obligations MENTS . ­related to certain items of property, plant and equipment. Such asset retirement obligations are primarily attributable to enviC.4.6.3 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS ronmental clean-up costs related to remediation and environGuarantees – Siemens guarantees are principally credit guarmental protection, which amounted to €1.096 billion as of Sepantees and guarantees of third-party performance. As of September 30, 2013. The environmental clean-up costs related to tember 30, 2013, the undiscounted maximum amount of potenremediation and environmental protection liabilities have tial future payments for guarantees was €5.973 billion, including been accrued based on the estimated costs of decommissionguarantees relating to discontinued operations. Credit guaraning facilities for the production of uranium and mixed-oxide tees cover the financial obligations of third-parties in cases fuel elements in Hanau, Germany (Hanau facilities), as well as where Siemens is the vendor and / or contractual partner. In a nuclear research and service center in Karlstein, Germany ­addition, Siemens provides credit guarantees generally as credit-­ (Karlstein facilities). For additional information with respect to line guarantees with variable utilization to joint ventures and asset retirement obligations, see NOTE 24 in D.6 NOTES TO associated and other companies accounted for using the equity CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . method. Total credit guarantees were €622 million as of September 30, 2013. Furthermore, Siemens issues guarantees of Our liquidity may be adversely affected in future periods by third-party performance, which include performance bonds regular or special contributions to fund our post-employment and guarantees of advanced payments in cases where Siemens benefits. As of September 30, 2013, our liability for post-emis the general or subsidiary partner in a consortium. In the ployment benefits as recognized in the Consolidated Stateevent of non-fulfillment of contractual obligations by the conments of Financial Positions amounted to €9.265 billion. Howsortium partner(s), Siemens will be required to pay up to an ever, the recognized liability may fluctuate significantly in fuagreed-upon maximum amount. Guarantees of third-­party perture periods due to changes in assumptions used in calculatformance amounted to €1.593 billion as of September 30, 2013. ing the defined benefit obligations (DBO), in particular the discount rates, compensation increase rates, pension progresIn fiscal 2007, The Federal Republic of Germany commissioned sion rates and mortality rates. Actual developments may differ a consortium consisting of Siemens and IBM Deutschland G ­ mbH from assumptions due to changing economic and other condi(IBM) to modernize and operate the non-military information tions of the country in which the retirement plans are situated, and communications technology of the German Federal Armed thereby resulting in an increase or decrease of the liability. EmForces (Bundeswehr). This project is called HERKULES. A projployer contributions expected to be paid to the funded penect company, BWI Informationstechnik GmbH (BWI), provides sion plans during fiscal 2014 amount to €631 million, including the services required by the terms of the contract. Siemens is a contributions due to contractual and legal obligations of apshareholder in the project company. The total contract value proximately €0.2 billion. Additional contributions to our penamounts to a maximum of approximately €6 billion. In connecsion benefit plans may be made or contractually agreed at the tion with this project, Siemens issued several guarantees condiscretion of our management after the end of the reporting nected to each other legally and economically in favor of the period. The latest funding valuation in the U.K. in calendar Federal Republic of Germany and of the consortium member year 2011 resulted in a technical underfunding of £939 (€1,123) IBM in December 2006. The guarantees ensure that BWI has million, based on the assumptions at that date. As a result sufficient resources to provide the required services and to fulSiemens entered in fiscal 2013 into an agreement with the fill its contractual obligations. Total future payments that we trustees to provide an annual payment of £31 (€37) million for could potentially be required to make amounted to €1.89 bilthe next 20 years, beginning in fiscal 2014. In addition to these lion as of September 30, 2013, and will be reduced by approxipayments the Company is obliged to pay £15 (€18) million until mately €400 million per year over the remaining four-years of the next funding valuation, when the funding requirements the contract period as of September 30, 2013. Yearly payments will be updated based on new assumptions. This valuation will under these guarantees are limited to €400 million plus, if aptake place approximately at the end of calendar year 2015. For plicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused guarantees caradditional information regarding contributions to the fund our ried forward from the prior year. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 202 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Other guarantees amounted to €1.867 billion as of September The combined funded status of Siemens’ predominantly un30, 2013 and included indemnifications issued in connection funded other post-employment benefit plans amounted to an with dispositions of business entities. Such indemnifications, underfunding of €0.6 billion as of September 30, 2013, comif customary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buypared to an underfunding of €0.7 billion at the end of the prior er from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with fiscal year. The underfunding decreased mainly due to benefits the purchased business entity. Indemnifications include those paid and the annual remeasurement of DBO. for EN, disposed of in fiscal 2008, and Siemens IT Solutions and Services disposed of in fiscal 2011. In the event that it beFor more information on Siemens’ pension plans, see NOTE 23 comes probable that Siemens will be required to satisfy these in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . guarantees, provisions are established. Such provisions are established in addition to the liabilities recognized for the C.4.6.5 OTHER CAPITAL RESOURCES non-contingent component of the guarantees. AND REQUIREMENTS At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for January Capital commitments – As of September 30, 2013, the Compa28, 2014, the Managing Board, in agreement with the Super­ ny had commitments to make capital contributions to various visory Board, will submit the following proposal to allocate the companies of €223 million. unappropriated net income of Siemens AG for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013: distribution of a dividend of €3.00 For additional information with respect to guarantees and our on each no-par value share entitled to the dividend for fiscal other commitments, see NOTE 28 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIyear 2013 existing at the date of the Annual Shareholders’ DATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . Meeting, which is presently expected to result in total distribution of approximately €2.5 billion. C.4.6.4 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS As of September 30, 2013, the combined funded status of In November 2013, we announced that we will adjust our capiSiemens’ pension plans showed an underfunding of €8.5 biltal structure through share buybacks. We expect cash outflows lion, compared to an underfunding of €8.9 billion as of Sepup to €4 billion within the next up to 24 months. tember 30, 2012. While the fair value of plan assets remained unchanged, the defined benefit obligation (DBO) decreased by Other capital requirements also include expected cash out€0.4 billion. flows of €0.7 billion in fiscal 2014 relating to charges for the “Siemens 2014” productivity improvement program. The DBO of Siemens’ pension plans, which takes into account future compensation and pension increases, amounted to €32.6 After the end of fiscal 2013, we signed an agreement to sell our billion on September 30, 2013, compared to a DBO of €33.0 bilbusiness for treating and processing municipal and industrial lion at the end of the prior fiscal year. The decrease resulted water and wastewater that are bundled in our Water Technolofrom benefits paid and positive currency translation effects, ongies Business Unit, as well as the related service activities, to ly partly offset by accrued service and interest cost. Effects from funds managed by American European Associates Investors LP assumption changes and deviations between ­ actual and as(AEA), U.S. We expect to receive payments relating to this sumed development of the DBO offset each other in fiscal 2013. transaction of €0.6 billion in the first half of fiscal 2014. The fair value of Siemens’ plan assets was €24.1 billion, as of With our ability to generate positive operating cash flows, our both September 30, 2013 and September 30, 2012. The actual total liquidity of €9.790 billion and our €6.7 billion in unused return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 amounted to €1.3 billion, lines of credit and given our credit ratings at year-end, we beresulting mainly from equity investments. Employer contribulieve that we have sufficient flexibility to fund our capital retions amounted to €0.5 billion. These positive factors were offquirements including scheduled debt service, regular capital set by benefits paid and negative currency translation effects. spending, ongoing cash requirements from operating and SFS financing activities, dividend payments, pension plan funding Funded status of Siemens’ pension plans (in billions of €) 1 and portfolio activities. Also in our opinion, our working capital is sufficient for the Company ’s present requirements. September 30, 2013 (8.5) September 30, 2012 (8.9) 1 Continuing operations. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 203 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.5 Net assets position Structure of Consolidated Statements Cash and cash equivalents decreased by €1.701 billion from of Financial Position (in millions of €) the prior-year level. For detailed information regarding the change, see C.4.5 CASH FLOWS . Total liabilities Total assets and equity (6)% (6)% The main factor in the decrease in the line item Trade and other receivables of €367 million was negative currency transla108,251 108,251 tion effects. 101,936 101,936 Total current 52,128 Total current 42,627 assets (48%) liabilities (39%) The increase in loans receivable of SFS, associated with its 46,937 37,868 (46%) (37%) growth strategy, was the primary factor in the increase of €349 therein: Total liquidity 11,415 million year-over-year in the line item Other current financial 9,790 (11%) Total (10%) non-current 34,200 assets. liabilities (32%) Total 35,443 non-current (35%) assets 56,123 (52%) In July 2013, we successfully completed our spin-off and listing 54,999 Total equity (54%) 28,625 31,424 (29%) of OSRAM. As a result, we derecognized the net carrying (28%) amount of the disposal group OSRAM and the associated spinSep. 30, Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Sep. 30, off liability. Mainly due to this spin-off, the line item Assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 classified as held for disposal decreased to €1.393 billion as of September 30, 2013 compared to €4.799 billion a year earlier. Our total assets in fiscal 2013 were influenced by negative currency translation effects of €3.434 billion, led by the US$. September 30, Within total assets of €101.936 billion, total assets related to (in millions of €) 2013 2012 SFS increased to €18.661 billion as of September 30, 2013 from Goodwill 17,883 17,069 €17.405 billion a year earlier. Within total liabilities, SFS debt Other intangible assets 5,057 4,595 increased to €15.600 billion from €14.558 billion a year earlier. Property, plant and equipment 9,815 10,763 Both changes were driven by the growth strategy at SFS. SFS Investments accounted for using the equity method 3,022 4,436 assets represented 18% of Siemens’ total assets as of SeptemOther financial assets 15,117 14,666 ber 2013, compared to 16% a year earlier. SFS debt represented Deferred tax assets 3,234 3,748 15% of Siemens total liabilities and equity, compared to 13% at Other assets 872 846 the end of fiscal 2012. Total non-current assets 54,999 56,123 The following discussion presents an analysis of changes of our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Goodwill increased to €17.883 billion as of September 30, 2013 compared to €17.069 billion a year earlier. The increase in September 30, goodwill was due mainly to acquisitions and purchase ac(in millions of €) 2013 2012 counting adjustments, partly offset by negative currency Cash and cash equivalents 9,190 10,891 translation effects. Acquisitions and purchase accounting adAvailable-for-sale financial assets 601 524 justments included the acquisition of Invensys Rail, which is Trade and other receivables 14,853 15,220 being integrated into the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s MobiliOther current financial assets 3,250 2,901 ty and Logistics Division, and LMS International NV, which is Inventories 15,560 15,679 being integrated into the Industry Sector’s Industry AutomaCurrent income tax assets 794 836 tion Division. Other current assets 1,297 1,277 Assets classified as held for disposal 1,393 4,799 Total current assets 46,937 52,128 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 204 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Other intangible assets increased to €5.057 billion as of SepThe decrease of €436 million in the line item Trade payables tember 2013 compared to €4.595 billion a year earlier. The inwas due primarily to negative currency translation effects. crease is due mainly to the acquisitions mentioned above, partly offset by amortization and impairments. The main factor of the decrease in the line item Other current liabilities to €19.701 billion as of September 30, 2013 from Property, plant and equipment decreased by €948 million year€20.302 billion a year earlier was a decrease in billings in exover-year. Additions in fiscal 2013 were more than offset by recess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contirements, depreciation and impairments and negative currentracts and related advances. cy translation effects. Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal Investments accounted for using the equity method dedecreased to €473 million as of September 30, 2013 from creased year-over-year by €1.415 billion. The main factor was €2.049 billion a year earlier. The main factor was lower liabilithe sale of our 50% share in NSN to its other shareholder, ties due to OSRAM’s spin-off. Nokia Corporation. The line item Other financial assets increased to €15.117 billion September 30, as of September 30, 2013 compared to €14.666 billion a year (in millions of €) 2013 2012 earlier. The change was due primarily to higher loans receivLong-term debt 18,509 16,880 able driven by the growth strategy at SFS and to the recogniPost-employment benefits 9,265 9,801 tion of our 17.0% stake in OSRAM after the spin-off, partly offDeferred tax liabilities 504 494 set by a decrease in the non-current portion of the fair market Provisions 3,907 3,908 values of financial derivatives used for our hedging activities. Other financial liabilities 1,184 1,083 Other liabilities 2,074 2,034 Total non-current liabilities 35,443 34,200 September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,826 Long-term debt increased by €1.629 billion as of September 30, Trade payables 7,599 8,036 2013, due mainly to the issuance of €1.25 billion in 1.75% p.a. Other current financial liabilities 1,515 1,460 instruments, €1.0 billion in 2.875% p.a. instruments, US$500 Current provisions 4,485 4,750 million in 1.5% p.a. instruments, two bilateral US$500 million Current income tax liabilities 2,151 2,204 floating-rate term loans, US$400 million in floating-rate instruOther current liabilities 19,701 20,302 ments and US$100 million in 3.5% p.a. fixed-rate instruments. Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal 473 2,049 These issuances were partly offset by the above-mentioned reTotal current liabilities 37,868 42,627 classification in the line item Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt. Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt decreased by €1.882 billion as of September 30, 2013 compared to the end of the prior fiscal year. The main factors in the decrease were the redemption of €2.0 billion in fixed-rate-instruments and a US$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan, partly offset by reclassifications of long-term €1.0 billion in 5.375% p.a. instruments due in June 2014 and €400 million in 0.375% p.a. instruments due in September 2014. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 205 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report The line item Post-employment benefits decreased by €536 European sovereign credit exposures – Due to uncertainties million as of September 30, 2013, mainly due to the decrease of regarding European sovereign debt exposures, we regularly the defined benefit obligation. monitor our credit exposures in particular to public and private sector debtors in Italy, Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland. These credit exposures include trade receivables from the sale September 30, of goods and services, receivables from finance leases and oth(in millions of €) 2013 2012 er financial assets, totaling a low single-digit billion euro Total equity attributable amount as of September 30, 2013. To evaluate these exposures to shareholders of Siemens AG 28,111 30,855 we perform a credit rating for public and private sector debtors Equity ratio 28% 29% using different methods subject to centrally defined limits. For Non-controlling interests 514 569 exposures to public sector debtors, which represented approxiTotal liabilities and equity 101,936 108,251 mately one third of these exposures, we applied a specific policy. This policy requires that the rating applied to individual public sector customers cannot be better than the weakest of the sovereign ratings provided by Moody ’s, S&P’s and Fitch for Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG dethe respective country. Based on our ratings and our credit excreased from €30.855 billion at the end of fiscal 2012 to €28.111 posures to end customers or main contractors located in Italy, billion at the end of fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2013, the main factors Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland, we believe that Siemens is relating to the decrease in total equity attributable to sharewell-positioned to bear these risks. holders of Siemens AG were: (1) Dividend payments of €2.528 billion (paid for fiscal 2012); (2) measuring OSRAM’s spin-off ­liability at fair value with any changes recognized in retained earnings of €2.270 billion and (3) repurchase of 17,150,820 treasury shares at weighted average costs per share of €78.66. This decrease was partly offset by net income attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG of €4.284 billion. For additional information on our net assets position, see D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 206 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position In fiscal 2013 our revenue came in 2% below the prior fiscal charges associated with the initiative compared to the prior year. A slight increase at Infrastructure & Cities was more than year. Profit at Energy rose moderately year-over-year. In both offset by lower revenue at Industry and Energy. Revenue at fiscal years the Sector’s profit development was heavily burHealthcare was stable year-over-year. On an organic basis, exdened by charges. While profit in the current period was parcluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue was ticularly impacted by “Siemens 2014” charges, charges related 1% down year-over-year, within our forecast given in our Annual to projects and Iran were substantially higher in the prior-year Report for fiscal 2012. We increased orders by 8% year-overperiod. While Total Sectors profit fell year-over-year, this was year. This increase was driven by our Infrastructure & Cities partly offset by a strong improvement outside the Sectors. In Sector and the Energy Sector. Both Sectors won a sharply highparticular, Equity Investments posted a profit in fiscal 2013 er volume from major contracts – Infrastructure & Cities within ­following a loss a year earlier, as it benefited from a positive its Transportation & Logistics Business and Energy within its effect stemming from a partial reversal of an impairment of Wind Power Division. our stake in NSN and a gain related to the sale of this stake during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. In the prior fiscal year, In fiscal 2013, we achieved income from continuing operaresults at Equity Investments were burdened by substantial tions of €4.212 billion. This was lower than income from con­restructuring charges at NSN. tinuing operations of €4.642 billion a year earlier and also below our expectation of €4.5 to €5.0 billion as presented in our Net income in fiscal 2013 increased to €4.409 billion, up from Annual Report for 2012. A condition of that forecast was an €4.282 billion a year earlier, as results related to discontinued expected recovery in the markets for our short-cycle busioperations swung to a positive €197 million in fiscal 2013 from nesses in the second half of fiscal 2013. This did not mate­ a negative €360 million a year earlier. The improvement in rialize. Additionally, that forecast assumed “Siemens 2014” ­ discontinued operations year-over-year was due mainly to charges for fiscal 2013 of €1.0 billion (pretax). In fact the OSRAM, which we successfully spun off in the fourth quarter amount came in €0.3 billion higher. Other factors largely of fiscal 2013. Due to higher Net income and a lower number ­ offset each other. While profit in the Energy Sector was of shares outstanding year-over-year following the share buy­burdened by portfolio topics related to the solar business, back program which we initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal this impact was more than offset by positive effects related to 2012, basic EPS rose to €5.08 in the current period, up from the sale of our stake in NSN. Due mainly to these factors, we €4.74 a year earlier. adjusted our forecast for Income from continuing operations to €4.0 billion in the Interim Report for the third quarter of In fiscal 2013, Healthcare reached the upper end of its adjusted fiscal 2013. EBITDA margin target range. Adjusted EBITDA margin at Industry fell year-over-year, but the Sector remained in its target Lower Income from continuing operations year-over-year was range. Despite burdens from the solar business, Energy nearly due mainly to sharply lower profit in Infrastructure & Cites and reached the lower end of its adjusted EBITDA target range, Industry. These Sectors took the two largest shares in the while Infrastructure & Cities clearly missed its range. above-mentioned “Siemens 2014” charges. Profit at Infrastructure & Cities was also burdened by sharply higher project As a result of a combination of lower than expected Income charges while profit development at Industry was also held from continuing operations and a higher average capital emback by challenging market conditions, particularly in the Secployed, ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operations declined to tor’s short-cycle businesses as mentioned above. In contrast, 13.8% in fiscal 2013. This was below the lower end of our target Healthcare significantly improved profit year-over-year due range of 15% to 20%, which we expected to reach. ROCE (adjustmainly to successful execution of its “Agenda 2013” and lower ed) for continuing operations a year earlier was 15.5%. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 207 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Our Free cash flow from continuing operations rose 11% to During fiscal 2013, we also made strong progress in focusing €5.257 billion year-over-year, as we increased our cash flows our portfolio. Our successful spin-off of OSRAM was the first from operating activities and reduced investments in intangisuch partial spin-off by a German company. With the spin-off, ble assets and property, plant and equipment year-over-year. Siemens shareholders received one OSRAM share per ten Siemens AG shares. Independence gives OSRAM the entrepreWe made further progress in fiscal 2013 with regard to reachneurial flexibility to focus exclusively on its own market, with ing our capital structure target. This target is defined as the raadditional sources for financing. A stake in OSRAM gives tio of adjusted industrial net debt to adjusted EBITDA, and set shareholders of Siemens AG an additional opportunity to at 0.5 to 1.0 for the medium term. As forecast in our Annual ­participate in OSRAM’s potential growth and value creation. Report for 2012, we increased the ratio year-over-year, to 0.34 The shares of Siemens AG rose on the first day of trading for from 0.24 a year earlier. OSRAM, July 8, 2013, and the shares of both companies clearly outperformed the German DAX stock index through the reOverall, we believe that we achieved the goals for revenue and mainder of the fi ­ scal year. We also sold our 50% stake in NSN. our capital structure announced in our Annual Report for 2012. After the end of fiscal 2013, we signed an agreement to sell Also we exceeded our revised target for Income from continuour business of ­mechanical, biological and chemical water ing operations announced in our Interim Report for the third treatment and processing. Furthermore, we intend to sell our quarter of fiscal 2013. ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operaairport logistics and postal automation business and exit our tions was below our expectations due primarily to lower Insolar business ­after completion of projects under execution. come from continuing operations than we forecast a year ago. At the same time, we strengthened our core activities by ­acquiring LMS International NV (LMS) to expand and com­ During the course of fiscal 2013 it became less likely that our plement the Industry Sector’s industrial IT and software busiprevious expectations for our markets would materialize. We ness, and by acquiring Invensys Rail to expand Infrastructherefore no longer expect to achieve a Total Sectors profit ture & Cities’ presence in the growing global rail automation margin of at least 12% in fiscal 2014. But we will continue to market. rigorously execute our “Siemens 2014” program that was designed to achieve the margin target. At the end of fiscal 2013, We intend to continue providing an attractive return to sharewe were ahead of identifying and implementing the measures holders. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout within the program aimed at sustainably improving our profrom Free cash flow. The Siemens Managing Board, in agreeductivity. We expect that “Siemens 2014” will help us to narrow ment with the Supervisory Board, proposes a dividend of €3.00 or close the gap to our competitors in coming years. per share, unchanged from a year earlier. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 208 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.7 Subsequent events After the end of fiscal 2013, Siemens signed an agreement to sell its business for treating and processing municipal and industrial water and wastewater that are bundled in the Siemens Water Technologies Business Unit, as well as the related service activities, to funds managed by AEA Investors LP, U.S., for a purchase price of €0.6 billion. Closing of the transaction is subject to approval by regulatory authorities and is expected in the first half of fiscal 2014. In November 2013, Siemens announced a share buyback of up to €4 billion ending latest on October 31, 2015. The buybacks will be made under the current authorization granted at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011, which allows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 million shares under this program. Shares repurchased may be used for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing shares to current and former employees, to members of the Managing Board and board members of affiliated companies and for meeting obligations from or in connection with convertible bonds or warrant bonds. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 209 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.8 Sustainability C.8.1 Sustainability at Siemens As these examples show, sustainability is not embellishment at Siemens – it’s a central theme of our corporate strategy. The C.8.1.1 OVERVIEW following chapters detail this approach and provide further inSustainability is a guiding principle within our Company. formation on sustainability at Siemens. Siemens has defined sustainability to mean acting responsibly on behalf of future generations to achieve economic, environC.8.1.2 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT mental and social progress. We are aware of the associated AND ORGANIZATION high standards and the possibility of conflicting goals. NeverThe importance we attach to the topic of sustainability is evitheless, the aim to create sustainable added value remains a dent in its central position within the Company ’s organization key element of our corporate strategy. We are convinced that and in our programs and the measures we execute. Efficient sustainability, in this sense, is also a business opportunity, and sustainability management is a company-wide task that requires one that is worth seizing. One Siemens, our framework for a clear organizational structure and a thorough anchoring of sustainable value creation and capital-efficient growth, adsustainability in our corporate culture. All our sustainability dresses this business opportunity with its three strategic direc­activities are steered by the Chief Sustainability Officer, who tions: Focus on innovation-driven growth markets, Get closer is a member of our Managing Board. In order to coordinate and to our customers and Use the power of Siemens. The relationmanage our sustainability activities efficiently, we established ship of each element to sustainability is explained below. the Siemens Sustainability Board, the Sustainability Office and the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board. >> The products and solutions in our Environmental Portfolio and the innovation power of Siemens play a central role in The Siemens Sustainability Board, which is chaired by the contributing to environmental and climate protection while Chief Sustainability Officer, is the central steering committee also strengthening our standing in the innovation-driven for sustainability at Siemens. In its regular meetings it directs growth markets that we focus on. our sustainability program as part of our sustainable strategy >> An intense customer focus and a competitive, globally baland adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. Our Chief anced and localized network of suppliers supports us in Sustainability Officer also manages the Sustainability Office, ­getting closer to our customers all over the world. which is responsible for driving sustainability further within >> Excellent employees are one of Siemens’ vital strengths as Siemens and for coordinating the sustainability program and they play a key role in our success and are the true power of other company-wide programs and measures. Siemens. Leveraging the power of Siemens also means strictly adhering to clear principles of integrity – something To help us maintain an objective perspective on our sustain­ we also expect of our partners and suppliers. ability challenges and performance, we have also created the Siemens Sustainability Board in fiscal 2013 Chief Sustainability Officer Siemens Sustainability Board Head of Head of Head of Head of Head of Head of Head of Corporate Corporate Corporate Human Environmental Corporate Corporate Finance – Corporate Legal Communications Strategies Resources – EMEA Protection, Health Technology – Reporting and and Compliance and Government and Governance, Management Research & TechControlling Affairs Processes and Safety nology Center Chief CTO of CEO of CEO of CEO of CEO of CEO of Compliance Energy Imaging & Therapy Customer Services Low and Medium Siemens Cluster Brazil Officer (Energy) Systems (Industry) Voltage Financial Services (Healthcare) (Infrastructure & Cities) 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 210 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board, composed of eight United Nations Global Compact in 2003 and became a signato­eminent figures in science and industry from a range of dis­ ry to the Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate in 2008; since ciplines and regions of the world. None are employees of fiscal 2011, we are a member of the steering committee of the Siemens. The Board meets at least twice a year, and through proGlobal Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative. We regularly fessional ­exchanges and practical initiatives has already contribreport on our sustainability performance using the guidelines uted to the further development of our sustainability program. (G3.0) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which aim at high transparency and comparability for corporate sustain­ Furthermore, assigned Sustainability Managers in the Sectors ability reporting. and regional units ensure that sustainability measures are implemented throughout the Company. Siemens has been part of the widely respected Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 14 consecutive years. Within the In our Sustainability Program we focus on targets and activi­Index, we were ranked as Industry Leader in 2013 for ­Industrial ties in three areas: “Business opportunities,” “Walk the talk,” Conglomerates for the sixth time in a row, and as ­Industry and “Stakeholder engagement.” In the first area, we turn our Group Leader for Capital Goods for the second time. We also approach to sustainability into concrete business opportuniearned high ratings on a number of other indexes and rankties. “Walk the talk” means we are committed to embedding ings, including those created by the prestigious CDP (Carbon sustainability throughout our organization and operations. In Disclosure Project). Siemens had one of the top scores in the the third area, we focus on collaboration with all relevant world for the sixth time in a row. stakeholders. We regularly refine the underlying targets and activities based on internal and external input, such as from our dialogue with stakeholders. C.8.2 Research and development C.8.1.3 COLLABORATING FOR C.8.2.1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT – SUSTAINABILITY AND PERFORMANCE ORGANIZATION AND STRATEGY Our sustainability efforts are based on our Business Conduct In fiscal 2013, we continued to focus on the following areas in Guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework research and development (R&D): within which we conduct our business activities. They contain the basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and (1) ensuring long-term future viability, externally. Specific issues, such as those relating to the envi(2) enhancing technological competitiveness, and ronment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guide(3) optimizing the allocation of R&D resources. lines. The Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all companies controlled by Siemens. Our R&D activities are geared toward ensuring economically sustainable energy supplies and developing software soluFurthermore, we believe that close collaboration with staketions, which are essential to maintaining the long-term comholders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking suspetitiveness of our Sectors. Accordingly, major focus areas intainability challenges and topics. Maintaining an intensive diaclude: logue with partners along the supply chain and with external stakeholder groups and organizations is important for us: >> increasing the efficiency of renewable and conventional Siemens is actively engaged with leading global sustainability ­energy sources for power generation, organizations, such as the World Business Council for Sustain>> improving low-loss electricity transmission systems, able Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute >> developing new solutions for smart grids, carbon dioxide (WRI). We also liaise every two years with a broad group of separation systems for power plants, and technologies for stakeholders on key sustainability issues, and track their most storing energy from fluctuating renewable sources, significant concerns in a materiality matrix that helps guide >> making medical imaging, in-vitro diagnostics, and healthour sustainability program. care IT an integral part of outcome oriented treatment plans, and In addition, we are committed to international standards and >> further development of industrial software to accelerate guidelines for sustainability. For example, we signed on to the processes at every point along the value chain. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 211 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Another major focus is promoting more efficient energy use in Such new collaborative approaches are also a substantial part buildings, industrial facilities, and the transport sector. Examof our Open Innovation (OI) concept, in which we receive inples include the development of electric drives and mass put from internal as well as external experts that significantly transportation systems such as local and long-distance trains contributes to the innovative power of the Company. With OI and subways. we aim to overcome the barriers of silo thinking, to prove and truly leverage the potential of an open network enterprise. Across all focus areas, we recognize the vital importance of Since 2008, when the first OI project was launched, 35,000 ­sophisticated software solutions. This is true not just for the employees from more than 80 countries have participated in areas mentioned above but also in nearly all of the other fields nine internal OI pilot projects and our external efforts have in which Siemens is active. Siemens software was used, for exmobilized more than 1,750 external solvers on 17 projects. ample, to virtually develop, build, test, and continually optimize the Mars rover Curiosity, before it was built. Curiosity The technology fields addressed by OI cover all technological landed on Mars in August 2012. areas of Siemens. They include: R&D activities are carried out by both our Sectors and our >> research on materials that help make our products more ­Corporate Technology (CT) department. The Sectors focus their ­efficient; R&D efforts on the next generations of their products and solu>> the creation of IT platforms, IT security solutions, software tions. In contrast, the aim of CT is to work with our operating architecture, technical systems, energy technologies, units to develop the Group’s technology and innovation strate­sensors, and electronic components; and gies, especially for the next generation of their products and >> research into new solutions for system engineering, data solutions. In addition, CT helps secure our technological and analysis, automation and communication technologies, innovational future. medical information systems, and imaging processes.  CT is a worldwide network with primary locations in Germany, In addition, Siemens takes part in publicly funded research the U.S., China, Russia, India, and Austria. The more than programs. The most important research areas include the de6,900 CT employees contribute their in-depth understanding velopment of sustainable technologies including recycling, of fundamental technologies, models, and trends, as well as the communication of machines, the creation of new materitheir wealth of software and process expertise. CT strives to als and bio-technology. secure the technological and innovative future through commonly developed core technology initiatives such as future of CT offers extensive process and production consulting services automation, data to business or system integration. With its for development and manufacturing units at Siemens. CT emglobal network of experts, our corporate research unit serves ploys more than 4,400 software developers at locations in as a strategic partner for Siemens’ operating units. CT makes Asia, Europe, and the Americas. These specialists help our important contributions along the entire value chain, from reBusiness Units develop concepts from the initial idea to the search and development to production technology, manufacfinished product. turing processes, and the testing of products and solutions. CT is also networked with leading universities and research instiCT strategically handles the intellectual property of Siemens. tutes worldwide. The principal objectives of these close collabAround 430 experts help the Company register patents and orations with strong external partners are: trademarks, establish them, and put them to profitable use. >> leveraging the potential of joint R&D projects, C.8.2.2 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FIGURES >> establishing and further developing a network of universities In fiscal 2013, we reported research and development expensand research institutes that Siemens closely cooperates es of €4.291 billion, compared to €4.245 billion in fiscal 2012 with, as well as systematically enhancing communication and €3.903 billion in fiscal 2011. The resulting R&D intensity, with these institutions, and defined as the ratio of R&D expenses and revenue, was 5.7%, >> strengthening Siemens’ attractiveness as an employer of above the R&D intensity in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. choice for highly qualified young talents in scientific and technical disciplines. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 212 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks R&D intensity As of September 30, 2013, Siemens held approximately 60,000 Research and granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. As of Research and development September 30, 2012, it held approximately 57,000 granted patdevelopment expenses (in billions of €) intensity 1 ents. In terms of the number of published patent applications FY 2013 4.291 5.7% in calendar year 2012, Siemens ranked third in Germany and FY 2012 4.245 5.5% FY 2011 3.903 5.4% second in Europe. Siemens was also ranked eleventh in the statistics for patents issued in the U.S. in calendar year 2012. 1 R&D intensity is defined as the ratio of R&D expenses and revenue. Rank in patent office statistics 2012 2011 2010 R&D expenses and intensity for the Sectors in fiscal 2013, 2012 Germany – German Patent and 2011 were as follows: and Trade Mark Office (DPMA) 3 3 3 Europe – European Patent Office (EPO) 2 1 1 R&D expenses U.S. – United States Patent and Trademark Office (US PTO) 11 10 9 (in millions of €) FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 Energy 872 868 782 Healthcare 1,230 1,314 1,173 Industry 1,265 1,192 1,103 Infrastructure & Cities 731 699 696 C.8.2.3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN THE SECTORS Our R&D activities in the Energy Sector are focused on developing methods for the efficient generation and transmission R&D intensity of electrical energy, including FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 Energy 3.3% 3.1% 3.1% >> technologies for low-loss electricity transmission, Healthcare 9.0% 9.6% 9.4% >> advanced gas turbines that increase the efficiency and Industry 6.8% 6.1% 5.9% ­reduce emissions of power plants, Infrastructure & Cities 4.1% 4.0% 4.1% >> combined cycle power plants, to increase the availability of electricity through higher flexibility, >> wind turbine innovations, >> technologies that extract the greenhouse gas carbon CT incurred additional R&D expenses. ­dioxide from the flue gas that occurs during fossil fuel-fired power generation (carbon capture and storage), and R&D indicators1 >> a subsea power grid to make deep-sea oil and gas extraction (in thousands) FY 2013 FY 2012 more profitable. Employees 2 29.8 29.5 Inventions 3 8.4 8.8 Examples of research and development in Energy include Type Patent first filings 4 4.0 4.6 B75 rotor blades for wind turbines, which are 75 meters in length; this makes them, to our knowledge, the longest rotor 1 Continuing operations. blades in operation in the world as of the date of this report. At 2 Average number of employees in fiscal year. 25 tons, the B75 is also a “lightweight,” as it is 10% to 20% light3 Number of inventions reported by the Business Units in an internal report. er than comparable rotor blades. Heavy rotor blades are sub4 First filings as part of inventions submitted to patent offices. jected to higher stress loads and also require more massive nacelles, towers, and foundations. The combination of intelliIn our continuing operations, we had an average of approxigent design and low weight therefore has a positive effect on mately 13,300 R&D employees in Germany and approximately the cost of wind power production. 16,500 employees in approximately 30 other countries during fiscal 2013, including, among others, the U.S., China, Austria, In 2011, a combined-cycle power-generation island built by and India. Siemens in Irsching, Germany, demonstrated an unprecedented 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 213 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report net efficiency rating of 60.75% at an output of 578 megawatts. hospitals named SOMATOM Perspective 64. It reduces radiaIn April 2013, three additional power plant blocks featuring tion doses for patients by up to 60 percent, with improved H-Class gas turbines commenced commercial operation in ­image quality. The system needs only 18 square meters, it can Cape Canaveral, Florida. Another combined-cycle power plant be installed in less than two days, and it comes with low with this turbine as the main driver has been commissioned in ­energy consumption and air-conditioning requirements. Both August 2013 in Dangjin, South Korea. It also reaches an effiversions are among the most economical scanners in their ciency level of approximately 61%. ­respective classes. In fiscal 2013, Siemens installed the HelWin1 offshore platAnother focus area is automating clinical work processes and forms in the North Sea. With a capacity of 576 megawatts optimizing laboratory diagnostics, with a goal of enabling phy(MW), these platforms will supply clean wind-generated elecsicians to identify diseases more precisely and at an earlier tricity to more than 500,000 German households on the mainstage. Physicians are then able to monitor the effect of medicaland. HelWin1 will link the two offshore wind farms, known as tions more accurately and benefit from the evaluation and anaNordsee Ost and Meerwind, to the mainland. The alternating lytical capabilities of modern computer technology. As a result, current power generated by the wind turbines is transformed therapies can be tailored more closely to a patient’s needs. The into low-loss high-voltage direct current (HVDC) for transmisSector also develops products that meet the specific, targeted sion onto land. The total transmission losses for this connecrequirements of the healthcare systems of emerging countries. tion are less than 4%. Siemens’ HVDC Plus technology not only reduces the space requirements for HVDC systems, which is a One of the R&D priorities in the Industry Sector is the softdecisive factor for installation at sea, but also features self-­ ware-based integration of product planning and production stabilization. This enhances grid reliability in the event of processes within the framework of product lifecycle managepower fluctuations, which can occur with wind-based power ment. The objective is to accelerate processes at every point generation. along the value chain. A good example is the technology for industrial production of implants. With the help of intelligent The R&D activities in the Healthcare Sector are focused on software solutions, prosthetics can be produced more effimeeting customer requirements, which are the result of two ciently and cost-effectively. Innovative technologies like major trends: the world’s population continues to grow steadithese can cut the time from design to market in the manufacly and to get older. These trends increase the pressure on turing industry by up to 50%. The further development of healthcare providers to treat more and more people at increas­automation and drive technology, and industrial software in ingly lower costs in order to stabilize rising healthcare expenparticular, plays a major role here. This applies to the product ditures. To overcome the challenges of making healthcare development and production process as well as to the intemore efficient and more effective, the healthcare measures gration of the drive system. It also applies to metal manufachave to focus on the individual patient and the success of the turing, where the software-assisted planning and operation treatment. of entire steel mills are increasingly influencing production. Moreover, the Industry Sector is striving to achieve greater One of the Sector’s R&D fields involves the development of energy efficiency, reduce raw material consumption, and systems that help physicians make precise diagnoses of large ­lower emissions. These objectives also guide the developnumbers of patients and are also robust, easy to use, and inexment of technology-based service concepts such as energy pensive to purchase and maintain. One example is the world’s management and remote maintenance systems, as well as first wireless ultrasound device, Acuson Freestyle. The system the creation of efficient, resource-conserving solutions for makes it easier to use advanced ultrasound technology in arsteel production. eas that need to be aseptic, or sterile. Examples include interventional radiology, anesthesiology, intensive care, catheter R&D activities in our Infrastructure & Cities Sector focus on labs, and emergency care. Ultrasound with wireless transducurban growth issues. Main research fields therefore cover susers is also ideally suited for minimally-invasive procedures tainable technologies for major metropolitan areas and their such as nerve blockades, access to blood vessels, and positioninfrastructures. The main aims are to increase energy efficiening for therapeutic interventions and biopsies. cy, reduce burdens on the environment, increase cost-effectiveness, and improve the quality of life in cities. To this end, Along with its full-size computed tomography scanner the Sector develops building technologies that conserve energy, SOMATOM Perspective 128, Healthcare offers a version designed solutions for ensuring an efficient and secure supply of elecespecially for outpatient clinic and small and medium-sized tricity in cities, and intelligent traffic and transport systems. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 214 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Examples include the extremely lightweight and almost fully >> E-sourcing: We significantly increased the proportion of exrecyclable Inspiro modular subway train and the innovative ternal purchases that we award via electronic bidding over and especially lightweight SF7000 bogie. In the field of buildthe last few years to more than 10%. ing automation, the Desigo facility automation system integrates many of its system components into buildings themWe expect to realize further savings potential within the selves and thus achieves significant energy savings. In addiframework of Siemens 2014 by further integrating supply tion, researchers are looking for ways to integrate buildings chain management activities into other business activities, into smart grids. Through such integration, the buildings can such as design and production. The relevant lever in this confeed the electricity they produce into the grids and provide adtext is material cost productivity and in particular Design-toditional power during times of peak demand. Cost, which optimizes the design of products in order to reduce material cost. In fiscal 2013, Siemens launched a large “smart city” project in Vienna, Austria in conjunction with partners. A living laboratoWe are strengthening Siemens’ innovation power by benefitry will be created in the next five years in the waterside district ing from the innovative strength in our supplier network. With of Aspern, which is expected to constitute one of the largest our Siemens Supplier Forum, we established a platform for urban development projects in Europe. In this laboratory, powregular dialogue with our top strategic suppliers at the CEO er supply, building systems, intelligent power grids, and inforlevel. With this dialogue, we aim to ensure long-term cost mation and communication technologies will interact in an leadership, realize shared growth potential and increase innooptimized way. vation capabilities. To promote outstanding suppliers for their excellence, we introduced Siemens Supplier Awards for a number of categories. C.8.3 Supply chain management Sustainability is a guiding principle for our supply chain manThe principal goal of supply chain management at Siemens is agement. Sustainability requirements are therefore an integral to ensure the availability and quality of the materials we repart of all relevant supplier management processes – such as quire to serve our customers also considering innovation supplier selection, supplier qualification and evaluation, and strength and sustainability of our suppliers. We aim to supplier development. We require all of our suppliers to comstrengthen our competitiveness by achieving substantial savply with the principles of our Code of Conduct for Siemens ings in our purchasing volume. In fiscal 2013, Siemens’ purSuppliers, which include respect for the basic rights of emchasing volume amounted to approximately €38 billion, which ployees and environmental protection. We also require them to equaled roughly half of our total revenue. Our primary stratesupport its implementation in their own supply chains. We gies for achieving savings in purchasing are the following: have established a risk-based system of appropriate processes to enable us to systematically identify potential risks in our >> Siemens-wide managed volume: We bundle more than supply chain. It consists of sustainability self-assessments by half of our purchasing volume which includes direct and insuppliers, risk evaluation conducted by our purchasing departdirect material. Through this worldwide pooling of volume, ment, sustainability questions within supplier quality audits we achieve substantial economies of scale. and sustainability audits by external auditors. To further en>> Sourcing from emerging markets: We try to move tocourage sustainable business conduct throughout our entire wards a globally balanced supply chain network. One esglobal supply chain, we are committed to building our supplisential element is to constantly increase the share of sourcers’ competence and intensifying knowledge transfers related ing from Global Value Sourcing (GVS) countries, which are to sustainability. generally emerging economies. To accomplish this goal, we identify, select and fully qualify suppliers from GVS In 2012, the SEC adopted a regulatory rule, known as the “Concountries, and engage them in a continuous development flict minerals rule.” This rule aims to increase transparency and process that extends to sustainability thereafter. Additionresponsibility in the procurement of “conflict minerals” from ally, we encourage and support our suppliers to expand the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and their operations in order to follow our manufacturing footthe surrounding region. A project organization was estabprint in these countries. In fiscal 2013, we further increased lished to address the requirements within our supply chain in the proportion of our sourcing coming from GVS countries fiscal 2013. For further information, see C.9.3 RISKS . on a comparable basis. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 215 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.8.4 Production demanding requirements of our customers while streamlining our cost position and those of our customers compared In-house production is an important cornerstone of our operawith competitors. tions. Siemens operates around 290 major production and manufacturing plants in more than 35 countries worldwide, With the implementation of lean principles in our production including facilities at certain joint ventures and associated operations, we aim to simultaneously achieve both shorter companies. A major production and manufacturing plant is delead times and higher quality in our processes, products and fined as a facility at Business Unit level in which raw or source solutions. This enables us to react even more flexibly to our materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale customers’ demands and to increase our delivery reliability. by using equipment and production resources such as maBy now, the SPS has already been established in more than chines, tools, energy and labor. Around 140 major production 80% of our major production and manufacturing facilities and manufacturing plants are located in the region Europe, worldwide. C.I.S., Africa, Middle East; around 80 major production and manufacturing plants are located in the region Americas and It is our strategy to ensure that all of our production and around 70 major production and manufacturing plants are lomanu­facturing facilities apply lean principles and that these cated in the region Asia, Australia. With around 100 major proprinciples are also adopted by other functions such as duction and manufacturing plants, the Energy Sector accounts adminis­ tration or engineering. For the latter purpose, we for the greatest proportion of these, followed by the Infrastruchave widened the range of our lean expert qualifications by ture & Cities Sector (around 80 major facilities), the Industry adding specific training programs for employees engaged in Sector (around 70 major facilities) and the Healthcare Sector adminis­tration. By the end of fiscal 2013, a total of more than (around 40 major facilities). 780 ­employees have joined (and in part already completed) lean expert qualification programs for production and / or Key elements of our production strategy include sustained im­administration. provement in the cost position for our products and solutions, and locating production sites geographically to support the development of new markets. China, for example, is one of our C.8.5 Quality management largest growth markets, and we have established our presence there with around 45 major production and manufacturing Outstanding quality in our products and solutions is a key sucplants. One of the most significant features of our production cess factor for our Company. We believe that Siemens is known activities is the diversity of products, volumes and processes: for high quality in its business processes and customer projThe spectrum of our products ranges from hearing aids to a ects, which many customers consider essential in meeting 600-tonne steam turbine; production volume can be anything their needs. from a single customer-specific order to high-tech serial production; and production processes range from automated proOur main objective in terms of quality is high customer satisduction in clean rooms to manual final assembly of major infaction. We measure customer satisfaction using the Net Prostallations on construction sites. moter Score, which is discussed in more detail below. Internal audits and assessments, together with regular benchmarking, Besides innovation in product technologies, also innovation help us ensure the effectiveness and further development of and efficiency improvement of production technologies plays our quality management. Our quality management system is an important role for Siemens. In this context the efficiency of designed to meet or exceed relevant recognized international energy and raw material as well as environmental sustainabilistandards. ty of production processes is our focus. We aim to maintain a strong culture of continuous improveWe designed the Siemens Production System (SPS) in our ment and high transparency. Transparency in this context aim to continuously improve our global production processmeans to measure quality and make it visible. To that end, we es. The SPS is our structured approach to designing and operhave developed a comprehensive quality approach throughout ating the production operations of Siemens in accordance the Company to increase the quality of our products and prowith so-called “lean” principles. These principles aim to recesses. We have defined binding standards in the areas of duce or eliminate activities in our business processes that quality responsibility, quality controlling, process quality and add no customer value. This helps us satisfy the increasingly quality awareness for all Siemens units worldwide. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 216 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks The quality management organization is well established at all their respective countries. This keeps us close to our customlevels of our business. Some 10,000 employees in our continuers and positions us to offer fast and customizable solutions to ing operations actively provide quality management and qualitheir business needs. We are currently selling products and ty assurance within our operational units. We believe that it is services in around 190 countries. Because of our long-lasting particularly important to ensure that quality is measurable and local presence we are often perceived as local citizens. We transparent. founded our first subsidiary in Russia in 1855, opened our first permanent office in China in 1904, founded our Brazilian subThe quality of our products and processes depends strongly on sidiary Siemens do Brasil in 1905 and founded our first Indian the capabilities of our employees. Training on quality is subsidiary in 1924. therefore an integral part of our corporate culture. Training opportunities are made available to all employees. This applies in Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our longparticular to quality managers who, as experts in their fields, term success. We employ a structured key account managemust demonstrate expertise with the relevant quality tools. ment (KAM) approach throughout the Company to take care of Professional development options include web-based soluour key customers. This means that we seek to tailor our prodtions, training plans specific to particular target groups, and ucts and solutions to their size and regional site structures. We on-the-job training. We regularly expand the portfolio of our also aim to ensure that our key account managers continually training courses to complement traditional areas of the develop and maintain relationships with them over the long Siemens Quality Management approach. Courses include topterm. This approach is supplemented by our Executive Relaics such as quality management in projects, inspections and tionship Program. In this program, members of the Company ’s audits, and quality tools. We develop training courses in coopManaging Board stay in direct contact with selected customers eration with experienced internal personnel and experts from and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize universities and partner institutions. This approach seeks to Siemens with their needs. ensure effective transfer of expertise within the Company as well as to and from external specialists. Our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satisProduct safety is an essential aspect of product quality and an faction in every unit of the Company using the Net Promoter element of technical compliance. For this reason, product safeScore (NPS). This internationally recognized and commonly ty is also a strategic objective of the entire value-added proapplied managerial performance indicator, which we detercess. Safe product design encompasses the safety of all prodmine annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer suructs and services developed, manufactured and sold by veys, measures the referral rate of our customers. The NPS for Siemens. It involves and defines requirements for just about fiscal 2013 was based on the results of more than 25,200 interevery function in the Company and addresses the entire lifecyviews, compared to more than 24,100 interviews in fiscal 2012. cle from development, production and maintenance / repair to In fiscal 2013, our company-wide NPS once again increased enhancement / modification until final disposal. Accordingly, compared to the previous fiscal year. we consider legal requirements and relevant standards as well as the current state of science and technology. To ensure the high quality and continuous improvement of our customer support, we have developed our Account Management Excellence Program and our Sales Management ­Excellence C.8.6 Distribution and customer relations Program. We carry out strength-and-weakness analyses as well as training and qualification measures under these programs, Our Sectors, Divisions, Business Units, and SFS have global reaiming to ensure consistently high standards in our worldwide sponsibility for their business, sales and results. They are able customer relationship management. In fiscal 2013, we successto support customers around the world directly from their refully enlarged the number of participating Key Account Managspective headquarters, especially for large contracts and projers in our KAM Certification Program to ensure high quality and ects. However, most of our customers are small and mediconsistent standards at our customer interfaces. um-sized companies and organizations that require local support. To address local business opportunities with them, we An elementary component of all our global marketing and sellare able to draw upon a large global sales force steered by our ing activities is compliance with applicable laws and internal regional companies. They are responsible for the distribution rules and regulations. For example, Siemens values and comof the Siemens portfolio across our Sectors and Divisions in pliance are an integral part of our training program. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 217 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Our systematic efforts to achieve customer satisfaction have by the end of fiscal 2014. Due to recent and ongoing portfolio been recognized by outside institutions. In 2013, for example, changes it is no longer likely that we will achieve this target Siemens ranked in a leading position in Customer Relationship purely with our own operations by the end of fiscal 2014. Management in the “Industrial Conglomerates” category of the Siemens’ strategic focus on technologies for energy efficiency SAM Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fourth consecutive and climate and environmental protection will nevertheless reyear. In addition, our customer management is also considered main in place. For fiscal year 2013, more than two-thirds of the exemplary in the academic world – a position we strengthened revenue from our Environmental Portfolio were already generover the past fiscal year through academic collaborations with ated with products and solutions for energy efficiency. Columbia University, University of Houston, Darden University of Virginia, HEC Paris and Technical University of Munich, With our Environmental Portfolio, we intend, among other among others. We believe that such collaborations position things, to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide footSiemens to compete effectively for sales talents. They also inprint, cut their energy costs and improve their profitability crease our social engagement in the form of training for young through an increase in productivity. Taking together all elepeople in multiple countries. ments of the Environmental Portfolio that were installed at customer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and remain in use today, we have reduced customer carbon dioxide C.8.7 Environmental Portfolio emissions by 377 million metric tons in fiscal 2013, which is the equivalent of the following twelve cities’ combined yearly Indicators 1 emissions: Berlin, Cape Town, London, Los Angeles, Melbourne, Year ended September 30, Mexico City, Moscow, New York City, São Paulo, Seoul, Singa2013 2012 pore and Tokyo. Revenue generated by the Siemens Environmental Portfolio C.8.7.1 REPORTING PRINCIPLES (in billions of €) 32.3 32.7 We report the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions gengenerated by ­elements from the erated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in Siemens Environmental Portfolio (in millions of metric tons) 377 333 our Environmental Portfolio Guideline. This Guideline is based on the Reporting Principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition, 1 Continuing operations. and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Project Accounting. Both Our Environmental Portfolio serves as an example of how we of these standards are published by the World Resources Instistrive to align our business activities with the aforementioned tute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Demegatrends, in this case climate change. The Environmental velopment (WBCSD). Portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that reduce negative imThe principles underlying these standards are relevance, compacts on the environment and emissions of carbon dioxide and pleteness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conser­ other greenhouse gases (defined together in the following as vativeness. As there are currently no accepted international carbon dioxide emissions) responsible for climate change. standards for identification and reporting of so-called green products, we are engaging in standardization activities with In addition to its environmental benefits, our Environmental external organizations. The revenue generated by the EnvironPortfolio enables us to compete successfully in attractive marmental Portfolio is recognized in accordance with revenue reckets and generate profitable growth. In fiscal 2013, revenue ognition policies as described in NOTE 2 in D.6 NOTES TO from continuing operations from the Environmental Portfolio CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . amounted to €32.3 billion, which accounted for 43% of our revenue from continuing operations in this fiscal year. This reveC.8.7.2 GOVERNANCE – nue includes revenue from newly developed and additionally PROCESSES AND DEFINITIONS qualified elements, and excludes revenue from elements that The qualification of Environmental Portfolio elements as well no longer fulfill our qualifications. as their respective reporting is based on defined processes and criteria. In principle, any product, system, solution or service In fiscal 2010, we set ourselves a revenue target for the Enviof Siemens’ continuing operations may qualify for the Environronmental Portfolio within the One Siemens framework: to exmental Portfolio. The business portfolio of Siemens’ continuceed €40 billion in revenue from the Environmental Portfolio ing operations is reviewed annually regarding the qualification 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 218 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks of Environmental Portfolio elements based on the criteria deAdditionally, a criterion for the Healthcare Sector is an enviscribed below. This covers the inclusion of newly developed ronmental impact reduction in terms of noise, radiation or elements as well as the integration of additionally qualified eltotal weight of at least 25% compared to the baseline. ements where evidence of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was not available in prior reporting periods. For additionalC.8.7.4 BASELINE METHODS ly qualified Environmental Portfolio elements, we report their Energy efficiency, annual customer reduction of carbon dioxprior-year revenue and prior-year contribution to reducing ide and environmental impact are all assessed by a comparison ­customer carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis. with a reference solution (baseline). There are three different ­Elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are options for the reference solution: before-after comparison, ­excluded from our Environmental Portfolio. comparison with a reference technology or comparison with the installed base. The baselines are reviewed annually and, if Prior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new necessary, adjusted, such as when statistical data on the inEnvironmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel stalled base is updated because of technical innovations or internal evaluation process. Our Sustainability Board annually regulatory changes. The calculation of the reduction of carbon acknowledges changes in the composition of the Environmendioxide emissions is based on a comparison for every relevant tal Portfolio. A further task of the Sustainability Board is to Environmental Portfolio element with a baseline. For this cal­discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to the culation, we focus on those elements that have a material iminclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environpact on the overall carbon dioxide emissions reduction. For mental Portfolio. some emission reduction calculations, the baseline reference for the installed base is determined using known global emisC.8.7.3 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION sion factors such as those for power production. The baselines OF ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO ELEMENTS used for our calculations are mainly based on data of the InterAn Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a sysnational Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power production and tem, a solution or a service as defined above. Furthermore, a for grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental Panel on core component of a system or solution may qualify as an Climate Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, and our ­Environmental Portfolio element if the component provided by own assessments of power production efficiency. For consisSiemens is key to enabling environmental benefits resulting tency reasons, we generally apply global emission factors for from the system’s or solution’s overall application. To qualify calculating emission reductions. for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an element must meet one of the selection criteria described below, which are C.8.7.5 REPORTING ESTIMATES energy efficiency, renewable energy or environmental technolThe inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio is ogies. Products, systems, solutions and services with planned based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other application in military use or nuclear power are not included in companies and other stakeholders may view differently. Facthe Environmental Portfolio. tors that may cause differences, among others, are: choice of applicable baseline methodology, application of global emis>> Energy efficiency: The criteria for energy efficiency are an sion factors that may be different from local conditions, use improvement in energy efficiency of 20% or more during the patterns at customers that may be different from standard use customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or patterns used for carbon dioxide abatement calculations and a reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide expert estimates if no other data is available. equivalents per reporting period in the customer use phase. Examples of elements that meet the energy efficiency criteTo date, there is no applicable international standard that aprion are combined cycle power plants and intelligent buildplies across companies for qualifying products, systems, soluing technology systems. tions and services for environmental and climate protection, or >> Renewable energy: This criterion covers technologies in for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the the field of renewable energy sources such as wind turbines quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to or smart grid applications and their respective core composuch products, systems, solutions and services. Accordingly, nents. revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of >> Environmental technologies: This criterion is related to our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be water and wastewater treatment, air pollution control, comparable with similar information reported by other compawaste reduction, recycling, e-car infrastructure and its nies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emissions reduction core components. It also includes the Siemens Consulting in the period of installation of the Siemens Environmental ­Service which analyzes customers’ environmental impact. Portfolio ­element. The period of installation will be determined 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 219 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report by ­ milestones or based on estimated construction periods. The environmental protection management system requires This may differ from the timing of revenue recognition. Furthat our relevant production and office sites must implement thermore, we subject revenue from our Environmental Portfoan environmental management system which fulfills the relio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide quirements of the internationally recognized ISO 14001 stanemissions to internal documentation and review requirements dard and also our own internal standard, known as “Specificathat are less sophisticated than those applicable to our finantions on environmentally compatible product and system decial information. We may change our policies for recognizing sign.” This internal standard defines requirements to reduce revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of the environmental impact of our products and systems during our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future the production, use and disposal phase and is an integral part without prior notice. of our business processes. The management system includes a number of effective and complementary environmental proAs in previous years, we again commissioned an independent grams as well as a set of Siemens-wide environmental targets. accounting firm with a limited assurance engagement to reWe conduct regular internal reviews of our environmental perview the reported results for our Environmental Portfolio for formance and progress, in order to create a cycle of continual fiscal 2013. This review was conducted in accordance with the improvement. International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews Our commitment to continual improvement led to two enviof Historical Financial Information. Nothing came to the attenronmental protection programs in fiscal 2012: “Serve the Envition of the independent accounting firm that would cause ronment” for industrial environmental protection and “Product them to believe that the section Siemens Environmental PortEco Excellence” for product-related environmental protection. folio of the Environmental Portfolio Report – containing the They are designed to improve energy and resource efficiency, revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio and the anto fulfill growing international requirements with regard to ennual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions attributvironmental protection, to increase customer benefits, and to able to it – has not been prepared, in all material respects, in proactively strengthen our position as a sustainable company. accordance with the defined reporting principles. Based on centralized recorded environmental data, we focus our improvement efforts on the product-related and industrial environmental protection requirements that need to be met. C.8.8 Environmental performance C.8.8.2 INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Indicators 1 Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optiYear ended September 30, mizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. With the 2013 2012 “Serve the Environment” program we are committed to the Energy efficiency improvement following Siemens-wide main targets: compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 4% 8% Waste efficiency improvement >> to continue our systematic effort to improve energy compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 4% 7% ­efficiency, and thereby achieve corresponding improvement Waste for disposal reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 7% 8% in our carbon dioxide efficiency; Carbon dioxide emission efficiency >> to improve the waste efficiency each year by 1% until 2014; improvement compared to baseline and in fiscal 2010 13% 13% >> to reduce waste for disposal each year by 1% until 2014. 1 Continuing operations. Furthermore, Siemens continues with the water risk management approach we developed in fiscal 2012. In locations where C.8.8.1 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION there are particular water risks (for example as a result of aridTo meet today ’s global ecological challenges responsibly, ity, high waste-water loads or poorly developed technical infraSiemens has a comprehensive EHS (Environmental Protection, structure), the local sites need to define targets matched to loHealth Management and Safety) management system. The cal conditions and, in meeting those targets, effectively reduce process requirements of this management system help our oprisks and negative impacts on the environment. Finally, our erating units comply with applicable laws, regulations and “Serve the Environment” program also addresses air pollution customer requirements, satisfy our corporate requirements by seeking alternative solutions for any ozone-depleting subproperly and achieve our Siemens-wide environmental targets. stances still in legally permissible use. The generation of 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 220 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks “­ balance sheets” for ozone-depleting solvents – even those we tal risks posed by these substances themselves and in the use in quantities below statutory minimum thresholds – is one manufacture, use and disposal of products containing them. of our measures for reducing air pollution. We measure progWe strive for an improved basis for assessing the environress toward achieving our “Serve the Environment” program mental impact of our products, and ensuring that our custargets by aggregating the results of measures implemented tomers’ requirements in the respective target markets are locally at our sites. met. This also supports closing material cycles (cradle to cradle) which is becoming an increasingly important topic as We calculate our performance indicators for all office and proglobal market demands. duction sites of environmental relevance using environmental >> To develop a methodology for better assessing risks such as data gathered quarterly. We calculate environmental perforenvironmental, toxicological, and future availability risks asmance on a portfolio-adjusted basis. This approach enables us sociated with used substances and materials. The results are to survey and compare our environmental performance over the basis for substitution decisions within product developtime, regardless of acquisitions and disposals. We use a single ment. We have developed the methodology and will roll it indicator which incorporates weighted calculations related to out as part of the environmental program. We intend to verithe primary fuels consumed in generating the energy used at fy the potential of the methodology using pilot projects. our sites. This indicator takes into account the amount of ener>> To establish a harmonized procedure for determining the gy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed. “ecological footprint” of our products whose coverage we Fossil energy sources receive a higher primary energy factor want to further increase. In order to determine and evaluate than renewable energy sources. Siemens sites can accordingly the “ecological footprint” of our products and systems, we increase their energy efficiency and reduce their impact on have adopted the requirements of international life-cycle asnatural resources by strategically adjusting their choice of ensessment (LCA) standards ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. The asergy sources. sessment results are the basis of our environmental product declarations (EPD) which our customers rely on for reducing We achieved the targets we set ourselves in fiscal 2013. Due to their own environmental impact.  the weaker business we were unable to maintain the level of energy and waste efficiency reached in fiscal 2012. By implementing several measures for waste disposal reduction and C.8.9 Employees reasonable energy procurement, the waste disposal ratio and CO2 efficiency were almost maintained at the level of fiscal 2012. Indicators 1 Year ended September 30, C.8.8.3 PRODUCT-RELATED 2013 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL ­PROTECTION Employee turnover rate 2 10.8% 10.7% The major focus of product-related environmental protection is Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 3 15.6% 15.3% to improve the overall environmental performance of our prodExpenses for continuing education ucts and systems. We define mandatory requirements in our (in millions of €) 4 265 283 internal environmental standard to reduce the environmental Expenses per employee for impact of our products and systems during the product develcontinuing education (in €) 4 670 693 opment, production, use and disposal phases. The “Product Eco Excellence” program supports our businesses to fulfill 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. these requirements. Additionally, the program aims to better 2 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. prepare the operating units for future regulatory and customer 3 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary requirements, to strengthen environmental communication, ­responsibility, plus project managers. and to broaden environmental awareness among our employ4 Without travel expenses. ees. The main elements of the program are: Excellent employees are one of Siemens’ vital strengths. They >> Being committed to continuously improve transparency rehave made Siemens what it is today and their expertise, capagarding declarable substances, particularly in purchased bilities and high level of engagement are laying the foundation parts and components. To gain transparency, we provide a for our future success. To stay competitive, we need to continlist of declarable substances (LoDS), comprising substances uously win and retain the best and brightest employees worldthat are restricted in use due to regional or application-spewide. As an employer of choice, we empower our diverse and cific regulations, or due to potential health and environmenengaged people worldwide with a high-performance culture, 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 221 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report encourage life-long learning and development, offer an attracthe heterogeneous professional qualifications require offertive working environment and ensure occupational health and ings for early learning opportunities for the group age 35 or safety. below. Based on a common approach, we are encouraging the exchange of proven practices between countries and are fosEmployees by segments as of September 30, 2013 tering leadership awareness around collaboration in cross-gen(in thousands) 1 eration teams. Energy: 84 (23%) Other: 35 (10%) C.8.9.1 DIVERSITY As a global player, the vast and diverse range of our employFinancial Services: ees’ capabilities, experience and qualifications forms a sub3 (1%) Healthcare: 52 (14%) 362 stantial competitive advantage, and supports our value pro­ position as an employer. Infrastructure & Cities: Industry: 100 (28%) 90 (25%) The Global Diversity Office coordinates strategies, measures and programs across Siemens following these principles: 1 Continuing operations. >> we want to have the best person for every position, Employees by regions as of September 30, 2013 >> we want to provide opportunities for diversity of experience (in thousands) 1 and interaction, and >> we want to achieve diversity of thinking across our Company. Asia, Australia: 64 (18%) Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, therein China: 32 (9%) Diversity networks and programs – Our various global diverMiddle East: 220 (61%) sity networks promote and discuss diversity topics across the 362 therein Germany: 118 (33%) Americas: 78 (22%) Company. These groups and programs include the Global therein U.S.: 53 (15%) Leadership Organization of Women (GLOW), Diversity Ambassador and GENE, our generations network to foster cross-generation exchange. In addition, we have over 120 local employee networks worldwide with employees actively engaged in 1 Continuing operations. diversity-related programs and activities. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Diversity Scorecard – To measure our progress in the area of Siemens believes that employee engagement is a key driver for diversity, we have a scorecard of five parameters, which we sustainable company performance. An engaged workforce track yearly and compare to prior years: These five parameters drives innovation, growth and profitability. Since 2010, the include professional knowledge, diversity at all levels, compoSiemens Global Engagement Survey has been seen as an imsition of our top talent pool, culture and branding, and experiportant management tool. Moving forward, the Engagement ence mix. Survey will be conducted on a biennial basis to allow more time to set measures and to follow-up on improvements. Diversity in management – We’ve developed our management recruitment processes to ensure that the preliminary seDemographic change, lifelong employability and cross-generalection of candidates reflects the diversity of our customers tion collaboration are Siemens’ key challenges to be mastered, and employees at all levels and in all regions. For example, the and we see differences between regions and labor markets. To percentage of women in management at Siemens globally has remain an employer of choice, we are taking appropriate acnearly doubled since fiscal 2002 to 15.6%. tion based on local needs. For example, with the proportion of employees older than 55 continuously rising in Europe and the Work-life integration – A growing number of employees seek U.S., supporting employability of our experienced employees more flexibility in how they balance work with the rest of their and ensuring knowledge transfer are important measures. On lives, for example, childcare responsibilities. At many of our the other hand, this age group makes up just 3% of the work­locations worldwide, we now provide options for flexible work force in Asia with 58% of the workforce age 35 or below. Here schedules, part-time work and telecommuting. At the same 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 222 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks time, particularly in Germany, we are expanding the availabilical 2013, we introduced new programs for customer services ty of childcare options near the Company sites, such as nurserand quality management in projects. The Siemens Leadership ies, daycare centers and children’s after-school centers – takExcellence programs prepare leaders at the highest levels of ing local conditions into account. the organization for their future responsibilities. C.8.9.2 TALENT ACQUISITION Siemens continues to be one of Germany ’s largest providers of AND EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT professional education for secondary school graduates (7,000 Attracting, contacting, hiring, promoting and systematically places for Siemens trainees and 2,800 places for trainees from developing the best employees worldwide for Siemens – that other companies). As in previous years, we again made 10% of is our goal in Talent Acquisition and Employee Development. our trainee positions available to disadvantaged youths. In addition, we offered for the second time a professional education In order to meet our requirements for qualified staff, we attract according to the German system, which is benefiting 31 school new talent to Siemens and also work on retaining our existing graduates coming from twelve European countries. workforce for the long term. To attract new talents, Siemens has a wide array of programs in place: With the Siemens AdC.8.9.4 SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE vanced Program, for example, we attract highly-qualified Siemens established its first employee share program in Gerbachelor graduates to become future technology experts for many as early as 1969. Building on this successful program in the Company. The Siemens Graduate Program (SGP), on the Germany, Siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and other hand, prepares talented graduates for future managemanagement participation. Today, Siemens offers approximent tasks within the Company. mately 95% of its employees in 60 countries the opportunity to acquire Siemens shares with the Company ’s financial support. The Performance Management Process (PMP) helps leaders and The Share Matching Plan is based on a simple principle: Ememployees determine clear personal goals and share the feedployees participating in the plan will receive one Siemens back necessary to achieve them. The process also supports us share without payment of consideration (matching share) for in setting compensation, providing professional development every three Siemens shares bought and continuously held opportunities and identifying talents throughout the Company. over a period of three years. Only condition: The employee still To reflect the focus on high-performance within Siemens, our needs to be employed by Siemens. The main idea of the plan compensation system for our top executives and senior manhas always been to make stock ownership available to employagement worldwide includes a variable component. ees at all income levels. C.8.9.3 LEARNING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION We are convinced that empowering employees with shares We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their motivates them to assume greater responsibilities and helps qualifications and expertise. In fiscal 2013, we invested around them identify more closely with the company they work for – a €265 million for continuing education (without travel expensfundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of es), which equals about €670 per employee. The expenses inSiemens. clude courses and training programs both for individual employees and for entire company units. C.8.9.5 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS TO EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Siemens Learning Campus and Siemens Leadership ExcelFair-minded collaboration among Company management, emlence, two corporate-level organizations, are responsible for ployees and employee representatives plays a central role at implementing the global learning portfolio: Siemens Learning Siemens. As one of the largest corporate employers in Ger­ Campus offers regional learning opportunities to employees in many and worldwide, we are committed to our social responall countries, ranging from courses for employees and managsibility and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our ers, through tailored training programs and services for employees – which already apply worldwide and are firmly groups, to solutions for entire organizations. Siemens Core anchored in our Business Conduct Guidelines. Underscoring Learning Programs promote the systematic development of this commitment, Siemens, the Siemens Central Works Counour employees and are tailored to the daily business challengcil, the German trade union IG Metall and the global ­industrial es faced by employees in specific areas such as sales, project union IndustriAll have signed an international framework management, procurement, development or production. In fisagreement on the principles of corporate r­ esponsibility. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 223 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.8.9.6 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY to learn from positive examples and to change attitudes and AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT behavior, supporting our goal of sustainable development by Occupational safety and health management are key elements taking ambitious action. of our company ’s sustainable strategy and an integral part of our business processes. We therefore develop central projects In fiscal 2013 the overall number of fatalities was lower than in and processes that are then applied locally in conjunction with fiscal 2012. We attribute that to the numerous and consequent programs that are individually adapted to the respective busiactions and specific initiated projects. An implemented proness activity. Occupational safety and health management are cess for the assessment of suppliers is supporting these activian integral part of our Business Conduct Guidelines, our interties. Furthermore Supply Chain Management and Sectors have nal monitoring systems, and our risk management and interdeveloped collaborative plans to improve the EHS profile of nal control systems. In addition, occupational safety is part of suppliers. Regrettably, we report five work-related fatalities of an international framework agreement between Siemens AG, Siemens employees and ten work-related fatalities of contracthe Central Works Council of Siemens AG, IG Metall and the tors in fiscal 2013. In the previous year there were four fataliglobal union IndustriAll. ties involving Siemens employees and 15 involving contractors. Promote a culture of safety – In the past, occupational safety Promoting health – Siemens has established a high standard was often characterized by a focus on technical protective of occupational health and safety to avoid work-related health measures, an approach which achieved considerable success. risks and promote employees’ health with a sustainable apWe are convinced, however, that further improvement can be proach. We help our employees assume responsibility for their achieved only through an actively practiced occupational safeown personal behavior in health-related matters, and support ty culture and optimum working conditions – in every country health-promoting general conditions within the Company. We and for all Siemens employees as well as those of our contracpromote the physical, mental and social well-being of our emtor partners. Both as a company and as individuals we are reployees through a range of activities governing the five topics sponsible for ensuring that the working environment at of healthy work environment, psychosocial well-being, physiSiemens is safe at all times and for every employee. At present, cal activity, healthy nutrition and medical care. local best practices exist which we can build on. We will achieve sustainability, however, only through a global and We also defined requirements for a Siemens health management consistent approach. system (HMS) which provides a Siemens-wide approach to controlling health management in a systematic and sustainable Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect manner. Company units can revert to it if they want to integrate high safety standards from us. Safe behavior is governed not health in the organizational structure and working processes. only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but also by the personal values of managers and employees. Therefore, Siemens launched the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens C.8.10 Compliance Program in fiscal 2012 to improve our safety performance. It contains three principles: Indicators 1 Year ended September 30, >> Zero incidents – it is achievable. 2013 2012 >> Health and safety – no compromises! Inquiries submitted to the >> We take care of each other! Ask us help desk 416 1,009 Compliance cases reported 908 830 Disciplinary sanctions 305 266 We always start by analyzing the current status and the safety therein warnings 188 173 situation locally to get an overview of the needs for improvetherein dismissals 75 73 ment and further activities. Involving the management at a therein other 2 42 20 very early stage guarantees the importance and sustainability of the program. Global sharing of best practice and exchange 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. of experience ensures further sustainable progress. Our aim is 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 224 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks The Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines provide the ethical On December 9, 2009, Siemens launched a global US$100 miland legal framework within which we conduct our business aclion Siemens Integrity Initiative to support organizations and tivities. Our compliance system aims to ensure that all our worldprojects that fight corruption and fraud through Collective wide business practices remain within this framework as well as ­Action, education and training. This initiative is part of the in compliance with applicable laws. To serve this purpose, our World Bank Siemens AG comprehensive settlement of July 2, compliance system includes three pillars: prevent, detect and re2009. The status of the 31 projects funded within the first spond. We are continuously working on further strengthening funding round with a total contractual funding volume of compliance in the Company and to continue our efforts in comUS$37.7 million was presented to the World Bank in March bating corruption, together with other market participants and 2013. On June 27, 2013, Siemens started the second funding governmental organizations (Collective Action). round; it is intended to fund up to 25 projects with a total funding volume of up to US$30.0 million. The Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process – in use as of fiscal 2012 – requires the CEOs and managers in the Company On October 12, 2012, the Company received the Year Four Reto systematically determine and assess the compliance risks to port from the Compliance Monitor Dr. Theo Waigel, whom their units together with the responsible Compliance Officer Siemens had engaged as part of the settlement reached with on an annual basis. These analyses have been performed for all the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the operating units of the Company in fiscal 2013 and have been inU.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in December 2008. The Monicorporated into the compliance risk analysis at group level torship has ended after the full implementation of all Monitor which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring comrecommendations as was set forth in the settlement with the pliance risks to the Company as promptly as possible. As well as U.S. authorities four years after the settlement date on Decemthe CRA results, this analysis of the overall compliance risk at ber 15, 2012. group level takes into account, for example, the assessment of compliance controls and results of case-related investigations. We have a system of four compliance priorities to further deRelevant risks are reported to the Siemens Enterprise Risk velop and improve our compliance system: Management (ERM) and measures to reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented. >> Stand for Integrity: Our aim is to further encourage business management responsibility for compliance and to continue The Ask us help desk encourages our employees to ask their promoting responsible business practices in our markets compliance-related questions. Employees submitted 416 inquiwith Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. ries to the help desk in fiscal 2013. We believe the decline from >> Committed to Business: We want to leverage the Compliance 1,009 inquiries in fiscal 2012 is due to improvements made in system to support sustainable growth and as a competitive our processes and to increasing knowledge and understanding advantage. of compliance policies and processes among Siemens employ>> Manage Risk & Assurance: We continue to develop the comees. Furthermore, all employees can pose questions directly to pliance risk management and to provide reliable assurance the compliance officer responsible for their unit. for our business entities. >> Focus on Efficiency: We focus on increasing the efficiency of The Tell us help desk and the Company ’s ombudsman are two compliance operations and collaboration. secured reporting channels that can be used by our employees and external stakeholders to report violations of external and These priorities have guided our activities in fiscal 2013. These internal rules. These reports are passed on to our Compliance included the compliance risk assessment covering all Siemens Organization. Furthermore, possible misbehavior may also be operating units, the further implementation of the anti-trust reported directly, via the Managing Board or via supervisors to compliance program and measures to improve the efficiency the Compliance Organization, particularly to the Compliance of compliance within the Company. Furthermore we have inOfficers in our individual company units. Our employees regutroduced a new type of in-person compliance training focusing larly make use of this reporting channel. As a consequence, we on strengthening the responsibility and leadership by example have decided to report the total number of compliance cases of our managers for Compliance. requiring further inquiries or investigations reported through all mentioned reporting channels from fiscal 2013 (FY 2013: 908; previous fiscal: 830). 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 225 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Due to the progress made with improving the efficiency of compliance and the decision to allocate the responsibility for Data Privacy to the compliance organization, we have updated the compliance priorities effective from fiscal 2014 as follows: Compliance priorities effective FY 2014 Compliance priorities Stand for Integrity Committed to Business Manage Risk & Assurance Responsibility for Data Privacy Our aim is to support business We want to foster trustful collaboWe continue to provide business We will assume new responsibilileadership in its responsibilities ration between the Compliance with the appropriate level of ties in data privacy. for compliance and to execute the organization and business as well assurance within our compliance Collective Action strategy focused as strengthen the market and system. on tangible business benefits. ­customer focus of compliance. These compliance priorities will guide our activities for fiscal >> Social: Projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic 2014. and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. In ­addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including ­financial and technical assistance after natural disasters. C.8.11 Corporate citizenship >> Environment: We want to make an effective contribution ­ towards protecting the environment, particularly through Siemens is committed to providing long-term benefits to the soour core competencies, and raise environmental awareness cieties in which we operate, through corporate citizenship acamong younger generations. tivities. These activities can take a variety of forms ranging from >> Arts and Culture: We support Arts and Culture because a sophilanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared value or ciety ’s cultural heritage is a key aspect of its identity. inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics in India. The Siemens Stiftung – The Siemens Stiftung wants to emThe responsibility for choosing and carrying out charitable acpower people to actively contribute towards solutions to social tivities lies with the local units in each country. This ensures challenges. It focuses on holistic, non-business-related, transthat we provide support where it is needed most. In doing so, ferable projects and models in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin Amerwe apply high management standards and strategically focus ica and Europe (with a particular emphasis on Germany). our corporate citizenship activities in areas where our company competencies, resources and employee volunteering can Established in 2008 with a capital of €390 million, Siemens make a meaningful difference: Stiftung is a nonprofit foundation under German civil law. It complements Siemens’ corporate citizenship activities and co>> Education and Science: Our goal is to maintain a continuous operates with the other five corporate foundations established dialogue with young people and to identify and foster talent by the Company in Argentina, Brazil, Columbia, the United from an early age on. We support educational and research States and France. activities particularly in natural sciences, engineering and healthcare. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 226 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.9 Report on expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks C.9.1 Report on expected developments monetary policy is very expansionary given the good shape of the German economy. Hence we expect the country ’s GDP to C.9.1.1 WORLDWIDE ECONOMY grow 1.8% in 2014, a full percentage point more than in the In 2014 we expect global GDP growth to accelerate moderately whole Euro zone. GDP for the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa and to 3.2% (using our own calculations based on IHS Global InMiddle East is expected to expand 2.1% in 2014. We expect valsight forecasts). Unlike in recent years, we expect growth in ue-added manufacturing to show nearly the same growth rate, industrialized countries to pick up more strongly than in while fixed investment shows stronger growth of 3.3%. emerging markets. GDP in industrialized countries is expected to increase 2.0%, which is 0.9 percentage points more than in As with the “fiscal cliff” situation last year, GDP development in 2013. Main drivers of the anticipated acceleration are the the Americas will depend on the handling of the U.S. federal strengthening of the U.S. economy; stabilization in European budget and debt ceiling. In the months leading up to October countries that are strongly affected by the sovereign debt cri1, 2013 the political parties for a long time failed to reach sis; less drag from fiscal consolidation policies; and the continagreements on these issues. Accordingly, the government had uation of accommodative monetary policies. GDP in the to shut down many of its services for 16 days. Even more worriemerging countries is forecast to expand 5.3%, which is 0.7 some was the potential that the U.S. would have to default on percentage points more than in 2013. Downside risks include a certain government bonds if the debt ceiling were not raised. renewed escalation of the federal budget stalemate in the U.S. Although these consequences were averted due to an agreeat the beginning of calendar 2014; a resurgence of the Euro criment at the last moment, the solution of the underlying probsis; and an intensification of balance-of-payments problems lems were only postponed. The agreement allows the governand exchange rate devaluations in some emerging countries ment to stay open until mid-January and the debt ceiling to be (e.g. India, Indonesia) which could spread more widely. In adraised only until February 2014. Before these deadlines, the dition, poor execution of U.S. central bank “tapering” of its exparties have agreed to develop a budget plan for the next ten pansive monetary policy could exacerbate capital flight from years. For U.S. and global GDP growth to continue their posiemerging markets and add additional stress for these countive development in 2014, it is essential that permanent agreetries. Although downside risks are not negligible, they can be ments can be reached without further uncertainties. Assumcontained through responsible political action. Hence we being such an outcome, the outlook for the U.S. economy is posilieve that the upside potential for 2014 GDP growth dominates tive. Indeed economic activity was already regaining speed in the outlook. Increasing economic activity is expected to sup2013, which was supported by a recovering real estate sector, port investment spending, production and value added in the higher household wealth and improving bank lending condimanufacturing sector, all of which were dampened by political tions. With monetary conditions remaining favorable, real and economic uncertainty and lack of demand in the last ­estate and business investment should pick up in 2014 and few years. Therefore, for the global economy we expect fixed contribute to accelerating GDP growth. In Brazil, we expect the investment to grow 5.2% in 2014, and value-added manu­ current reacceleration of growth to reach a moderate pace in facturing 4.0%. 2014, contributing positively to economic dynamics for Latin America. In the Americas region overall, fixed investment For Europe the most severe problem is the unsustainable high spending is expected to grow 5.1% in 2014, faster than GDP and unemployment in the countries most affected by the sovervalue-added manufacturing which are expected to expand eign debt crisis. Besides causing political uncertainties it weighs 2.7% and 2.9%, respectively, in 2014. heavily on private consumption and investment activity. However, structural reforms to regain lost competitiveness seem to As in recent years, Asia, Australia leads the other world rebear fruit, particularly since the spring quarter of 2013. Labor gions in the rate of GDP growth. In China, recent data on ecocosts are falling and export performance is improving. For exnomic activity suggest a continuation of the modest reaccelerample, surveys of consumer and business sentiment for the ation which started in mid-2013, supplemented in 2014 by a Euro zone recently hit two-year highs. But even as financial insmall government stimulus program. We expect GDP in China stitutions and private households reduce their debt levels and to grow roughly 8% in 2014. The government’s actions in the governments keep on balancing their budgets, growth is expast demonstrated its commitment to provide mild stimulus if pected to remain subdued for a longer period of time. A notaannual growth appears to be falling below 7.5%. Several downble exception is Germany. The country ’s unemployment rate is side risks remain for the next year. First, the government’s efon a very low level historically, incomes are rising, the housing forts to rebalance growth away from investment toward conmarket is gaining momentum after years of stagnation, and sumption might fail and curb economic activity too strongly. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 227 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Second, risks in the financial sector remain, in particular in techniques. We expect growth in fossil power generation marshadow banks, due to high indebtedness of households and kets to be fueled by moderately growing demand for large gas municipalities. However, both risks should be manageable power plants, following a low level of demand in fiscal 2013. which leaves room for the modest recovery to continue. In conWe believe that the observed trend towards larger and more trast, difficulties in the Indian economy are more severe. Interefficient generation units is going to continue. On a regional national capital flows have reversed, heading out of the counbasis, growth is expected to come primarily from the U.S. and try, and caused a continuing depreciation of the Rupee. Togeththe Middle East, while demand in Europe and Asia remains reler with the inflation rate already on a high level the central bank atively stable compared to fiscal 2013. Political developments was forced to tighten monetary policy although economic activin the Middle East and economic instability in Europe continue ity slowed considerably in 2013. Hence, restrictive financial conto pose a downside risk. Growth in the Division’s industrial ditions and unresolved supply-side restrictions (e.g. heavily regpower generation markets is expected to come from smallulated product and factor markets and an insufficient infrastrucscale combined-cycle power plants. We believe that oil and gas ture) weigh on growth in the near term. Nevertheless, due markets will be fueled by the growing compression and solumainly to increasing momentum in China and Japan, we expect tions businesses. Compression markets are expected to grow GDP growth for the Asia, Australia region to increase to roughly moderately year-over-year, especially in Russia and the Middle 5% in 2014. We expect fixed investments and value-added manEast. We expect growth in the solutions market in North Amerufacturing to expand even more at roughly 6% each. ica, the Middle East and in parts of Western Europe. All in all, we anticipate that global economic activity should imMarkets served by our Wind Power Division are expected to be prove in 2014. While the risk balance looks better than last year, stronger in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013. We believe which included the threat of a partial break-up of the Euro zone growth will come from the continued pick-up of the offshore with possible ramifications for world financial markets, signifimarket and continued moderate growth in the onshore market. cant risks remain for the world economy. Assuming U.S. politiPotential changes in regulatory frameworks in key markets such cal parties achieve lasting solutions for the federal debt and as Germany and the U.K. could limit growth in the offshore marbudget, we do not see comparable high-impact risks at the moket. We expect the onshore market in fiscal 2014 to be especially ment that could endanger global growth prospects. Favorable strong in the U.S., where investors are expected to initiate new monetary conditions and a significant backlog in investment projects in order to capture the benefits of tax incentives before spending provide a solid basis for the global economy in 2014. they expire. This is expected to more than offset slightly declining onshore markets in Western Europe, North-East Asia, the C.9.1.2 MARKET DEVELOPMENT Middle East and Africa. We expect overall stability in the Asia, In fiscal year 2014, we expect Energy Sector markets to continAustralia region. We also expect intense local competition parue on a moderate growth path, including slightly stronger ticularly in China, which is the largest ­national wind market in markets for all Sector businesses compared to fiscal 2013. Gasthe world. Further growth in China is supported by ambitious fired power plants and wind-farms (both onshore and offgovernment targets for renewable energy. But because most of shore) are expected to show the most growth. this market has low technical ­requirements, only a fraction of it can be addressed by the Wind Power Division. Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2014, the Fossil Power Generation Division and the Oil & Gas Division were combined The markets of our Power Transmission Division are also exinto a single Division, Power Generation. Within the markets pected to grow slightly compared to fiscal 2013. While transserved by the Power Generation Division, we overall expect former markets are expected to remain stable, we believe the gas-fired power generation to grow more strongly than coalmarkets for high-voltage products and transmission solutions fired power generation due to various factors. One is the markets will be moderately stronger. Growth in transmission ­increased need for highly flexible peaking and intermediate solutions is expected to come mainly from the Middle East and duty, such as to compensate for the fluctuating power generathe U.S. (for high-voltage, direct current electric power transtion associated with renewable energy sources such as sun mission systems and flexible alternating current power transand wind. Stricter carbon emission regulations will also favor mission system) and from North-West Europe (for grid access). natural gas over coal. The general drivers for market growth are expected to remain in place: economic growth and the In fiscal 2014, we expect continued moderate growth in the ­ increasing need to replace older, mainly coal-fired units in markets served by our Healthcare Sector. We expect emerging ­ industrialized countries. Growing environmental awareness markets to outgrow markets in industrialized economies, as increases the demand for environmentally friendly technolohealthcare systems in the latter countries address cost presgies, such as highly efficient power plants and CO2 reduction sures and governments continue to address high sovereign 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 228 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks debt levels, particularly in large parts of Europe. Industrialized ­invest to increase efficiency and productivity along their entire countries – especially those more reliant on government healthvalue chain. Metals technologies markets are expected to decare expenditures – are expected to continue to focus on imcline year-over-year. proving the efficiency of healthcare and on slowing the growth of healthcare spending, thus driving demand for cost-efficient On a geographic basis, the strongest growth for Industry is exand high-throughput products and solutions. As a result of U.S. pected to come from Asia and the Americas. The Asian markets healthcare reform, we expect a small but increasing share of are dominated by the economic development of China which healthcare spending being linked to medical outcomes, in an is undergoing a transformation from an in­ vestment-driven ­attempt to drive efficiency and curtail costs. In emerging marmarket towards a more consumption-driven market. While this kets, we expect continued strong demand, in particular for transition presents longer-term opportunities, overcapacities ­entry-level products and solutions, as these countries build up and structural barriers to reform in the near-term limit the their healthcare infrastructure to provide their populations with pace of expansion and modernization in China’s manufacturaffordable access to modern medical technology, including in ing sector. Growth in the Americas is heavily influenced by derural areas. Rising disposable income of private households also velopments in the U.S., which are uncertain due to political, contributes to growing demand for healthcare solutions in regulatory and economic factors. The downturn in industrial these markets. Growth in the Asia, Australia region is expected markets in Europe appears to be coming to an end, and custo be driven by double-digit growth rates in China, in an increastomer capital expenditures are expected to stabilize accordingingly competitive environment with international and local venly. Central and Eastern Europe should show some growth as dors. We expect that growth in the Americas will be supported the ­current level of industrial investment still offers potential by moderate growth in the U.S., in a market characterized by for expansion. Within Europe, we expect only modest industricontinuing implementation of healthcare reform, consolidation al investment in Germany, which is strongly dependent on the among providers and increasing alignment between hospitals development of its main export markets, such as China, the and ambulatory care providers. We expect the overall market for U.S. and other European countries. the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East region to recover only slightly, particularly due to ongoing austerity programs in In fiscal 2014, the short-cycle manufacturing markets served southern Europe. For the healthcare market overall, we anti­ by our Industry Automation Division are expected to benefit cipate that the trends towards entry-level solutions, higher from stabilizing demand, following de-stocking by customers ­efficiency and focus on patient outcomes will continue. in fiscal 2013. Overall we do not expect recovery in the markets for our short-cycle businesses until late in fiscal 2014. We anFollowing a stabilization at the end of fiscal 2013, we expect ticipate that the market for industrial IT will grow faster than some of Industry Sector’s markets to show signs of recovery in the Division’s markets overall. the second half of fiscal 2014. We assume that the recovery will be stronger for process automation solutions than for disThe long-cycle industry markets served by the Drive Technolcrete automation. Overall, we expect markets served by our ogies Division are expected to grow more slowly or decline, Industry Sector to grow slightly in fiscal 2014 year-over-year. such as in the mining and oil and gas industries where cusFor the Sector’s industry-specific markets, we anticipate slight tomers are expected to postpone or cancel new projects due to growth in consumer-related industries such as pharmaceutilower raw material prices. Markets in the pulp and paper incals, chemicals and food and beverages, and also in the madustry are expected to decline. chine building and infrastructure industries. The automotive markets are anticipated to continue to grow in fiscal 2014, but We expect worldwide markets for solutions provided by the at a slower pace than in fiscal 2013. Within the pharmaceutical I­ nfrastructure & Cities Sector to grow moderately in fiscal industry, we expect demand to be driven by customer invest2014. We expect this growth to stem largely from rail markets, ments in increasing production. Within the chemicals indusdriven by large contract awards. We further expect market try, we expect growth in petrochemicals and basic chemicals growth for the Sector overall to begin to benefit from a recovin emerging markets. Within the food and beverage industry, ery in the nonresidential construction markets towards the we anticipate the highest growth rates coming from emerging end of fiscal 2014. In contrast, we anticipate that markets for markets. We believe that demand within the machine building power grid solutions and products will show little or no growth industry will benefit from the continuing trend toward integracompared to fiscal 2013. tion of product design and product lifecycle management. Within the automotive industry, we expect growth to come Markets served by the Transportation & Logistics Business predominately from major manufacturers and suppliers in the are expected to grow moderately in fiscal 2014, fueled by large larger emerging countries and the U.S., as these companies contract awards as mentioned above, particularly in the U.K., 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 229 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Saudi Arabia and South Africa. Even so, we expect that market C.9.1.3 SIEMENS GROUP growth will be driven by the Asia, Australia region. Overall, the We are basing our outlook for the Siemens Group and its segmarkets for products, solutions and services for transportation ments on the above-mentioned expectations regarding the and logistics are driven largely by public spending and hence overall economic situation and specific market conditions for are independent of short-term economic trends. In some counthe next fiscal year. tries, especially within emerging markets, we see a tendency to prefer local suppliers. In some European countries we are We are exposed to currency translation effects, involving the observing a trend of customers trying to increase competition US$, British £ and currencies of emerging markets such as by using multi-supplier strategies. We expect continued strong ­China, India and Brazil. We expect volatility in global currency demand for metro and light rail as well as for technologies to markets to continue in fiscal 2014. Given that Siemens is a net reduce energy consumption and operating costs. The locomoexporter from the Eurozone to the rest of the world, a weak tive market is still held back by austerity programs in a number Euro is principally favorable for our business and a strong of countries. We expect that innovative value-added services ­Euro is principally unfavorable. During fiscal 2013, the average offerings, such as IT and remote services, will support market exchange rate conversion for our large volume of US$-denomgrowth in coming years. inated revenue was US$1.31 per Euro. In the latter part of the fiscal year, the Euro increased in strength. As of the end of the Markets served by our Power Grid Solutions & Products Busifiscal year, the US$ exchange rate was US$1.35 per Euro. ness are expected to show little or no growth in fiscal 2014. Through adaptation of our production facilities during the While we anticipate a general recovery of the non-residential past, we have improved our natural hedge on a global basis. construction market, particularly in the U.S., there is usually a In addition, we have already systematically addressed the lag time of three to four quarters before orders for electrical ­remaining currency risk in our export business activities for installations materialize and our Business begins to participate ­ fiscal 2014, see NOTE 31 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED in such growth. As for industrial markets, we expect that the ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . We expect these steps to help to limit development will be burdened by declining investments in the effects on income related to currency in fiscal 2014. mining industry. Similarly, investments by power supply companies are anticipated to be held back by regulatory restricWe expect “Siemens 2014,” our company-wide program for imtions in some countries, and by austerity programs in others, proving profitability in our Sectors through cost reduction, particularly in Europe. As at Transportation & Logistics we see strengthening core activities, improving our go-to-market seta tendency in some countries, especially within emerging up, optimizing our corporate infrastructure, and simplifying countries, to prefer local suppliers. our governance will contribute positively to growth in Net ­income and corresponding basic earnings per share (EPS). The markets for our Building Technologies Division are expected to grow moderately in fiscal 2014. While we expect solid This outlook excludes impacts related to legal and regulatory growth in non-residential construction, there is – similar to matters. Power Grid Solutions & Products – usually a lag time of three to four quarters before the Division begins to participate in such Revenue growth growth. On a regional basis, growth is expected to be driven We expect that in fiscal 2014 revenue on an organic basis, exby the Asia, Australia and the Americas regions. Within E ­ urope, cluding currency translation and portfolio effects, will remain C.I.S., Africa, Middle East we anticipate growth in the Middle near the prior-year level, as markets for Siemens overall are exEast, while the development in Europe is expected to be chalpected to remain challenging in the next fiscal year. These lenging due to the economic situation in some southern and challenges are expected to be particularly evident in short-cywestern European countries and weak public investment due cle businesses, where we do not anticipate a recovery until late to austerity programs. in fiscal 2014. On the other hand, we expect a stabilizing effect on revenue from conversion of our order backlog (defined as SFS’ business is geared to the Siemens Sectors and their marthe sum of order backlogs of our Sectors) which totaled €100 kets and therefore provides support to the operating business billion as of September 30, 2013. From this backlog we expect of Siemens. As such SFS is, among other factors, influenced to convert approximately €40 billion of past orders into current by the overall business development of the markets served by revenue in the next fiscal year. Within this amount for fiscal the four Sectors. 2014, we expect approximately €21 billion in revenue conversion from the €54 billion backlog of the Energy Sector, approx92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 230 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks imately €10 billion in revenue conversion from the €29 billion stantial productivity benefits from the program, continued backlog of Infrastructure & Cities, approximately €6 billion in progress with reducing costs in our supply chain, and a more revenue conversion from the €10 billion backlog of Industry favorable revenue mix in some businesses due to portfolio and approximately €3 billion in revenue conversion from the measures and selective ramp-down of lower-margin activities. €7 billion backlog of Healthcare. For fiscal 2014, we expect that orders will continue to exceed revenue, leading to a book-toWe expect Total Sectors profit in fiscal 2014 to benefit from bill ratio above 1. implementation of “Siemens 2014.” At the end of fiscal 2013, we were ahead of schedule with regard to identifying and Overall, we assume growth in revenue from emerging mar­implementing the measures within the program aimed at suskets, which accounted for 34% of total revenue in fiscal 2013, tainably improving our productivity. As a result, we took the to be largely offset by lower revenue from industrialized great majority of the charges we expected under the program countries. within fiscal 2013, totaling €1.3 billion. With only some supplemental charges for the program in fiscal 2014, and with most of In fiscal 2010, we set ourselves the goal to increase revenue the program’s productivity gains expected to materialize during from our Environmental Portfolio to more than €40 billion in the year, we expect a substantial increase in Total Sectors profit fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2013, revenue from our Environmental year-over-year, and that Total Sectors profit margin will rise to Portfolio was €32 billion. Due to recent and ongoing portfolio 9.5% to 10.5%. We assume that all Sectors will contribute to the changes, particularly including the spin-off of OSRAM and the Total Sectors profit margin improvement, except for Healthcare disposal of our Water Technologies Business Unit, it is no lonwhich already achieved a very high margin level in fiscal 2013 ger likely that we will achieve this target purely with our own due to execution of its “Agenda 2013” initiative. We assume that operations by the end of fiscal 2014. Siemens’ strategic focus pricing pressure will be modestly higher for Healthcare and Enon technologies for energy efficiency and climate and environergy than for Infrastructure & Cities and ­Industry. mental protection will nevertheless remain in place. As part of One Siemens, our framework for sustainable value Profitability creation, we have defined adjusted EBITDA margin corridors For fiscal 2014, we anticipate that basic EPS from Net income for the respective industries of our four Sectors, which the Secwill increase by at least 15% compared to €5.08 in fiscal 2013. tors seek to achieve and maintain throughout the entire busiThis increase is calculated on a base of 843 million shares, ness cycle. For Energy the margin corridor is 10% to 15%; for which was the actual number of shares outstanding as of SepHealthcare the margin corridor is 15% to 20%; for Industry the tember 30, 2013. We expect that this increase will come premargin corridor is 11% to 17%; and for Infrastructure & Cities the dominantly from growth in Net income. In addition, we expect margin corridor is 8% to 12%. With anticipated improvements EPS growth to benefit modestly from our previously anin Total Sectors profit, we expect that all Sectors will be in their nounced plan to repurchase Siemens shares in a volume of up respective margin corridors in fiscal 2014, with Infrastructo €4 billion within the next up to 24 months. ture & Cities reaching the low end of its target range. Our forecast for basic EPS growth in fiscal 2014 is based on a Anticipated improvements within Total Sectors profit are exnumber of additional expectations and assumptions. As menpected to be partly offset by results outside the Sectors and tioned above, we forecast organic revenue near the level of fiswithin discontinued operations. Within Equity Investments cal 2013, which means we do not expect positive influences on we expect profit of approximately €100 million in fiscal 2014. In profit development from economies of scale. We assume pricfiscal 2013, profit of €396 million benefited strongly from the ing pressure across our businesses of around 2.5% to 3.0% in sale of our stake in NSN. fiscal 2014, which will also hold back profit development, and upward pressure on costs from wage inflation of around 4% on We expect SFS to continue successfully executing its growth a global basis. Finally, we anticipate that our tax rate in fiscal strategy, which drove a higher interest result in fiscal 2013 2014 will be slightly higher, on the assumption that we will compared to the prior year. With continued growth in fiscal generate a greater share of profit in higher-tax jurisdictions. We 2014, we anticipate profit of SFS to be above the prior-year expect that these factors will be offset by significant positive ­level of €409 million. Within One Siemens, we set a target developments, particularly including a steep decline in charges range for return on equity or ROE (after tax) for SFS of 15% to compared to fiscal 2013, which included €1.3 billion in impacts 20%. We expect that SFS will continue to reach this range in for the “Siemens 2014” program. Furthermore, we expect subfiscal 2014. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 231 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report We anticipate that SRE will continue with real estate disposals cash effects. Furthermore, for fiscal 2014, we are taking depending on market conditions. We expect results from ­proceeds from the sale of the NSN stake in fiscal 2013 into ­Corporate items and pensions in fiscal 2014 to be approximateconsideration. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend ly a negative €1.0 billion and profit related to Eliminations, ­payout from Free cash flow. ­Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items to come in at about a negative €200 million. C.9.1.4 OVERALL ASSESSMENT We expect our markets to remain challenging in fiscal 2014. In the next fiscal year, we expect no material impact on Net Our short-cycle businesses are not anticipating a recovery un­income from discontinued operations. For comparison, discontil late in the fiscal year. We expect orders to exceed revenue, tinued operations in fiscal 2013 resulted in income of €197 milfor a book-to-bill ratio above 1. Assuming that revenue on an lion, due mainly to OSRAM, which we spun off at the end of organic basis remains level year-over-year, we expect basic fiscal 2013. earnings per share (Net Income) for fiscal 2014 to grow by at least 15% from €5.08 in fiscal 2013. Capital efficiency Our most important financial goal is capital efficiency, which This outlook is based on shares outstanding of 843 million as we measure in terms of adjusted return on capital employed of September 30, 2013. Furthermore, it excludes impacts relat(ROCE (adjusted)). Due mainly to our expectations regarding ed to legal and regulatory matters. Overall, the actual developthe development of income from continuing operations, we ment for Siemens and its Segments may vary, positively or expect ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operations to return to negatively, from our expectations due to the risks and opporour target range of 15% to 20% in fiscal 2014. For comparison, tunities described below. See C.9.3 RISKS as well as C.9.4 ROCE (adjusted) for continuing operations was 13.8% in fiscal ­O PPORTUNITIES . This report on expected developments should 2013. For SFS, we set a target range for return on equity or ROE be read in conjunction with C.12 NOTES AND FORWARD-LOOKING (after tax) for SFS of 15% to 20%. As mentioned above, we exSTATEMENTS . pect that SFS will continue to reach this range in fiscal 2014. Capital structure C.9.2 Risk management For the medium-term we set a target for our capital structure, defined as the ratio of adjusted industrial net debt to adjusted C.9.2.1 BASIC PRINCIPLES EBITDA. We seek to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 to 1.0. In OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT fiscal 2013, we made progress toward this target, and we anti­ Our risk management policy stems from a philosophy of purcipate that we will approach the lower end of the range at the suing sustainable growth and creating economic value while end of fiscal 2014. We expect this to be strongly supported by a avoiding and managing inappropriate risks. As risk manageplanned buyback of Siemens AG shares worth up to €4.0 bilment is an integral part of how we plan and execute our busilion over the next up to 24 months as mentioned above. ness strategies, our risk management policy is set by the Managing Board. Our organizational and accountability structure In the area of investment planning, we expect to continue our as of September 30, 2013 requires each of the respective maninvesting activities, such as to safeguard market share and agements of our Sectors, SFS, SRE, regions and Corporate Units competitive advantages based on technological innovation. We to implement risk management programs that are tailored to will also continue investing in extending our capacities for detheir specific industries and responsibilities, while being consigning, manufacturing and marketing new solutions and for sistent with the overall policy established by the Managing the necessary replacements of these fixed assets. With regard Board. to capital expenditures for continuing operations, we expect a substantial increase in fiscal 2014 spending year-over-year. C.9.2.2 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS We have implemented and coordinated a set of risk manageDividend and share buybacks ment and control systems which support us in the early recogWe intend to continue providing an attractive return to sharenition of developments jeopardizing the continuity of our busiholders. Therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a ness. The most important of these systems include our enterdividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fisprise-wide processes for strategic planning and management cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a reporting. Strategic planning is intended to support us in consum representing 40% to 60% of Net income, which for this sidering potential risks well in advance of major business decipurpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional nonsions, while management reporting is intended to enable us to 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 232 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks monitor such risks more closely as our business ­progresses. first step, assuming responsibility for a specific risk or opportuOur internal auditors regularly review the adequacy and effecnity involves deciding upon one of our general response strattiveness of our risk management system. Accordingly, if defiegies, or a combination of them. Our general response stratecits are detected, it is possible to adopt appropriate measures gies with respect to risks are avoidance, transfer, reduction or for their elimination. This coordination of processes and proceacceptance of the relevant risk. Our general response stratedures is intended to help ensure that the Managing Board and gies with respect to opportunities are partial or complete realithe Supervisory Board are fully informed about significant risks zation of the relevant opportunity. In a second step, responsiin a timely manner. bility for a risk or opportunity also involves the development, initiation and monitoring of appropriate response measures Risk management at Siemens is based on a comprehensive, incorresponding to the chosen response strategy. These reteractive and management-oriented Enterprise Risk Managesponse measures have to be specifically tailored to allow for ment (ERM) approach that is integrated into the organization effective risk management. Accordingly, we have developed a and that addresses both risks and opportunities. Our ERM apvariety of response measures with different characteristics: proach is based on the worldwide accepted Enterprise Risk For example, we mitigate the risk of fluctuations in currency Management – Integrated Framework (2004) developed by the and interest rates by engaging in hedging activities. Regarding Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Comour long-term projects, systematic and comprehensive project mission (COSO). The framework connects the ERM process management with standardized project milestones, including with our financial reporting process and is closely integrated provisional acceptances during project execution, and complein our internal control system. It considers a company ’s stratemented by clearly defined approval processes assists us in idengy, the efficiency and effectiveness of its business operations, tifying and responding to project risks at an early stage, even the reliability of its financial reporting as well as compliance before entering the bidding phase. Furthermore, we maintain with relevant laws and regulations to be equally important. appropriate insurance levels for potential cases of damage and liability risks in order to reduce our exposure to such risks and The ERM process aims for early identification and evaluation to avoid or minimize potential losses. Among others, we adof, and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could dress the risk of fluctuations in economic activity and customer materially affect the achievement of our strategic, operational, demand by closely monitoring the macroeconomic conditions financial and compliance objectives. Our ERM is based on a net and developments in relevant industries, and by adjusting carisk approach, covering risks and opportunities remaining afpacity and implementing cost-reduction measures in a timely ter the execution of existing control measures. In order to proand consistent manner, if deemed necessary. vide a comprehensive view on our business activities, risks and opportunities are identified in a structured way combining C.9.2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION elements of both top-down and bottom-up approaches. Risks AND RESPONSIBILITIES and opportunities are generally reported on a quarterly basis. To oversee the ERM process and to further drive the integraThis regular reporting process is complemented by an ad-hoc tion and harmonization of existing control activities to align reporting process that aims to escalate critical issues in a timewith legal and operational requirements, the Managing Board ly manner. Relevant risks and opportunities are prioritized in established a Corporate Risk and Internal Control Department, terms of impact and likelihood, considering different perspecheaded by the Chief Risk & Internal Control Officer, and a tives, including business objectives, reputation and regulatory ­ Corporate Risk and Internal Control Committee (CRIC). The matters. The bottom-up identification and prioritization proCRIC obtains risk and opportunity information from the Risk cess is supported by workshops with the respective manageCommittees established at the Sector, SFS, SRE and regional ment of the Sector, SFS, SRE, regional and Corporate Unit orgalevel as well as from the Heads of Corporate Units, which then nizations. This top-down element ensures that potential new forms the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide risk risks and opportunities are discussed at the management level and opportunity situation. The CRIC reports to and supports and are included in the subsequent reporting process, if found the Managing Board on matters relating to the implementato be relevant. Reported risks and opportunities are analyzed tion, operation and oversight of the risk and internal control regarding potential cumulative effects and are aggregated at system and assists the Managing Board in reporting to the AuSector, SFS, SRE, regional and corporate level. dit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The CRIC is composed of the Chief Risk & Internal Control Officer, as the chairperson, Responsibilities are assigned for all relevant risks and opportuand members of senior management such as the Sector and nities with the hierarchical level of responsibility depending SFS CEOs, the CFO of Siemens, and selected Heads of Corpoon the significance of the respective risk or opportunity. In a rate Units. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 233 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Operational and organizational structure of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process as of September 30, 2013 Managing Board Audit Committee Overall responsibility for the Risk and Internal Control System. Oversees the effectiveness of the risk management and Defines risk policy and ERM strategy. internal control system. Corporate Risk & Internal Control Committee (CRIC) Chief Risk & Internal Control Officer Reports to and supports the Managing Board in matters ­relating Chairman of the CRIC. Defines and monitors application of ERM strategy, to the implementation, operation and oversight of an effective p ­ olicy and methodology. Consolidates Siemens wide risk and opportunity Risk and Internal Control System. profile for CRIC. Sector Risk & Internal Cluster Risk & Internal Control Committees Control Committees Oversee the risk and internal control activities for their area of responsibility and provide the ­Management with information necessary to report to the CRIC. Sector Management 1 Cluster Management Heads of Corporate Units Implement ERM system and ensure management and monitoring of risks and opportunities in their respective organization. 1 The term “Sector” in this chart comprises Sectors, SFS and SRE. C.9.3 Risks zone. Future economic developments and, in consequence, the speed of economic growth and the sustainability of our Below we describe the risks that could have a material adverse market environment are dependent upon the evolution of a effect on our business, financial condition (including effects number of global and local factors such as the crisis in the on assets, liabilities and cash flows), results of operations and credit markets, economic crises arising from sovereign debt reputation. The order in which the risks are presented in each overruns, and government budget consolidation measures reof the four categories reflects the currently estimated relative lated thereto, reduced levels of capital expenditures, declining exposure for Siemens associated with these risks and thus consumer and business confidence, increasing unemployment ­provides an indication of the risks’ current importance to us. in certain countries, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptNevertheless, risks currently considered to entail a lower risk cies, natural disasters, political crises, imminent social unrest exposure could potentially result in a higher negative impact and other challenges. on Siemens than risks currently considered to entail a higher risk exposure. Additional risks not known to us or that we In light of the latest economic developments, the high degree ­ currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact of unemployment in certain countries, the level of public debt our business operations. Unless otherwise stated, the risks in the United States, in Japan and in countries affected by the ­described below relate to all of our segments. European sovereign debt crisis, uncertainties with respect to the stability of certain emerging markets, e.g. India or IndoneC.9.3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS sia, the risk of an escalation of the budgetary quarrels in the Our business, financial condition and results of operations United States and the potential impact of budget consolidation may be affected by the uncertainties of economic and measures by governments around the world, the bases for our ­ political conditions, particularly in the current macro­ expectations relating to the overall economic situation and economic environment, which is characterized by a high specific conditions in markets relevant to us are subject to condegree of uncertainty and modest recovery as well as the siderable uncertainties. In general, due to the significant procontinuing risk of resurgence of crisis in financial markets portion of long-cycle businesses in our Sectors and the imporand of renewed global economic downturn: Our business tance of long-term contracts for Siemens, there is usually a environment is influenced by domestic as well as global detime lag between the development of macroeconomic condimand, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions. We tions and their impact on our financial results. Important exstill see a high degree of volatility in the global financial marceptions include our short-cycle businesses in the Industry kets, primarily as a result of the ongoing crisis in the EuroSector, particularly those in Industry Automation and parts of 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 234 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Drive Technologies as well as parts of the Power Grid SoluIn many of our businesses, we face downward price pressure tions & Products Business within the Infrastructure & Cities Secand we are or could be exposed to market downturns or slower tor, which are highly sensitive to volatility in market demand. growth, which may increase in times of declining investment If the moderate recovery of macroeconomic conditions stalls activities and consumer demand. We face strong competitors, again and if we are not successful in adapting our production some of which are larger and may have greater resources in a and cost structure to subsequent changes to conditions in the given business area, as well as competitors from emerging markets in which we operate, there can be no assurance that markets, which may have a better cost structure. Some induswe will not experience adverse effects that may be material to tries in which we operate are undergoing consolidation, which our business, financial condition and results of operations. For may result in stronger competition and a change in our relative example, it may become more difficult for our customers to obmarket position. Certain competitors may be more effective tain financing and as a result they may modify, delay or cancel and faster in capturing available market opportunities. These plans to purchase our products and services or to execute factors alone or in combination may negatively impact our transactions. Furthermore, prices may decline as a result of adbusiness, financial condition, and results of operations. verse market conditions to a greater extent than currently anticipated. In addition, contracted payment terms, especially reOur business, financial condition and results of operations garding the level of advance payments by our customers relatmay be adversely affected by continued strategic aligning to long-term projects, may become less favorable, which ments and cost-cutting initiatives: We are in a continuous could negatively impact our cash flows. Additionally, if cusprocess of strategic alignments and constantly engage in tomers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or cost-cutting initiatives, including ongoing capacity adjustment securing access to the capital markets, they may not be able to measures and structural initiatives. Capacity adjustments pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us, which through consolidation of business activities and manufacturmay adversely affect our business, financial condition and reing facilities, and the streamlining of product portfolios are alsults of operations. so part of these cost reduction efforts. These measures may not be implemented as planned, may turn out to be less effecNumerous other factors, such as fluctuations in energy and raw tive than anticipated, may only become effective later than material prices, as well as global political conflicts, including ­estimated or may not become effective at all. Each of these those in the Middle East, North Africa and other regions, confactors alone or in combination may negatively impact our tinue to impact macroeconomic parameters and the internabusiness, financial condition, and results of operations. Any tional capital and credit markets. The uncertainty of economic future contribution of these measures to our profitability will and political conditions can have a material adverse impact on be influenced by the actual savings achieved and by our ability our business, financial condition and results of operations. to sustain these ongoing efforts. Our business is affected by a variety of market conditions and Our business, financial condition and results of operations regulations. For example, our Energy Sector is exposed to the may be adversely affected by portfolio measures: Our stratdevelopment of global demand for energy and is considerably egy includes divesting activities in some business areas and affected by regulations related to energy and environmental strengthening others through portfolio measures, including policies. Our Healthcare Sector, in turn, is dependent on develmergers and acquisitions. opments and regulations in healthcare systems around the world, particularly in the important U.S. healthcare market. With respect to divestments, we may not be able to divest Our Industry Sector is vulnerable to unfavorable market condisome of our activities as planned, and the divestitures we tions in certain segments of the automotive and manufac­ do carry out could have a negative impact on our business, turing industries. Our Infrastructure & Cities Sector focuses, ­financial condition, results of operations and our reputation. among other things, on business with public authorities For example, we have announced the closure of our solar busiaround the world and is thus vulnerable to restrictions in ness and decided to divest the business activities included in ­public budgets. our airport logistics and postal automation business, which as of September 30, 2013 was part of the Infrastructure & Cities We operate in highly competitive markets, which are subSector’s Mobility and Logistics Division. ject to price pressures and rapid changes: The worldwide markets for our products and solutions are highly competitive Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky because of diffiin terms of pricing, product and service quality, development culties that may arise when integrating people, operations, and introduction time, customer service and financing terms. technologies and products. There can be no assurance that 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 235 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report any of the businesses we acquire can be integrated success­ ­ urthermore, such investments are inherently risky as we may F fully and as timely as originally planned or that they will pernot be able to sufficiently influence corporate governance proform as anticipated once integrated. In addition, we may incur cesses or business decisions taken by our equity investments, significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in conother investments and strategic alliances that may have a negnection with these transactions, including costs related to ative effect on our business. In addition, joint ventures bear ­integration of acquired businesses. For example, we are curthe risk of difficulties that may arise when integrating people, rently engaged in integration activities within the Infrastrucoperations, technologies and products. Strategic alliances may ture & Cities Sector’s Mobility and Logistics Division concerning also pose risks for us because we compete in some business the recently acquired rail automation business of Invensys areas with companies with which we have strategic alliances. plc., U.K., and within the Industry Sector’s Industry Automation Division concerning the acquisition of LMS International Our businesses must keep pace with technological changNV, Belgium, a leading provider of mechatronic simulation es and develop new products and services to remain comsolutions. Furthermore, portfolio measures may result in addipetitive: The markets in which our businesses operate experitional financing needs and adversely affect our financial leverence rapid and significant changes due to the introduction of age and our debt-to-equity ratio. Acquisitions may also lead to innovative technologies. To meet our customers’ needs in substantial increases in intangible assets, including goodwill. these areas, we must continuously design new, and update exOur Statements of Financial Position reflect a significant isting products and services, and invest in, and develop new amount of intangible assets, including goodwill. Among our technologies. Introducing new products and technologies rebusinesses, the largest amount of goodwill is allocated to the quires a significant commitment to research and development, Diagnostics Division and the Imaging & Therapy Systems Diviwhich in return requires expenditure of considerable financial sion of the Healthcare Sector, and the Industry Automation resources that may not always result in success. Our sales and ­Division of the Industry Sector. If we were to encounter conprofitability may suffer if we invest in technologies that do not tinuing adverse business developments including negative operate, or may not be integrated, as expected or that are not ­effects on our revenues, profits or cash, or adverse effects from accepted in the marketplace as anticipated, or if our products an increase in the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) or or systems are not introduced to the market in a timely manfrom foreign exchange rate developments, or if we were otherner, in particular, compared to our competitors, or become wise to perform worse than expected at acquisition activities, ­obsolete. We constantly apply for new patents and actively then these intangible assets, including goodwill, might have manage our intellectual property portfolio to secure our techto be written off, which could materially and adversely affect nological position. However, our patents and other intellectual our business, financial condition and results of operations. property may not prevent competitors from independently The likelihood of such adverse business developments increas­developing or selling products and services similar to or duplies in times of difficult or uncertain macroeconomic conditions. cate of ours. There can be no assurance that the resources ­invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be suffiOur business, financial condition and results of operations cient or that our intellectual property portfolio will adequately may be adversely affected by our equity interests, other deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. investments and strategic alliances, particularly in our ­ ­Furthermore, in some of our markets, the need to develop and segment Equity Investments: Our strategy includes strengthintroduce new products rapidly in order to capture available ening our business interests through joint ventures, associatopportunities may lead to quality problems. Our operating reed companies and strategic alliances. Certain of our investsults depend to a significant extent on our ability to anticipate ments are accounted for using the equity method, including, and adapt to changes in markets and to reduce the costs of among others, BSH and EN (renamed to Unify after fiscal year producing high-quality, new and existing products. Among end). Furthermore we hold other investments, for example ­recent technology trends, we carefully estimate the potential Atos S.A. and OSRAM Licht AG. Any factors negatively influencand relevance of cloud computing. We believe that the potening the profitability of our equity and other investments, intial and usage scenarios of this technology vary among our cluding negative effects on revenues, profits or cash, could products, solutions and services depending on the degree of have an adverse effect on our equity pick-up related to these information technology utilized. However, we also believe that equity interests or may result in a write-off of these investthis trend needs to be monitored closely, because it might bear ments. In addition, our business, financial condition and rethe potential to change the competitive landscape. Any inabilisults of operations could also be adversely affected in connecty to adapt to the aforementioned factors could have a material tion with loans, guarantees or non-compliance with financial adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results covenants related to these equity and other investments. of operations. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 236 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks We are subject to changes of regulations, laws and policies term contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding concerning our products: As a diversified company with glob­basis. Some of these contracts are inherently risky because we al businesses we are exposed to various product related regumay assume substantially all of the risks associated with comlations, laws and policies influencing our processes. Recently, pleting a project and the post-completion warranty obligasome jurisdictions around the world have adapted certain regtions. For example, we face the risk that we must satisfy techulations, laws and policies requiring us to extend our recycling nical requirements of a project even though we may not have efforts, limit the sourcing and usage of certain raw materials gained experience with those requirements before we win the and request additional due diligences and disclosures on project. The profit margins realized on fixed-priced contracts sourcing and usage of the regulated raw materials. In particumay vary from original estimates as a result of changes in lar, we must comply with U.S. legislation to improve transparcosts and productivity over their term. We sometimes bear the ency and accountability concerning the sourcing of “conflict risk of unanticipated project modifications, shortage of key minerals” from mines located in the conflict zones of the Dempersonnel, quality problems, financial difficulties of our cusocratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its adjoining countries. tomers, cost overruns or contractual penalties caused by unexThe term “conflict minerals” currently encompasses tantalum, pected technological problems, unforeseen developments at tin, tungsten (or their ores) and gold. Conflict minerals can be the project sites, unforeseen changes or difficulties in the regfound in a vast array of products. This U.S. legislation requires ulatory or political environment, performance problems with manufacturers, such as us, to investigate and disclose their our suppliers, subcontractors and consortium partners or othuse of any conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining er logistical difficulties. Certain of our multi-year contracts also countries. It also implements guidelines to assist the manufaccontain demanding installation and maintenance requireturer in preventing, by way of performing due diligence in its ments in addition to other performance criteria relating to timsupply chain, any such sourcing from potentially financing or ing, unit cost and compliance with government regulations benefitting armed groups in this area. We are currently workrequirements, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to subing on an implementation strategy for the above-referenced stantial contractual penalties, damages, non-payment and legislation. Since we operate within highly complex value contract termination. There can be no assurance that contracts chains, we are required to undertake a significant due diliand projects, in particular those with long-term duration and gence process requiring considerable investments of human fixed-price calculation, can be completed profitably. resources and finances in order to comply with the conflict minerals due diligence and disclosure requirements. If our Increased IT security threats and higher levels of profes(sub-) suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with resionalism in computer crime could pose a risk to our sysquested information and to take other steps to ensure that no tems, networks, products, solutions and services as well as conflict minerals, financing or benefitting armed groups in the to those of our service providers: Our business portfolio inDRC, are included in minerals or components supplied to us, cludes a broad array of systems, networks, products, solutions we may be forced to disclose information about the use of conand services across our businesses that rely on digital technolflict minerals in our supply chain in filings with the SEC. In adogies. We observe a global increase in IT security threats and dition, since the applicability of the new conflict minerals leghigher levels of professionalism in computer crime, which islation is limited to companies publicly listed in the U.S., not pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and the all of our competitors are required to comply with this legislaconfidentiality, availability and integrity of data. We attempt to tion or engage in similar efforts to disclose the usage of conmitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, inflict minerals. If we are unable to achieve sufficient confidence cluding employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our throughout our supply chain, or if any of these risks or similar networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and risks associated with these kinds of regulations, laws and poli­protective systems such as firewalls and virus scanners. To the cies were to materialize, our business, financial condition, reextent we employ service providers, such as in the area of IT sults of operations and reputation could be materially adverseinfrastructure, we have contractual arrangements in place in ly affected. order to ensure that these risks are reduced in a similar manner. Nonetheless, our systems, networks, products, solutions C.9.3.2 OPERATIONAL RISKS and services, as well as those of our service providers remain Our business, financial condition and results of operations potentially vulnerable to attacks. Depending on their nature may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional and scope, such attacks could potentially lead to the leakage payment obligations related to the management of our of confidential information, improper use of our systems and long-term, fixed price or turnkey projects: We perform a networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective portion of our business, especially large projects, under longproducts, production downtimes and supply shortages, which 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 237 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condis­ upplier that is not able to meet our demand. This risk is partion, results of operations and reputation. ticularly evident in businesses with a very limited number of suppliers. Shortages and delays could materially harm our We may face operational failures and quality problems in business. Unanticipated increases in the price of components our value chain processes: Our value chain comprises all or raw materials due to market shortages or other reasons steps, from research and development to supply chain mancould also adversely affect the performance of our Sectors. agement, production, marketing, sales and services. OperaFurthermore, we may be exposed to the risk of delays and intional failures in our value chain processes could result in terruptions of the supply chain as a consequence of natural quality problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory disasters in case we are unable to identify alternative sources or environmental risks. Such risks are particularly present in of supply or ways of transportation in a timely manner or at our Sectors in relation to our production and construction faall. A general shortage of materials, components or sub-comcilities, which are located all over the world and have a high ponents as a result of natural disasters also bears the risk of degree of organizational and technological complexity. From unforeseeable fluctuations in prices and demand, which time to time, some of the products we sell might have quality might adversely affect our business, financial condition and issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such prodresults of operations. ucts or from the software integrated into them. In particular, our Healthcare Sector is subject to requirements of the U.S. Our Sectors purchase raw materials including so-called rare-­ Food and Drug Administration, which require certain efforts earth metals, copper, steel, aluminum and oil, which expose safeguarding our product quality. If we are not able to comply them to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. In rewith these requirements, our business, financial condition, recent times, commodities have been subject to volatile markets, sults of operations and reputation may be adversely affected. and such volatility is expected to continue. If we are not able to compensate for our increased costs or pass them on to cusFurthermore, failures on the part of service providers we emtomers, price increases could have a material adverse impact ploy, such as in the area of IT, may have an adverse effect on on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our processes and operations and our ability to meet our comIn contrast, in times of falling commodity prices, we may not mitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Any fully profit from such price decreases as we attempt to reduce operational failures or quality issues could have a material adthe risk of rising commodity prices by several means, such as verse effect on our business, financial condition, results of oplong-term contracting or physical and financial hedging. In aderations and reputation. dition to price pressure that we may face from our customers expecting to benefit from falling commodity prices or adverse We may face interruption of our supply chain, including market conditions, this could also adversely affect our busithe inability of third parties to deliver parts, components ness, financial condition and results of operations. and services on time, and we may be subject to rising raw material prices: Our financial performance depends in part on We are dependent upon hiring, developing and retaining reliable and effective supply chain management for compohighly qualified management and technical personnel: nents, sub-assemblies and other materials. Capacity conCompetition for highly qualified personnel remains intense in straints and supply shortages resulting from ineffective supply the industries and regions in which our businesses operate. In chain management may lead to delays and additional cost. We many of our business areas, we intend to expand our business rely on third parties to supply us with parts, components and activities, for which we will need highly skilled employees. Our services. Using third parties to manufacture, assemble and future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, test our products reduces our control over manufacturing integrate, develop and retain engineers and other qualified yields, quality assurance, product delivery schedules and personnel. We address this risk with various measures, for excosts. The third parties that supply us with parts and compoample succession planning, employer branding, retention and nents also have other customers and may not have sufficient career management. However, there can be no assurance that capacity to meet all of their customers’ needs, including ours, we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining all during periods of excess demand. Component supply delays the highly qualified employees and key personnel needed in can affect the performance of our Sectors. Although we work the future, including in appropriate geographic locations, and closely with our suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on there can be no assurance that we will not encounter supply our business, financial condition, results of operations and problems in the future or that we will be able to replace a reputation. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 238 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.9.3.3 FINANCIAL RISKS overall cost of funding. The ongoing Eurozone sovereign debt We are exposed to currency risks and interest rate risks: crisis continues to have an impact on global capital markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, especially The resulting higher risk awareness of governments lead to between the U.S. dollar and the euro, because a high percentmore regulations on the use of financial instruments through age of our business volume is conducted in the U.S. and as (1) the Regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties ­exports from Europe. In addition, we are exposed to currency and trade repositories (European Market Infrastructure Regueffects involving the currencies of emerging markets, in particlation) and (2) other similar regulations in other jurisdictions, ular the Chinese Yuan. As a result, a strong euro in relation to which may have an impact on the future availability or the the U.S. dollar and other currencies could have an adverse costs of adequate hedging instruments for the Company. It ­impact on our revenues and results of operations. Certain curmay even lead to further regulation of the financial sector and rency risks as well as interest rate risks are hedged on a Comthe use of financial instruments. Such further regulations pany-wide basis using derivative financial instruments. Decould adversely influence our future possibilities of obtaining pending on the development of foreign currency exchange debt financing, and / or may significantly increase our refiand interest rates, our hedging activities could have significant nancing costs. Deteriorating credit quality and / or default of effects on our business, financial condition and results of operbusiness partners may adversely affect our business, financial ations. Our Sectors and Financial Services (SFS) engage in curcondition and results of operations. rency hedging activities which sometimes do not qualify for hedge accounting. In addition, our Corporate Treasury has Downgrades of our ratings could increase our cost of capi­interest rate hedging activities which also do not qualify for tal and could negatively affect our businesses: Our busihedge accounting, and are subject to changes in interest rates. ness, financial condition and results of operations are influAccordingly, exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations may enced significantly by the actual and expected performance of lead to higher volatility and adverse effects on our business, the Sectors and SFS, as well as the Company ’s portfolio meafinancial condition and results of operations. A strengthening sures. An actual or expected negative development of our of the euro (particularly against the U.S. dollar) may change business, financial condition or results of operations could our competitive position, as many of our competitors may ben­result in the deterioration of our credit rating. Downgrades by efit from having a substantial portion of their costs based in rating agencies could increase our cost of capital, may reduce weaker currencies, enabling them to offer their products at our potential investor base and may negatively affect our busilower prices. ness, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to volatile credit spreads: Regarding our Our financing activities subject us to various risks, includCorporate Treasury activities, widening credit spreads due to ing credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risk: We prouncertainty and risk aversion in the financial markets might vide our customers with various forms of direct and indirect lead to adverse changes of fair market values of our financial ­financing in connection with large projects. We also finance a assets, in particular concerning our derivative financial large number of customer orders, for example, the leasing of ­instruments. In addition, we see a risk of widening credit medical equipment, mainly through SFS. SFS also incurs credit spreads leading to increasing refinancing costs if the Eurorisk by financing third-party equipment or by taking direct or zone sovereign debt crisis with its ongoing significant impact indirect participation in financings, such as syndicated loans. on global financial markets and the European financial sector In part, we take a security interest in the assets we finance or in particular, continues or even worsens. Any such developwe receive additional collateral. Our business, financial condiment could also further increase the costs for buying protection and results of operations may be adversely affected if the tion against credit risks due to a potential increase of councredit quality of our customers deteriorates or if they default terparty risks. on their payment obligation to us, if the value of the assets in which we have taken a security interest or additional collateral Our future financing via Corporate Treasury may particudeclines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate, larly be affected by the uncertainty of economic condior if the projects in which we invest are unsuccessful. Potential tions and the development of capital and financial maradverse changes in economic conditions could cause a decline kets: Our Corporate Treasury is responsible for the financing in the fair market values of assets, derivative instruments as of the Company. Negative developments in the foreign exwell as collateral, resulting in losses which could have an change, money or capital markets, such as limited availability ­adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of funds (particularly U.S. dollar funds), may increase our of operations. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 239 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Our business, financial condition and results of operations regulations, economic sanctions, embargoes or other forms of may be adversely affected by several parameters influenctrade restrictions imposed on Iran, Syria or on other sancing the funded status of our pension benefit plans: The tioned countries in which we do business may result in a curfunded status of our pension plans may be affected by an intailment of our existing business in such countries and in crease or decrease in the defined benefit obligation (DBO), as amendments to our policies. We are also aware of initiatives by well as by an increase or decrease in the value of plan assets. institutional investors, such as pension funds or other compaPensions are accounted for in accordance with actuarial valuanies, to adopt or consider adopting policies prohibiting investtions, which rely on statistical and other factors in order to anment in and transactions with, or requiring divestment of inticipate future events. These factors include key pension plan terests in entities doing business with Iran and other countries valuation assumptions such as the discount rate, rate of future identified as state sponsors of terrorism by the U.S. Secretary compensation increases and pension progression. Actual deof State. It is possible that such initiatives may result in us bevelopments may differ from assumptions due to changing ing unable to gain or retain investors, customers or suppliers. market and economic conditions, thereby resulting in an inIn addition, the termination of our activities in sanctioned crease or decrease in the DBO. Significant movements in financountries may expose us to customer claims and other actions. cial markets or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets Our reputation could also suffer due to our activities with could result in corresponding increases or decreases in the counterparties in or affiliated with these countries. We have ­value of plan assets, particularly equity securities. Also, changincluded details of our Iran-related activities in C.3.1.1 ORes in pension plan assumptions could affect net periodic penDERS AND REVENUE , and are filing a related notice of disclosure sion cost. For example, a change in discount rates may result with the SEC. Under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction in changes in the net periodic benefit cost in the following fisand Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, upon receipt of the notice cal year. In order to comply with local pension regulations in of disclosure by the SEC, the SEC is required to notify the US selected foreign countries, we may face a risk of increasing President and Congress of the filing. The President is then recash outflows to reduce an underfunding of our pension plans quired to initiate an investigation into Iran-related activities in these countries, if any. disclosed in such notice, and make a determination as to whether sanctions should be imposed on the filing party. For further information on financial risks and financial risk There is no assurance as to the outcome of any such Presidenmanagement, see NOTE 32 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED tial investigation. If the relevant authorities were to impose ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . penalties or sanctions on Siemens, such measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition C.9.3.4 COMPLIANCE RISKS and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory risks associated with our ­international operations: Protectionist trade policies and We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to acchanges in the political and regulatory environment in the count for an increasing portion of our total revenue, as our markets in which we operate, such as import and export conbusiness naturally evolves and as developing nations and retrols, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange gions around the world increase their demand for our offering. controls, could affect our business in several national markets, Emerging market operations involve various risks, including impact our sales and profitability and make the repatriation of civil unrest, health concerns, cultural differences such as emprofits difficult, and may expose us to penalties, sanctions and ployment and business practices, volatility in gross domestic reputational damage. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal product, economic and governmental instability, the potential environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exour rights and subject us to continually increasing costs relatchange controls. The Asian markets, in particular, are imported to designing and implementing appropriate compliance ant for our long-term growth strategy, and our sizeable operaprograms and protocols. tions in China are influenced by a legal system that is still developing and is subject to change. Our growth strategy could As a globally operating organization, we conduct business be limited by governments supporting local industries. Our with customers in countries, such as Iran, Syria and Cuba, that Sectors, particularly those that derive their revenue from large are subject to increasingly expansive export control regulaprojects, could be adversely affected if future demand, prices tions, embargoes, economic sanctions or other forms of trade and gross domestic product in the markets in which those restrictions imposed by the U.S., the European Union or other ­Sectors operate do not develop as favorably as expected due to countries or organizations. New or expanded export control such regulatory measures. If any of these risks or similar risks 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 240 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks associated with our international operations were to materialpublic contracts in case of a conviction for bribery and certain ize, our business, financial condition and results of operations other offences or for other reasons. As described in more detail could be materially adversely affected. in NOTE 29 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS , we and certain of our subsidiaries have in the past been Current and future investigations regarding allegations of excluded or currently are excluded from some contracting, inpublic corruption, antitrust violations and other illegal cluding with governments, development banks and multilateracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, al financial institutions, as a result of findings of corruption or financial condition and results of operations and on our other misconduct. Ongoing or potential future investigations reputation: We engage in a substantial amount of business into allegations of corruption or antitrust violations could also with governments and government-owned enterprises around impair existing relationships with, and our ability to acquire the world. We also participate in a number of projects funded new private sector business partners. For instance, such invesby government agencies and intergovernmental and supranatigations may adversely affect our ability to pursue potentially tional organizations such as multilateral development banks. important strategic projects and transactions, such as strategic If we are found to have been engaged in public corruption, analliances, joint ventures or other business combinations, or titrust violations and other illegal acts, such activities may imcould result in the cancellation of certain of our existing conpair our ability to do business with these or other organizatracts and third parties, including our competitors, could inititions. Corruption, antitrust and related proceedings may lead ate significant third-party litigation. to criminal and civil fines as well as penalties, sanctions, injunctions against future conduct, profit disgorgements, disIn addition, future developments in ongoing and potential fuqualifications from directly and indirectly engaging in certain ture investigations, such as responding to the requests of govtypes of business, the loss of business licenses or permits or ernmental authorities and cooperating with them, could diother restrictions. Accordingly, we may be required to record vert management’s attention and resources from other issues material provisions to cover potential liabilities arising in confacing our business. The materialization of any of these risks nection with such investigations and proceedings, including could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial potential tax penalties. Moreover, any findings related to pubcondition and results of operations and on our reputation. lic corruption that are not covered by the 2008 and 2009 corruption charge settlements, which were concluded with AmerOur business, financial condition and results of operations ican and German authorities, may endanger our business with could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: We government agencies and intergovernmental and supranaare subject to numerous risks relating to legal, governmental tional organizations, further monitors could be appointed to and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently a party review future business practices and we may otherwise be reor to which we may become a party in the future. We routinely quired to further modify our business practices and our combecome subject to legal, governmental and regulatory investipliance program. gations and proceedings involving, among other things, requests for arbitration, allegations of improper delivery of Our involvement in ongoing and potential future corruption or goods or services, product liability, product defects, quality antitrust proceedings could damage our reputation and have problems, intellectual property infringement, non-compliance an adverse impact on our ability to compete for business from with tax regulations and / or alleged or suspected violations of public and private sector customers around the world. If we or applicable laws. In addition, we may face further claims in conour subsidiaries are found to have engaged in certain illegal nection with the circumstances that led to the corruption acts or not to have taken effective steps to address allegations charges. For additional information with respect to specific or findings of corruption or antitrust violations in our busiproceedings, see NOTE 29 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED ness, this may impair our ability to participate in business with ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . There can be no assurance that the regovernments or intergovernmental organizations and may results of these or any other proceedings will not materially sult in our formal exclusion from such business. Even if we are harm our business, financial condition and results of operanot formally excluded from participating in government busitions. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail on the merits in ness, government agencies or intergovernmental or supranaany such proceedings, we may have to incur substantial legal tional organizations may informally exclude us from tendering fees and other costs defending ourselves against the underlyfor or participating in certain contracts. For example, legislaing allegations. Under certain circumstances we record a provition of member states of the European Union could in certain sion for risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings. In cases result in our mandatory or discretionary exclusion from addition, we maintain liability insurance for certain legal risks 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 241 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report at levels our management believes are appropriate and consised costs of decommissioning facilities for the production of tent with industry practice. Our insurance policy, however, uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements in Hanau, Germany, does not protect us against reputational damage. Moreover, as well as a nuclear research and service center in Karlstein, we may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the Germany. For further information, see NOTE 24 in D.6 limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance or exceeding NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . Under certain cirany provisions made for legal proceedings related losses. Ficumstances, we establish provisions for environmental risks. nally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mainWith regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liabilitain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable ty insurance at levels that our management believes are approterms in the future. Each of these risks may have a material priate and consistent with industry practice. We may incur adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results ­environmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverof operations. age, of such insurance, and such losses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results Examinations by tax authorities and changes in tax regulaof our operations. In addition, our provisions for environmentions could adversely affect our business, financial condital liabilities may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses tion and results of operations: We operate in around 190 or expenditures resulting therefrom. countries and therefore are subject to different tax regulations. Changes in tax law in any of these jurisdictions could result in C.9.3.5 ASSESSMENT higher tax expense and payments. Furthermore, legislative OF THE OVERALL RISK SITUATION changes could materially impact our tax receivables and liabiliThe most significant challenges have been mentioned first in ties as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. In each of the four categories Strategic, Operations, Financial and addition, the uncertain tax environment in some regions could Compliance with the risks caused by the macroeconomic envilimit our ability to enforce our rights. As a globally operating ronment currently being our most significant. Even though organization, we conduct business in countries subject to the assessments of individual risk exposures have changed complex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways. during fiscal 2013 due to developments in the external enviFuture interpretations or developments of tax regimes may ronment as well as the effects of our own mitigation mea­affect our business, financial condition and results of operasures, the overall risk situation for Siemens did not change sigtions. We are regularly examined by tax authorities in various nificantly as compared to the prior year. At present, no risks jurisdictions. have been identified that either individually or in combination could endanger our ability to continue as a going concern. We We are subject to environmental and other governmental are confident that we can continue to successfully counter the regulations: Some of the industries in which we operate are challenges arising from the risks mentioned above. highly regulated. Current and future environmental and other governmental regulations or changes thereto may require us to change the way we run our operations and could result in C.9.4 Opportunities significant increases in our operating or production costs. In addition, while we have procedures in place to ensure compliWithin our comprehensive, interactive and management-oriance with applicable governmental regulations in the conduct ented Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach that is of our business operations, it cannot be excluded that viola­integrated into the organization and that addresses both risks tions of applicable governmental regulations may be caused and opportunities, we regularly identify, evaluate and respond either by us or by third parties that we contract with, including to opportunities that present themselves in our various fields suppliers or service providers, whose activities may be atof activity. Below we describe our most significant opportunitributed to us. Any such violations expose us to the risk of liaties. Unless otherwise stated, the opportunities described bility, reputational damage or loss of licenses or permits that ­below relate to all of our segments. The order in which the are important to our business operations. In particular, we ­opportunities are presented reflects the currently estimated could also face liability for damage or remediation for environrelative exposure for Siemens associated with these opportumental contamination at the facilities we design or operate. nities and thus provides an indication of the opportunities’ For example, we are required to bear environmental clean-up current importance to us. Nevertheless, opportunities currentcosts mainly related to remediation and environmental protecly considered to entail a lower opportunity exposure could tion liabilities, which have been accrued based on the estimat­potentially result in a higher positive impact on Siemens than 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 242 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks opportunities currently considered to entail a higher opportuto gain market share and enhance our local presence in these nity exposure. The described opportunities are necessarily not strategic growth markets. Adding further SMART products to the only ones we encounter. In addition, our assessment of our port­folio and developing stronger sales channels would opportunities is subject to change as our Company, our marenable us to increase our revenues by serving large and kets and technologies are constantly developing. As a consefast-growing ­regional markets, where customers may consider quence, new opportunities may arise, existing opportunities price more strongly than product features when making a purmay cease to be relevant, or the significance of an opportunity chase decision. may change. Generally, opportunities are assessed to the best of our knowledge, considering certain assumptions, including We constantly strive to develop new technologies, new market development, market potential of technologies or soluproducts and solutions as well as to improve existing ones: tions, and anticipated developments in customer demand or We i­nvest in new technologies that we expect to meet future prices, among other things. When opportunities materialize, ­demands in accordance with the four strategic megatrends they may have a lower effect than previously estimated on the ­demographic change, urbanization, climate change and globasis of the underlying assumptions. It is also possible that balization (for further information see C.1.3.1 GLOBAL MEGA­opportunities we see today will never materialize. In our view, TRENDS ). the overall opportunity situation did not change significantly as compared to the prior year. Two opportunity factors includLocalizing value chain activities in low cost countries ed in our prior year reporting (“further growth in the area of could further improve our cost position: Localizing certain environment and climate protection” and “utilizing cross colvalue chain activities, such as procurement, manufacturing, laboration among our broad portfolio and global presence to maintenance and service in markets such as the BRIC counoffer more innovative and holistic solutions”) have been incortries and other emerging markets, as well as the Middle East porated into our business plans and are therefore not reported could enable us to reduce costs and to strengthen our global as an ERM relevant opportunity any more. competitive position, in particular compared to competitors based in countries with a more favorable cost structure. Through selective acquisitions, equity investments and partnerships we constantly strive to strengthen our leadWe are in the process of continuously developing and iming technology position, open up additional potential marplementing initiatives to reduce costs, adjust capacities, kets or further develop our product portfolio: We constantly improve our processes and streamline our portfolio: In an monitor our current and future markets for opportunities for intensified competitive market environment, a competitive strategic acquisitions, equity investments or partnerships to cost structure complements the competitive advantage of becomplement organic growth. Such activities could help us to ing innovative. We believe that further improvements in our strengthen our market position in our existing markets, provide cost position strengthen our global competitive position and access to new markets or complement our technological portsecure our market presence against emerging and incumbent folio in selected areas. competitors. For example, we expect to create sustainable value from productivity measures in the Sectors in connection We particularly see further opportunities in the growth with “Siemens 2014,” as mentioned earlier a company-wide potential of established markets and especially of the ­ program supporting our One Siemens framework. emerging markets: It is expected that in coming years emerging markets will continue to grow significantly faster than inWe are realigning our regional organization: As of Novemdustrialized nations, led by strong growth in the BRIC counber, 2013, following the close of fiscal 2013, we disbanded our tries Brazil, Russia, India and China as well as by growth opporRegional Cluster organization. Following this organizational tunities in the second wave emerging markets like Chile, Indochange, we have designated 30 Lead Countries which are indinesia, Mexico, Poland or Turkey. Within One Siemens, we want vidually responsible for managing a number of other countries to take measures aimed at continuously increasing our share regarding market penetration. Each Lead Country reports diof revenue from emerging markets. We believe that developrectly to the Managing Board. By implementing this move, ing the capability to design, manufacture and sell so-called Siemens intends to intensify its customer access and expand SMART (simple, maintenance-friendly, affordable, reliable, and its regional business. We expect that this new setup will furtimely-­to-market) products will provide us with opportunities ther enhance our local market penetration going forward. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 243 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.9.5 Significant characteristics relevance and impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined Management Report and where of the accounting-related internal ­necessary, our Financial Reporting Guidelines and the chart of control and risk management system accounts are adjusted accordingly. In quarterly closing letters, accounting departments of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries The following discussion describes information required pursuare informed about current topics from an accounting and ant to Section 289 (5) and Section 315 (2) no. 5 of the German closing process perspective and any deadlines that must be Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) and explanatory report. met for the respective closing processes. The overarching objective of our accounting-related internal The base data used in preparing the Consolidated Financial control and risk management system is to ensure that finanStatements consists of the closing data reported by the operacial reporting is conducted in a proper manner such that the tions of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries, which are derived Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined Managefrom the various accounting records. The preparation of the ment Report are prepared in accordance with all relevant reguclosing data of most of our subsidiaries is supported by our lations. ­ internal Global Shared Services organization. Furthermore, other accounting activities, such as governance and monitorAs described in C.9.2 RISK MANAGEMENT , our ERM approach is ing related activities, are bundled on regional level. In addibased on the worldwide accepted “Enterprise Risk Managetion, for some areas requiring specialized know-how such as ment – Integrated Framework” developed by the COSO. As one valuations relating to post-employment benefits support from of the objectives of this framework is reliability of a company ’s external service providers is obtained and used. The reported financial reporting, it also includes an accounting-related perclosing data is used to prepare the Consolidated Financial spective. The accounting-related internal control system (conStatements in the consolidation system. The steps necessary trol system) implemented by us is based on Internal Control – to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements are subject Integrated Framework (1992), an internationally recognized to both manual and automated controls at all levels. framework also developed by the COSO. The two systems are complementary. The specialist skills required of employees involved in the accounting process are assessed when the employees are initialOur management is responsible for establishing and maintainly selected; thereafter, the employees receive regular training. ing adequate internal control over financial reporting. At the As a fundamental principle, at the different levels, items must end of each fiscal year, our management performs an evaluabe verified by at least one other person (four eyes principle) tion of the effectiveness of its control system, both in design and specific procedures must be adhered to for the authorizaand operating effectiveness. We have a standardized procetion of the data. Additional control mechanisms include target-­ dure under which necessary controls are defined, documented performance comparisons and analyses of the composition of, in accordance with uniform standards, and tested regularly on and changes in, individual line items, both in the closing data their effectiveness. Our management has concluded that the reported by units and in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Company ’s internal control over financial reporting was effecAccounting-related IT systems provide for defined access rules tive as of September 30, 2013. Nevertheless, there are inherent in order to ensure that accounting related data is protected limitations in the effectiveness of any control system, and no from unauthorized access, use or modification. Every unit system, including one determined to be effective, may prevent ­included in our Consolidated Financial Statements is subject or detect all misstatements. to the rules and regulations of the Corporate Information ­Security Guide. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the ­basis of a conceptual framework which primarily consists of On a quarterly basis, management of Sectors, Divisions, SFS, company-wide uniform Financial Reporting Guidelines and a Cross-Sector Services, regions and certain Corporate Units, are chart of accounts, both issued by the Corporate Finance desupported by confirmations of management of entities under partment and to be applied consistently throughout Siemens. their responsibility, which confirm the accuracy of the finanNew laws, accounting standards, and other official announcecial data they have reported to Siemens’ corporate headquarments are analyzed on an ongoing basis with regard to their ters and the effectiveness of the related control systems. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 244 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks In addition, we have set up a Disclosure Committee – comprisADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELATED TO THE ing selected heads of Corporate Units – which is responsible STAND-ALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for reviewing certain financial and non-financial information OF SIEMENS AG (GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE) prior to publication. Siemens AG as the parent company of the Siemens Group is integrated into the company-wide accounting-related internal The Supervisory Board, through the Audit Committee, is also incontrol system described above. Generally, the information set tegrated into our control system. In particular, the Audit Comout above also applies for Stand-alone Financial Statements mittee oversees the accounting process, the effectiveness of the of Siemens AG prepared in accordance with the German control system, the risk management system and the internal ­Commercial Code. audit system, and the independent audit of financial statements. In addition, it conducts an audit of the documents related to the The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accorStand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Consoldance with IFRS. Where required, i.e., for purposes of preparidated Financial Statements and discusses the Stand-alone Fiing statements for local regulatory or tax purposes, data is adnancial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial opted in accordance with relevant regulations by means of Statements and Combined Management Report of these statereconciliation at account level. Accordingly, accurately determents with the Managing Board and the independent auditors. mined IFRS closing data also forms an important basis for the Stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG. In the case Through audits on a continuous and Siemens wide basis our of Siemens AG and other group companies required to prepare internal corporate audit function monitors compliance with financial statements in accordance with German Commercial our guidelines and the reliability and functional operation of Code, the conceptual framework described above is compleour control system as well as the adequacy and effectiveness mented by our mandatory German Commercial Code closing of our risk management system. guidelines and a German Commercial Code chart of accounts. The manual and system-based control mechanisms referred to In addition we have rules for accounting-related complaints above generally also apply when reconciling the IFRS closing and a Code of Ethics for Financial Matters. data to the Stand-alone Financial Statements of Siemens AG. C.10 Compensation Report, Corporate Governance statement ­pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code, ­Takeover-relevant information and explanatory report The Compensation Report outlines the principles underlying ­Combined Management Report and is published on WWW. the determination of the total compensation of the members SIEMENS.COM/GCG-CODE . The Corporate Governance statement is of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, and sets out the strucalso presented in B.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURture and level of the remuneration of the Managing Board SUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE . members. It also describes the policies governing and levels of compensation paid to Supervisory Board members. The ComThe Takeover-relevant information (pursuant to Sections 289 pensation Report is an integral part of the Combined Managepara. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code) and ment Report and is presented in B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT . explanatory report are an integral part of the Combined Management Report and are presented in B.5 TAKEOVER-RELEVANT The Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a INFORMATION (PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 289 PARA. 4 AND 315 PARA. 4 OF of the German Commercial Code is an integral part of the THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE) AND EXPL ANATORY REPORT . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 245 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.11 Siemens AG (Discussion on basis of German Commercial Code) Unlike our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are preRevenue rose 1% due primarily to revenue increases of €715 pared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting million in the Healthcare Sector, €42 million in the InfrastrucStandards (IFRS), the Stand-Alone Financial Statements of ture & Cities Sector and €45 million in Siemens Real Estate. Siemens AG have been prepared in accordance with the rules These increases were partly offset by revenue declines of set out in the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch). €374 million in the Energy Sector and €107 million in the ­Industry Sector. As a consequence of the mutual agreement procedure with tax authorities related to transfer pricing, C.11.1 Business and Siemens AG received compensatory payments from Siemens economic environment Healthcare U.S. The payments amounted to €670 million, and were booked as revenue by the Healthcare Sector. On a geoSiemens AG is the parent company of the Siemens Group. graphic basis, revenue grew 25% year-over-year in the AmeriSiemens AG is a technology company with core activities in the cas region and declined 7% in the Asia, Australia region. In fields of energy, healthcare, industry and infrastructure & cities. the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East region, revenue was Siemens AG includes one additional operating business, nearly unchanged from the prior-year level. Exports from GerSiemens Real Estate. Furthermore Siemens AG is significantly many accounted for 70% of revenue in fiscal 2013 and fiscal influenced by directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries and in2012. In fiscal 2013, orders for Siemens AG amounted to €32.5 vestments. Siemens AG holds directly and indirectly 684 legal billion, a significant increase of 14% from €28.6 billion a year entities including non-controlling interests. Siemens AG also earlier. The increase was driven mainly by a higher volume includes the Group’s corporate headquarters functions. from large orders, including a €1.8 billion contract win for trains in the U.K. and a €1.0 billion contract win for trains in The economic environment for Siemens AG is largely the same Germany at the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s Transportaas for the Siemens Group and is described in detail in C.1.2 tion & Logistics Division. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT . Gross profit was nearly level compared to the prior year, while gross profit margin decreased slightly from 28% a year ago to C.11.2 Results of operations 27% in the current period. The decrease was driven by additional costs relating to project charges. These expenses comStatement of Income of Siemens AG in accordance prised €286 million related to high-speed trains at the Infrawith German Commercial Code (condensed) structure & Cities Sectors’s Rail Systems Division and €226 milYear ended September 30, lion mainly related to grid-connections to offshore wind-farms (in millions of €) 2013 2012 at the Energy Sector’s Power Transmission Division. Gross profRevenue 30,305 29,913 it also included charges, associated with the company-wide Cost of sales (22,016) (21,607) “Siemens 2014” productivity improvement program. Gross profit 8,289 8,307 Research and development expenses (2,878) (2,904) Research and development (R&D) expenses decreased 1% Selling and general administrative expenses (4,173) (3,991) with nearly unchanged R&D expenses in all four Sectors and Other operating income (expenses), net (178) 124 the percentage of revenue (R&D intensity) remained at 10%. Financial income, net On an average basis, we employed 12,500 people in R&D in  thereof income from investments 3,893 (prior year 2,368) 3,631 2,441 ­fiscal 2013 compared to 12,200 in fiscal 2012. For additional inResult from ordinary activities 4,692 3,977 formation see C.8.2 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT . Income taxes (840) (943) Net income 3,852 3,034 Other operating income (expenses), net declined €302 milProfit carried forward 115 114 lion compared to fiscal 2012, resulting from a decrease in other Assets reduction due to spin-off (1,800) – operating income of €340 million and a reduction of €38 milAllocation to other retained earnings 476 (504) lion in other operating expenses. Other operating income in Unappropriated net income 2,643 2,643 fiscal 2012 benefited from a release amounting to €307 million related to indirect pension obligations to Siemens Pensionsfonds AG. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 246 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks Financial income, net rose 49% year-over-year. The increase C.11.3 Net assets and financial position was attributable primarily to an increase of €1.525 billion in income from investments. Other financial income was €386 milStatement of Financial Position of Siemens AG in lion lower compared to the prior year, while net interest inaccordance with German Commercial Code (condensed) come came in €51 million higher. September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 The primary factor for the increase in income from investAssets ments was a dividend payment of €3.000 billion from Siemens Non-current assets Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG. This was only partly Intangible and tangible assets 2,437 2,388 offset by a decline of €605 million in dividend payments relatFinancial assets 40,530 42,951 ed to Wind Power S / A and Siemens s.r.o. compared to a year 42,967 45,339 earlier. In addition, income from investments increased on Current assets higher income and lower expenses from profit and loss transReceivables and other assets 17,032 15,790 fers, which came in €787 million higher, and decreased impairCash and cash equivalents, marketable securities 2,282 3,155 ments of investments, which came in €547 million lower year19,313 18,945 over-year. The result from disposals of investments decreased Prepaid expenses 75 86 by €2.084 billion and turned negative. These resulted from the Deferred tax assets 2,467 2,737 disposal loss of the shares held by Siemens AG in Nokia Active difference Siemens Networks Holding B.V. amounting to €306 million in resulting from offsetting 46 42 fiscal 2013. In addition, gains from disposals in fiscal 2012 benTotal assets 64,868 67,149 efited from a gain of €1.290 billion resulting from the contribution in kind measured at fair value of Siemens Wind Power A / S Liabilities and equity into sinius GmbH. Equity 18,295 19,811 The decrease in other financial income resulted mainly from a Special reserve with an equity portion 767 775 decline of €559 million in dividend income from fund shares Accruals and provisions year-over year. In addition, the change in other financial inPensions and similar commitments 10,432 9,919 come included a decrease of €135 million for the reversal of Other provisions 7,827 7,419 impairments of shares in investment funds. These were partly 18,260 17,338 offset by an increase of €408 million in financial income relatLiabilities ed to foreign currency and hedging transactions, the reversal Liabilities to banks 138 146 of provisions for risks associated with derivative financial inAdvanced payments received 1,349 1,551 struments and negative excess amounts of measurement Trade payables, liabilities to affiliated companies and other liabilities 25,771 27,236 units. 27,257 28,934 Deferred income 290 291 Income tax expenses declined 11%. The decrease was due Total liabilities and equity 64,868 67,149 mainly to significantly higher almost tax-free income from investments year-over-year. An additional positive effect in fiscal 2013 resulted from the above mentioned compensatory payments from Siemens Healthcare U.S., which were already Compared to the prior year, total assets decreased 3%. taxed in the prior years. These factors were partly offset by burdens of a tax audit regarding the rejection of the deduction of expenses in connection with the buyback of convertible bonds. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 247 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report Financial assets declined 6% year-over-year, due primarily to C.11.4 Employees successful completion of the spin-off and listing of OSRAM, resulting in derecognition of €1.800 billion relating to OSRAM Indicators Beteiligungen GmbH. In addition, Siemens disposed of its Year ended September 30, stake in Nokia Siemens Networks Holding B.V. to Nokia Corpo2013 2012 ration amounting to €1.319 billion. The merger of SMS DiagEmployee turnover rate 1 3.0% 2.7% nostics Europe Ltd. reduced financial assets by €700 million. Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 2 11.3% 10.6% These effects were partly offset by the addition of Siemens Rail Expenses for continuing education Automation Corporation amounting to €528 million, and high(in millions of €) 3 94 100 er loans to affiliated companies of €616 million year-over-year. Expenses per employee for continuing education (in €) 3 864 934 Receivables and other assets grew 8% due primarily to higher receivables from affiliated companies as a result of in1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens AG during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. tra-group financing activities. 2 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary ­responsibility, plus project managers. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities de3 Without travel expenses. clined 28%. The liquidity management of Siemens AG is based on the finance strategy of the Siemens Group. Therefore the change in liquidity of Siemens AG resulted not only from busiAs of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the numbers of employees ness activities of Siemens AG. were 108,234 and 108,004 respectively. Equity declined 8%. The decrease was attributable to diviEmployees of Siemens AG by segments as of September 30, 2013 (in thousands) dends paid in fiscal 2013 (for fiscal 2012) of €2.528 billion (for additional information see C.2.5 DIVIDEND AND SHARE BUYBACKS ). Energy: 25 (23%) Other: 9 (8%) In addition, the equity reduction was due to the OSRAM spinoff amounting to €1.800 billion and to share buybacks during the year amounting to €1.348 billion. These factors were partly Siemens Real Estate: 2 (2%) offset by the profit for the year of €3.852 billion and the issuHealthcare: 10 (9%) 108 ance of treasury stock of €308 million in conjunction with our share-based compensation program. The equity ratios at SepInfrastructure & Cities: tember 30, 2013 and 2012 were 28% and 30%, respectively. Industry: 37 (34%) 26 (24%) Pensions and similar commitments rose 5%, resulting mainly from higher additions for interest and service costs of €841 million, which were partly offset by higher pension payments of €471 million year-over year. For additional information see C.8.9 EMPLOYEES . Other provisions rose 5%, due primarily to an increase of €391 million in provisions for personnel expenses, including charges, associated with the company-wide “Siemens 2014” productivity improvement program. Trade payables, liabilities to affiliated companies and other liabilities decreased 5%, due primarily to lower liabi­ lities to affiliated companies as a result of intra-group financing activities. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 248 156 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 207 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 173 C.2 Financial performance system 209 C.7 Subsequent events 179 C.3 Results of operations 210 C.8 Sustainability 192 C.4 Financial position 227 C.9 R eport on expected d­ evelopments and 204 C.5 Net assets position ­associated material o ­ pportunities and risks C.11.5 Subsequent events C.11.7 Outlook In November 2013, Siemens announced a share buyback of up Due to the interrelations between Siemens AG and its subsidto €4 billion ending latest on October 31, 2015. The buybacks iaries and the relative size of Siemens AG within the Group, will be made under the ­current authorization granted at the the Outlook of the Group also largely reflects our expectations Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011, which alfor Siemens AG. We expect that the anticipated market and lows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 milrevenue developments for fiscal 2014 described in statements lion shares under this program. Shares repurchased may be made by the Siemens Group will be mainly reflected in the revused for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing enue of Siemens AG. In fiscal 2014, we expect the profit of shares to current and former employees, to members of the Siemens AG to benefit from productivity gains resulting from Managing Board and board members of affiliated companies the company-wide “Siemens 2014” program. In addition, we and for meeting obligations from or in connection with conexpect that income from investments will significantly influvertible bonds or warrant bonds. ence the profit of Siemens AG. For additional information see C.9.1 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS . C.11.6 Risks and opportunities We intend to continue providing an attractive return to shareholders. Therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a The business development of Siemens AG is fundamentally dividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fissubject to the same risks and opportunities as the Siemens cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a Group. Siemens AG generally participates in the risks of its sum representing 40% to 60% of net income of Siemens subsidiaries and equity investments in line with its percentage Group, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude seof each holding. For additional information see C.9.3 RISKS lected exceptional non-cash effects. Furthermore, for fiscal and C.9.4 OPPORTUNITIES . 2014, we ­are taking proceeds from the sale of the NSN stake in fiscal 2013 into consideration. As the parent company of the Siemens Group, Siemens AG is integrated into the group-wide risk management system. For additional information see C.9.2 RISK MANAGEMENT . The description of the internal control system for Siemens AG required by Section 289 para. 5 of the German Commercial Code is included in C.9.5 SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ACCOUNTING RELATED INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT ­S YSTEM . For additional information regarding the use of financial instruments see NOTES TO THE STAND-ALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SIEMENS AG . 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 249 245 C.10 C  ompensation Report, Corporate Governance 246 C.11 S iemens AG (­Discussion on basis of statement pursuant to Section 289a of the ­German ­Commercial Code) ­German Commercial Code, Takeover-relevant 250 C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements ­information and ­explanatory report C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements This document includes supplemental financial measures that tives may from time to time make oral forward-looking stateare or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Orders and order ments. Such statements are based on the current expectations backlog; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and orand certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, and are, ders; book-to-bill ratio; Total Sectors profit; return on equity therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. A variety (after tax), or ROE (after tax); return on capital employed (adof factors, many of which are beyond Siemens’ control, affect justed), or ROCE (adjusted); Free cash flow, or FCF; adjusted Siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy and reEBITDA; adjusted EBIT; adjusted EBITDA margins, earnings efsults and could cause the actual results, performance or fects from purchase price allocation, or PPA effects; net debt achievements of Siemens to be materially different from any and adjusted industrial net debt are or may be such non-GAAP future results, performance or achievements that may be financial measures. These supplemental financial measures ­expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to measures anticipated on the basis of historical trends. These factors inof Siemens’ financial condition, results of operations or cash clude in particular, but are not limited to, the matters described flows as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated in Item 3: Key information – Risk factors of our most recent Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, in the chapter similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differC.9.3 RISKS in this Annual Report prepared in accordance ently. Definitions of these supplemental financial measures, a with the German Commercial Code. discussion of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ supFurther information about risks and uncertainties affecting plemental financial measures, the limitations associated with Siemens is included throughout this Annual Report, as well as these measures and reconciliations to the most comparable our most recent earnings release, which are available on the IFRS financial measures are available on Siemens’ Investor ReSiemens website, WWW.SIEMENS.COM , and throughout our lations website at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . For additionmost recent ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 20-F and in our other al information, see supplemental financial measures and the filings with the SEC, which are available on the Siemens ­ related discussion in Siemens’ most recent annual report on ­website, WWW.SIEMENS.COM , and on the SEC’s website, Form 20-F, which can be found on our Investor Relations webWWW.SEC.GOV . Should one or more of these risks or un­ site or via the EDGAR system on the website of the United certainties mate­ rialize, or should underlying assumptions States Securities and Exchange Commission. prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens may vary materially from those described in the This document contains statements related to our future busirelevant forward-looking statement as being expected, anticiness and financial performance and future events or developpated, intended, planned, believed, sought, estimated or proments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking jected. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, statements. These statements may be identified by words such to ­update or revise these forward-looking statements in light as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” of developments which differ from those anticipated. “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and othin other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to er documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided shareholders and in press releases. In addition, our representaand percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 250 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements 285 NOTE 15 – Goodwill of Income 286 NOTE 16 – Other intangible assets Consolidated 287 NOTE 17 – Property, plant and equipment Financial Statements 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements 289 NOTE 18 – Investments accounted for of Comprehensive Income using the equity method 289 NOTE 19 – Other financial assets 290 NOTE 20 – Other current financial liabilities 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements 290 NOTE 21 – Other current liabilities of Financial Position 290 NOTE 22 – Debt 293 NOTE 23 – Post-employment benefits 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements 299 NOTE 24 – Provisions of Cash Flows 301 NOTE 25 – Other liabilities 301 NOTE 26 – Equity 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 303 NOTE 27 – Additional capital disclosures of Changes in Equity 305 NOTE 28 – Commitments and contingencies Consolidated Statements of Income 306 NOTE 29 – Legal proceedings 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated 313 NOTE 30 – Additional disclosures on financial Financial Statements instruments 262 Segment information 316 NOTE 31 – Derivative financial instruments Consolidated (continuing operations) and hedging activities Statements of Comprehensive Income 262 NOTE 1 – Basis of presentation 318 NOTE 32 – Financial risk management 262 NOTE 2 – Summary of significant 323 NOTE 33 – Share-based payment D. Consolidated Financial Statements accounting policies 326 NOTE 34 – Personnel costs 271 NOTE 3 – Critical accounting estimates Statements Consolidated326 of Financial NOTE 35 – Earnings per sharePosition 273 NOTE 4 – Acquisitions, dispositions and 327 NOTE 36 – Segment information discontinued operations 330 NOTE 37 – Information about geographies 278 NOTE 5 – Other operating income 330 NOTE 38 – Related party transactions 278 NOTE 6 – Other operating expenses 332 NOTE 39 – Principal accountant fees 279 NOTE 7 Consolidated – Income Statements (loss) from investments of Cash Flowsand services accounted for using the equity 334 NOTE 40 – Corporate Governance method, net 334 NOTE 41 – Subsequent events 279 NOTE 8 – Interest income, interest expenses and other financial 335 NOTE 42 – List of subsidiaries and income (expenses), net associated companies pursuant to Section 313 para. 2 of the 280 NOTE 9 – Income taxes German Commercial Code 282 NOTE 10 Consolidated – Available-for-sale Statements financial assets of Changes in Equity 283 NOTE 11 – Trade and other receivables 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and 284 NOTE 12 – Other current financial assets Managing Board 284 NOTE 13 – Inventories 348 D.7.1 Supervisory Board 284 NOTE 14 – Other current assets 352 D.7.2 Managing Board Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Supervisory Board and Managing Board 253 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. C.12 Notes and forward-looking statements The Consolidated Financial Statements This document includes supplemental financial measures that tives may from time to time make oral forward-looking stateare or may be non-GAAP financial measures. Orders and order ments. Such statements are based on the current expectations are prepared in accordance with Interbacklog; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and orand certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, and are, national Financial Reporting Standards ders; book-to-bill ratio; Total Sectors profit; return on equity (after tax), or ROE (after tax); return on capital employed (adtherefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond Siemens’ control, affect (IFRS) as adopted by the European justed), or ROCE (adjusted); Free cash flow, or FCF; adjusted Siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy and reUnion (EU), the supplementary requireEBITDA; adjusted EBIT; adjusted EBITDA margins, earnings effects from purchase price allocation, or PPA effects; net debt sults and could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens to be materially different from any ments of German law pursuant to Secand adjusted industrial net debt are or may be such non-GAAP future results, performance or achievements that may be financial measures. These supplemental financial measures expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or tion 315a (1) of the German Commercial should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to measures anticipated on the basis of historical trends. These factors inCode and full IFRS as issued by the of Siemens’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated clude in particular, but are not limited to, the matters described in Item 3: Key information – Risk factors of our most recent International Accounting Standards Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, in the chapter similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differC.9.3 RISKS in this Annual Report prepared in accordance Board (IASB). They give a true and fair ently. Definitions of these supplemental financial measures, a with the German Commercial Code. view of the net assets, financial position discussion of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ supFurther information about risks and uncertainties affecting and results of operations of the group plemental financial measures, the limitations associated with Siemens is included throughout this Annual Report, as well as these measures and reconciliations to the most comparable our most recent earnings release, which are available on the in accordance with these requirements. IFRS financial measures are available on Siemens’ Investor ReSiemens website, WWW.SIEMENS.COM , and throughout our lations website at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/NONGAAP . For additionmost recent ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 20-F and in our other al information, see supplemental financial measures and the filings with the SEC, which are available on the Siemens WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIAL-STATEMENTS related discussion in Siemens’ most recent annual report on website, WWW.SIEMENS.COM , and on the SEC’s website, Form 20-F, which can be found on our Investor Relations webWWW.SEC.GOV . Should one or more of these risks or unsite or via the EDGAR system on the website of the United certainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions States Securities and Exchange Commission. prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens may vary materially from those described in the This document contains statements related to our future busirelevant forward-looking statement as being expected, anticiness and financial performance and future events or developpated, intended, planned, believed, sought, estimated or proments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking jected. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, statements. These statements may be identified by words such to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” of developments which differ from those anticipated. “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and othin other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to er documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided shareholders and in press releases. In addition, our representaand percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 250 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements 285 NOTE 15 – Goodwill of Income 286 NOTE 16 – Other intangible assets Consolidated 287 NOTE 17 – Property, plant and equipment ­Financial Statements 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements 289 NOTE 18 – Investments accounted for of ­Comprehensive Income using the equity method 289 NOTE 19 – Other financial assets 290 NOTE 20 – Other current financial liabilities 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements 290 NOTE 21 – Other current liabilities of Financial Position 290 NOTE 22 – Debt 293 NOTE 23 – Post-employment benefits 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements 299 NOTE 24 – Provisions of Cash Flows 301 NOTE 25 – Other liabilities 301 NOTE 26 – Equity 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements 303 NOTE 27 – Additional capital disclosures of Changes in Equity 305 NOTE 28 – Commitments and contingencies 306 NOTE 29 – Legal proceedings 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated 313 NOTE 30 – Additional disclosures on financial ­Financial Statements instruments 260 Segment information 316 NOTE 31 – Derivative financial instruments (continuing operations) and hedging activities 262 NOTE 1 – Basis of presentation 318 NOTE 32 – Financial risk management 262 NOTE 2 – Summary of significant 323 NOTE 33 – Share-based payment D. Consolidated Financial Statements ­accounting policies 326 NOTE 34 – Personnel costs 271 NOTE 3 – Critical accounting estimates 326 NOTE 35 – Earnings per share 273 NOTE 4 – Acquisitions, dispositions and 327 NOTE 36 – Segment information ­discontinued operations 330 NOTE 37 – Information about geographies 278 NOTE 5 – Other operating income 330 NOTE 38 – Related party transactions 278 NOTE 6 – Other operating expenses 332 NOTE 39 – Principal accountant fees 279 NOTE 7 – Income (loss) from investments and ­services accounted for using the equity 334 NOTE 40 – Corporate Governance method, net 334 NOTE 41 – Subsequent events 279 NOTE 8 – Interest income, interest expenses and other financial 335 NOTE 42 – List of subsidiaries and income (expenses), net associated companies pursuant to Section 313 para. 2 of the 280 NOTE 9 – Income taxes German Commercial Code 282 NOTE 10 – Available-for-sale financial assets 283 NOTE 11 – Trade and other receivables 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and 284 NOTE 12 – Other current financial assets ­Managing Board 284 NOTE 13 – Inventories 348 D.7.1 Supervisory Board 284 NOTE 14 – Other current assets 352 D.7.2 Managing Board 253 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout these ­Consolidated Financial Statements may not add up ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 (in millions of €, per share amounts in €) Note 2013 2012 1 Revenue 75,882 77,395 Cost of sales (55,053) (55,470) Gross profit 20,829 21,925 Research and development expenses (4,291) (4,245) Selling and general administrative expenses (11,286) (11,043) Other operating income 5 503 523 Other operating expenses 6 (427) (364) Income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net 7 510 (333) Interest income 8 948 939 Interest expenses 8 (789) (760) Other financial income (expenses), net 8 (154) (5) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 5,843 6,636 Income tax expenses 9 (1,630) (1,994) Income from continuing operations 4,212 4,642 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 4 197 (360) Net income 4,409 4,282 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 126 132 Shareholders of Siemens AG 4,284 4,151 Basic earnings per share 35 Income from continuing operations 4.85 5.15 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.23 (0.41) Net income 5.08 4.74 Diluted earnings per share 35 Income from continuing operations 4.80 5.10 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.22 (0.41) Net income 5.03 4.69 1  Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R, see The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION in ­Consolidated Financial Statements. D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 254 D.2 Consolidated Statements of ­Comprehensive Income For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 (in millions of €) Note 2013 2012 1 Net income 4,409 4,282 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 23 394 (1,787) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Currency translation differences (1,062) 855 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 183 209 Derivative financial instruments 30, 31 45 63 (834) 1,127 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 2 (440) (661) Total comprehensive income 3,969 3,622 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 81 128 Shareholders of Siemens AG 3,888 3,494 1  Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R, see 2 Includes income (expenses) resulting from investments The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION in accounted for using the equity method of €(257) million ­Consolidated Financial Statements. D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . and €28 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012 of which €(121) million and €(99) million, respectively, are attributable to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 255 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 (in millions of €) Note 09/30/2013 09/30/2012 1 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 9,190 10,891 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 601 524 Trade and other receivables 11 14,853 15,220 Other current financial assets 12 3,250 2,901 Inventories 13 15,560 15,679 Current income tax assets 794 836 Other current assets 14 1,297 1,277 Assets classified as held for disposal 4 1,393 4,799 Total current assets 46,937 52,128 Goodwill 15 17,883 17,069 Other intangible assets 16 5,057 4,595 Property, plant and equipment 17 9,815 10,763 Investments accounted for using the equity method 18 3,022 4,436 Other financial assets 19 15,117 14,666 Deferred tax assets 9 3,234 3,748 Other assets 872 846 Total non-current assets 54,999 56,123 Total assets 101,936 108,251 Liabilities and equity Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 22 1,944 3,826 Trade payables 7,599 8,036 Other current financial liabilities 20 1,515 1,460 Current provisions 24 4,485 4,750 Current income tax liabilities 2,151 2,204 Other current liabilities 21 19,701 20,302 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal 4 473 2,049 Total current liabilities 37,868 42,627 Long-term debt 22 18,509 16,880 Post-employment benefits 23 9,265 9,801 Deferred tax liabilities 9 504 494 Provisions 24 3,907 3,908 Other financial liabilities 1,184 1,083 Other liabilities 25 2,074 2,034 Total non-current liabilities 35,443 34,200 Total liabilities 73,312 76,827 Equity 26 Issued capital, no par value 2 2,643 2,643 Capital reserve 5,484 6,173 Retained earnings 22,663 22,877 Other components of equity 268 1,058 Treasury shares, at cost 3 (2,946) (1,897) Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 28,111 30,855 Non-controlling interests 514 569 Total equity 28,625 31,424 Total liabilities and equity 101,936 108,251 1 Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R, see 2 Authorized: 1,084,600,000 and 1,084,600,000 shares, 3 37,997,595 and 24,725,674 shares, respectively. NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION in respectively. Issued: 881,000,000 and 881,000,000 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . shares, respectively. C ­ onsolidated Financial Statements. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 256 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 (in millions of €) Note 2013 2012 1 Cash flows from operating activities Net income 4,409 4,282 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations (Income) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (197) 360 Amortization, depreciation and impairments 2,888 2,818 Income tax expenses 1,630 1,994 Interest (income) expenses, net (159) (178) (Gains) losses on disposals of assets related to investing activities, net 2 (292) (345) Other (income) losses from investments 2 (326) 424 Other non-cash (income) expenses 674 110 Change in assets and liabilities Inventories (218) (89) Trade and other receivables (293) 104 Trade payables (217) 199 Other assets and liabilities 576 (2,078) Additions to assets leased to others in operating leases (377) (375) Income taxes paid (2,166) (1,445) Dividends received 356 301 Interest received 837 842 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations 7,126 6,923 Cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations 214 188 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing and discontinued operations 7,340 7,110 Cash flows from investing activities Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1,869) (2,195) Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (2,801) (1,295) Purchase of investments 2 (346) (252) Purchase of current available-for-sale financial assets (157) (182) Change in receivables from financing activities (2,175) (2,087) Disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant and equipment 2 2,463 753 Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed (27) 87 Disposal of current available-for-sale financial assets 76 142 Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations (4,836) (5,029) Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations (240) (656) Cash flows from investing activities – continuing and discontinued operations (5,076) (5,685) Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of treasury shares 26 (1,394) (1,721) Other transactions with owners (15) 158 Issuance of long-term debt 22 3,772 5,113 Repayment of long-term debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) (2,927) (3,218) Change in short-term debt and other financing activities 3 (62) Interest paid (479) (503) Dividends paid to shareholders of Siemens AG 26 (2,528) (2,629) Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests (152) (155) Financing discontinued operations 3 298 (506) Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations (3,422) (3,523) Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations 26 468 Cash flows from financing activities – continuing and discontinued operations (3,396) (3,055) Effect of deconsolidation of OSRAM on cash and cash equivalents (476) – Effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (108) 68 Change in cash and cash equivalents (1,717) (1,561) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 10,950 12,512 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 9,234 10,950 Less: Cash and cash equivalents of assets classified as held for disposal and discontinued operations at end of period 44 59 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) 9,190 10,891 1 Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R, see 2 Investments include equity instruments either classified as 3 Discontinued operations are financed generally through NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION in non-current available-for-sale financial assets, accounted Corporate Treasury. D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . for using the equity method or classified as held for disThe accompanying Notes are an integral part of these posal. Purchase of investments includes certain loans to ­Consolidated Financial Statements. investments accounted for using the equity method. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 257 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 Issued capital Capital reserve Retained earnings (in millions of €) Balance as of October 1, 2011 (as previously reported) 2,743 6,011 25,881 Effect of retrospectively adopting IAS 19R – – 116 Balance as of October 1, 2011 1 2,743 6,011 25,996 Net income 1 – – 4,151 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 1 – – (1,783)2 Dividends – – (2,629) Share-based payment – 42 (129) Purchase of treasury shares – – – Re-issuance of treasury shares – (6) – Cancellation of treasury shares (100) – (2,410) Transactions with non-controlling interests – – (326) Other changes in equity – 126 7 Balance as of September 30, 2012 2,643 6,173 22,877 Balance as of October 1, 2012 (as previously reported) 2,643 6,173 22,756 Effect of retrospectively adopting IAS 19R – – 122 Balance as of October 1, 2012 1 2,643 6,173 22,877 Net income – – 4,284 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – 3952 Dividends – – (2,528) Share-based payment – 21 (40) Purchase of treasury shares – – – Re-issuance of treasury shares – 5 – Transactions with non-controlling interests – – (52) Spin-off related changes in equity – (163) (2,270) Other changes in equity – (553) (3) Balance as of September 30, 2013 2,643 5,484 22,663 1  Adjusted for effects of adopting IAS 19R, see 2 Items of other comprehensive income that will not be respectively, in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION in reclassified to profit or loss consist of remeasurements of and 2012. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans are D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . defined benefit plans of €395 million and €(1,783) million, included in line item Retained earnings. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 258 Total comprehensive income Other components of equity Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Currency trans­ Available-for-sale Derivative financial Total Treasury Total equity Non-controlling Total equity lation differences financial assets instruments shares at cost attributable interests to shareholders of Siemens AG 2 36 (106) 25,813 (3,037) 31,530 626 32,156 – – – 116 – 116 – 116 2 36 (106) 25,929 (3,037) 31,645 626 32,271 – – – 4,151 – 4,151 132 4,282 855 209 62 (657) – (657) (4) (661)3 – – – (2,629) – (2,629) (176) (2,805) – – – (129) – (87) – (87) – – – – (1,767) (1,767) – (1,767) – – – – 397 391 – 391 – – – (2,410) 2,510 – – – – – – (326) – (326) 24 (302) – – – 7 – 134 (34) 100 857 245 (44) 23,936 (1,897) 30,855 569 31,424 857 245 (44) 23,814 (1,897) 30,733 569 31,302 – – – 122 – 122 – 122 857 245 (44) 23,936 (1,897) 30,855 569 31,424 – – – 4,284 – 4,284 126 4,409 (1,017) 183 43 (396) – (396) (44) (440)3 – – – (2,528) – (2,528) (119) (2,647) – – – (40) – (18) – (18) – – – – (1,349) (1,349) – (1,349) – – – – 300 304 – 304 – – – (52) – (52) (10) (62) – – – (2,270) – (2,433) – (2,433) – – – (3) – (556) (8) (564) (160) 428 (1) 22,930 (2,946) 28,111 514 28,625 3 In fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, Other €(45) million and €(1) million relating to currency translation The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these comprehensive income, net of income taxes, includes differences, €– million and €– million relating to available­Consolidated Financial Statements. non-controlling interests of €– million and €(4) million for-sale financial assets and €1 million and €1 million relating relating to remeasurements of defined benefit plans, to derivative financial instruments. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 259 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.6 Notes to Consolidated ­Financial Statements Segment information (continuing operations) As of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 Orders 1 External revenue Intersegment revenue Total revenue (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sectors Energy 28,797 26,930 26,386 27,501 252 235 26,638 27,736 Healthcare 13,950 13,806 13,598 13,600 24 42 13,621 13,642 Industry 18,417 18,962 16,943 17,772 1,643 1,637 18,586 19,409 Infrastructure & Cities 21,894 17,150 17,128 16,731 750 853 17,879 17,585 Total Sectors 83,057 76,848 74,055 75,605 2,669 2,767 76,724 78,372 Equity Investments – – – – – – – – Financial Services (SFS) 1,072 908 960 859 112 48 1,072 908 Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements Centrally managed portfolio activities 296 283 264 281 10 11 274 292 Siemens Real Estate (SRE) 2,510 2,434 301 325 2,210 2,121 2,512 2,447 Corporate items and pensions 470 508 302 325 170 184 472 509 Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items (5,055) (5,041) – – (5,172) (5,132) (5,172) (5,132) Siemens 82,351 75,939 75,882 77,395 – – 75,882 77,395 1  This supplementary information on Orders is provided financing interest, certain pension costs and income 3 Assets of the Sectors as well as of Equity Investments and on a voluntary basis. It is not part of the Consolidated taxes. Certain other items not considered performance Centrally managed portfolio activities is defined as Total Financial Statements subject to the audit opinion. indicative by Management may be excluded. Profit of assets less income tax assets, less non-interest bearing SFS and SRE is Income before income taxes. ­liabilities other than tax liabilities. Assets of SFS and SRE 2  Profit of the Sectors as well as of Equity Investments and is Total assets. Centrally managed portfolio activities is earnings before 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 260 Profit 2 Assets 3 Free cash flow 4 Additions to intangible Amortization, depreciation assets and property, plant and and impairments 5 equipment 2013 2012 09/30/2013 09/30/2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1,955 1,901 1,621 1,116 1,595 2,142 425 547 587 549 2,048 1,815 11,023 11,757 2,238 1,861 291 354 638 726 1,478 2,448 6,549 6,479 2,070 2,123 395 417 657 553 306 1,102 5,694 4,012 384 737 239 290 332 276 5,788 7,266 24,886 23,364 6,288 6,863 1,350 1,608 2,215 2,104 396 (549) 1,767 2,715 114 100 – – – – 409 479 18,661 17,405 857 528 69 31 230 270 (12) (29) (267) (448) (58) 12 7 3 3 6 171 115 4,747 5,018 (108) (231) 365 453 314 327 (839) (668) (11,252) (11,693) (431) (910) 83 103 91 67 (70) 23 63,393 71,889 (1,405) (1,634) (4) (4) (34) (41) 5,843 6,636 101,936 108,251 5,257 4,727 1,869 2,195 2,819 2,732 4  ree cash flow represents Cash flows from operating activiF related payments and proceeds. Free cash flow of SFS, a 5  Amortization, depreciation and impairments contains ties less Additions to intangible assets and property, plant financial services business, and of SRE includes related amortization and impairments, net of reversals of and equipment. Free cash flow of the Sectors, Equity Investfinancing interest payments and proceeds; income tax ­impairments, of intangible assets other than goodwill as ments and Centrally managed portfolio activities primarily payments and proceeds of SFS and SRE are excluded. well as depreciation and impairments of property, plant exclude income tax, financing interest and certain pension and equipment, net of reversals of impairments. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 261 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 1 Basis of presentation Business combinations – Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method. Siemens as the acquirer The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements present and the acquiree may have a relationship that existed before the operations of Siemens AG with registered offices in Berlin they contemplated the business combination, referred to as a and Munich, Germany, and its subsidiaries (the Company or pre-existing relationship. If the business combination in effect Siemens). They have been prepared in accordance with Intersettles a pre-existing relationship, Siemens as the acquirer recnational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the ognizes a gain or loss for the pre-existing relationship. The European Union as well as with the additional requirements set cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the asforth in Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB). sets given and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exThe financial statements are also in accordance with IFRS as change. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by ­issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Siemens as the acquirer will be recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the Siemens prepares and reports its Consolidated Financial Statecontingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liaments in euros (€). Due to rounding, numbers presented may bility will be recognized either in profit or loss or as a change not add up precisely to totals provided. to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured; subseSiemens is a German based multinational corporation with a quent settlement is accounted for within equity. Acquisibusiness portfolio of activities predominantly in the field of tion-related costs are expensed in the period incurred. Identifielectronics and electrical engineering. able assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination (including contingent liabilities) are measured The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective issue by the Managing Board on November 20, 2013. The ­ of the extent of any non-controlling interest. Uniform account­Consolidated Financial Statements are generally prepared on ing policies are applied. Non-controlling interests may be meathe historical cost basis, except as stated in NOTE 2 SUMMARY sured at their fair value (full goodwill method) or at the proOF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES . portional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method). After initial recognition non-controlling interests may show a deficit balance since both profits NOTE 2 Summary of significant and losses are allocated to the shareholders based on their eqaccounting policies uity interests. In business combinations achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeaThe accounting policies set out below have been applied consured to its acquisition date fair value. If there is no loss of sistently to all periods presented in these Consolidated Financontrol, transactions with non-controlling interests are accial Statements. counted for as equity transactions not affecting profit and loss. At the date control is lost, any retained equity interests are Basis of consolidation – The Consolidated Financial Stateremeasured to fair value. In case of a written put on non-conments include the accounts of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries trolling interests the Company distinguishes whether the prewhich are directly or indirectly controlled. Control is generally requisites for the transfer of present ownership interest are conveyed by ownership of the majority of voting rights. Addifulfilled at the balance sheet date. Provided that the Company tionally, the Company consolidates special purpose entities is not the beneficial owner of the shares underlying the put (SPE’s) when, based on the evaluation of the substance of the option, the exercise of the put option will be assumed at each relationship with Siemens, the Company concludes that it balance sheet date and treated as equity transaction between ­controls the SPE. To determine when the Company should conshareholders with the recognition of a purchase liability at the solidate based on substance, Siemens considers the circumrespective exercise price. The non-controlling interests particistances listed in SIC-12.10 as additional indicators regarding a pate in profits and losses during the reporting period. relationship in which Siemens controls an SPE. Siemens looks at these SIC-12.10 circumstances as indicators and always privAssociated companies and jointly controlled entities – ileges an analysis of individual facts and circumstances on a Companies in which Siemens has the ability to exercise significase-by-case basis. Associated companies are recorded in the cant influence over operating and financial policies (generally Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of through direct or indirect ownership of 20% to 50% of the votaccounting. Companies in which Siemens has joint control are ing rights) and jointly controlled entities are recorded in the also recorded using the equity method. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 262 Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of during the period, whereas cash and cash equivalents are accounting and are initially recognized at cost. The following translated at the spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting policies equally apply to associated companies and jointly conperiod. trolled entities. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of Siemens. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar, Siemens’ significant curThe excess of Siemens’ initial investment in associated comparency outside the euro zone used in the preparation of the nies over Siemens’ ownership percentage in the underlying Consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: net assets of those companies is attributed to certain fair value adjustments with the remaining portion recognized as goodwill. Goodwill relating to the acquisition of associated compaYear-end exchange Annual average rate rate €1 quoted into €1 quoted into nies is included in the carrying amount of the investment and currencies currencies is not amortized but is tested for impairment as part of the specified below specified below overall investment in the associated company. Siemens’ share Year ended September 30, September 30, of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income, and Currency ISO Code 2013 2012 2013 2012 its share of post-acquisition movements in equity that have not U.S. dollar USD 1.351 1.293 1.313 1.303 been recognized in the associates’ profit or loss is recognized directly in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment in the associated company. When Siemens’ share of losses in an Foreign currency transaction – Transactions that are deassociated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associnominated in a currency other than the functional currency of ate, Siemens does not recognize further losses, unless it incurs an entity, are recorded at that functional currency applying the obligations or makes payments on behalf of the associate. The spot exchange rate at the date when the underlying transacinterest in an associate is the carrying amount of the investtions are initially recognized. At the end of the reporting periment in the associate together with any long-term interests od, foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilithat, in substance, form part of Siemens’ net investment in the ties are revalued to functional currency applying the spot exassociate. Intercompany results arising from transactions bechange rate prevailing at that date. Gains and losses arising tween Siemens and its associated companies are eliminated to from these foreign currency revaluations are recognized in net the extent of Siemens’ interest in the associated company. income. Those foreign currency-denominated transactions Siemens determines at each reporting date whether there is which are classified as non-monetary are remeasured using any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is the historical spot exchange rate. impaired. If this is the case, Siemens calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount Revenue recognition – Under the condition that persuasive of the associate and its carrying value. Upon loss of significant evidence of an arrangement exists revenue is recognized to influence over the associate, Siemens measures and recognizes the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will any retaining investment at its fair value. Any difference beflow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably meatween the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of signifsured, regardless of when the payment is being made. In cases icant influence and the fair value of the retaining investment where the inflow of economic benefits is not probable due to and proceeds from disposal is recognized in profit or loss. customer related credit risks the revenue recognized is subject to the amount of payments irrevocably received. Revenue is Foreign currency translation – The assets, including goodmeasured at the fair value of the consideration received or rewill, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, where the functionceivable net of discounts and rebates and excluding taxes or al currency is other than the euro, are translated using the duty. The Company assesses its revenue arrangements against spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, while specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal the Consolidated Statements of Income are translated using or agent. The following specific recognition criteria must also average exchange rates during the period. Differences arising be met before revenue is recognized: from such translations are recognized within equity and reclassified to net income when the gain or loss on disposal of Sale of goods: Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized the foreign subsidiary is recognized. The Consolidated Statewhen the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods ments of Cash Flow are translated at average exchange rates have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 263 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Sales from construction contracts: A construction contract is a tal arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset units of accounting based on their relative fair values. Howevor a combination of assets that are closely interrelated or interer, if in rare cases fair value evidence is available for the undedependent in terms of their design, technology and function livered but not for one or more of the delivered elements, the or their ultimate purpose or use. When the outcome of a conamount allocated to the delivered element(s) equals the total struction contract can be estimated reliably, revenues from arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the construction-type projects are recognized under the percentundelivered element(s) (residual method). If the criteria for age-of-completion method, based on the percentage of costs the separation of units of accounting are not met, revenue is to date compared to the total estimated contract costs. An exdeferred until such criteria are met or until the period in which pected loss on the construction contract is recognized as an the last undelivered element is delivered. expense immediately. When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably (1) revenue is recognized Interest income: Interest is recognized using the effective inonly to the extent contract costs incurred are probable of being terest method. recoverable, and (2) contract costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. Royalties: Royalties are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement. During project execution, variation orders by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the Income from lease arrangements: Operating lease income for contract may be received leading to an increase or a decrease equipment rentals is recognized on a straight-line basis over in contract revenue. Examples of such variations are changes the lease term. An arrangement that is not in the legal form of in the specifications or design of the asset and changes in the a lease is accounted for as a lease if it is dependent on the use duration of the contract. As the scope of work to be performed of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a changes also in case of contract terminations, such terminaright to use the asset. Receivables from finance leases, in which tions are considered to be a subset of variations. Therefore the Siemens as lessor transfers substantially all the risks and rerequirements of IAS 11 relating to variations are applied to conwards incidental to ownership to the customer are recognized tract terminations, irrespective of whether the contract is terat an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance minated by the customer, Siemens or both. In accordance with income is subsequently recognized based on a pattern reflectthe requirements of IAS 11 relating to changes in estimates, ing a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment usthe estimates of the total contract revenue and the total coning the effective interest method. A selling profit component tract costs are adjusted reflecting the reduced scope of work to on manufacturing leases is recognized based on the policies for be performed, typically leading to a reversal of revenue recogoutright sales. Profit from sale and leaseback transactions is nized. This methodology is also applied to contracts for which recognized immediately if significant risks and rewards of ownit is management’s best estimate that a termination is the ership have passed to the buyer, the leaseback results in an opmost likely scenario, but which have not yet been terminated. erating lease and the transaction is established at fair value. Rendering of services: Revenues from service transactions are Dividends: Dividends are recognized when the right to receive recognized as services are performed. For long-term service payment is established. contracts, revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract or, if the performance pattern is Functional costs – In general, operating expenses by types other than straight-line, as the services are provided, i.e. under are assigned to the functions following the functional area the percentage-of-completion method as described above. of the corresponding profit and cost centers. Expenses relating to cross-functional initiatives or projects are assigned to Sales from multiple element arrangements: Sales of goods and the ­respective functional costs based on an appropriate alloservices as well as software arrangements sometimes involve cation principle. Regarding amortization see NOTE 16 OTHER the provision of multiple elements. In these cases, the CompaINTAN­G IBLE ASSETS , regarding depreciation see NOTE 17 PROPny determines whether the contract or arrangement contains ERT Y, PL ANT AND EQUIPMENT and regarding employee benefit more than one unit of accounting. If certain criteria are met, ­expenses see NOTE 34 PERSONNEL COSTS . foremost if the delivered element(s) has (have) value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the arrangement is separated Government grants – Government grants are recognized and the appropriate revenue recognition convention is then when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions atapplied to each separate unit of accounting. Generally, the totached to the grants are complied with and the grants will be 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 264 received. Grants awarded for the purchase or the production of and development costs incur that are to be compensated. Govfixed assets (grants related to assets) are generally offset ernment grants for future research and development costs are against the acquisition or production costs of the respective recorded as deferred income. assets and reduce future depreciations accordingly. Grants awarded for other than non-current assets (grants related to Earnings per share – Basic earnings per share are computed income) are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Inby dividing income from continuing operations, income from come under the same functional area as the corresponding exdiscontinued operations and net income, all attributable to orpenses. They are recognized as income over the periods necesdinary shareholders of Siemens AG by the weighted average sary to match them on a systematic basis to the costs that are number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnintended to be compensated. Government grants for future ings per share are calculated by assuming conversion or exerexpenses are recorded as deferred income. cise of all potentially dilutive securities and share-based payment plans. Product-related expenses and losses from onerous contracts – Provisions for estimated costs related to product warGoodwill – Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for ranties are recorded in line item Cost of sales at the time the impairment annually, as well as whenever there are events or related sale is recognized, and are established on an individual changes in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest basis, except for the standard product business. The estimates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is reflect historic experience of warranty costs, as well as inforcarried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. mation regarding product failure experienced during construction, installation or testing of products. In the case of new The goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of a products, expert opinions and industry data are also taken into cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units repconsideration in estimating product warranty provisions. Exresented by a Division or equivalent, which is the lowest level pected losses from onerous contracts are recognized in the peat which goodwill is monitored for internal management purriod when the current estimate of total contract costs exceeds poses. contract revenue. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a Research and development costs – Costs of research activibusiness combination is allocated to the cash-generating unit ties undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or or the group of cash-generating units that is expected to benetechnical knowledge and understanding are expensed as infit from the synergies of the business combination. If the carcurred. rying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is allocated, exCosts for development activities, whereby research findings ceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss on goodwill are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or allocated to this cash-generating unit or this group of substantially improved products and processes, are capitalized cash-generating units is recognized. The recoverable amount if (1) development costs can be measured reliably, the product is the higher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of or process is (2) technically and (3) commercially feasible, (4) cash-generating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value future economic benefits are probable and (5) Siemens inin use. If either of these amounts exceeds the carrying tends, and (6) has sufficient resources, to complete developamount, it is not always necessary to determine both amounts. ment and to use or sell the asset. The costs capitalized include These values are generally determined based on discounted the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributcash flow calculations. Impairment losses on goodwill are not able expenditure that serves to prepare the asset for use. Such reversed in future periods if the recoverable amount exceeds capitalized costs are included in line item Other intangible asthe carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group sets as other internally generated intangible assets. Other deof cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. velopment costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized development costs are stated at cost less accumulated amortization Other intangible assets – The Company amortizes intangible and impairment losses with an amortization period of generalassets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis over their ly three to five years. respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Estimated useful lives for software, patents, licenses Government grants for research and development activities and other similar rights generally range from three to five are offset against research and development costs. They are years, except for intangible assets with finite useful lives acrecognized as income over the periods in which the research quired in business combinations. Intangible assets acquired in 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 265 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows business combinations primarily consist of customer relationor groups of assets, the impairment test is not performed at an ships and technology. Useful lives in specific acquisitions individual asset level, instead, it is performed at the level of ranged from seven to twenty-five years for customer relationthe cash-generating unit the asset belongs to. If such assets ships and from three to 18 years for technology. Intangible asare considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recogsets which are determined to have indefinite useful lives as nized is measured by the amount by which the carrying well as intangible assets not yet available for use are not amoramount of the assets or cash-generating unit exceeds their retized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually. coverable amount. If the fair value cannot be determined, the assets’ value in use is applied as their recoverable amount. The Property, plant and equipment – Property, plant and equipassets’ value in use is measured by discounting their estimated ment is valued at cost less accumulated depreciation and imfuture cash flows. If there is an indication that the reasons pairment losses. This also applies to property classified as inwhich caused the impairment no longer exist, Siemens assessvestment property. Investment property consists of property es the need to reverse all or a portion of the impairment. held either to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both and not used in production or for administrative purposes. The The Company ’s property, plant and equipment and other infair value disclosed for investment property is primarily based tangible assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lower of on a discounted cash flow approach except for certain cases carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and depreciawhich are based on appraisal values. tion is ceased. If the costs of certain components of an item of property, plant Discontinued operations and non-current assets held and equipment are significant in relation to the total cost of for disposal – Discontinued operations are reported when a the item, they are accounted for and depreciated separately. component of an entity comprising operations and cash flows Depreciation expense is recognized using the straight-line that can be clearly distinguished, operationally and for finanmethod. Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annualcial reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity is classified ly and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, adjusted as held for disposal or has been disposed of, if the component accordingly. Costs of construction of qualifying assets, i.e. aseither (1) represents a separate major line of business or geosets that require a substantial period of time to be ready for its graphical area of operations and (2) is part of a single co-ordiintended use, include capitalized interest, which is amortized nated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or over the estimated useful life of the related asset. The followgeographical area of operations or (3) is a subsidiary acquired ing useful lives are assumed: exclusively with a view to resale. In the Consolidated Statements of Income, income (loss) from discontinued operations is reported separately from income and expenses from continuing operations; prior periods are presented on a comparaFactory and office buildings 20 to 50 years ble basis. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow, the Other buildings 5 to 10 years cash flows from discontinued operations are presented sepaTechnical machinery & equipment 5 to 10 years rately from cash flows of continuing operations; prior periods Furniture & office equipment generally 5 years are presented on a comparable basis. The disclosures in the Equipment leased to others generally 3 to 5 years Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements outside NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS that refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow relate to continuing Impairment of property, plant and equipment and other intan­operations. Siemens reports discontinued operations separately gible assets – The Company reviews property, plant and equipin NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERAment and other intangible assets for impairment whenever TIONS . In order to present the financial effects of a discontinued events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying operation revenues and expenses arising from intragroup amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, intantransactions are eliminated except for those revenues and gible assets with indefinite useful lives as well as intangible ­expenses that are considered to continue after the disposal assets not yet available for use are subject to an annual impairof the discontinued operation. In any case no profit or loss is ment test. Recoverability of assets is measured by the comparrecognized for intragroup transactions. ison of the carrying amount of the asset to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the asset’s value in use and its Siemens classifies a non-current asset or a disposal group as fair value less costs to sell. If assets do not generate cash inheld for disposal if its carrying amount will be recovered prinflows that are largely independent of those from other assets cipally through a sale transaction or through distribution to 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 266 shareholders rather than through continuing use. For this to fined Benefit Obligation (DBO)), Siemens considers future be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for compensation and benefit increases, because the employee’s immediate sale or distribution in its present condition subject final benefit entitlement at regular retirement age depends on only to terms that are usual and customary for sales or disfuture compensation or benefit increases. The assumptions tributions of such assets or disposal groups and its sale or used for the calculation of the DBO as of the period-end of the ­distribution must be highly probable. The disclosures in the preceding fiscal year are used to determine the calculation of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements outside NOTE 4 service cost and interest income and expense of the following ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS that year. The net interest income or expense for the fiscal year will ­ refer to the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position be based on the discount rate for the respective year multi­ generally relate to assets that are not held for disposal. plied by the net liability at the preceding fiscal year’s periSiemens reports non-current assets or disposal groups held for od-end date. The fair value of plan assets and DBO and thus disposal separately in NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND the interest income on plan assets and the interest expenses DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS . Non-current assets classified as held on DBO are adjusted for significant events after the fiscal year for disposal and disposal groups are measured at the lower of end, such as a supplemental funding, plan changes or busitheir carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, unless ness combinations and disposals. The DBO includes the presthese items presented in the disposal group are not part of the ent value from the effects of taxes payable by the plan on conmeasurement scope as defined in IFRS 5, Non-current Assets tributions or benefits relating to services already rendered. held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Service cost and past service cost for post-employment beneIncome taxes – The Company applies IAS 12, Income taxes. fits as well as other administration costs which are unrelated Current taxes are calculated based on the profit (loss) of the to the management of plan assets are allocated among funcfiscal year and in accordance with local tax rules of the tax jutional costs (line items Cost of sales, Research and developrisdiction respectively. Expected and executed additional tax ment expenses, Selling and general administrative expenses) payments respectively tax refunds for prior years are also takfollowing the functional area of the corresponding profit and en into account. Under the liability method, deferred tax ascost centers. Past service cost and settlement gains (losses) sets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences are recognized immediately in profit or loss when the plan attributable to differences between the financial statement amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs. Administration carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their reCosts which are related to the management of plan assets and spective tax bases. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilitaxes directly linked to the return on plan assets and payable ties of a change in tax rates is recognized in the income stateby the plan itself are included in the return on plan assets and ment, unless related to items directly recognized in equity, in are recognized in Other comprehensive income, net of income the period the new laws are enacted or substantively enacted. taxes. For unfunded plans, Siemens recognizes a post-employDeferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probment benefit liability equal to the DBO. For funded plans, able that future taxable income will be available against which Siemens offsets the fair value of the plan assets with the benethe deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and fit obligations. Siemens recognizes the net amount, after adunused tax credits can be utilized. justments for effects relating to any asset ceiling, in line item Post-employment benefits or in line item Other current assets. Inventories – Inventories are valued at the lower of acquisition or production costs and net realizable value, costs being Remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, resultgenerally determined on the basis of an average or first-in, ing for example from an adjustment of the discount rate, as first-out method. Production costs comprise direct material well as the difference between the return on plan assets and and labor and applicable manufacturing overheads, including the amounts included in net interest on the net defined benedepreciation charges. Net realizable value is the estimated sellfits liability (asset) and are recognized in Other comprehensive ing price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated income, net of income taxes. costs of completion and selling expenses. Provisions – A provision is recognized in the Statement of Defined benefit plans – Siemens measures the entitlements ­ inancial Position when the Company has a present legal or F of the defined benefit plans by applying the projected unit constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable credit method. The approach reflects an actuarially calculated that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle net present value of the future benefit entitlement for services the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the already rendered. In determining the net present value of the amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions future benefit entitlement for service already rendered (Deare recognized at present value by discounting the expected 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 267 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market Financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated assessments of the time value of money. When a contract beStatements of Financial Position when Siemens becomes a comes onerous, the present obligation under the contract is party to the contractual obligations of the instrument. Regular recognized as a provision and measured at the lower of the exway purchases or sales of financial assets, i.e. purchases or pected cost of fulfilling the contract and the expected cost of sales under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asterminating the contract as far as they exceed the expected ecoset within the time frame established generally by regulation nomic benefits of the contract. Additions to provisions and reor convention in the marketplace concerned, are accounted for versals are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements at the trade date. of Income. The present value of the recognized obligations associated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment Initially, financial instruments are recognized at their fair val(asset retirement obligations) that result from the acquisition, ue. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction, development or normal use of an asset is added to issue of financial instruments are only included in determining the carrying amount of the related asset. The additional carrythe carrying amount, if the financial instruments are not meaing amount is depreciated over the useful life of the related assured at fair value through profit or loss. Receivables from set. Additions to and reductions from the present value of asset ­finance leases are recognized at an amount equal to the net retirement obligations that result from changes in estimates are investment in the lease. Subsequently, financial assets and generally recognized by adjusting the carrying amount of the ­liabilities are measured according to the category – cash and related asset and provision. If the asset retirement obligation is cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and settled for other than the carrying amount of the liability, the receivables, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost or Company recognizes a gain or loss on settlement. financial assets and liabilities classified as held for trading – to which they are assigned. Termination benefits – Termination benefits are recognized in the period incurred and when the amount is reasonably esCash and cash equivalents – The Company considers all timable. Termination benefits are provided as a result of an enhighly liquid investments with less than three months maturitity ’s offer made in order to encourage voluntary redundancy ty from the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents. Cash before the normal retirement date or from an entity ’s decision and cash equivalents are measured at cost. to terminate the employment. Termination benefits in accordance with IAS 19R, Employee Benefits, are recognized as a liaAvailable-for-sale financial assets – Investments in equity bility and an expense when the entity can no longer withdraw instruments, debt instruments and fund shares are all classithe offer of those benefits. fied as available-for-sale financial assets and are measured at fair value, if reliably measurable. Unrealized gains and losses, Financial instruments – A financial instrument is any connet of applicable deferred income tax expenses, are recognized tract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a finanin line item Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. cial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial Provided that fair value cannot be reliably determined, assets of the Company mainly include cash and cash equivaSiemens measures available-for-sale financial instruments at lents, available-for-sale financial assets, trade receivables, cost. This applies to equity instruments that do not have a loans receivable receivables from finance leases and derivative quoted market price in an active market, and decisive paramefinancial instruments with a positive fair value. Cash and cash ters cannot be reliably estimated to be used in valuation modequivalents are not included within the category available-forels for the determination of fair value. sale financial assets as these financial instruments are not subject to fluctuations in value. Siemens does not make use of the When available-for-sale financial assets incur a decline in fair category held to maturity. Financial liabilities of the Company value below acquisition cost and there is objective evidence mainly comprise notes and bonds, loans from banks, trade that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that has been payables, obligations under finance leases and derivative firecognized in equity is removed from equity and recognized nancial instruments with a negative fair value. Siemens does in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company connot make use of the option to designate financial assets or finansiders all available evidence such as market conditions and cial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at inception prices, investee-specific factors and the duration as well as (Fair Value Option). Based on their nature, financial instruthe extent to which fair value is less than acquisition cost ments are classified as financial assets and financial liabilities in evaluating potential impairment of its available-for-sale measured at cost or amortized cost and financial assets and ­ financial assets. The Company considers a decline in fair financial liabilities measured at fair value and as receivables value as objective evidence of impairment, if the decline ­ from finance leases. ­exceeds 20% of costs or continues for more than six months. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 268 An impairment loss for debt instruments is reversed in Share-based payment – IFRS 2, Share-based payment, dis­sub­sequent periods, if the reasons for the impairment no tinguishes between cash-settled and equity-settled share­longer exist. based payment transactions. For both types, the fair value is measured at grant date and compensation expense is recogLoans and receivables – Financial assets classified as loans nized over the vesting period during which the employees beand receivables are measured at amortized cost using the efcome unconditionally entitled to the awards granted. fective interest method less any impairment losses. ImpairCash-settled awards are re-measured at fair value at the end of ment losses on trade and other receivables are recognized useach reporting period and upon settlement. The fair value of ing separate allowance accounts. Loans and receivables bearshare-based awards, such as stock awards, matching shares, ing no or lower interest rates compared to market rates with a and shares granted under the Jubilee Share Program, is determaturity of more than one year are discounted. mined as the market price of Siemens shares, considering ­dividends during the vesting period the grantees are not entiFinancial liabilities – Siemens measures financial liabilities, tled to and market conditions and non-vesting conditions, if except for derivative financial instruments, at amortized cost applicable. using the effective interest method. Prior-year information – The presentation of certain priDerivative financial instruments – Derivative financial inor-year information has been reclassified to conform to the struments, such as foreign currency exchange contracts and current year presentation. In fiscal 2013, in the Consolidated interest rate swap contracts, are measured at fair value. DerivStatements of Cash Flow, the Company changed retrospectiveative financial instruments are classified as held for trading unly the presentation of salary withholdings of share-based payless they are designated as hedging instruments, for which ment granted to employees to better reflect the nature of the hedge accounting is applied. Changes in the fair value of derivtransaction. In fiscal 2012 €134 million were retrospectively reative financial instruments are recognized periodically either classified from cash flows from financing activities to cash in net income or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in line item flows from operating activities (continuing operations). Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (applicable deferred income tax). Certain derivative instruments embedRECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING ded in host contracts are also accounted for separately as PRONOUNCEMENTS ­derivatives. As of October 1, 2012, the Company early adopted IAS 19, Employee Benefits (revised 2011; IAS 19R), which was issued by Fair value hedges – The carrying amount of the hedged item is the IASB in June 2011. The standard is effective for annual periadjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk. ods beginning on or after January 1, 2013; early application is Where an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as permitted. The standard is applied retrospectively. The amendhedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in its fair valment was endorsed by the EU in June 2012. ue is recognized as a separate financial asset or liability with corresponding gain or loss recognized in net income. The following amendments to IAS 19 have a significant impact on the Company ’s Consolidated Financial Statements: For hedged items carried at amortized cost, the adjustment is IAS 19R replaces interest cost and expected return on assets amortized until maturity of the hedged item. For hedged firm with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the commitments the initial carrying amount of the assets or liadiscount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation bilities that result from meeting the firm commitments are to the net defined benefit liability (asset). Net interest on the adjusted to include the cumulative changes in the fair value net defined benefit liability (asset) comprises interest income that were previously recognized as separate financial assets or on plan assets and interest cost on the defined benefit obligaliabilities. tion. The difference between the interest income on plan assets and the return on plan assets is included in line item Cash flow hedges – The effective portion of changes in the fair Remeasurements of defined benefit plans and recognized in value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedgthe Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. A es are recognized in line item Other comprehensive income, lesser effect results from the recognition of unvested past net of income taxes (applicable deferred income tax), and any service costs in income immediately when incurred instead ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. of amortization over the vesting period as well as from recogAmounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into net innizing other administration costs which are unrelated to the come in the same periods in which the hedged item ­affects net management of plan assets when the administration services income. are provided. The elimination of the corridor approach does 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 269 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows not affect the Company. The adoption of IAS 19R did not result The following tables present the impacts of the changes in in significant effects on line items Total comprehensive in­accounting policy. Impacts to the opening balance as of Octocome as well as Total equity. ber 1, 2011 as well as impacts to the prior period presented are: Consolidated Statements of Financial Position September 30, 2012 As of October 1, 2011 (in millions of €) pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment Total assets 108,282 (31) 108,251 104,243 (33) 104,210 thereof Deferred tax assets 3,777 (29) 3,748 3,206 (31) 3,175 Total liabilities 76,980 (153) 76,827 72,087 (149) 71,938 thereof Post-employment benefits 9,926 (125) 9,801 7,307 (120) 7,188 Total equity 31,302 122 31,424 32,156 116 32,271 thereof Retained earnings 22,756 122 22,877 25,881 116 25,996 Consolidated Statement of Income Year ended September 30, 2012 Year ended September 30, 2011 (in millions of €; per share amounts in €) pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment Income from continuing operations before income taxes 7,002 (366) 6,636 9,248 (485) 8,763 thereof Interest income 2,240 (1,301) 939 2,207 (1,362) 845 thereof Interest expenses (1,727) 967 (760) (1,715) 929 (786) Income tax expenses (2,068) 74 (1,994) (2,225) 88 (2,137) Income from continuing operations 4,934 (292) 4,642 7,023 (397) 6,625 Net income 4,590 (307) 4,282 6,321 (422) 5,899 Basic earnings per share Income from continuing operations 5.48 (0.33) 5.15 7.83 (0.46) 7.37 Net income 5.09 (0.35) 4.74 7.04 (0.48) 6.55 Diluted earnings per share Income from continuing operations 5.43 (0.33) 5.10 7.74 (0.45) 7.29 Net income 5.04 (0.35) 4.69 6.96 (0.48) 6.48 If the Company had not applied IAS 19R as of October 1, 2012, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. Correspondingly, line items Interest income and Interest expenses recognized line item Remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for fiscal 2013 would in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income have increased by €1,463 million and €798 million, respec­ would have decreased by €538 million net of tax in fiscal 2013. tively, based on the expected return on plan assets as applied Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended September 30, 2012 Year ended September 30, 2011 (in millions of €) pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment pre-adjustment adjustment post-adjustment Net income 4,590 (307) 4,282 6,321 (422) 5,899 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (2,101) 314 (1,787) (65) 412 347 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (974) 314 (661) (116) 412 296 Total comprehensive income 3,615 6 3,622 6,205 (10) 6,195 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 270 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS, by the European Union. Siemens will adopt IFRS 13 in fiscal NOT YET ADOPTED 2014. Regarding financial instruments, the majority of changes The following pronouncements, issued by the IASB, are not yet required by IFRS 13 have already been introduced, mainly by effective and have not yet been adopted by the Company: amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The Company does not expect a material impact on the ConsolidatIn December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32, ed Financial Statements upon adopting IFRS 13. ­Financial Instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures regarding offsetting of financial assets In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruand financial liabilities. The amendment to IAS 32 clarifies the ments. This standard is the first phase of the IASB’s threeexisting offsetting rules and is effective for reporting periods phase project to replace IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recogbeginning on or after January 1, 2014, early application is pernition and Measurement. IFRS 9 amends the classification and mitted, however it requires the application of the amendments measurement requirements for financial assets, including to IFRS 7. These amendments to IFRS 7 expand the disclosure some hybrid contracts. It uses a single approach to determine requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities offset whether a financial asset is measured at amortized cost or at in the statements of financial position including netting agreefair value, depending on how an entity manages its financial ments where netting is subject to certain future events. This instruments (its business model) and the contractual cash amendment is effective for reporting periods beginning on or flow characteristics of the financial assets. In October 2010, after January 1, 2013. Both amendments were endorsed by the most of the requirements for financial liabilities were carried European Union in December 2012. forward unchanged from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. In December 2011, IFRS 9 was amended to not require the restatement of comparIFRS 10 provides a comprehensive concept of control as the deative-period financial statements upon initial application, to termining factor in whether an entity should be included withrequire additional disclosures and to defer the mandatory efin the Consolidated Financial Statements. The standard profective date to annual reporting periods beginning on or after vides additional guidance to assist in the determination of conJanuary 1, 2015. As part of its current project Classification and trol where this is difficult to assess. Measurement: Limited Amendments to IFRS 9, however, the IASB tentatively decided in July 2013 that the mandatory effecIFRS 11 provides guidance for the accounting of joint arrangetive date should be deferred again and left open depending on ments by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arthe finalization of the limited amendments and the second rangement, rather than its legal form. phase of IFRS 9, Impairment Methodology. Early application would still be permitted. The European Financial Reporting AdIFRS 12 is a new and comprehensive standard on disclosure revisory Group has postponed its endorsement advice on IFRS 9 quirements for all forms of interests in other entities, includas currently issued. Due to the ongoing changes to IFRS 9 by ing joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and off the IASB the Company ’s assessment of the impacts of adoptbalance sheet vehicles. ing IFRS 9 on the Company ’s Consolidated Financial Statements is still ongoing. IFRS 10, 11, 12 and the consequential amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. These new or amended standards may be NOTE 3 Critical accounting estimates adopted early. The standards are to be applied on a retrospective basis. In December 2012, IFRS 10, 11, 12, and the conseSiemens’ Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in quential amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 were endorsed by accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union. Siemens will adopt IFRS 10, 11, 12, and the the EU. Siemens’ significant accounting policies, as described consequential amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 in fiscal 2014. in NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES are esThe Company does not expect a material impact on its Consolisential to understanding the Company ’s results of operations, dated Financial Statements from these standards. financial positions and cash flows. Certain of these accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve comIn May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement. plex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, The new standard defines fair value and standardizes disclosome of which may be for matters that are inherently uncersures on fair value measurements of both financial and non-fitain and susceptible to change. Such critical accounting estinancial instrument items. The new standard is applicable for mates could change from period to period and have a material annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013; early impact on the Company ’s results of operations, financial posiadoption is permitted. In December 2012, IFRS 13 was endorsed tions and cash flows. Critical accounting estimates could also 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 271 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows involve estimates where management reasonably could have ­ llowance derived from a portfolio-based analysis of historical a used a different estimate in the current accounting period. bad debts, a decline of receivables in volume results in a correManagement cautions that future events often vary from foresponding reduction of such provisions and vice versa. As of casts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. September 30, 2013 and 2012, Siemens recorded a total valuation allowance for trade and other receivables of €1,147 million Revenue recognition on construction contracts – The and €1,190 million, respectively. Company ’s Sectors, particularly Energy, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities, conduct a significant portion of their busiImpairment – Siemens tests at least annually whether goodness under construction contracts with customers. The Comwill has incurred any impairment, in accordance with its acpany accounts for construction projects using the percentcounting policy. The determination of the recoverable amount age-of-completion method, recognizing revenue as perforof a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units mance on contract progresses. Certain long-term service conto which goodwill is allocated involves the use of estimates by tracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion management. The outcome predicted by these estimates is inmethod as well. This method places considerable importance fluenced e.g. by the successful integration of acquired ention accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards comties, volatility of capital markets, interest rate developments, pletion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the outlook on ecoand services required for fulfilling the contractually defined nomic trends. The recoverable amount is the higher of the obligations. These significant estimates include total contract cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-generating units’ costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technifair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The Company cal, political and regulatory risks, and other judgments. Under generally uses discounted cash flow based methods to deterthe percentage-of-completion method, changes in estimates mine these values. These discounted cash flow calculations may lead to an increase or decrease of revenue. The creditworuse five-year projections that are based on financial forecasts. thiness of our customers is taken into account in estimating Cash flow projections take into account past experience and the probability that economic benefits associated with a conrepresent management’s best estimate about future developtract will flow to the Company. In addition, we need to assess ments. Cash flows after the planning period are extrapolated whether the contract is expected to continue or to be termiusing individual growth rates. Key assumptions on which nated. In determining whether the continuation or terminamanagement has based its determination of fair value less tion of a contract is expected to be the most likely scenario, all costs to sell and value in use include estimated growth rates, relevant facts and circumstances relating to the contract are weighted average cost of capital and tax rates. These esticonsidered on an individual basis. For contracts expected to mates, including the methodology used, can have a material be continued, amounts already included in revenue for which impact on the respective values and ultimately the amount of collectability ceases to be probable are recognized as an exany goodwill impairment. Likewise, whenever property, plant pense. For contracts expected to be terminated, including terand equipment, other intangible assets and investments acminations due to expected payment defaults of our customers counted for using the equity method are tested for impairor terminations due to force majeure events, the estimates on ment, the determination of the assets’ recoverable amount inthe scope of deliveries and services provided under the convolves the use of estimates by management that can have a tracts are revised accordingly, typically resulting in a decrease material impact on the respective values and ultimately the of revenue in the respective reporting period. Management of amount of any impairment. the operating Divisions continually reviews all estimates involved in such construction contracts and adjusts them as Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as necessary. held for disposal – Assets held for disposal and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount Trade and other receivables – The allowance for doubtful and their fair value less costs to sell. The determination of the accounts involves significant management judgment and refair value less costs to sell includes the use of management view of individual receivables based on individual customer estimates and assumptions that tend to be uncertain. creditworthiness, current economic trends including the developments of the European sovereign debt crisis and analysis Employee benefit accounting – Post-employment benefits – of historical bad debts on a portfolio basis. For the determinaObligations for pension and other post-employment benefits tion of the country-specific component of the individual allowand related net periodic benefit costs are determined in accorance, Siemens also consider country credit ratings, which are dance with actuarial valuations. These valuations rely on key centrally determined based on information from external ratassumptions including discount rates, expected compensation ing agencies. Regarding the determination of the valuation increases, rate of pension progression and mortality rates. The 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 272 discount rate assumptions are determined by reference to judgment in determining whether there is a present obligation yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate duration as a result of a past event at the end of the reporting period, and currency at the end of the reporting period. In case such whether it is more likely than not that such a proceeding will yields are not available discount rates are based on governresult in an outflow of resources and whether the amount of ment bonds yields. Due to changing market, economic and sothe obligation can be reliably estimated. The Company periodicial conditions the underlying key assumptions may differ cally reviews the status of these proceedings with both inside from actual developments and may lead to significant changes and outside counsel. These judgments are subject to change in pension and other post-employment benefit obligations. as new information becomes available. The required amount Such differences are recognized in full through line item Other of a provision may change in the future due to new developcomprehensive income, net of income taxes in the period in ments in the particular matter. Revisions to estimates may sigwhich they occur without affecting profit or loss. nificantly impact future net income. Upon resolution, Siemens may incur charges in excess of the recorded provisions for Provisions – Significant estimates are involved in the detersuch matters. It cannot be excluded that the financial position mination of provisions related to onerous contracts, warranty or results of operations of Siemens will be materially affected costs, asset retirement obligations and legal proceedings. A by an unfavorable outcome of legal or regulatory proceedings significant portion of the business of certain operating divior government investigations. sions is performed pursuant to long-term contracts, often for large projects, in Germany and abroad, awarded on a competiIncome taxes – Siemens operates in various tax jurisdictions tive bidding basis. Siemens records a provision for onerous and therefore has to determine tax positions under respective sales contracts when current estimates of total contract costs local tax laws and tax authorities’ views which can be complex exceed expected contract revenue. Such estimates are subject and subject to different interpretations of taxpayers and local to change based on new information as projects progress totax authorities. Deferred tax assets are recognized if sufficient wards completion. Onerous sales contracts are identified by future taxable profit is available, including income from foremonitoring the progress of the project and updating the esticasted operating earnings, the reversal of existing taxable mate of total contract costs which also requires significant temporary differences and established tax planning opportunijudgment relating to achieving certain performance standards, ties. As of each period-end, management evaluates the recovfor example in the Fossil Power Generation Division, in the erability of deferred tax assets, based on projected future taxPower Transmission Division, in the Mobility & Logistics Diviable profits. As future developments are uncertain and partly sion, in the Rail Systems Division and in the Healthcare Sector beyond management’s control, assumptions are necessary to as well as estimates involving warranty costs and estimates estimate future taxable profits as well as the period in which regarding project delays including the assessment of responsideferred tax assets will recover. Estimates are revised in the bility splits between the contract partners for these delays. period in which there is sufficient evidence to revise the asSignificant estimates and assumptions are also involved in the sumption. If management considers it probable that all or a determination of provisions related to major asset retirement portion of a deferred tax asset cannot be realized, that portion obligations. Uncertainties surrounding the amount to be recogwould not be recognized. nized include, for example, the estimated costs of decommissioning because of the long time frame over which future cash outflows are expected to occur including the respective interest NOTE 4 Acquisitions, dispositions accretion. Amongst others, the estimated cash outflows could and discontinued operations alter significantly if, and when, political developments affect the government’s plans to develop the final storage. A) ACQUISITIONS In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company completed a number of Siemens is subject to legal and regulatory proceedings in variacquisitions, which are included in the Company ’s Consolidated ous jurisdictions. Such proceedings may result in criminal or Financial Statements since the date of acquisition. civil sanctions, penalties, damage claims and other claims, or disgorgements against the Company. If it is more likely than aa) Acquisitions in fiscal 2013 not that an obligation of the Company exists and will result in At the beginning of May 2013, Siemens acquired all of the an outflow of resources, a provision is recorded if the amount shares of six entities constituting the rail automation business of the obligation can be reliably estimated. Regulatory and leof Invensys plc., U.K. (Invensys), which are being integrated in gal proceedings as well as government investigations often the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s Mobility and Logistics Diviinvolve complex legal issues and are subject to substantial unsion. With the acquisition, Siemens expanded and complecertainties. Accordingly, management exercises considerable mented the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s rail automation 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 273 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows business. The preliminary purchase price amounts to €2,036 ness had been included as of October 1, 2012, the impact on million (including €53 million cash acquired) of which €472 consolidated revenues and consolidated net income for the million were paid to the Invensys Pension Trust. The purchase twelve months ended September 30, 2013 would have been price is preliminary mainly because it is subject to final agree€125 million and €(90) million, respectively. ment on the closing accounts. The following figures resulting from the preliminary purchase price allocation reflect the ab) Acquisitions in fiscal 2012 amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major At the beginning of May 2012, Siemens acquired all of the class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Intangible asshares of five entities constituting the Connectors and Measets €902 million, Inventories €158 million, Receivables €127 surements division of Expro Holdings UK 3 Ltd. The acquired million, Deferred income tax assets €68 million, Liabilities business engineers and manufactures subsea components €485 million and Deferred income tax liabilities €139 million. such as cable connectors, sensors and measuring devices. Intangible assets mainly relate to customer relationships of With this acquisition, Siemens expanded its portfolio in the at€619 million with a useful life of 18 years and technology of tractive future market for subsea power grids. The aggregate €258 million with a useful life of 18 years. Provisional goodwill consideration amounts to €469 million (including €8 million of €1,278 million comprises intangible assets that are not sepacash acquired). The acquired business is integrated into Enerrable such as employee know-how and expected synergy efgy Sector’s Oil & Gas Division. The following figures represent fects. Including effects from purchase accounting and integrathe final purchase price allocation and show the amounts rection costs, the acquired business contributed revenues of €335 ognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of asmillion and a net loss of €44 million to Siemens for the period sets acquired and liabilities assumed: Intangible assets €162 from acquisition to September 30, 2013. If the acquired busimillion, Property, plant and equipment €21 million, Inventories ness had been included as of October 1, 2012, the impact on €18 million, Receivables €25 million, Liabilities €41 million and consolidated revenues and consolidated net income for the Deferred income tax liabilities €35 million. Intangible assets twelve months ended September 30, 2013 would have been mainly relate to customer relationships of €46 million with a €915 million and €(9) million, respectively. useful life of nine to 13 years, technology of €98 million with a useful life of eight to twelve years and order backlog of €12 At the beginning of January 2013, Siemens acquired all of the million with a useful life of two years. Goodwill of €307 million shares in LMS International NV, Belgium, a leading provider of comprises intangible assets that are not separable such as emmechatronic simulation solutions, which is being integrated in ployee know-how and expected synergy effects. Including the Industry Sector’s Industry Automation Division. With the ­effects from purchase accounting and integration costs, the acquisition, Siemens expanded and complemented the Indusacquired business contributed revenues of €57 million and try Sector’s product lifecycle management portfolio with a net income of €12 million to Siemens for the period from mechatronic simulation and testing software. The preliminary ­acquisition to September 30, 2012. If the acquired business purchase price amounts to €702 million (including €32 million had been included as of October 1, 2011, the impact on consoli­ cash acquired). The following figures represent the prelimidated revenues and consolidated net income for the twelve nary purchase price allocation and show the amounts recogmonths ended September 30, 2012 would have been €121 milnized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets lion and €41 million, respectively. acquired and liabilities assumed: Intangible assets €398 million, Property, plant and equipment €22 million, Inventories Furthermore, in fiscal 2012, Siemens completed the acquisition €41 million, Receivables €58 million, Liabilities €128 million of a number of entities, presented in continuing operations, and Deferred income tax liabilities €87 million. Intangible aswhich are not significant individually including RuggedCom sets mainly relate to technology of €290 million with a useful Inc., a provider of robust, industrial-quality Ethernet communilife of seven to eight years and customer relationships of €105 cation products and network solutions at the Industry Sector’s million with a useful life of 16 to 20 years. Provisional goodwill Industry Automation Division, the NEM B.V. business, a speof €352 million comprises intangible assets that are not sepacialist in heat recovery steam generators for combined-cycle rable such as employee know-how and expected synergy ef(gas and steam) power plants at Energy Sector’s Fossil Power fects. Including effects from purchase accounting and integraGeneration Division and eMeter Corporation, a meter data tion costs, the acquired business contributed revenues of €94 management specialist at Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s Smart million and a net loss of €68 million to Siemens for the period Grid Division. The aggregate consideration (including cash from acquisition to September 30, 2013. If the acquired busi­acquired) of all of these acquisitions amounts to €946 million. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 274 The following figures represent the final purchase price allocaThe impairment recognized on the investment in fiscal 2009 tions and show the amounts recognized for each major class was partly reversed since its recoverable amount, represented of assets acquired and liabilities assumed: by its fair value less cost to sell, derived from the agreed ­ purchase price, exceeds the carrying amount of NSN after ­applying the equity method. Thus, item Reversals of impair(in millions of €) ment presented in line item Income (loss) from investments Goodwill 579 accounted for using the equity method, net included €301 milTechnology 124 lion relating to NSN held by segment Equity Investments. Customer relationships 113 The investment in NSN was classified as held for disposal as Other intangible assets 50 of June 30, 2013 and equity method accounting ceased. Other long-lived assets 56 The share of losses recognized for the investment in NSN in Trade and other receivables 82 fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted to €76 million and €741 million, Inventories 39 respectively. Other current assets 70 Cash and cash equivalents 138 The transaction closed in August 2013 and resulted in a further Total assets acquired 1,251 gain on disposal for the investment previously presented as held for disposal of €76 million due to the reversal of amounts Other liabilities and provisions 153 recognized in line item Other comprehensive income, net of inDeferred tax liabilities 51 come taxes. Nokia early redeemed the loan in September 2013. Current liabilities 78 Total liabilities assumed 282 bb) Dispositions not qualifying for discontinued operations: held for disposal The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 include assets held for disposal of The respective acquisitions led to non-controlling interests of €625 million and €106 million and liabilities held for disposal €23 million. Goodwill comprises intangible assets that are not of €215 million and €39 million, respectively, that do not qualiseparable such as employee know-how and expected synergy fy as discontinued operations. As of September 30, 2013, the effects. Including purchase price accounting effects and inteassets and liabilities mainly include the Business Unit Turbogration costs, the acquired entities contributed revenues of Care of the Energy Sector. €271 million and a net loss of €6 million to Siemens for the period from the respective acquisition date to September 30, 2012. bc) Discontinued operations If these acquired businesses had been included as of October 1, General 2011, the impact on consolidated revenues and consolidated Net income (loss) from discontinued operations presented in net income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012 the Consolidated Statements of Income in fiscal 2013 and 2012 would have been €389 million and €(14) million, respectively. amount to €197 million (thereof €(158) million income tax) and €(360) million (thereof €(77) million income tax), respectively. B) DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS ba) Dispositions not qualifying for discontinued Net income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to operations: closed transactions shareholders of Siemens AG for fiscal 2013 and 2012 amount to Dispositions in fiscal 2013 €191 million and €(360) million. On July 1, 2013, Siemens and Nokia have signed an agreement under which Nokia acquires the shares held in Nokia Siemens Water Technologies – discontinued operations, Networks Holding B. V. (NSN) by Siemens for an agreed purassets and liabilities held for disposal chase price of €1,700 million. The cash consideration amounts In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, Siemens decided to sell its to €1,200 million with the remaining €500 million to be grantBusiness Unit Water Technologies. The conditions for Water ed as an interest bearing loan to Nokia, maturing one year Technologies to be classified as held for disposal and discon­after closing. tinued operations were fulfilled as of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 275 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Accordingly, the results of Water Technologies are disclosed as Upon classification as held for disposal and discontinued operdiscontinued operations in the Company ’s Consolidated Stateations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, Water Technologies ments of Income for all periods presented: was measured at the lower of its previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The associated loss recognized represents impairment of goodwill amounting to €13 million. Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Solar business – reclassification Revenue 950 1,099 to continuing operations Expenses (959) (1,081) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, Siemens decided to sell its Loss on the measurement to fair value solar business consisting of the former Business Units Solar less costs to sell or on the disposal Thermal Energy and Photovoltaics and classified it as held for of the disposal group constituting the discontinued operations (24) – disposal and discontinued operations since the end of fiscal Pretax income (loss) from discontinued 2012. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the solar business no operations (32) 18 longer fulfilled the conditions to be classified as held for disIncome taxes on ordinary activities 1 (9) posal and discontinued operations as a disposal within one Income taxes on the loss on the year was no longer considered highly probable. Regarding Phomeasurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the disposal group tovoltaics, the disposal process was terminated in March 2013 constituting the discontinued operations 6 – and instead the phase out of existing orders with a subsequent Income (loss) from discontinued closure of the activities is being pursued. Regarding Solar operations, net of income taxes (26) 9 Thermal Energy the disposal within one year was no longer highly probable due to the worsened environment in the overall market for solar thermal energy as well as a decrease of output of a solar thermal power plant within the solar thermal The assets and liabilities of Water Technologies are presented energy activities of Siemens. Therefore, the solar business is as held for disposal in the Consolidated Statements of Finanreported within continuing operations of the Energy Sector. In cial Position as of September 30, 2013. The carrying amounts the third quarter of fiscal 2013, Siemens decided to terminate of the major classes of assets and liabilities of Water Technolothe sales process for Solar Thermal Energy as well and instead gies were as follows: is pursuing the phase out of existing orders with a subsequent closure of the activities except for the solar thermal power plant, which will be continued. September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes regardTrade and other receivables 155 ing the solar business presented in the Consolidated StateInventories 144 ments of Income for fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted to €(255) Financial assets 35 million and €(258) million, respectively. Goodwill 155 Other intangible assets 103 As of September 30, 2012, the assets and liabilities of the solar Property, plant and equipment 157 business amounting to €224 million and €126 million were Other assets 19 classified as assets and liabilities held for disposal. Assets classified as held for disposal 768 OSRAM – discontinued operations, Trade payables 79 assets and liabilities held for disposal Current provisions 36 In March 2011, Siemens announced that it planned to publicly Other current liabilities 92 list its subsidiary OSRAM. Siemens intended to retain a miPost-employment benefits 13 nority stake in OSRAM. The conditions for OSRAM to be classiOther liabilities 37 fied as held for disposal and discontinued operations were Liabilities associated with assets fulfilled as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Facclassified as held for disposal 258 ing the market conditions Siemens decided in June 2012 to prepare, parallel and alternatively to the aforementioned plan of an ­initial public offering, an offering of OSRAM in the form 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 276 of a spin-off by issuing OSRAM shares to the shareholders of and thereafter owns 17.0% in OSRAM. The effectiveness of the Siemens AG and a subsequent listing of these shares. spin-off triggered a remeasurement of the spin-off liability at fair value. The loss of control resulted in the derecognition of The decision in June 2012 represented a significant change of OSRAM’s net assets, including non-controlling interests, the the previous disposal plan. Siemens no longer considered it reclassification of components of other comprehensive inhighly probable to complete the disposal of OSRAM via an inicome and the recognition of the remaining stake in OSRAM at tial public offering by the end of calendar year 2012, resulting fair value. Siemens applied a multiple valuation technique in in a reversal of the previous classification of the disposal group order to determine the fair value of the spin-off liability as of OSRAM as held for disposal and discontinued operations. By July 5, 2013 using the input of a discounted cash flow valuareversing the previous classification, Siemens recognized a tion and market multiples, derived from a report from an indenegative effect on earnings of €443 million before taxes in the pendent expert. The fair value of the spin-off liability reprethird quarter of fiscal 2012 that result from depreciation / amorsenting 80.5% of the ownership interest in OSRAM amounted tization and impairments of property, plant and equipment to €2,270 million; the derecognized net assets spun-off and intangible assets and equity pick ups that were not recogamounted to €2,182 million, resulting in a difference at the nized while OSRAM was previously classified as discontinued amount of €88 million. Siemens recognized a gain of €21 miloperations (€123 million referring to fiscal 2011). This effect on lion due to the measurement of the remaining stake in OSRAM earnings is presented under expenses in the table below. at fair value. The derecognition of the non-controlling interSiemens considered a listing via spin-off as highly probable inests and the reclassification of relevant components of other cluding the high probability of the shareholders approval comprehensive income resulted in a gain of €23 million and based on past experience with other capital matters suggested of €19 million, respectively. In fiscal 2013 costs to sell/­­spinfor approval at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, feedback off costs amounted to €98 million. As a result, Siemens from the financial market and the economic rationale of the ­recognized a total gain on the spin-off in the amount of €54 decision from a shareholder perspective. Accordingly, Siemens million in fiscal 2013. Due to the nature of the spin-off, the classified OSRAM as held for disposal and discontinued operaderecognition of the disposal group is presented as a non-cash tions again. Among other impacts on other income taxes (on transaction. costs to sell / spin-off costs), Siemens adjusted deferred tax assets according to the plan of issuing OSRAM shares in the form The results of OSRAM are disclosed as discontinued operations of a spin-off. in the Company ’s Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented: In November 2012, Siemens called off the initial public offering plan and made available a spin-off report to its shareholders in December 2012 in order to request their approval for the Year ended September 30, spin-off of 80.5% of OSRAM at the Annual Shareholders’ Meet(in millions of €) 2013 2012 ing in January 2013. At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the Revenue 4,064 5,400 shareholders of Siemens AG approved the spin-off of OSRAM Expenses (3,745) (5,476) by a majority of more than 98%. In July 2013, Siemens successGain on the spin-off of the disposal group constituting the discontinued operations fully completed its planned spin-off and listing of OSRAM. As a (prior years: costs to sell/spin-off costs) 54 (33) result, Siemens derecognized the net carrying amount of the Pretax income (loss) from discontinued disposal group OSRAM and the associated spin-off liability. The operations 372 (109) spin-off liability which was initially recognized in the second Income taxes on ordinary activities (110) – quarter of fiscal 2013 based on the shareholders’ approval was Other income taxes presented in other current liabilities and reflected 80.5% of the (on costs to sell/spin-off costs) 15 (26) fair value of OSRAM. At the end of each reporting period and at Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 277 (135) the date of the actual spin-off, Siemens measured the spin-off liability at fair value with any changes recognized in retained earnings. The assets and liabilities of OSRAM were presented as held for Effective July 5, 2013 Siemens transferred 80.5% of its ownerdisposal in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position ship interest in OSRAM in the spin-off transaction to its shareuntil the effective date of the spin-off on July 5, 2013. The carholders. Immediately after the effectiveness of the spin-off, rying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of Siemens contributed 2.5% to the Siemens Pension Trust e.V. OSRAM were as follows: 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 277 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows July 5, Sep. 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 476 28 Revenue – – Trade and other receivables 850 827 Expenses (40) (35) Inventories 1,009 1,044 Gain (loss) on the measurement to fair Financial assets 271 111 value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the disposal group constituting the Goodwill 274 277 discontinued operations 99 45 Other intangible assets 193 161 Pretax income from discontinued Property, plant and equipment 1,459 1,416 operations 59 10 Deferred tax assets 311 376 Income taxes on ordinary activities 12 15 Other assets 204 212 Income taxes on the gain (loss) on the Assets classified as held for disposal 5,046 4,450 measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the disposal group constituting the discontinued operations (1) 15 Trade payables 610 609 Income from discontinued Current provisions 98 92 operations, net of income taxes 71 40 Other current liabilities 434 379 Post-employment benefits 398 488 Other liabilities 796 304 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal 2,336 1,872 Former segments SV and Com – discontinued operations Net results from discontinued operations of SV activities and the former operating segment Com presented in the ConsoliRevenue resulting from transactions between OSRAM and dated Statements of Income in fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted joint ventures and associates of Siemens in fiscal 2013 and to €(117) million (thereof €(81) million income tax) and €(260) 2012 amounted to €19 million and €156 million, respectively. million (thereof €(73) million income tax), respectively. The Expenses resulting from transactions between OSRAM and net results in fiscal 2013 included an income tax expense of joint ventures and associates of Siemens in fiscal 2013 and €84 million related to NSN. The net results in fiscal 2012 mainly 2012 amounted to €11 million and €13 million, respectively. relate to Com and include settlements of a matter with the As of September 30, 2012, receivables from and liabilities to Greek State with a pretax impact of €(143) million (€(104) miljoint ventures and associates are €39 million and €2 million, lion after tax) as well as negative tax effects of €115 million. respectively. Siemens IT Solutions and Services – NOTE 5 Other operating income discontinued operations Effective July 1, 2011, Atos S.A. (AtoS) acquired Siemens IT In fiscal 2013 and 2012, Other operating income includes gains Solutions and Services for a cash payment of €177 million; on sales of property, plant and equipment partially leased back Siemens received €12.5 million newly issued shares in AtoS under operating leases mainly in fiscal 2013 and of intangible with a five-year lock-up commitment, a five-year €250 million assets of €228 million and €207 million, respectively, as well as convertible bond (nominal value) and entered into a sevincome in connection with legal and regulatory matters. en-year outsourcing contract worth around €5.5 billion, under which AtoS will provide managed services and system integration to Siemens. Siemens retains the equity method accounted NOTE 6 Other operating expenses project HERKULES, disclosed in Centrally managed portfolio activities. Siemens recognized a liability for purchase price adOther operating expenses in fiscal 2013 and 2012 include justments and recorded contractual obligations, loss provi­impairment losses on goodwill, charges related to legal and sions and risk contingencies in connection with the sales regulatory matters, losses on sales of property, plant and agreements. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, a gain of €99 million and equipment and intangible assets and losses from the sale of €53 million resulted from purchase price adjustments. A final businesses. settlement with AtoS was not yet reached in fiscal 2013. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 278 NOTE 7 Income (loss) from investments NOTE 8 Interest income, interest expenses accounted for using the equity method, and other financial income (expenses), net net Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Share of profit (loss), net 247 (371) Interest income Gains (losses) on sales, net 78 103 from post-employment benefits 3 8 Impairment (116) (68) Interest income, other than from post-employment benefits 945 930 Reversals of impairment 301 4 Interest income 948 939 Income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net 510 (333) Interest expenses from post-employment benefits (297) (310) Interest expenses, other than from post-employment benefits (493) (450) Interest expenses (789) (760) Items Share of profit (loss), net, Gains (losses) on sales, net Income (expenses) from available-for-sale financial assets, net (80) 103 and Reversals of impairment include the effects of disposing Miscellaneous financial of Siemens’ share in NSN in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, income (expenses), net (74) (108) see NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPEROther financial income (expenses), net (154) (5) ATIONS . Item Share of profit (loss), net also includes Siemens’ share in Enterprise Networks’ earnings (EN) of €(96) million and €(23) million, in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Due to Siemens’ commitment made to EN which forms part of Total amounts of item Interest income and (expense), other Siemens’ net investment in EN, Siemens recognized the previthan from post-employment benefits, were as follows: ously unrecognized share of losses as well as the current share of losses in fiscal 2013. Year ended September 30, Item Gains (losses) on sales, net, in fiscal 2012, include €79 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 million gain on the partial sale of interests in Bangalore InterInterest income, other than from post-employment benefits 945 930 national Airport Limited. Interest expenses, other than from post-employment benefits (493) (450) In fiscal 2013 and 2012, item Impairment includes €(97) million Interest income (expenses), net, and €(46) million related to an investment of Siemens’ solar other than from post-employment benefits 452 480 business, see NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONThereof: Interest income TINUED OPERATIONS . (expenses) of operations, net (3) 9 Thereof: Other interest income (expenses), net 455 471 Item Interest income (expense) of Operations, net includes interest income and expense primarily related to receivables from customers and payables to suppliers, interest on advances from customers and advanced financing of customer contracts. Item Other interest income (expense), net includes all other interest amounts primarily consisting of interest relating to corporate debt, and related hedging activities, as well as ­interest income on corporate assets. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 279 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Item Interest income (expense) other than from post-employNOTE 9 Income taxes ment benefits includes the following with respect to financial assets (financial liabilities) not at fair value through profit or Income from continuing operations before income tax is atloss: tributable to the following geographic regions: Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Total interest income on financial assets 931 918 Germany 1,227 2,266 Total interest expenses on financial liabilites 1 (767) (796) Foreign 4,615 4,370 5,843 6,636 1 Relating to hedged positions, herein only the interest expenses on hedged items not at fair value through profit and loss is included, whereas item Interest expenses, other than pension also contains the offsetting effect on interest of the hedging instrument. The difference is due to the disparities of interest rate swap contracts. Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following: The components of item Income (expense) from available-forsale financial assets, net were as follows: Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Year ended September 30, Current tax: (in millions of €) 2013 2012 German corporation and trade taxes 543 148 Dividends received 18 18 Foreign income taxes 1,236 1,510 Gains on sales, net 17 101 1,779 1,658 Impairment (116) (17) Deferred tax: Other 1 1 Germany 233 419 Income (expenses) from Foreign (382) (83) available-for-sale financial assets, net (80) 103 (149) 336 Income tax expenses 1,630 1,994 In fiscal 2012, item Gains on sales, net includes €87 million gains from the sale of the 25% interest in OAO Power Machines The current income tax expenses in fiscal 2013 and 2012 inheld by the Energy Sector; €66 million of the gain relate to cludes adjustments recognized for current tax of prior years in gains recycled from Other comprehensive income as of Septhe amount of €92 million and €(117) million, respectively. The tember 30, 2011. The investment was classified as held for discurrent tax expense is positively impacted by the closing of a posal. The transaction closed in December 2011. mutual agreement procedure regarding transfer prices between Germany and the U.S. in the fourth quarter of fiscal Item Miscellaneous financial income (expense), net, in fiscal 2013 leading to an increase of German current taxes and an 2013 and 2012, includes gains (losses) of €95 million and overcompensating decrease of foreign income taxes. In fiscal €(238) million, respectively, from the accretion of provisions 2012 the German current tax expense is positively affected by and the increase (decrease) in the discount rate, as well as receivables due to several mutual agreement procedures. ­expenses as a result of allowances and write offs of finance ­receivables, net of reversals of €80 million and €89 million, reThe deferred tax expense (benefit) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 inspectively. Furthermore, gains (losses) related to derivative ficludes tax effects of the origination and reversal of temporary nancial instruments are included. differences of €(297) million and €(150) million, respectively. The German deferred tax expense in fiscal 2013 is mainly related to the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 280 In Germany, the calculation of current tax is based on a corpoDeferred income tax assets and liabilities on a gross basis are rate tax rate of 15% and a solidarity surcharge thereon of 5.5%, summarized as follows: for all distributed and retained earnings. In addition to corporate taxation, trade tax is levied on profits earned in Germany. As the German trade tax is a non deductible expense, the averSeptember 30, age trade tax rate amounts to 15% and the combined total tax (in millions of €) 2013 2012 rate results in 31%. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are meaAssets: sured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when Financial assets 54 52 the asset is realized or the liability is settled. Other intangible assets 190 169 Property, plant and equipment 303 288 For foreign subsidiaries, current taxes are calculated based on Inventories 558 551 the local tax laws and applicable tax rates in the individual forReceivables 682 541 eign countries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured Post-employment benefits 2,954 3,238 at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when Provisions 1,685 1,677 the asset is realized or the liability is settled. Liabilities 2,014 2,513 Tax loss and credit carryforward 918 1,296 Income tax expense (current and deferred) differs from the Other 282 231 amounts computed by applying a combined statutory German Deferred tax assets 9,640 10,556 income tax rate of 31% as follows: Liabilities: Financial assets 239 236 Other intangible assets 1,582 1,407 Year ended September 30, Property, plant and equipment 631 782 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Inventories 1,700 1,857 Expected income tax expenses 1,811 2,058 Receivables 1,776 2,061 Increase (decrease) in income taxes Provisions 601 450 resulting from: Liabilities 69 156 Non-deductible losses and expenses 380 388 Other 312 353 Tax-free income (346) (398) Deferred tax liabilities 6,910 7,302 Taxes for prior years 50 (59) Total deferred tax assets, net 2,730 3,254 Change in realizability of deferred tax assets and tax credits 23 (17) Change in tax rates (31) (39) Foreign tax rate differential (182) (52) Tax effect of investments accounted In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, managefor using the equity method (74) 115 ment considers the extent to which it is probable that the deOther, net (1) (2) ferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deActual income tax expenses 1,630 1,994 ferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable profits during the periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards become deductible. Management considers the expected reversal of deferred tax The tax free income in fiscal 2013 is amongst others attributliabilities and projected future taxable income in making this able to the NSN disposal. assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is probable the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences. As of September 30, 2013, the Company has certain tax losses subject to significant limitations. For those losses deferred tax assets are not recognized, as it is not probable that gains will be generated to offset those losses. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 281 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the Company had in total €3,341 million and €4,721 million, respectively of gross tax loss Year ended September 30, carryforwards. The Company assumes that future operations (in millions of €) 2013 2012 will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred Continuing operations 1,630 1,994 tax assets. Discontinued operations 158 77 Income and expenses recognized directly in equity 738 (1,194) Deferred tax assets have not been recognized with respect of 2,526 877 the following items (gross amounts): September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 NOTE 10 Available-for-sale financial assets Deductible temporary differences 150 165 Tax loss carryforward 941 662 The following tables summarize the current portion of the 1,091 827 Company ’s investment in available-for-sale financial assets: September 30, 2013 As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, €221 million and €214 milUnrealized Unrealized (in millions of €) Cost Fair value Gain Loss lion, respectively the major part of the unrecognized tax loss Equity instruments 6 8 2 – carryforwards expire over the periods to 2018. Debt instruments 378 382 3 – Fund shares 195 211 16 – The Company has ongoing regular tax audits concerning open 580 601 21 (1) income tax years in a number of jurisdictions. Adequate provisions for all open tax years have been foreseen. Among others, the German Tax Audit rejected the deductible treatment of expenses in connection with the buy-back of the convertible bond issued 2003. Accordingly, line item Capital reserve was September 30, 2012 reduced by €553 million and a tax expense of €53 million was Unrealized Unrealized (in millions of €) Cost Fair value Gain Loss recognized in fiscal 2013. The Company filed an appeal and will rigorously defend the position taken in tax returns. In addition, Equity instruments 6 8 2 – the Company has applied for several mutual agreement proceDebt instruments 304 308 5 – Fund shares 196 208 13 (1) dures to avoid double taxation. 506 524 19 (1) The Company recorded deferred tax liabilities for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on future dividend distributions from subsidiaries which are actually intended to be repatriated. Apart from this liability, the Company has not recognized Non-current available-for-sale financial assets, which are indeferred tax liabilities for income taxes or foreign withholding cluded in line item Other financial assets are measured at fair taxes on the cumulative earnings of subsidiaries of €19,214 value, if reliably measurable. They primarily consist of equity million and €21,270 million, respectively in fiscal 2013 and 2012 instruments, mainly comprising shares in AtoS and, since July because the earnings are intended to be permanently reinvest2013, in OSRAM. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 non-cured in the subsidiaries. rent available-for-sale financial assets measured at cost amount to €167 million and €293 million, respectively; available-­forIncluding the items charged or credited directly to equity and sale financial assets measured at fair value amount to €1,394 the expense (benefit) from continuing and discontinued opermillion and €728 million, respectively. Unrealized gains (losses) ations, the income tax expense (benefit) consists of the folin fiscal 2013 and 2012 resulting from non-current availablelowing: for-sale financial assets at fair value were €401 million and €215 million, respectively. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 282 NOTE 11 Trade and other receivables Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 September 30, Valuation allowance as of beginning of fiscal year 134 142 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Increase in valuation allowances Trade receivables from the sale recorded in the Consolidated Statements of goods and services 12,932 13,310 of Income in the current period 35 23 Receivables from finance leases 1,921 1,910 Write-offs charged against the allowance (47) (40) 14,853 15,220 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 5 6 Foreign exchange translation differences (4) 5 Reclassifications to and from line item Changes to the valuation allowance of current and long-term Assets held for disposal and dispositions of those entities – (2) receivables presented in NOTE 11, 12 AND 19 , which belong to Valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end 124 134 the class of financial assets measured at (amortized) cost are as follows (excluding receivables from finance leases): Minimum future lease payments to be received are as follows: Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Valuation allowance as September 30, of beginning of fiscal year 1,056 1,005 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Increase in valuation allowances Within one year 2,318 2,273 recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the current period 205 191 After one year but not more than five years 3,406 3,240 Write-offs charged against the allowance (208) (108) More than five years 214 206 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 9 7 5,938 5,719 Foreign exchange translation differences (38) 14 Reclassifications to line item Assets held for disposal and dispositions of those entities – (54) Valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end 1,023 1,056 The following table shows a reconciliation of minimum future lease payments to the gross and net investment in leases and to the present value of the minimum future lease payments receivable: In fiscal 2013 and 2012, receivables from finance leases, current amount to €1,921 million and €1,910 million, respectively; the long-term portion amounts to €3,340 million and September 30, €3,148 million, respectively. The valuation allowance on cur(in millions of €) 2013 2012 rent and long-term receivables from finance leases changed Minimum future lease payments 5,938 5,719 as follows: Plus: Unguaranteed residual values 97 131 Gross investment in leases 6,034 5,850 Less: Unearned finance income (649) (657) Net investment in leases 5,385 5,193 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (124) (134) Less: Present value of unguaranteed residual value (85) (117) Present value of minimum future lease payments receivable 5,176 4,942 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 283 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The gross investment in leases and the present value of miniCost of sales rendered include inventories recognized as exmum future lease payments receivable are due as follows: pense amounting to €53,778 million and €53,947 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012. Raw m ­ aterials and supplies, work in process as well as finished goods and products held for September 30, resale are valued at the lower of acquisition / production cost (in millions of €) 2013 2012 and net realizable value. The r­ espective write-downs, as comGross investment in leases 6,034 5,850 pared to prior year, increased by €39 million and €57 million as Within one year 2,345 2,388 of September 30, 2013 and 2012. One to five years 3,472 3,248 Thereafter 218 214 Item Costs and earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted Present value of minimum future contracts relates to construction contracts, with net asset ballease payments receivable 5,176 4,942 ances where contract costs plus recognized profits less recogWithin one year 1,946 2,012 nized losses exceed progress billings. Construction contracts, One to five years 3,035 2,743 here and as follows, include service contracts accounted for Thereafter 195 187 under the percentage of completion method. Liabilities from contracts for which progress billings exceed costs and recognized profits less recognized losses are recognized in line item Other current liabilities. Investments in finance leases primarily relate to industrial machinery, medical equipment, transportation systems, equipThe aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognized profits ment for information technology and office machines. Actual less recognized losses for construction contracts in progress, cash flows will vary from contractual maturities due to future as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 amounted to €83,187 milsales of finance receivables, prepayments and write-offs. lion and €83,533 million, respectively. Revenue from construction contracts amounted to €31,178 million and €32,530 million, respectively, for fiscal 2013 and 2012. NOTE 12 Other current financial assets Advance payments received on construction contracts in progress were €8,630 million and €9,295 million as of September 30, September 30, 2013 and 2012. Retentions in connection with construction con(in millions of €) 2013 2012 tracts were €452 million and €343 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012. Derivative financial instruments 435 530 Loans receivable 1,646 1,197 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, Siemens revised project calOther 1,169 1,174 culations for long-term contracts with customers in Iran in ac3,250 2,901 cordance with accounting guidance for construction and service contracts. The resulting adjustments reduced income from continuing operations before income tax expenses by €347 million. NOTE 13 Inventories NOTE 14 Other current assets September 30, September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Raw materials and supplies 2,476 2,629 Miscellaneous tax receivables 735 668 Work in process 3,502 3,496 Prepaid expenses 227 262 Costs and earnings in excess of Other 335 346 billings on uncompleted contracts 8,604 8,005 1,297 1,277 Finished goods and products held for resale 2,311 2,643 Advances to suppliers 707 953 17,601 17,726 Advance payments received (2,040) (2,047) 15,560 15,679 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 284 NOTE 15 Goodwill Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Cost Balance at beginning of year 18,517 17,252 Translation differences and other (697) 599 Acquisitions and purchase accounting adjustments 1,719 913 Dispositions and reclassifications to assets classified as held for disposal 25 (246) Balance at year-end 19,564 18,517 Accumulated impairment losses and other changes Balance at beginning of year 1,448 1,546 Translation differences and other (66) 59 Impairment losses recognized during the period 70 85 Dispositions and reclassifications to assets classified as held for disposal 229 (242) Balance at year-end 1,681 1,448 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of year 17,069 15,706 Balance at year-end 17,883 17,069 Carrying Translation Acquisitions Dispositions, Impairments Carrying amount as of differences and purchase reclassifications amount as of 10/01/2012 and other accounting incl. reclassifications 9/30/2013 adjustments to assets classified (in millions of €) as held for disposal Sectors Energy 2,718 (61) 5 (34) (23) 2,606 Healthcare 8,314 (362) (3) – – 7,950 Industry 4,173 (146) 418 (169) – 4,276 Infrastructure & Cities 1,742 (65) 1,299 – (47) 2,930 Total Sectors 16,949 (633) 1,719 (204) (70) 17,761 Financial Services (SFS) 121 2 – – – 122 Siemens 17,069 (632) 1,719 (204) (70) 17,883 Carrying Translation Acquisitions Dispositions, Impairments Carrying amount as of differences and purchase reclassifications amount as of 10/01/2011 and other accounting incl. reclassifications 9/30/2012 adjustments to assets classified (in millions of €) as held for disposal Sectors Energy 2,269 82 422 31 (85) 2,718 Healthcare 7,964 287 63 – – 8,314 Industry 3,802 121 278 (28) – 4,173 Infrastructure & Cities 1,558 40 150 (6) – 1,742 Total Sectors 15,594 530 913 (3) (85) 16,949 Financial Services (SFS) 112 10 – (1) – 121 Siemens 15,706 539 913 (4) (85) 17,069 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 285 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Siemens performs the mandatory annual impairment test in The fair value less costs to sell is mainly driven by the terminal the three months ended September 30. Except as disclosed value which is particularly sensitive to changes in the assumpabove, the recoverable amounts for the annual impairment tions on the terminal value growth rate and discount rate. test 2013 for Divisions or equivalents were estimated to be Both assumptions are determined individually for each Divihigher than the carrying amounts. Key assumptions on which sion or equivalent. Discount rates reflect the current market management has based its determinations of the fair value assessment of the risks specific to each Division or equivalent less costs to sell for the Divisions’ or equivalents’ carrying and are based on the weighted average cost of capital for the amount include terminal value growth rates up to 2.3% in fisDivisions or equivalents (for SFS the discount rate represents cal 2013 and 2.7% in fiscal 2012, respectively and after-tax discost of equity). Terminal value growth rates take into considercount rates of 6.0% to 10.8% in fiscal 2013 and 7.0% to 9.5% in ation external macroeconomic sources of data and industry fiscal 2012. Where possible, reference to market prices is made. specific trends. For the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs to sell of The following table presents the key assumptions used to dethe Divisions or equivalents, cash flows were projected for the termine fair value less costs to sell for impairment test purposnext five years based on past experience, actual operating rees for the Divisions to which a significant amount of goodwill sults and management’s best estimate about future developis allocated: ments as well as market assumptions. Year ended September 30, 2013 Year ended September 30, 2012 Terminal value After-tax Terminal value After-tax (in millions of €, rates in %) Goodwill growth rate discount rate Goodwill growth rate discount rate Diagnostics of the Healthcare Sector 4,758 2.3% 6.0% 4,981 2.3% 7.0% Industry Automation of the Industry Sector 2,986 1.7% 8.5% 2,897 1.8% 8.5% Imaging & Therapy Systems of the Healthcare Sector 2,483 2.2% 7.5% 2,596 2.7% 7.0% In the context of the ongoing disposal process, an impairment In fiscal 2012 the entire remaining goodwill of the solar busitest was performed for the logistics and airport solutions business amounting to €85 million was impaired upon classificaness within the Mobility & Logistics Division of the Infrastruction as held for disposal and discontinued operations based on ture & Cities Sector as of September 30, 2013. As a result, an the measurement at its fair value less costs to sell. Due to the impairment loss of €46 million was recognized. reclassification of the solar business to continuing operations in fiscal 2013, the amount of €85 million is now disclosed as impairment in continuing operations for fiscal 2012. NOTE 16 Other intangible assets Gross Translation Additions Additions Retirements 1 Gross Accumulated Carrying Amortization carrying differences through carrying amortization amount and amount business amount and as of impairment as of combina­as of impairment 9/30/2013 in fiscal (in millions of €) 10/01/2012 tions 9/30/2013 2013 2 Software and other internally generated intangible assets 3,270 (78) 2 265 (114) 3,346 (2,104) 1,241 (268) Patents, licenses and similar rights 7,154 (253) 1,363 65 (259) 8,070 (4,254) 3,816 (659) Other intangible assets 10,424 (332) 1,365 330 (372) 11,415 (6,358) 5,057 (927) 1 Includes Other intangible assets reclassified to Assets 2 Includes impairment expenses of €53 million in fiscal classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those 2013, thereof €25 million at Infrastructure & Cities, €19 entities. million at Energy, €8 million at Industry and €2 million at Healthcare. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 286 Gross Translation Additions Additions Retirements 1 Gross Accumulated Carrying Amortization carrying differences through carrying amortization amount and amount business amount and as of impairment as of combina­as of impairment 9/30/2012 in fiscal (in millions of €) 10/01/2011 tions 9/30/2012 2012 2 Software and other internally generated intangible assets 2,955 68 36 334 (122) 3,270 (2,001) 1,269 (291) Patents, licenses and similar rights 6,665 198 463 94 (266) 7,154 (3,828) 3,326 (576) Other intangible assets 9,620 266 499 427 (387) 10,424 (5,829) 4,595 (867) 1 Includes Other intangible assets reclassified to Assets 2 Includes impairment expenses of €44 million in fiscal classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those 2012, therein €43 million at Healthcare. entities. Amortization and impairment on intangible assets is conAs of September 30, 2013 and 2012, contractual commitments tained in line items Cost of sales, Research and development for purchases of other intangible assets amount to €14 million expenses or, Selling and general administrative expenses, deand €15 million. pending on the use of the asset. NOTE 17 Property, plant and equipment Gross Translation Additions Additions ReclassiRetireGross AccumuCarrying Depreciacarrying differences through fications ments1 carrying lated deamount tion and amount business amount preciation as of impairas of combinaas of and impair9/30/2013 ment in (in millions of €) 10/01/2012 tions 9/30/2013 ment fiscal 2013 2 Land and buildings 8,285 (189) 68 187 150 (824) 7,677 (3,651) 4,027 (292) Technical machinery and equipment 7,076 (177) 30 269 284 (463) 7,020 (4,594) 2,426 (517) Furniture and office equipment 5,664 (149) 27 681 131 (614) 5,740 (4,352) 1,387 (715) Equipment leased to others 3,372 (117) – 377 (7) (689) 2,936 (1,662) 1,274 (362) Advances to suppliers and construction in progress 859 (26) 5 465 (559) (33) 7103 (9) 701 (6) Property, plant and equipment 25,255 (658) 129 1,979 – (2,623) 24,083 (14,268) 9,815 (1,892) 1 Includes Property, plant and equipment reclassified 2 Includes impairment expenses of €141 million in fiscal 3 Includes €594 million expenditures for property, plant to/from Assets classified as held for disposal and dis­ 2013, thereof €55 million at SRE, €34 million at Industry, and equipment under construction. positions of those entities. €31 million at Energy, €10 million at Infrastructure & Cities, €8 million at SFS and €2 million at Healthcare. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 287 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Gross Translation Additions Additions ReclassiRetireGross AccumuCarrying Depreciacarrying differences through fications ments1 carrying lated deamount tion and amount business amount preciation as of impairas of combinaas of and impair9/30/2012 ment in (in millions of €) 10/01/2011 tions 9/30/2012 ment fiscal 2012 2 Land and buildings 8,110 154 53 280 175 (487) 8,285 (3,946) 4,339 (339) Technical machinery and equipment 6,589 125 35 306 305 (284) 7,076 (4,474) 2,602 (460) Furniture and office equipment 5,207 91 53 639 206 (532) 5,664 (4,291) 1,373 (648) Equipment leased to others 3,301 108 – 375 2 (414) 3,372 (1,770) 1,602 (408) Advances to suppliers and construction in progress 937 28 1 596 (689) (15) 8593 (11) 848 (10) Property, plant and equipment 24,144 506 143 2,195 – (1,732) 25,255 (14,492) 10,763 (1,865) 1 Includes Property, plant and equipment reclassified to 2 Includes impairment expense of €140 million in fiscal 3 Includes €741 million expenditures for property, plant Assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions 2012, of which €56 million relate to SRE, €38 million and equipment under construction. of those entities. relate to Energy and €32 million relate to SFS. Depreciation and impairment is included in line items Cost of As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, minimum future lease paysales, Research and development expenses or Selling and genments receivable from lessees under operating leases are as eral administrative expenses, depending on the use of the asfollows: set. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, contractual commitments for purchases of property, plant and equipment amount to €503 million and €395 million, respectively. September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 In fiscal 2013 and 2012, government grants awarded for the Within one year 321 384 purchase or the production of property, plant and equipment After one year but not more than five years 578 754 amounted to €9 million and €13 million, respectively. The More than five years 137 196 award of further government grants of €62 million and €77 1,035 1,334 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to costs incurred and future costs. Payments from lessees under operating leases primarily relate to buildings, medical equipment and transportation systems. Total contingent rent recognized in income in fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounts to €214 million and €205 million. INVESTMENT PROPERTY The carrying amount of investment property amounts to €116 million and €121 million compared to a fair value of €258 million and €232 million as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 288 NOTE 18 Investments accounted Summarized financial information for principal investments in for using the equity method associates, not adjusted for the percentage of ownership held by Siemens, is presented below. Income statement informaAs of September 30, 2013, Siemens’ principal investments tion is presented for the twelve month period applied under ­accounted for under the equity method, which are all unlisted, the equity method of accounting. are (in alphabetical order): Year ended September 30, Percentage of Ownership (in millions of €) 2013 2012 September 30, Revenue 16,002 20,178 2013 2012 Net income (loss) 92 (1,272) BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH) 50% 50% BWI Informationstechnik GmbH 1 50% 50% Enterprise Networks Holdings B.V. 49% 49% Information related to the Statements of Financial Position is Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH 26% 26% presented as of the date used in applying the equity method of Nokia Siemens Networks Holding B.V. 2 – 50% accounting. P.T. Jawa Power 3 50% 50% Shanghai Electric Power Generation Equipment Co. Ltd. 40% 40% Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG 35% 35% September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 1 The exact percentage equals 50.05%; it is not controlled by Siemens due to Total assets 6,825 17,702 ­significant participating rights of the two other shareholders. Total liabilities 4,676 12,949 2 The investment was disposed of in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Until the disposal, the exact percentage of voting rights was equal to 50% less 2,500 ­voting rights. Due to its classification as held for disposal as of June 30, 2013, the summarized revenue and net income (loss) include NSN for nine months in fiscal 2013. 3 The investment is no jointly controlled entity. The unrecognized share of losses in associates amounted to €10 million and €22 million as of September 30, 2013 and 2012. Siemens’ interest in BSH, which is the principal jointly ­controlled entity of Siemens, is recognized using the equity method, applying BSH’s twelve month periods ended June 30. NOTE 19 Other financial assets The following information reflect BSH’s most recent published financial statements, not adjusted for the percentage of ownership held by Siemens. September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Loans receivable 6,805 6,085 Year ended December 31, Receivables from finance leases, (in millions of €) 2012 2011 see NOTE 11 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 3,340 3,148 Derivative financial instruments 1,894 2,798 Revenue 9,800 9,654 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,560 1,021 Net income 465 374 Other 1,518 1,614 15,117 14,666 December 31, Item Loans receivable primarily relate to long-term loan trans(in millions of €) 2012 2011 actions of SFS. Current assets 4,650 4,576 Non-current assets 3,215 2,859 Current liabilities 2,876 3,109 Non-current liabilities 2,410 1,917 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 289 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 20 Other current financial liabilities NOTE 22 Debt September 30, September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Derivative financial instruments, Short-term see NOTES 30 AND 31 350 462 Notes and bonds 1,431 2,018 Accrued interest expenses 221 237 Loans from banks 412 1,505 Other 944 761 Other financial indebtedness 82 270 1,515 1,460 Obligations under finance leases 20 33 Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,826 Long-term NOTE 21 Other current liabilities Notes and bonds (maturing until 2066) 17,060 16,194 Loans from banks (maturing until 2023) 1,233 449 Other financial indebtedness (maturing until 2027) 106 110 September 30, Obligations under finance leases 110 128 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Long-term debt 18,509 16,880 Billings in excess of costs and estimated 20,453 20,707 ­earnings on uncompleted contracts and ­related advances 10,559 11,877 Payroll obligations and social security taxes 1,561 1,627 Other employee related costs 2,103 1,988 Deferred income 1,035 1,123 Interest rates in this Note are per annum. In fiscal 2013 and Accruals for outstanding invoices 1,067 904 2012, weighted-average interest rates for loans from banks, Bonus obligations 1,683 1,264 other financial indebtedness and obligations under finance Miscellaneous tax liabilities 669 650 leases were 2.7% (2012: 2.3%), 3.1% (2012: 2.1%) and 4.1% (2012: Deferred reservation fees received 101 21 4.6%), respectively. Other 923 848 19,701 20,302 A) COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM Siemens has a US$9.0 billion (€6.7 billion as of September 30, 2013) multi-currency commercial paper program in place including US$ extendible notes capabilities. As of September 30, Item Other employee related costs primarily includes vacation 2013 and 2012 no commercial papers were outstanding. payments, accrued overtime and service anniversary awards, Siemens’ commercial papers have a maturity of generally less severance payments, as well as liabilities related to terminathan 90 days. Interest rates ranged from 0.01% to 0.37% in tion benefits. ­fiscal 2013 and from (0.03)% to 0.70% in fiscal 2012. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 290 B) NOTES AND BONDS September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 Currency Carrying Currency Carrying notional amount amount in notional amount amount in interest/issued/maturity (in millions) millions of € 1 (in millions) millions of € 1 5.625%/2006/March 2016/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 500 412 US$ 500 450 5.375%/2008/June 2014/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,000 1,031 € 1,000 1,071 5.625%/2008/June 2018/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,600 1,844 € 1,600 1,912 4.125%/2009/February 2013/EUR fixed-rate instruments 2 – – – € 2,000 2,018 5.125%/2009/February 2017/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 2,000 2,136 € 2,000 2,168 US$ 3m LIBOR+1.4%/2012/February 2019/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 400 296 US$ 400 309 0.375%/2012/September 2014/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 400 400 € 400 400 1.5%/2012/March 2020/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,000 994 € 1,000 994 2.75%/2012/September 2025/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 350 416 £ 350 436 3.75%/2012/September 2042/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 650 760 £ 650 791 1.75%/2013/March 2021/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,250 1,242 – – – 2.875%/2013/March 2028/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,000 995 – – – 1.5%/2013/March 2018/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 500 368 – – – 3.5%/2013/March 2028/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 100 72 – – – 2013/June 2020/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 400 295 – – – Total Debt Issuance Program 11,262 10,549 5.75%/2006/October 2016/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,750 1,389 US$ 1,750 1,483 6.125%/2006/August 2026/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,750 1,759 US$ 1,750 1,908 Total US$ Medium Notes 3,147 3,391 5.25%/2006/September 2066/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 900 976 € 900 1,004 6.125%/2006/September 2066/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 750 986 £ 750 1,075 Total Hybrid Capital Bond 1,962 2,079 1.05% 2012/August 2017/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,500 1,068 US$ 1,500 1,104 1.65% 2012/August 2019/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,500 1,052 US$ 1,500 1,089 Total Bond with Warrant Units 2,120 2,193 18,491 18,212 1 Includes adjustments for fair value hedge accounting. 2 Redeemed at face value at maturity in fiscal 2013. Debt Issuance Program September 30, 2013), 1.5% instruments due March 12, 2018. The Company has a program for the issuance of debt instruFurthermore, Siemens issued two privately placed instruments under which it may issue instruments up to €15.0 bilments of US$100 million (€74 million as of September 30, lion as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of Sep2013) in 3.5% fixed-rate instruments due March 20, 2028 and tember 30, 2013 and 2012 €10.9 billion and €9.9 billion in noUS$400 million (€296 million as of September 30, 2013) in tional amounts were issued and are outstanding. floating-rate instruments due June 5, 2020. Siemens redeemed at face value €2.0 billion in 4.125% fixedIn fiscal 2012, Siemens issued €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion (€1.2 rate instruments in February 2013. In fiscal 2013, Siemens isbillion as of September 30, 2013) in fixed-rate instruments in sued €2.25 billion and US$500 million in fixed-rate instrufour tranches as well as US$400 million (€296 million as of ments in three tranches, comprising: €1.25 billion, 1.75% inSeptember 30, 2013) privately placed in floating-rate instrustruments due March 12, 2021, €1.0 billion, 2.875% instruments ments. due March 10, 2028 and US$500 million (€370 million as of 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 291 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Hybrid Bond Additionally, in fiscal 2013, the Company signed two bilateral In September 2006, the Company issued a subordinated hybrid US$500 million term loan facilities (in aggregate €740 million bond in a EUR tranche of €900 million and a GBP tranche of as of September 30, 2013). The facilities have a term of five £750 million (€897 million as of September 30, 2013), both years expiring March 28, 2018 with two one-year extension opwith a legal final maturity on September 14, 2066 and with a tions, were fully drawn in fiscal 2013 and bear interest of 0.79% call option for Siemens in 2016 or thereafter. The instruments above three months LIBOR. bear fixed-rate interests until September 14, 2016; thereafter, floating-rate interest is applied according to the conditions of D) CREDIT FACILITIES the bond. The credit facilities at September 30, 2013 and 2012 consisted of €6.7 billion and €7.5 billion, respectively, in committed lines Bond with Warrant Units of credit. As of September 30, 2013, those include: (1) a €4.0 In fiscal 2012, Siemens issued US$ fixed-rate bonds with warbillion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit farant units in an aggregate principal amount of US$3 billion in cility, entered into in fiscal 2012; in fiscal 2013, its maturity has two tranches, comprising: (1) US$1.5 billion (€1.1 billion as of been extended by one year to April 4, 2018 with a remaining September 30, 2013) in 1.05% instruments maturing on August one-year extension option; (2) a US$3.0 billion (€2.2 billion as 16, 2017 and (2) US$1.5 billion (€1.1 billion as of September 30, of September 30, 2013) undrawn syndicated multi-currency re2013) in 1.65% instruments maturing on August 16, 2019. Each volving credit facility provided by a syndicate of international of the US$1.5 billion instruments were issued with 6,000 debanks with a five year tenor and two one-year extension optachable warrants. The warrants’ exercise price was fixed in tions, which was signed in September 2013. It replaces the preEuro. The warrants were classified as equity instruments with vious US$4.0 billion syndicated multi-currency credit facility a fair value of €126 million at issuance presented in the capital which expired August 21, 2013. The US$4.0 billion facility comreserve in line item Other changes in equity. The warrants prised a US$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan bearing interest entitle the holders, at their option, to receive 1,806.1496 ­ of 0.15% above three months LIBOR which was drawn in JanuSiemens AG shares per warrant at an exercise price per share ary 2007 and redeemed at face value at maturity as well as a of €104.0018 during the exercise period which matures on AuUS$3.0 billion revolving tranche undrawn; (3) a €450 million gust 1, 2017 and August 1, 2019 for instruments (1) and instrurevolving credit facility provided by a domestic bank expiring ments (2), respectively. After the spin-off of OSRAM in fiscal September 30, 2014. 2013, the warrants entitle the holders to obtain OSRAM shares in addition to Siemens shares. Accordingly, the warrants no As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, €6.7 billion and €6.8 billion longer qualify as equity instruments since the approval of the of these lines of credit remained unused. Commitment fees for spin-off in January 2013 and the warrants’ fair value of €163 the years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 amount to €6 million was reclassified from line item Capital reserve to million and €4 million, respectively. The facilities are for genernon-current other financial liability. The warrants result in opal business purposes. tion rights relating to a total of 21.7 million Siemens AG shares. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate amounts of C) ASSIGNABLE AND TERM LOANS indebtedness maturing during the next five years and there­ The Company has assignable loans. The loans were issued in after are as follows (excluding finance leases which are disfour tranches, totaled €333 million and €447 million in notional closed separately): amount as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 (carrying amount €356 million and €486 million as of September 30, 2013 and 2012) and are for general corporate purposes. They consist of two September 30, fixed-rate tranches: €113.5 million 5.283% notes due and re(in millions of €) 2013 2012 deemed at face value in June 2013 and €333 million 5.435% Within one year 1,924 3,793 notes due on June 12, 2015. The floating-rate tranches of €370 After one year but not more than five years 10,423 9,214 million bearing interest of 0.55% above six months EURIBOR due More than five years 7,976 7,539 June 12, 2013 and €283.5 million bearing interest of 0.70% above 20,323 20,546 six months EURIBOR due June 12, 2015 were called in August 2011 and were redeemed in December 2011 at their face value. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 292 OTHER FINANCIAL INDEBTEDNESS NOTE 23 Post-employment benefits Item Other financial indebtedness includes €111 million and €153 million as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, Post-employment benefits provided by Siemens are orgafor the Company ’s real estate assets that were sold or transnized through defined benefit plans as well as defined conferred and in which Siemens has retained significant risks and tribution plans which cover almost all of the Company ’s rewards of ownership, including circumstances in which ­domestic employees and the majority of the Company ’s forSiemens participates directly or indirectly in the change in eign employees. Post-employment defined benefit plans inmarket value of the property. Therefore, these transactions clude pension benefits and other post-employment benefits, have been accounted for as financing obligations. These real which primarily consist of transition payments to German estate properties are carried on the Company ’s Consolidated employees after retirement as well as post-employment Statements of Financial Position and no sale and profit has health care and life insurance benefits to employees in the been recognized. U.S. and Canada. OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Siemens regularly reviews the design of its post-employment defined benefit plans. In order to reduce the Company ’s expoSeptember 30, 2013 sure to certain risks associated with defined benefit plans, Present value such as longevity, inflation, effects of compensation increases, Minimum of minimum future lease Unamortized future lease the Company implemented new defined benefit plans in some payment interest payment of Siemens’ major countries including Germany, the U.S. and (in millions of €) obligation expense obligation the U.K. during the last several years. The benefits of these Due new defined benefit plans are based predominantly on contriWithin one year 32 12 20 butions made by the Company and are still affected by longevAfter one year but not more than five years 94 9 86 ity, inflation adjustments and compensation increases, but onMore than five years 78 53 25 ly to a minor extent. The Company ’s major defined benefit Total 204 74 130 plans are funded with assets in segregated entities. The deLess: Current portion (20) fined benefit plans cover 501,000 participants, including 110 215,000 active employees, 87,000 former employees with vested benefits and 199,000 retirees and surviving dependents. Individual benefits are generally based on eligible compensation levels and/or ranking within the Company hierarchy and years of service. The characteristics of the defined benefit plans and September 30, 2012 the risks associated with them vary depending on legal, fiscal Present value Minimum of minimum and economic requirements in each country. For the major defuture lease Unamortized future lease fined benefit plans of Siemens the characteristics and risks are payment interest payment (in millions of €) obligation expense obligation as follows: Due Within one year 47 14 33 Germany: After one year but not In Germany, Siemens AG provides pension benefits through more than five years 62 11 51 the cash-balance plan BSAV (Beitragsorientierte Siemens More than five years 132 55 76 ­Altersversorgung), frozen legacy plans and deferred compen­ Total 241 80 161 sation plans. The majority of Siemens’ active employees in Less: Current portion (33) Germany participate in the BSAV introduced in fiscal 2004, 128 which is a funded defined benefit pension plan whose benefits are predominantly based on contributions made by the Company and returns earned on such contributions, subject to a minimum return guaranteed by the Company. The BSAV is funded via a contractual trust arrangement (CTA), the BSAV 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 293 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Trust. Individual benefits under the frozen legacy plans are U.K.: based on eligible compensation levels or ranking within the Siemens plc in the U.K. sponsors a frozen defined benefit plan Company hierarchy and years of service. In connection with and a defined contribution plan for all new employees and for the implementation of the BSAV, benefits provided under the the active service of those members who have participated in frozen legacy plans funded via a CTA, the Siemens Pension the frozen defined benefit plan. There are several smaller deTrust were modified to substantially eliminate the effects of fined benefit plans which result from previous acquisitions, compensation increases by freezing the accretion of benefits those plans are in the process of being merged or de-risked. under the majority of these plans. However, these frozen The goal is to have only one legacy plan for closed or frozen plans still expose the Company to actuarial risks such as indefined benefits. For most of the defined benefit plan memvestment risk, interest rate risk and longevity risk. Furtherbers an inflation increase of the accrued benefits until the start more, deferred compensation plans are offered which are also of retirement is mandatory. Furthermore, the plans expose the funded via a CTA. In Germany no legal or regulatory minimum Company to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest funding requirements apply. The Trusts, which are legally rate risk, longevity risk and salary increase risk. The funding separate from the Company, manage their plan assets as environment is determined by the Pension Regulator and the trustees, in accordance with the respective trust agreements applicable social and labor laws. The defined benefit plans are with the Company. governed by a benefit trust whose decision making body is a Board of Trustees who have a fiduciary duty to act in the best U.S.: interests of the beneficiaries according to the trust agreement Siemens Corporation in the U.S. sponsors one major defined and law. The required funding is determined by a funding valbenefit plan, the Siemens Pension Plan, which is frozen to new uation carried out every third year based on legal requireentrants and accretion of new benefits (with the exception of ments, which measures the liabilities on a government bond one small group of union employees). Employees of Siemens basis rather than under a high quality corporate bond basis as U.S. companies hired prior to April 1st, 2006 participate in the under IAS 19R, thus the technical funding deficit is usually Siemens Pension Plan. Most of the defined benefit plan particilarger. The funding valuation assumptions are being negotiatpants’ benefits are calculated using a cash balance formula; aled between the Company and the Trustees. The latest funding though a small group of participants are eligible for a benefit valuation in U.K. in calendar year 2011 resulted in a technical based on a final average pay formula. This frozen defined benunderfunding of GBP 939 (€1,123) million, based on the asefit plan exposes the Company to actuarial risks such as insumptions at that date. As a result, in fiscal 2013, Siemens envestment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary intered into an agreement with the trustees to provide an annual crease risk. payment of GBP 31 (€37) million for the next 20 years, beginning in fiscal 2014. In addition to these payments the Company The defined benefit plan assets are held in a Master Trust. is obliged to pay GBP 15 (€18) million until the next funding Siemens Corporation, as the sponsoring employer, has delevaluation, when the funding requirements will be updated gated investment oversight of the plans’ assets to the Investbased on new assumptions. This valuation will take place apment Committee. The Investment Committee members have a proximately end of calendar year 2015. fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of the beneficiaries according to the trust agreement and U.S. law. The Switzerland: Committee has established an Investment Policy Statement According to the Swiss law “Berufliches Vorsorgegesetz” (BVG) which articulates the goals and objectives of the plans’ investeach employer has to grant post-employment benefits for ment management, including diversifying the assets of the qualifying employees. Siemens Switzerland sponsors funded Master Trust with the intention of appropriately addressing defined benefit plans for its qualifying employees. These plans concentration risks. The trustee of the Master Trust acts only are administered by foundations that are legally separated by direction of the Investment Committee. It is responsible for from the entity and are subject to the BVG. For the main penthe safekeeping of the trust, but generally has no decision sion fund, which represents 95% of the defined benefit obligamaking authority over the plan assets. The legal and regulatotion in Switzerland, the board of the pension fund is composed ry framework for the plans is based on the applicable U.S. legof an equal number of representatives from both employer and islation Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). employees. For the other pension funds the employer has the Based on this legislation a funding valuation is prepared annumajority of the seats in the foundation board. The board of the ally. There is a regulatory requirement to maintain a minimum pension funds is required by law and by the regulations of the funding level of 80% in the defined benefit plans in order to funds to act in the interest of the fund and of all stakeholders avoid benefit restrictions. in the schemes, i.e. active employees and retirees. The board 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 294 of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy necessary contributions are financed by the employees. In the with regard to the assets of the fund, changes of the plan rules case of a shortfall, the employer and plan participants’ contriand it determines the necessary contributions to finance the bution might be increased according to decisions of the relebenefits. The plan is a cash balance plan and the Company is vant foundation board. Strategies of the foundation boards to required to make contributions at least as high as the pre-demake up for potential shortfalls are subject to approval by the termined employee contributions set out in the plan rules. The regulator. plans expose the Company to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary increase The amounts included in the Company ’s Consolidated Finanrisk. Employer and plan participants’ contributions are detercial Statements arising from its post-employment defined benmined by the respective foundation boards. About 40% of the efit plans are as follows: Defined benefit Fair value Effects in connection Net defined obligation (DBO) of plan assets with asset ceiling benefit balance September 30, September 30, September 30, September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Germany 20,367 20,339 14,017 13,956 – – (6,350) (6,383) U.S. 3,769 4,324 2,575 2,819 – – (1,194) (1,505) U.K. 4,455 4,006 4,022 3,758 (65) (104) (498) (352) CH 2,828 2,985 2,489 2,437 (49) (47) (388) (594) Other 1,753 1,996 975 1,086 (32) (19) (810) (930) Total 33,173 33,650 24,078 24,057 (146) (170) (9,241) (9,764) The net defined benefit balance of €9,241 million and €9,764 A reconciliation of the funded status to the amounts recogmillion as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 comprises €9,265 nized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position is million and €9,801 million net defined benefit liability and €24 as follows: million and €38 million net defined benefit asset, respectively. Defined benefit costs are as follows: September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Defined benefit obligation of pension benefit plans 32,594 32,965 Year ended September 30, 2013 2012 Defined benefit obligation (in millions of €) of other post-employment benefit plans 579 685 Current service cost 510 437 Total defined benefit obligation 33,173 33,650 Past service (benefit) cost (9) (124) Fair value of plan assets Settlement (gains) losses (7) (38) of pension benefit plans 24,073 24,052 Net interest expenses 297 310 Fair value of plan assets Net interest income (3) (8) of other post-employment benefit plans 5 5 Liability administration expenses 16 26 Total fair value of plan assets 24,078 24,057 Components of defined benefit Funded status of pension benefit plans (8,520) (8,914) costs recognized in the Consolidated Funded status Statements of Income 803 604 of other post-employment benefit plans (575) (680) Return on plan assets (excluding Total funded status (excluding amounts included in net interest effects in connection with asset ceiling) (9,095) (9,593) expenses and net interest income) (504) (2,308) Actuarial (gains) and losses (50) 5,048 Effect from asset ceiling (23) (5) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (577) 2,734 Defined benefit costs 226 3,338 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 295 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The Company ’s defined benefit plans are explicitly explained A detailed reconciliation of the changes in the fair value of plan in the subsequent sections with regard to: assets for fiscal 2013 and 2012 is provided in the following table: >> Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets, September 30, >> Actuarial assumptions, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 >> Sensitivity analysis, Change in plan assets: >> Asset-liability matching strategies, Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 24,057 20,969 >> Disaggregation of plan assets, and Interest income 750 952 >> Future cash flows. Remeasurements: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest income Reconciliation for defined benefit obligations and net interest expenses 504 2,308 and plan assets Employer contributions 536 586 A detailed reconciliation for the changes in the DBO for fiscal Plan participants’ contributions 105 118 2013 and 2012 is provided in the following table: Benefits paid (1,480) (1,470) Settlement payments (67) (19) Business combinations, disposals and other 87 189 September 30, Liability administration costs (16) (26) (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Foreign currency translation effects (398) 448 Change in defined benefit obligations: Fair value of plan assets at end of year 24,078 24,057 Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 33,650 27,849 Current service cost 510 437 Past service (benefit) cost (9) (124) Settlement (gains) losses (7) (38) Actuarial assumptions Interest expenses 1,036 1,247 Assumed discount rates, compensation increase rates, penRemeasurements: sion progression rates and mortality rates used in calculating Actuarial (gains) losses from the DBO vary according to the economic and other conditions changes in demographic assumptions 43 208 of the country in which the retirement plans are situated. Actuarial (gains) losses from changes in financial assumptions (249) 4,680 Experience (gains) losses 156 159 The weighted-average discount rate as well as the mortality Plan participants’ contributions 105 118 ­tables used for the actuarial valuation of the DBO at period-end Benefits paid (1,622) (1,585) were as follows: Settlement payments (67) (17) Business combinations, disposals and other 135 207 Foreign currency translation effects (508) 508 Year ended September 30, Defined benefit obligation at end of year 33,173 33,650 2013 2012 Discount rate 3.4% 3.2% Germany 3.1% 3.1% U.S. 3.7% 2.9% The total defined benefit obligation at the end of fiscal 2013 U.K. 4.5% 4.4% includes €10,767 million for active employees, €4,645 million CH 2.1% 1.7% for former employees with vested benefits and €17,761 million Mortality tables for retirees and surviving dependents. (most significant countries): Germany Heubeck Richttafeln 2005G U.S. RP2000 Combined Healthy Fully Generational Mortality Table U.K. S1PxA (Standard mortality tables for Self Administered Pension Schemes (SAPS) with allowance for future mortality improvements) CH BVG 2010 G 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 296 The rates of compensation increase for countries with signifiof the future benefit. If more than one of the assumptions are cant effects with regard to this assumption were as follows in changed simultaneously, the combined impact due to the fiscal 2013 and 2012: U.S.: 3.13% and 3.69%, U.K.: 4.80% and changes would not necessarily be the same as the sum of the 4.10%, Switzerland: 1.50% and 1.50%. The rates of pension proindividual effects due to the changes. Furthermore, the sensigression for countries with significant effects with regard to tivities reflect a change in the DBO only for a change in the asthis assumption were as follows in fiscal 2013 and 2012: Gersumptions in this specific magnitude, i.e. 0.5%. If the assumpmany: 1.69% and 1.67%, U.K.: 3.2% and 2.6%. tions change at a different level, the effect on the DBO is not necessarily in a linear relation. The DBO is also affected by assumed future inflation rates. The effect of inflation is recognized within the assumptions above Asset Liability Matching Strategies where applicable. Siemens’ funding policy for its funded defined benefit plans is part of the overall commitment to sound financial manageSensitivity analysis ment, which also includes an ongoing analysis of the strucA one-half-percentage-point change of the established asture of Siemens’ defined benefit liabilities. To balance return sumptions mentioned before, used for the calculation of the and risk, Siemens has developed a benefit risk management DBO as of September 30, 2013, would result in the following concept. The Company has identified as a major risk a decline increase (decrease) of the DBO: in the plans’ funded status as a result of the adverse development of plan assets and / or defined benefit obligations. Siemens monitors its investments and its defined benefit obEffect on DBO as of ligations in order to measure such risk. The risk quantifies September 2013 due to a one-half percentage-point the expected maximum decline in the principle plans’ funded (in millions of €) increase decrease status for a given confidence level over a given time horizon. Discount rate (1,919) 2,159 A risk limit on the Group level forms the basis for the determiRate of compensation increase 136 (105) nation of the Company ’s investment strategy, i.e. the strateRate of pension progression 1,492 (1,339) gic asset class allocation of principle plan assets and the ­degree of interest rate risk hedging. Both the risk limit and investment strategy are regularly reviewed with the participation of senior external experts of the international asset The reduction of the mortality rates by 10% results in an inmanagement and insurance industry to allow for an integral crease of life expectancy depending on the individual age view on plan assets and benefit liabilities. The Company seof each beneficiary. That means for example, that the life lects asset managers based on quantitative and qualitative ­expectancy of a male Siemens employee age 55 years as of analysis and subsequently constantly monitors their perforSeptember 30, 2013 increases by approximately one year. In mance and risk, both on a stand-alone basis, and in the ­order to determine the longevity sensitivity the mortality rates broader portfolio context. Siemens reviews the asset allocawere reduced by 10% for all beneficiaries. The effect on DBO as tion of each plan in light of the duration of the related benefit of September 30, 2013 due to a 10% reduction in mortality rates liabilities and analyzes trends and events that may affect aswould result in an increase of €985 million. set values in order to inform about appropriate measures at a very early stage. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method Derivatives are used for risk reducing purposes to either re(present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated duce the fluctuations in the value of plan assets or reduce with the projected unit credit method) has been applied as funded status volatility as part of an integrated risk managewhen calculating the post-employment benefit obligation recment approach for assets and liabilities. Main risks mitigated ognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. are interest rate, credit, equity, currency and inflation risk. All Increases and decreases in the discount rate, rate of compenover-the-counter derivatives are collateralized on a daily basis sation increase, rate of pension progression and mortality to eliminate counterparty risk. In addition, derivatives are rates which are used in determining the DBO do not have a ­permitted for investment managers to use as substitutes for symmetrical effect on the DBO primarily due to the compound traditional securities where appropriate to manage exposure to interest effect created when determining the net present value foreign exchange and interest rate risks. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 297 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Disaggregation of plan assets Expected benefit payments The asset allocation of the plan assets of the benefit plans is as follows: (in millions of €) September 30, 2013 Expected benefit payments Fair value as of September 30, 2014 1,647 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2015 1,613 Asset class 2016 1,624 Equity securities 6,604 5,876 2017 1,668 U.S. equities 1,416 1,660 2018 1,713 European equities 2,214 1,636 2019 – 2023 8,958 Emerging markets 1,457 1,394 Global equities 1,517 1,187 Fixed income securities 12,768 13,759 Government bonds 3,003 3,336 The weighted average duration of the DBO for Siemens deCorporate bonds 9,765 10,423 fined benefit plans was 13 years as of September 30, 2013. Alternative investments 2,961 2,309 Hedge Funds 978 295 MULTI-EMPLOYER DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Private Equity 497 466 Multi-employer plans mainly exist in the Netherlands and in Real estate 1,487 1,548 the U.S. These plans are industry specific plans based on local Derivatives 175 1,255 laws, which are accounted for as defined contribution plans as Interest risk 263 1,562 Siemens has no right to obtain the necessary data for defined Foreign currency risk 53 29 benefit plan accounting. These plans may expose the CompaCredit/Inflation/Price risks (141) (335) ny to investment and actuarial risk in case of a deficit. Cash and cash equivalents 1,148 434 Other assets 422 423 In the Netherlands the Company is not liable for other entities’ Total 24,078 24,057 obligations under the terms and conditions of the multi-employer plan. In the U.S. the Company may be liable for other entities’ obliVirtually all equity and fixed income securities have quoted gations in case of failure of other participating employers to prices in active markets and almost all fixed income securities make required contributions. In case of withdrawal from a are investment grade. In addition, the asset class Other assets plan the Company may be subject to a liability for the potential includes assets with quoted prices in active markets in the future statutory underfunding for its share in the plan. The amount of €78 million and €169 million as of September 30, Company has only a minor share in these plans compared to 2013 and 2012. other participating entities and has no intention to withdraw from one of these plans. As of September 30, 2013, the major part of cash and cash equivalents is marked as cash in transition into corporate bond Siemens is not aware of any probable significant risk due to mandates. multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans. The plan assets include own transferable financial instruments of the Company with a fair value of €89 million and €74 million Siemens expects contributions to multi-employer defined benas of September 30, 2013 and 2012. efit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans for the next fiscal year of €31 million. Future cash flows Employer contributions expected to be paid to the post-employment defined benefit plans in fiscal 2014 are €631 million. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 298 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS AND STATE PLANS and 2012, respectively. Contributions to state plans amount The amount recognized as expense for defined contribution to €1,354 million and €1,584 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, plans amounts to €594 million and €545 million in fiscal 2013 ­respectively. NOTE 24 Provisions Warranties Order related Asset Other Total losses and risks retirement (in millions of €) obligations Balance as of October 1, 2012 3,405 2,038 1,282 1,933 8,658 Additions 1,544 834 – 769 3,147 Usage (828) (603) (8) (304) (1,742) Reversals (683) (294) (27) (426) (1,430) Translation differences (66) (53) (4) (37) (160) Accretion expenses and effect of changes in discount rates – 2 (106) – (104) Other changes (21) 4 1 40 23 Balance as of September 30, 2013 3,350 1,929 1,138 1,976 8,392 Thereof non-current 1,200 686 1,113 908 3,907 Warranties Order related Asset Other Total losses and risks retirement (in millions of €) obligations Balance as of October 1, 2011 3,506 2,017 1,130 2,169 8,822 Additions 1,446 1,123 1 562 3,132 Usage (738) (701) (9) (359) (1,806) Reversals (847) (418) (21) (455) (1,741) Translation differences 48 14 3 14 79 Accretion expenses and effect of changes in discount rates 1 13 172 8 195 Other changes (12) (10) 5 (6) (22) Balance as of September 30, 2012 3,405 2,038 1,282 1,933 8,658 Thereof non-current 1,146 733 1,261 768 3,908 In fiscal 2013 and 2012, item Other changes contains reclassifiIn fiscal 2013, Wind Power Division of the Energy Sector took cations (to) from line item Liabilities associated with assets €94 million in charges related to inspecting and retrofitting inclassified as held for disposal including the disposal of those stalled onshore turbine blades mainly in the U.S. entities of €(47) million and €(25) million, respectively. Order related losses and risks – are provided for anticipated Except for asset retirement obligations, the majority of the losses and risks on uncompleted construction, sales and leasCompany ’s provisions are generally expected to result in cash ing contracts. outflows during the next one to 15 years. Transportation & Logistics of the Infrastructure & Cities Sector Warranties – mainly relate to products sold. incurred project charges of €270 million and €86 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, for delays for receiving certification for new high-speed trains. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 299 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Power Transmission Division of the to the development of a final storage facility for radioactive Energy Sector incurred project charges primarily related to grid waste are based on the assumptions for the so called Schacht connections to offshore wind-farms. These charges were due Konrad final storage. Parameters related to the life-span of the to project delays resulting from a complex regulatory environGerman nuclear reactors reflect a planned phase-out until ment and the projects’ complex marine environment, which 2022. The valuation uses assumptions to reflect the current required revised estimates of resources and personnel. This and detailed cost estimates, price inflation and discount rates led to €(171) million and €(570) million pretax effects on the as well as a continuous outflow until the 2070’s related to the income statement in fiscal 2013 and 2012, which were mainly costs for dismantling as well as intermediate and final storage. recorded as provisions for order related losses and risks. Using the input of an independent advisor, management upAsset retirement obligations – The Company is subject to dated its valuation of the liability due to changes in estimates asset retirement obligations related to certain items of properwhich resulted in minor adjustments in fiscal 2013 and 2012. ty, plant and equipment. Such asset retirement obligations are Facts and circumstances of the changes were as follows: primarily attributable to environmental clean-up costs which amounted to €1,096 million and €1,224 million, respectively, as In fiscal 2013, the parameters related to operating costs and of September 30, 2013 and 2012 (the non-current portion the timeframe of the storage process of the radioactive waste thereof being €1,086 million and €1,215 million, respectively) in the Konrad final storage were updated by The Federal Office and to costs primarily associated with the removal of leasefor Radiation Protection (Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz). hold improvements at the end of the lease term. In fiscal 2012, the parameters related to the set up cost of the Environmental clean-up costs relate to remediation and enviKonrad final storage were updated by The Federal Office for Raronmental protection liabilities which have been accrued diation Protection. based on the estimated costs of decommissioning facilities for the production of uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements The determination of the provisions related to major asset in Hanau, Germany (Hanau facilities), as well as a nuclear ­ retirement obligations will continue to involve significant ­research and service center in Karlstein, Germany (Karlstein ­ estimates and assumptions. Uncertainties surrounding the ­facilities). According to the German Atomic Energy Act, when amount to be recognized include, for example, the estimated such a facility is closed, the resulting radioactive waste must costs of decommissioning and final storage because of the be collected and delivered to a government-developed final long time frame over which future cash outflows are expected storage facility. In this regard, the Company has developed a to occur. Amongst others, the estimated cash outflows related plan to decommission the Hanau and Karlstein facilities in the to the asset retirement obligation could alter significantly if, following steps: clean-out, decontamination and disassembly and when, political developments affect the government’s of equipment and installations, decontamination of the faciliplans to develop the so called Schacht Konrad. As of Septemties and buildings, sorting of radioactive materials, and interber 30, 2013 and 2012, the provision totals €1,096 million and mediate and final storage of the radioactive waste. This pro€1,224 million, respectively, and is recorded net of a present cess will be supported by continuing engineering studies and value discount of €1,259 million and €1,418 million, respecradioactive sampling under the supervision of German federal tively reflecting the assumed continuous outflow of the total and state authorities. The decontamination, disassembly and expected payments until the 2070’s. final waste conditioning are planned to continue until 2018; thereafter, the Company is responsible for intermediate storThe Company recognizes the accretion of the provision for enage of the radioactive materials until a final storage facility is vironmental clean-up costs using the effective interest method available. With respect to the Hanau facility, the process of setapplying current interest rates prevailing at the period-end ting up intermediate storage for radioactive waste has nearly date. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company recognized €22 milreached completion; on September 21, 2006, the Company relion and €23 million, respectively, in accretion expense for enceived official notification from the authorities that the Hanau vironmental clean-up costs in line item Other Financial income facility has been released from the scope of application of the (expenses), net. Changes in discount rates decreased the carGerman Atomic Energy Act and that its further use is unrerying amount of provisions by €128 million as of September 30, stricted. The ultimate costs of the remediation are contingent 2013 and increased it by €149 million as of September 30, 2012. on the decision of the federal government on the location of the final storage facilities and the date of their availability. Other – Other includes transaction-related and post-closing Consequently, the provision is based on a number of signifiprovisions in connection with portfolio activities as well as cant estimates and assumptions. Several parameters relating provisions for legal and regulatory matters. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 300 NOTE 25 Other liabilities September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Employee related liabilities 604 475 Liabilities due to employees and retirees in the U.S. not qualifying for presentation as post-employment benefits 534 523 Deferred income 275 221 Accruals for pending invoices 96 124 Accruals for stand-ready obligations 74 79 Severance payments 133 71 Warranties for disposed of businesses – 67 German pension insurance association – Pensionssicherungsverein (PSV) 39 56 Insurance liabilities 76 126 Other 243 292 2,074 2,034 NOTE 26 Equity CAPITAL STOCK Siemens’ issued capital is composed of no par value shares The following table provides a summary of outstanding authowith a notional value of €3.00 per share. Each share of issued rized and conditional capital and the changes for fiscal years capital is entitled to one vote. 2013 and 2012: Issued capital Authorized capital Conditional capital (authorized and issued) (not issued) (not issued) in thousands in thousand in thousands in thousand in thousands in thousand of € shares of € shares of € shares As of September 30, 2011 2,742,610 914,203 610,800 203,600 1,027,517 342,506 Expired or cancelled capital (99,610) (33,203) – – – – As of September 30, 2012 2,643,000 881,000 610,800 203,600 1,027,517 342,506 Expired, cancelled or newly approved capital – – – – – – As of September 30, 2013 2,643,000 881,000 610,800 203,600 1,027,517 342,506 AUTHORIZED CAPITAL (NOT ISSUED) Authorized Capital 2009 by up to €520.8 million through the The Company ’s shareholders authorized the Managing Board, issuance of up to 173.6 million shares for contributions in cash with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase capital and / or in kind (Authorized Capital 2009). The authorization stock through the issuance of no par value shares registered in was granted on January 27, 2009 and expires on January 26, the names of the holders and to determine the further content 2014. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Managof the rights embodied in the shares and the terms and condiing Board can exclude shareholders’ pre-emptive rights for captions of the share issue as follows: ital increases in the form of contributions in kind and in certain pre-stipulated circumstances for contributions in cash. Authorized Capital 2011 by up to €90 million through the issuance of up to 30 million shares for contributions in cash. The CONDITIONAL CAPITAL (NOT ISSUED) authorization was granted on January 25, 2011 and expires on Conditional Capital is provided for the purpose of a) serving January 24, 2016. In accordance with Authorized Capital 2011, the issuance of bonds with conversion rights and (or) with new shares can be issued solely to employees of Siemens AG warrants, b) accommodating the exercise of stock option plans and its subsidiaries. Pre-emptive rights of existing shareholdand c) settling claims of former Siemens Nixdorf Informationsers are excluded. systeme AG (SNI AG) shareholders. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 301 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Conditional Capital 2011 to service the issuance of bonds with period of at least two years, provided employment or Board conversion rights and / or with warrants or a combination membership exists at the time of the award; (4) offered and thereof in an aggregate principal amount of up to €15 billion, transferred with the approval of the Supervisory Board to third entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 90 million shares of parties against contributions in kind, particularly in connecSiemens AG with no par value, representing up to €270 million tion with business combinations or the acquisition of compaof capital stock. The authorization to issue such bonds was nies, businesses, parts of businesses or interests therein; (5) granted in January 2011 and will expire on January 24, 2016. with the approval of the Supervisory Board sold to third parties against payment in cash if the price at which such Siemens Conditional Capital 2010 to service the issuance of bonds with shares are to be sold is not significantly lower than the market conversion rights and / or with warrants in an aggregate principrice of the Siemens stock at the time of selling; or (6) used to pal amount of up to €15 billion, entitling the holders to subservice convertible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the Comscribe to up to 200 million shares of Siemens AG with no par pany or any of its subsidiaries. In addition, the Supervisory value, representing up to €600 million of capital stock. The auBoard may use repurchased shares to meet obligations or rights thorization to issue such bonds was granted on January 26, to acquire Siemens shares that were or will be agreed with 2010 and will expire on January 25, 2015. members of the Managing Board within the framework of rules governing Managing Board compensation. Conditional Capital to service the 2001 and 1999 Siemens Stock Option Plans amounts to €157 million, representing 52.32 milThe current authorization to acquire Siemens shares is supplelion shares of Siemens AG as of September 30, 2013 and 2012. mented by an authorization to repurchase up to 5% of its The last tranche of stock options expired in November 2010 ­capital stock existing at the date of the shareholders’ resoluand from that date on, no further shares are to be issued. tion by using equity derivatives or forward purchases with a maximum maturity term of 18 months; the repurchase of Conditional Capital provided to issue shares to settle claims oftreasury shares upon the exercise of such instruments shall be fered to former SNI AG shareholders who had not tendered no later than January 24, 2016. their SNI AG share certificates amounts to €0.6 million, representing 189 thousand shares as of September 30, 2013 and In August 2012, Siemens announced a share buyback amount2012. Such rights to claim Siemens shares expired in 2007 and ing to up to €3 billion which ended in November 2012. The no further shares are to be issued. shares repurchased may be used for the purposes of cancellation and reduction of capital stock, issuance to employees, TRANSACTIONS WITH board members of affiliated companies and members of the NON-CONTROLLING ­I NTERESTS Managing Board as well as to meet obligations arising under In connection with an acquisition in fiscal 2012, a minority and in connection with convertible bonds and warrant bonds. shareholder was granted a put option on the non-controlling In addition, in fiscal 2013, under the current authorization to interests. This transaction with non-controlling interests imacquire treasury shares given by resolution at the Annual pacted line item Retained earnings by €(301) million as of Shareholders’ Meeting, the Company repurchased as many ­September 30, 2012. treasury shares as were necessary to keep the number of ­treasury shares at a set level until the effective date of the TREASURY SHARES spin-off of OSRAM in July 2013. The Company is authorized by its shareholders to acquire treasury shares of up to 10% of its capital stock existing at the date In fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased 23,202,500 treasury of the shareholders’ resolution or – if this value is lower – as of shares at a weighted average share price of €76.14. Additionalthe date on which the authorization is exercised. The authorily, in fiscal 2012, the Managing Board decided to cancel zation became effective on March 1, 2011 and remains in force 33,203,421 treasury shares, which reduced issued capital from through January 24, 2016. According to the resolution, repur914 million shares to 881 million shares. In fiscal 2013, Siemens chased shares may be (1) sold via a stock exchange or through repurchased 17,150,820 treasury shares at weighted average a public sales offer made to all shareholders; (2) retired; (3) costs per share of €78.66. ­ offered for purchase to individuals currently or formerly ­employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries as well as In fiscal 2013 and 2012, 3,878,899 shares and 5,225,479 shares, to Board members of any of the Company ’s subsidiaries or respectively, were transferred in connection with equity s­ettled awarded and (or) transferred to such individuals with a vesting share-based payment plans. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 302 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, NET OF INCOME TAXES The changes in line item Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes including non-controlling interest holders are as follows: Year ended September 30, 2013 Year ended September 30, 2012 (in millions of €) Pretax Tax effect Net Pretax Tax effect Net Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 543 (149) 394 (3,017) 1,231 (1,787) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets 182 (3) 179 305 (10) 295 Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income 4 1 4 (86) – (86) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets 185 (2) 183 219 (10) 209 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments 142 (48) 94 (64) 29 (35) Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income (70) 21 (50) 144 (46) 98 Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments 72 (27) 45 79 (17) 63 Foreign-currency translation differences (1,062) – (1,062) 855 – 855 (805) (29) (834) 1,153 (27) 1,127 Other comprehensive income (262) (178) (440) (1,865) 1,204 (661) OTHER CHANGES IN EQUITY The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board proposed Line item Other changes in equity of the Consolidated Statea dividend of €3.00 per share of the fiscal 2013 Siemens AG ment of Changes in Equity includes €126 million in fiscal 2012 earnings, in total representing approximately €2.5 billion in which relate to the equity instruments of the US$ bonds with ­expected payments. Payment of the proposed dividend is conwarrants issued in fiscal 2012. After completion of the spin-off tingent upon approval by the shareholders at the Annual of OSRAM in fiscal 2013, those warrants entitle the holders to Shareholders’ Meeting on January 28, 2014. obtain OSRAM shares in addition to Siemens shares. As a consequence, the warrants no longer qualify as equity instruments. The warrants’ fair value of €163 million was reclassified NOTE 27 Additional capital disclosures from line item Capital reserve to non-current other financial liabilities as of the date of the approval at the Annual ShareholdSiemens believes that sustainable revenue and profit develers’ Meeting. opment can be achieved only on the basis of a healthy capital structure. A key consideration of our capital structure manMISCELLANEOUS agement is maintaining ready access to the capital markets Under the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), the through various debt products and preservation of our ability amount of dividends available for distribution to shareholders to repay and service our debt obligations over time. Siemens is based upon the earnings of Siemens AG as reported in its set a capital structure target range of 0.5 – 1.0. The ratio is statutory financial statements determined in accordance with defined as the item Adjusted industrial net debt divided by the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch). In fiscal the item Adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations). This 2013, Siemens AG management distributed an ordinary divi­ financial performance measure indicates the approximate dend of €2,528 million (€3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2012 earnamount of time in years that would be needed to pay off ings to its shareholders. In fiscal 2012, Siemens AG manage­ Adjusted industrial net debt through continuing income, ment distributed to its shareholders an ordinary dividend of without taking into account interest, taxes, depreciation and €2,629 million (€3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2011 earnings. amortization. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 303 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Siemens calculates the item Adjusted industrial net debt as set For purposes of measuring capital efficiency at SFS, equity forth in the table below: capital is allocated to SFS. Allocated equity capital differs from book capital as it is mainly determined and influenced by the size and quality of its portfolio of commercial finance as well September 30, as project and structured finance assets (primarily loans and (in millions of €) 2013 2012 leases) and equity investments. This allocation is designed to Short-term debt and current cover the risks of the underlying business. The actual risk of maturities of long-term debt 1 1,944 3,826 the SFS portfolio is evaluated and controlled on a regular basis. Plus: Long-term debt 1 18,509 16,880 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (10,891) Given the favorable capital market conditions at the end of Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (601) (524) ­fiscal 2012, Siemens announced in August 2012 that it would Net debt 10,663 9,292 adjust its capital structure through share buybacks amounting Less: SFS Debt 2 (15,600) (14,558) to up to €3 billion by December 30, 2012. In fiscal 2012, the Plus: Post-employment benefits 3 9,265 9,801 Company repurchased 23,202,500 treasury shares at a weightPlus: Credit guarantees 622 326 ed average share price of €76.14. At the beginning of fiscal Less: 50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4 (899) (920) 2013 Siemens repurchased further 14,746,786 treasury shares Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 5 (1,247) (1,670) at a weighted average price of €78.14 and completed this share Adjusted industrial net debt 2,805 2,271 buyback program in November 2012. In addition, in fiscal 2013, Adjusted EBITDA Siemens repurchased as many treasury shares as necessary to (continuing operations) 8,215 9,613 keep the number of treasury shares at a set level until the efAdjusted industrial net debt/adjusted EBITDA fective date of the spin-off of OSRAM and fulfilled commit(continuing operations) 0.34 0.24 ments for share-based compensation through treasury shares. 1 The item Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the item Long-term debt included in total fair value hedge accounting adjustments In fiscal 2014, Siemens may again fulfill commitments for of €1,247 million and €1,670 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 share-based compensation through treasury shares. and 2012, respectively. 2 The adjustment considers that both Moody ’s and S&P view SFS as a captive finance company. These rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher A key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our levels of debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit ratings. Following this concept, Siemens excludes SFS Debt in order to derive an credit rating which is affected by, among other factors, adjusted industrial net debt which is not affected by SFS’s financing activities. Siemens’ capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash 3 To reflect Siemens’ total post-employment benefit liability, adjusted industrial net debt includes line item Post-employment benefits as presented in the Consolidated flow, geographic and product diversification as well as Siemens’ Statements of Financial Position. competitive market position. Siemens’ current corporate credit 4 The adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial ratio applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and ratings from Moody ’s Investors Service (Moody ’s) and Stan50% as debt. This assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such as a long maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations. dard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) are noted as follows: 5 Debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount to be repaid. However for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market value mainly due to changes in interest rates. Accordingly Siemens deducts these changes in market value in order September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 to derive an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. Siemens believes Moody ’s S&P Moody ’s S&P this is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above. Long-term debt Aa3 A+ Aa3 A+ SFS’ capital structure differs from the capital structure of Short-term debt P -1 A -1+ P -1 A -1+ Siemens’ industrial business, as SFS’ business is capital intensive and requires a larger amount of debt to finance its operations, in particular to finance SFS’s asset growth strategy. The following table provides information on the capital structure On May 14, 2013, Moody ’s changed its outlook for Siemens’ of SFS as of September 30, 2013 and 2012: credit rating from stable to negative, stating that despite the group’s substantial cost reduction initiatives, we expect its profitability, cash flow generation and capital structure to be September 30, weaker than anticipated in 2013 and 2014. A rating outlook is an (in millions of €) 2013 2012 opinion regarding the likely direction of an issuer’s long-term Allocated equity 1,938 1,790 credit rating over the medium-term. Rating out­looks of Moody ’s SFS Debt 15,600 14,558 fall into the following six categories: positive, negative, stable, Debt to equity ratio 8.05 8.13 developing, ratings under review and no o ­ utlook. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 304 At the same time, Moody ’s affirmed our Aa3 long-term and our the nominal amount of the credit line. These guarantees have P-1 short-term credit rating. The classification Aa is the second terms up to twelve years and five years, respectively, in fiscal highest category within Moody ’s long-term credit rating scale. 2013 and 2012. Except for statutory recourse provisions against The numerical modifier 3 indicates a ranking in the lower end the primary debtor, credit guarantees are generally not subject of that category. The classification P-1 is the highest available to additional contractual recourse provisions. As of September rating in the prime rating system of Moody ’s, which assesses 30, 2013, item credit guarantees include €299 million relating issuers’ ability to honor senior financial obligations and conto a reclassification of a disposal group from discontinued to tracts. It applies to senior unsecured obligations with an origicontinuing operations. The Company accrued €38 million and nal maturity of less than one year. €28 million, relating to credit guarantees as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. S&P made no rating changes in fiscal 2013. S&P’s long-term credit rating for Siemens is A+ and the rating outlook is stable. Furthermore, Siemens issues guarantees of third-party perWithin S&P’s long-term credit rating scale, A is the third highformance, which include performance bonds and guaranest long-term rating category. The modifier + indicates that tees of advanced payments in cases where Siemens is the our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the A category. general or subsidiary partner in a consortium. In the event of Rating outlooks of S&P fall into the following four categories: non-fulfillment of contractual obligations by the consortium positive, negative, stable and developing. S&P’s short-term partner(s), Siemens will be required to pay up to an agreed-­ rating is A-1+, which is the highest rating within S&P’s shortupon maximum amount. These agreements span the term of term rating scale. the contract, typically ranging from three months to ten years in fiscal 2013 and seven years in fiscal 2012. Generally, consortium agreements provide for fallback guarantees as a NOTE 28 Commitments and contingencies recourse provision among the consortium partners. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the Company accrued €66 milGUARANTEES AND OTHER COMMITMENTS lion and €83 million, respectively, relating to performance The following table presents the undiscounted amount of guarantees. maximum potential future payments for each major group of guarantee: In fiscal 2007, The Federal Republic of Germany commissioned a consortium consisting of Siemens and IBM Deutschland ­GmbH (IBM) to modernize and operate the non-military in­ September 30, formation and communications technology of the German (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Federal Armed Forces (Bundeswehr). This project is called Guarantees HERKULES. A project company, BWI Informationstechnik ­ Credit guarantees 622 326 ­GmbH (BWI), provides the services required by the terms of Guarantees of third-party performance 1,593 1,562 the contract. Siemens is a shareholder in the project company. HERKULES obligations 1,890 2,290 The total contract value amounts to a maximum of approxiOther 1,864 3,632 mately €6 billion. In connection with this project, Siemens 5,970 7,810 ­issued several guarantees connected to each other legally and economically in favor of the Federal Republic of Germany and of the consortium member IBM in December 2006. The guarantees ensure that BWI has sufficient resources to provide the Item Credit guarantees cover the financial obligations of third required services and to fulfill its contractual obligations. parties in cases where Siemens is the vendor and (or) contracThese guarantees are listed as a separate item HERKULES tual partner. These guarantees generally provide that in the ­ obligations in the table above due to their compound and event of default or non-payment by the primary debtor, ­multilayer nature. Total future payments potentially required Siemens will be required to settle such financial obligations. In by Siemens amount to €1.89 billion and €2.29 billion as of addition, Siemens provides credit guarantees generally as ­September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively and will be reduced guarantees for credit-lines with variable utilization to joint by approximately €400 million per year over the remaining ventures and associated and other companies accounted for four-year contract period as of September 30, 2013. Yearly using the equity method. The maximum amount of these ­payments under these guarantees are limited to €400 million guarantees is subject to the outstanding balance of the credit plus, if applicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused guaror, in case where a credit line is subject to variable utilization, antees carried forward from the prior year. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 305 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Item Other includes indemnifications issued in connection NOTE 29 Legal proceedings with dispositions of business entities. Such indemnifications, if customary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buyPUBLIC CORRUPTION PROCEEDINGS er from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with Governmental and related proceedings the purchased business entity. Indemnifications include those As previously reported, in May 2011 Siemens AG voluntarily refor EN, disposed of in fiscal 2008, and Siemens IT Solutions ported a case of attempted public corruption in connection and Services disposed of in fiscal 2011. As of September 30, with a project in Kuwait in calendar 2010 to the U.S. Depart2013 and 2012, the total amount accrued for guarantees in item ment of Justice, the SEC, and the Munich public prosecutor. Other is €242 million and €528 million, respectively. Item OthThe Munich public prosecutor discontinued the investigations, er guarantees decreased in fiscal 2013, mainly due to the expiwhich related to certain former employees, but imposed condiration of indemnifications issued in connection with dispositions on them. Siemens is cooperating with the U.S. authoritions of business entities. ties in their ongoing investigations. As of September 30, 2012, in addition to guarantees disclosed As previously reported, in July 2011 the Nuremberg-Fuerth above, Siemens had credit guarantees of €309 million, guaranpublic prosecutor notified Siemens AG of an investigation tees of third-party performance of €4 million and other guaragainst several employees in connection with payments relatantees of €82 million (as of September 30, 2013, €3 million) reed to the healthcare business in the Caribbean. In November lating to discontinued operations. Contingencies relating to 2012, the Nuremberg-Fuerth public prosecutor discontinued businesses held for disposal not classified as discontinued opits investigation. erations are included in the above tabular. As previously reported, in July 2011 the Munich public prosecuAs of September 30, 2013 and 2012, future payment obligations tor notified Siemens AG of an investigation against a former under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: employee in connection with payments to a supplier related to the oil and gas business in Central Asia from calendar 2000 to 2009. Siemens is cooperating with the public prosecutor. September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 As previously reported, in October 2011, the Turkish Prime Within one year 807 812 ­Ministry Inspection Board notified Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret After one year but not more than five years 1,556 1,586 A.S., Turkey, of an investigation in connection with alleged More than five years 757 770 bribery in Turkey and Iraq from calendar 1999 to 2007. Siemens 3,120 3,168 is cooperating with the authority. In February 2013, Siemens AG and the European Investment Bank (EIB) signed a settlement agreement addressing alleged Total operating rental expense for the years ended September past violations of the EIB’s anti-fraud policy. The settlement in30, 2013 and 2012 were €1,073 million and €1,072 million, recludes a commitment by Siemens that the concerned business spectively. Total sublease income amounts to €62 million and unit will voluntarily refrain from bidding on projects financed €74 million, respectively in fiscal 2013 and 2012. Total future by the EIB for a period of 18 months. Further, Siemens comminimum sublease payments expected to be received under mits to provide funds, totaling €13.5 million over five years, to non-cancellable subleases as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 organizations or institutions that promote good governance amount to €139 million and €162 million, respectively. and the fight against corruption. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the Company has commitSince July 2013, following the voluntary self-reporting of cerments to make capital contributions to the equity of various tain facts by Siemens Ltda. Brazil to the Brazilian antitrust aucompanies of €223 million and €211 million, respectively. thorities in May 2013 mentioned below, several Brazilian prosecutorial offices have initiated or resumed investigations into The Company is jointly and severally liable and has capital conalleged criminal conduct, including alleged bribe payments, tribution obligations as a partner in commercial partnerships anticompetitive conduct and undue influencing of public tenand as a participant in various consortiums. ders, in connection with several metro transport projects. Among the resumed investigations are in particular two cases 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 306 that had been reported before, namely the investigations by As previously reported, in February 2010 a Greek Parliamentary the Brasilia and Sao Paulo public prosecutors related to alleged Investigation Committee (GPIC) was established to investigate misconduct in calendar 2007 and around 2000, respectively. whether any politicians or other state officials in Greece were Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. involved in alleged wrong-doing of Siemens in Greece. The GPIC’s investigation was focused on possible criminal liability In August 2013, a Brazilian Appellate Court upheld a decision to of politicians and other state officials. Greek public prosecutors suspend Siemens Ltda. Brazil from participating in public bids are separately investigating certain fraud and bribery allegaand signing contracts with public administrations in Brazil for tions involving – among others – former board members and a five year term, based on alleged irregularities in calendar former executives of Siemens A.E., Elektrotechnische Projekte 1999 and 2004 public tenders. Siemens is seeking remedial acund Erzeugnisse, Greece (Siemens A.E.), and Siemens AG. In tion against the decision of the Appellate Court. January 2011, the GPIC alleged in a letter to Siemens A.E. that the damage suffered by the Greek state amounted to at least As previously reported, Siemens AG had filed a request for arbi€2 billion. Furthermore, the GPIC issued a report repeating tration against the Republic of Argentina (Argentina) with the these allegations. In addition, the Hellenic Republic Minister of International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICState indicated in a letter to Siemens that the Greek state will SID) of the World Bank. Siemens AG claimed that Argentina seek compensation from Siemens for the alleged damage. In had unlawfully terminated its contract with Siemens for the April 2012, the Greek Parliament approved a settlement agreedevelopment and operation of a system for the production of ment between Siemens and the Greek State, the material proidentity cards, border control, collection of data and voters’ visions of which include the following: Siemens waives public registers (DNI project) and thereby violated the Bilateral Investsector receivables in the amount of €80 million. Furthermore ment Protection Treaty between Argentina and Germany (BIT). Siemens agrees to spend a maximum of €90 million on various A unanimous decision on the merits was rendered by the ICSID anti-corruption and transparency initiatives, as well as univerarbitration tribunal in February 2007, awarding Siemens AG, sity and research programs and to provide €100 million of inter alia, compensation in the amount of US$217.8 million, ­financial support to Siemens A.E. to ensure its continued presplus compound interest thereon at a rate of 2.66% since May ence in Greece. In exchange, the Greek State agrees to waive 18, 2001. Argentina subsequently filed applications with the all civil claims and all administrative fines related to the ­ICSID aiming at the annulment and reversal of the decision ­corruption allegations and to utilize best efforts to resolve all and a stay of enforcement of the arbitral award. In August pending disputes between Siemens and the Greek state-com2009, Argentina and Siemens AG reached an agreement to mupanies or its public authorities. tually settle the case and discontinue any and all civil proceedings in connection with the case without acknowledging any In February 2012, the Munich public prosecutor notified legal obligations or claims. No payment was made by either Siemens AG of a request for mutual assistance in criminal matparty. As previously reported, the Argentinean Anti-Corruption ters by the Swiss Federal Prosecution authority. The investigaAuthority is conducting an investigation against individuals tion of the Swiss Federal Prosecution involved the Swedish into corruption of government officials in connection with ­ subsidiary Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery (SIT) in conthe award of the contract for the DNI project to Siemens in nection with alleged payments to employees of a Russian nat­calendar 1998. Searches were undertaken at the premises of ural gas production company between calendar 2004 and Siemens Argentina and Siemens IT Services S.A. in Buenos 2006. In July 2013, the Swiss Federal Prosecution launched a ­Aires in August 2008 and in February 2009. The Company is criminal investigation against SIT for organizational neglect. In cooperating with the Argentinean Authorities. The Argentinean September 2013, the investigation was discontinued due to a investigative judge also repeatedly requested judicial assissettlement with the Swiss Federal Prosecution that included a tance from the Munich public prosecutor and the federal court restitution payment to a nonprofit organization and a compenin New York. In December 2011, the U.S. Securities and sation claim relating to forfeiture of profits in the lower double ­Exchange Commission (SEC) and U.S. Department of Justice digit US$ million range. filed an indictment against nine individuals based on the same facts as the investigation of the Argentinean Anti-Corruption As previously reported, the Vienna public prosecutor, Austria, Authority. Most of these individuals are former Siemens is conducting an investigation into payments between calenemployees. The former member of the Managing Board of ­ dar 1999 and 2006 relating to Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Siemens AG, Dr. Uriel Sharef, is also involved. Siemens AG is ­ Österreich, Austria, and its subsidiary Siemens VAI Metal not party to the proceedings. ­Technologies GmbH & Co., Austria, for which valid consider253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 307 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ation could not be identified. In September 2011, the Vienna the Company itself or against certain of its employees in conpublic prosecutor extended the investigations to include a nection with possible violations of law. In addition, the scope ­ potential corporate liability of Siemens AG Austria for tax of pending investigations may be expanded and new investi­evasion. Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. gations commenced in connection with allegations of bribery or other illegal acts. The Company ’s operating activities, finanAs previously reported, in December 2009, the Anti-Corruption cial results and reputation may also be negatively affected, Commission of Bangladesh (ACC) sent a request for informaparticularly as a result of penalties, fines, disgorgements, comtion to Siemens Bangladesh related to telecommunications pensatory damages, third-party litigation, including with comprojects of Siemens’ former Communications (Com) Group petitors, the formal or informal exclusion from public invita­undertaken prior to calendar 2007. In January 2010, Siemens tions to tender, or the loss of business licenses or permits. AdBangladesh was informed that in a related move the Anti Money ditional expenses and provisions, which could be material, Laundering Department of the Central Bank of Bangladesh is may need to be recorded in the future for penalties, fines, damconducting a special investigation into certain accounts of ages or other charges in connection with the investigations. Siemens Bangladesh and of former employees of Siemens ­Bangladesh in connection with transactions for Com projects Civil litigation undertaken in the period from calendar 2002 to 2006. In FebAs previously reported, Siemens AG reached a settlement with ruary 2010 and June 2012, the ACC sent requests for additional nine out of eleven former members of the Managing and information. Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. ­Supervisory Board in December 2009. The settlement relates to claims of breaches of organizational and supervisory duties in As previously reported, in November 2009 and in February view of the accusations of illegal business practices that 2010, a subsidiary of Siemens AG voluntarily self-reported ­occurred in the course of international business transactions possible violations of South African anti-corruption regula­ in calendar 2003 to 2006 and the resulting financial burdens tions in the period before calendar 2007 to the responsible for the Company. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approved South African authorities. The authorities have requested further all nine settlements between the Company and the former documentation. Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. members of the Managing and Supervisory Board in January 2010. The shareholders also approved a settlement agreement As previously reported, in June 2010, the Frankfurt public prosbetween the Company and its directors and officers insurers ecutor searched premises of Siemens in Germany in response regarding claims in connection with the D&O insurance of up to allegations of questionable payments relating to an Infrato €100 million. Siemens recorded €96 million gains, net of structure & Cities project in Thailand. Siemens is cooperating costs, from the D&O insurance and the nine settlements. In with the authority. January 2010, Siemens AG filed a lawsuit with the Munich District Court I against the two former board members who were As previously reported, in August 2010, the Inter-American not willing to settle, Dr. Thomas Ganswindt and Heinz-Joachim D ­ evelopment Bank (IADB) issued a notice of administrative Neubürger. The criminal proceedings pending with the proceedings against, among others, Siemens IT Solutions and ­Munich District Court I against Dr. Ganswindt were terminated Services Argentina alleging fraudulent misstatements and in July 2011. Against this backdrop, Siemens AG reached a ­antitrust violations in connection with a public invitation to settlement with Dr. Thomas Ganswindt in November 2012, ­ tender for a project in the province of Cordoba, Argentina, in which was subject to the approval of the Annual Shareholders’ calendar 2003. Siemens is cooperating with the IADB. Meeting. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens AG approved the settlement agreement with Dr. Ganswindt in ­ As previously reported, in August 2010, the IADB issued a January 2013. Therefore Siemens withdrew from the proceed­notice of administrative proceedings against, among others, ings pending before the Munich District Court I in March 2013, Siemens Venezuela alleging fraudulent misstatements and as provided for in the settlement. The lawsuit against public corruption in connection with a public invitation to Heinz-Joachim Neubürger is still pending. In January 2013, Mr. ­tender for healthcare projects in the Venezuelan provinces of Neubürger filed a counter claim against Siemens AG, requesting ­Anzoategui and Merida in calendar 2003. Siemens is cooperatthe transfer of Stock Awards in fiscal 2004 and 2005 plus diviing with the IADB. dends and interest. Siemens AG is contesting this counterclaim. The Company remains subject to corruption-related investigaAs previously reported, in June 2008, the Republic of Iraq filed tions in several jurisdictions around the world. As a result, adan action requesting unspecified damages against 93 named ditional criminal or civil sanctions could be brought against defendants with the United States District Court for the South92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 308 ern District of New York on the basis of findings made in the In addition to these proceedings, authorities in Brazil, the “Report of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United Czech Republic and Slovakia are conducting investigations Nations Oil-for-Food Programme.” Siemens S.A.S. France, ­into comparable possible antitrust violations. In October 2010, Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Turkey, and the former Siemens the High Court of New Zealand dismissed corresponding subsidiary OSRAM Middle East FZE, Dubai, are among the 93 charges against Siemens. named defendants. In February 2013, the court dismissed the Republic of Iraq ’s action with prejudice. The Republic of Iraq As previously reported, in September 2011, the Israeli Antitrust has appealed this decision. Authority requested Siemens to present its legal position ­regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement between ANTITRUST PROCEEDINGS April 1988 and April 2004 in the field of gas-insulated switchAs previously reported, in February 2007, the European Comgear. In September 2013, the Israeli Antitrust Authority conmission launched an investigation into possible antitrust viocluded that Siemens AG was a party to an illegal restrictive lations involving European producers of power transformers, ­ arrangement regarding the Israeli gas-insulated switchgear including Siemens AG and VA Technologie AG, Austria (VA market between 1988 and 2004, with an interruption from Tech), which Siemens acquired in July 2005. The German Anti­October 1999 to February 2002. The Company is considering to trust Authority (Bundeskartellamt) has become involved in the appeal this decision. proceeding and is responsible for investigating those allegations that relate to the German market. Power transformers are Based on the above mentioned conclusion of the Israel Antielectrical equipment used as major components in electric trust Authority, electricity consumer groups filed two class-actransmission systems in order to adapt voltages. In October tions for cartel damages against a number of companies in2009, the European Commission imposed fines totaling €68 cluding Siemens AG with an Israeli District Court in September million on seven companies with regard to a territorial market 2013. The plaintiffs seek compensation for alleged damages, sharing agreement related to Japan and Europe. Siemens was which are claimed to amount to €582 million. In addition, acnot fined because it had voluntarily disclosed this aspect of cording to an ad hoc-notice of the Israel Electric Corporation the case to the authorities. The German Antitrust Authority (IEC), the IEC is concurrently preparing to file a separate claim continued its investigation with regard to the German market. for damages against Siemens AG and other companies that alIn September 2012, the German Antitrust Authority and the legedly formed a cartel in the Israeli gas-insulated switchgear Company ended the legal proceeding by entering into a settlemarket. Siemens AG is defending itself. ment agreement. Siemens agreed to pay a fine in the single-digit € million range. As previously reported, in November 2010, the Greek Competition Authority searched the premises of Siemens S.A. in As previously reported, in April 2007, Siemens AG and former ­Athens in response to allegations of anti-competitive practices VA Tech companies filed actions before the European Court of in the field of telecommunication and security. In August 2012, First Instance in Luxemburg against the decisions of the Eurothe proceedings were discontinued without sanctions based pean Commission dated January 24, 2007, to fine Siemens and on the settlement agreement between Siemens and the Greek former VA Tech companies for alleged antitrust violations in State mentioned above. the European Market of high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear between calendar 1988 and 2004. Gas-insulated switchgear is In connection with the January 24, 2007 decision of the electrical equipment used as a major component for power ­European Commission regarding alleged antitrust violations in substations. The fine imposed on Siemens AG amounted to the high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear market, claims are €396.6 million and was paid by the Company in calendar 2007. being made against Siemens. Among others, a claim was filed The fine imposed on former VA Tech companies, which by National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc. (National Grid) Siemens AG acquired in July 2005, amounted to €22.1 million. with the High Court of England and Wales in November 2008. In addition, former VA Tech companies were declared jointly 21 companies have been named as defendants, including liable with Schneider Electric for a separate fine of €4.5 milSiemens AG and various of its subsidiaries. National Grid origlion. In March 2011, the European Court of First Instance disinally asserted claims in the aggregate amount of approximissed the case regarding the fine imposed on Siemens AG mately £249 million for damages and compound interest. In and re-calculated the fines for the former VA Tech companies. November 2012, National Grid increased the aggregate amount Former VA Tech companies were declared jointly liable with to £364 million due to accrued compound interest. Siemens Schneider Electric for a fine of €8.1 million. Siemens AG and believes National Grid’s claim to be without merit. As discussed, former VA Tech companies appealed the decision in May 2011. the European Commission’s decision has been appealed to the 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 309 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows European Court of First Instance. In June 2009, the High Court As previously reported, in June 2007, the Turkish Antitrust granted a stay of the proceedings pending before it. In June Agency confirmed its earlier decision to impose a fine in an 2009, the Siemens defendants filed their answers to the comamount equivalent to €6 million on Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret plaint and requested National Grid’s claim to be rejected. A A.S., Turkey, based on alleged antitrust violations in the traffic case management conference was held in November 2012. The lights market. Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. has appealed this High Court of England and Wales lifted the stay of the proceeddecision and this appeal is still pending. ings granted in June 2009 and decided on the scope of further discovery and set a time schedule leading up to a court session In May 2012, the Brazilian Anti-Trust Authority notified expected to be held in 2014. Siemens Ltda., Brazil of an investigation into anti-trust behavior in the field of air-insulated switchgear and other products As previously reported, in December 2010 and in March 2011, from calendar 1997 to 2006. Siemens is cooperating with the the Turkish Antitrust Authority searched the premises of sevauthorities. eral diagnostic companies including, among others, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostik Ticaret Limited Sirketi in Turkey, in reAs mentioned above, in May 2013, Siemens Ltda. Brazil entered sponse to allegations of anti-competitive agreements. Siemens into a leniency agreement with the Administrative Council for cooperated with the authority. In May 2012, the Turkish AntiEconomic Defense and other relevant authorities relating to trust Authority decided that the law had not been violated, and several Brazilian metro transport projects. The Company is discontinued the proceedings. ­cooperating with the authorities. It cannot be excluded that significant cartel damages claims will be brought by customers As previously reported, the Italian Antitrust Authority searched against Siemens Ltda. Brazil based on the outcome of the the premises of several healthcare companies, among others ­investigations. those of Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.r.l. and Siemens S.p.A. in February 2010. The investigation addresses allegaOTHER PROCEEDINGS tions of anti-competitive agreements in relation to a tender of As previously reported, Siemens AG is a member of a supplier the procurement entity for the public healthcare sector in the consortium that has been contracted to construct the nuclear region of Campania for the supply of medical equipment in calpower plant “Olkiluoto 3” in Finland for Teollisuuden Voima endar 2009. In May 2011, the Italian Antitrust Authority sent a Oyj (TVO) on a turnkey basis. Siemens AG’s share of the conStatement of Objections to the companies under investigation sideration to be paid to the supplier consortium under the which confirmed that the proceedings against Siemens contract is approximately 27%. The other member of the supHealthcare Diagnostics S.r.l. were closed, but accused Siemens plier consortium is a further consortium consisting of Areva S.p.A. of having participated in an anti-competitive arrangeNP S.A.S. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Areva NP GmbH. ment. In August 2011, the Italian Antitrust Authority fined sevThe agreed completion date for the nuclear power plant was eral companies, including Siemens S.p.A. for alleged anti-comApril 30, 2009. Completion of the power plant has been depetitive behavior. The fine imposed on Siemens S.p.A. amounts layed for ­reasons which are in dispute. In December 2011, the to €1.1 million. The company appealed the decision. In April supplier consortium informed TVO that the completion of the 2012, the Regional Administrative Court overturned the deciplant is expected in August 2014. In February 2013 TVO ansion of the Italian Antitrust Authority. In November 2012, the nounced that it is preparing for the possibility that the start of Italian Antitrust Authority appealed the decision of the Regionthe regular electricity production of the plant may be postal Administrative Court. poned until calendar year 2016. The supplier consortium and TVO continue to assess the schedule and the risk of further As previously reported, in September 2011, the Competition slippage in ­detail. The final phases of the plant completion reCommission of Pakistan requested Siemens Pakistan Engineerquire the full cooperation of all parties involved. In December ing Co. Ltd., Pakistan (Siemens Pakistan), to present its legal 2008, the ­supplier consortium filed a request for arbitration position regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement against TVO demanding an extension of the construction since calendar 2007 in the field of transformers and air-insulattime, additional compensation, milestone payments, damaged switchgears. Siemens cooperated with the authority. In Dees and interest. In June 2011, the supplier consortium incember 2011, Siemens Pakistan filed a leniency application. In creased its monetary claim to €1.94 billion. TVO rejected the April 2012, the Competition Commission of Pakistan accepted claims and made counterclaims against the supplier consorthe leniency application and granted Siemens Pakistan a 100% tium consisting primarily of damages due to the delay. In June penalty reduction for the alleged behavior. 2012, the arbitral tribunal rendered a partial award ordering 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 310 the release of withheld m ­ ilestone payments to the supplier In July 2008, Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. consortium of approximately €101 million plus interest. As of (OTE) filed a lawsuit against Siemens AG with the district court September 2012, TVO’s alleged counterclaims amounted to of Munich, Germany, seeking to compel Siemens AG to dis€1.59 billion based on a delay of up to 56 months. Based on a close the outcome of its internal investigations with respect to completion in August 2014, TVO estimates that its counterOTE. OTE seeks to obtain information with respect to allegaclaims amount to €1.77 billion. The further delay beyond tions of undue influence and / or acts of bribery in connection 56 months (beyond December 2013) as well as the further with contracts concluded between Siemens AG and OTE from slippage in the schedule currently under assessment by the calendar 1992 to 2006. In May 2009, OTE was granted access to supplier consortium and TVO could lead TVO to further inthe public prosecutor’s files in Greece. At the end of July 2010, crease its counterclaims. In October 2013 the supplier consorOTE expanded its claim and requested payment of damages by tium increased its claim for an extension of construction time Siemens AG of at least €57.07 million to OTE for alleged bribery and its monetary claims to €2.65 billion. The arbitration propayments to OTE-employees. While Siemens AG continues to ceedings may continue for several years. defend itself against the expanded claim, Siemens AG and OTE remain in discussions to resolve the matter. As previously reported, Siemens AG terminated its joint venture with Areva S.A. (Areva) in January 2009. Thereafter As previously reported, Siemens A.E. entered into a subconSiemens AG entered into negotiations with the State Atomic tract agreement with Science Applications International CorEnergy Corporation Rosatom (Rosatom) with a view to forming poration, Delaware, USA, (SAIC) in May of 2003 to deliver and a new partnership active in the construction of nuclear power install a significant portion of a security surveillance system plants, in which it would be a minority shareholder. In April (the C4I project) in advance of the Olympic Games in Athens, 2009, Areva filed a request for arbitration with the ICC against Greece. Siemens A.E. fulfilled its obligations pursuant to the Siemens AG. Areva sought an order enjoining Siemens AG subcontract agreement. Nonetheless, the Greek government from pursuing such negotiations with Rosatom, a declaration claimed errors related to the C4I-System and withheld amounts that Siemens AG is in material breach of its contractual obligafor abatement in a double-digit million € range. Furthermore, tions and a reduction of the price payable to Siemens AG for its the Greek government is withholding the final payment in a stake in the Areva NP S.A.S. joint venture. The final award of double-digit million € range, claiming that the system has not the arbitral tribunal was notified in May 2011. According to this yet been finally accepted. Although Siemens A.E. is not a conaward, Siemens had to pay Areva liquidated damages of €648 tractual party of the Greek government, under Siemens A.E.’s million plus interest. Pursuant to the arbitral award, the dissubcontract agreement with SAIC non-payment by the Greek puted non-compete obligation was reduced to four years government also has an economic effect on Siemens A.E. SAIC ­(ending in September 2013). has filed for arbitration contesting all the Greek government’s claims and the withholding of payments. In July 2013, the arbiAs previously reported, Siemens is involved in the construction tration court issued the arbitral award ordering the Greek State of a power plant in the United States. Siemens Energy, Inc., to pay €40 million to SAIC. The Greek State is contesting the USA, and Kvaerner North American Construction, Inc., USA enforcement of the arbitral award. The final resolution of (Kvaerner) are consortium partners in this project, commisthis dispute has been complicated by public bribery and sioned by Longview Power LLC, USA (Longview). Foster Wheelfraud ­allegations against Siemens A.E. in Greece, which have er North America Corp, USA (Foster Wheeler) supplied the boilresulted in extensive negative media coverage concerning the er for the project. Kvaerner filed an arbitration request before C4I system. the American Arbitration Association in June 2011, and in October and November 2012, the parties filed claims for monetary As previously reported, Russian authorities are conducting damages against one another. The amounts claimed by widespread investigations regarding possible fraudulent activLongview and Foster Wheeler from the consortium partners toities of resellers and governmental officials relating to procuretal approximately US$243 million. Siemens filed claims for ment of medical equipment in the public sector. As is the case monetary damages of approximately US$110 million against with other providers of medical equipment, OOO Siemens, Longview and Foster Wheeler. Kvaerner is claiming approxiRussia, has received numerous information requests and inmately US$252.8 million from Longview and Foster Wheeler. quiries were made on-site by the authorities regarding tenders Longview filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the US Bankin the public healthcare sector. OOO Siemens is cooperating in ruptcy Code, which may result in delay to the arbitration prothe ongoing investigations which also relate to certain individceeding dealing with the claim and counterclaim. ual employees. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 311 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As previously reported, in April 2009, the Defense Criminal in the amount of €238 million for alleged breaches of the ­Investigative Service of the U.S. Department of Defense conframework agreement entered into among the parties in ducted a search at the premises of Siemens Medical Solutions 2007. The claims ­related to a contract which had been transUSA, Inc., United States, in Malvern, Pennsylvania, in connecferred to a subsidiary of NSN. In connection with the sale of tion with an investigation relating to a Siemens contract with Siemens AG’s shares in NSN to Nokia on July 1, 2013, the parthe U.S. Department of Defense for the provision of medical ties settled the dispute. equipment. Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. End of October 2013 Essent Wind Nordsee Ost Planungsund As previously reported, in June 2009, Siemens AG and two of Betriebsgesellschaft mbH filed a request for arbitration against its subsidiaries voluntarily self-reported, among others, possiSiemens AG alleging violations of a contract for the delivery of ble violations of U.S. Export Administration Regulations to the a High Voltage Substation entered into by the parties in 2010. responsible U.S. authorities. In October, 2011, the U.S. DepartThe claimant claims damages in an amount of €256 million ment of Commerce notified Siemens that it closed its case plus interest and a determination that Siemens AG shall be without taking further action. In January 2013, the U.S. Depart­liable for any further damages, which are claimed to amount to ment of the Treasury notified Siemens that it closed its case €152 million. Siemens AG will defend itself against this action. without taking further action. For legal proceedings information required under IAS 37, ProviAs previously reported, in December 2011, the United States sions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, is not ­Attorney ’s Office for the Northern District of New York served ­disclosed, if the Company concludes that the disclosure can a Grand Jury subpoena on Siemens that seeks records of be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the litigation. ­consulting payments for business conducted by the Building Technologies Business Unit in New York State over the period In addition to the investigations and legal proceedings defrom January 1, 2000 through September 30, 2011. In June scribed above, Siemens AG and its subsidiaries have been 2013, the authority notified Siemens that it closed its case. named as defendants in various other legal actions and proceedings arising in connection with their activities as a global In February 2012, the United States Attorney ’s Office for the diversified group. Some of these pending proceedings have Eastern District of New York served a subpoena on Siemens been previously disclosed. Some of the legal actions include Healthcare Diagnostics Inc., United States, for information reclaims or potential claims for punitive damages or claims for lating to a diagnostics process. Siemens is cooperating with indeterminate amounts of damages. Siemens is from time to the authority. time also involved in regulatory investigations beyond those described above. Siemens is cooperating with the relevant auIn January 2013, Siemens Electrical, LLC, USA (Siemens Electrithorities in several jurisdictions and, where appropriate, concal), an entity wholly-owned by Siemens Industry, Inc., USA, ducts internal investigations regarding potential wrongdoing entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the with the assistance of in-house and external counsel. Given New York County District Attorney ’s Office. The DPA relates to the number of legal actions and other proceedings to which misconduct concerning Master Electrician and Minority BusiSiemens is subject, some may result in adverse decisions. ness Enterprise requirements in connection with contracts Siemens contests actions and proceedings when it considers it with the New York City Department of Environmental Protecappropriate. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the tion. The individuals responsible for the admitted misconduct outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claimwere Siemens’ former business partners to the predecessor ants seek indeterminate damages, Siemens may not be able to to Siemens Electrical. Under the terms of the DPA, Siemens predict what the eventual loss or range of loss related to such Electrical agreed to, among other things, forfeit US$10 million. matters will be. The final resolution of the matters discussed The case will be dismissed after two years if the company in this paragraph could have a material effect on Siemens’ meets certain specified conditions under the DPA. business, results of operations and financial condition for any reporting period in which an adverse decision is rendered. In March 2013, Nokia Siemens Networks Holding B.V. (NSN), However, Siemens currently does not expect its business, Nokia Corporation and Nokia Finance International B.V. (Nokia ­results of operations and financial condition to be materially Finance) filed a request for arbitration against Siemens AG. affected by the additional legal matters not separately disNSN, Nokia Corporation and Nokia Finance sought damages cussed in this paragraph. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 312 NOTE 30 Additional disclosures on financial instruments The following table presents the carrying amounts of each ­category of financial assets and financial liabilities: September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Financial assets: Loans and receivables 29,331 28,439 Cash and cash equivalents 9,190 10,891 Derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship 625 1,918 Financial assets held for trading 1,705 1,410 Available-for-sale financial assets 2,161 1,546 43,010 44,203 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 29,704 30,160 Financial liabilities held for trading 887 920 Derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship 160 204 30,751 31,284 The following table presents the fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost: September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 Carrying Carrying (in millions of €) Fair value amount Fair value amount Financial assets measured at cost or amortized cost Trade and other receivables 1 12,944 12,944 13,344 13,344 Receivables from finance leases 5,261 5,261 5,059 5,059 Cash and cash equivalents 9,190 9,190 10,891 10,891 Other non-derivative financial assets 11,126 11,126 10,036 10,036 Available-for-sale financial assets 2 – 167 – 293 Financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost Notes and bonds 18,742 18,491 18,460 18,212 Trade payables 3 7,599 7,599 8,036 8,036 Loans from banks and other financial indebtedness 1,821 1,832 2,340 2,334 Obligations under finance leases 167 130 202 161 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 1,651 1,651 1,418 1,418 1 Consists of (1) €12,932 million and €13,310 million trade As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, trade receivables for-sale, for which a fair value could not be reliably receivables from the sale of goods and services in fiscal from the sale of goods and services of €612 million measured and which are therefore recognized at cost. 2013 and 2012, respectively, as well as (2) €11 million and €685 million have a remaining term of more than 3 As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, trade payables of and €34 million receivables included in line item Other twelve months. €32 million and €128 million have a remaining term of financial assets in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. 2 Consists of equity instruments classified as availablemore than twelve months. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 313 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents includes €320 million and €199­ Financial instruments categorized as financial assets and ­million as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which ­financial liabilities measured at fair value are presented in the are not available for use by Siemens mainly due to minimum following table: reserve requirements with banks. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the carrying amount of September 30, ­financial assets Siemens has pledged as collateral amounted (in millions of €) 2013 2012 to €344 million and €500 million, respectively. Financial assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 1,994 1,252 The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other Derivative financial instruments 2,330 3,328 receivables and trade payables with a remaining term of up to Not designated in a hedge accounting relationship 1,587 1,202 twelve months, other current financial liabilities and borrowIn connection with fair value hedges 472 1,783 ings under revolving credit facilities approximate their carryForeign currency exchange derivatives 6 22 ing amount, mainly due to the short-term maturities of these Interest rate derivatives 466 1,761 instruments. In connection with cash flow hedges 153 135 Foreign currency exchange derivatives 152 132 Fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables with a remaining term Commodity derivatives 1 3 of more than twelve months, including receivables from Embedded derivatives 118 208 ­finance leases, are evaluated by the Company based on pa4,324 4,580 rameters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors, individual creditworthiness of the customer, and the risk charFinancial liabilities measured at fair value acteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, Derivative financial instruments 1,047 1,125 allowances for these receivables are recognized. As of SepNot designated in a hedge tember 30, 2013 and 2012, the carrying amounts of such accounting relationship 765 823 ­receivables, net of allowances, approximate their fair values. In connection with fair value hedges 8 11 Foreign currency exchange derivatives 3 2 The fair value of quoted notes and bonds is based on price Interest rate derivatives 5 9 quotations at the period-end date. The fair value of unquoted In connection with cash flow hedges 152 193 notes and bonds, loans from banks and other financial indebtForeign currency exchange derivatives 148 185 edness, obligations under finance leases as well as other Interest rate derivatives – 8 non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting Commodity derivatives 3 – ­future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of Embedded derivatives 122 98 similar terms and remaining maturities. 1,047 1,125 The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets quoted in an active market is based on price quotations at the period-end date. The fair value of unquoted debt instruments is estimated by discounting future cash flows using current market interest rates. The Company limits default risks resulting from derivative ­ financial instruments by a careful counterparty selection. ­Derivative financial instruments are generally transacted with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments at Siemens incorporates all factors that market participants would consider, including the counterparties’ credit risks. The exact ­calculation of fair values of derivative financial instruments depends on the specific type of instrument: 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 314 Derivative interest rate contracts – The fair values of derivative The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to our interest rate contracts (e.g. interest rate swap agreements) are financial assets and financial liabilities are described below: estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market interest rates and yield curves over the remainLevel 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets ing term of the instrument. Interest rate futures and interest or liabilities; rate options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices when available. If quoted market prices are not available, interLevel 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are observest rate options are valued based on option pricing models. able for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and Derivative currency contracts – The fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts is based on forward exchange rates. Level 3: inputs for assets or liabilities, not based on observCurrency options are valued on the basis of quoted market able market data. prices or on estimates based on option pricing models. Net gains (losses) of financial instruments are as follows: Derivative commodity contracts – The fair value of commodity swaps is based on forward commodity prices. Commodity ­options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices or on Year ended September 30, estimates based on option pricing models. (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents (1) 11 In determining the fair values of the derivative financial Available-for-sale financial assets (99) 83 ­instruments, no compensating effects from underlying transLoans and receivables (178) (238) actions (e.g. firm commitments and forecast transactions) are Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 408 (258) taken into consideration. Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading 363 (189) The following table allocates financial assets and financial ­liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair value hierarchy. Net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 on available-for-sale financial assets include net gains on derecognition as well as September 30, 2013 impairment losses. Net losses on loans and receivables con(in millions of €) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total tain changes in valuation allowances, gains or losses on Financial assets derecognition as well as recoveries of amounts previously measured at fair value written-off. Net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 on finanAvailable-for-sale financial assets 1,884 110 – 1,994 cial liabilities measured at amortized cost are comprised of Derivative financial instruments – 2,330 – 2,330 gains (losses) from derecognition and the ineffective portion Total 1,884 2,440 – 4,324 of fair value hedges. Net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 Financial liabilities measured at fair value on financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading conDerivative financial instruments – 1,047 – 1,047 sist of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, including interest income and expense, for which hedge accounting is not applied. The amounts presented include foreign currency gains and September 30, 2012 losses from the realization and valuation of the financial ­assets (in millions of €) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total and liabilities mentioned above. Financial assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 1,252 – – 1,252 Derivative financial instruments – 3,328 – 3,328 Total 1,252 3,328 – 4,580 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial instruments – 1,125 – 1,125 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 315 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 31 Derivative financial instruments s­ubstantial parties to the contract nor a currency which is and hedging activities commonly used in the economic environment in which the contract takes place. Gains (losses) relating to such embedded As part of the Company ’s risk management program, a variety foreign currency derivatives are reported in line item Cost of of derivative financial instruments is used to reduce risks sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income. resulting primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency ­ ­exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Hedging activities The Company ’s operating units apply hedge accounting for The fair values of each type of derivative financial instruments certain significant forecast transactions and firm commitrecorded as financial assets or financial liabilities are as ments denominated in foreign currencies. Particularly, the ­f­ollows: Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce the risk of variability of future cash flows ­resulting from forecast sales and purchases as well as firm September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 commitments. This risk results mainly from contracts denomi(in millions of €) Asset Liability Asset Liability nated in US$ both from Siemens’ operating units entering into Foreign currency long-term contracts, e.g. project business, and from the stanexchange contracts 416 331 343 325 dard product business. Interest rate swaps and combined interest/currency swaps 1,637 261 2,577 534 Cash flow hedges – As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, the inCommodity swaps 35 49 36 27 effective portion of cash flow hedges is not significant individEmbedded derivatives 118 122 208 98 ually or in aggregate. Options 123 281 164 141 Credit Default Swaps – 4 – – Periods in which the hedged forecast transactions or the firm 2,330 1,047 3,328 1,125 commitments denominated in foreign currency are expected to impact profit or loss: FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE Year ended September 30, RISK MANAGEMENT 2016 to 2019 and (in millions of €) 2014 2015 2018 thereafter Derivative financial instruments Expected gain (loss) not designated in a hedging relationship to be reclassified from line The Company manages its risks associated with fluctuations in item Other comprehensive foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt, income, net of income taxes into revenue or cost of sales 54 (14) (36) 3 firm commitments and forecast transactions primarily through a Company-wide portfolio approach. Under this approach the Company-wide risks are aggregated centrally, and various derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency ­ INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT ­exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and options, are Interest rate risk arises from the sensitivity of financial assets utilized to minimize such risks. Such a strategy does not and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. The Compa­qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, all such ny seeks to mitigate that risk by entering into interest rate derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on ­derivatives such as interest rate swaps, options, interest rate the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, either in futures and forward rate agreements. line items Other current financial assets (liabilities) or line items Other financial assets (liabilities); changes in fair values Derivative financial instruments are charged to net income (loss). not designated in a hedging relationship For the interest rate risk management relating to the Group The Company also has foreign currency derivatives, which are ­excluding SFS’ business, derivative financial instruments are embedded in sale and purchase contracts denominated in used under a portfolio-based approach to manage interest risk a currency that is neither the functional currency of the actively relative to a benchmark. The interest rate management 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 316 relating to the SFS’ business remains to be managed separately, ness hedged as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 was €7,100 considering the term structure of SFS’ financial assets and million and €11,253 million, respectively. This changed 41% ­liabilities on a portfolio basis. Neither approach qualifies for and 66% of the Company ’s underlying notes and bonds from hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, all interest rate fixed interest rates into variable interest rates as of September ­ derivatives held in this relation are recorded at fair value, 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The notional amounts of these ­either in line items Other current financial assets (liabilities) or contracts mature at varying dates based on the maturity of the in line items Other financial assets (liabilities), and changes in underlying hedged items. The net fair value of interest rate the fair values are charged to line item Other financial income swap contracts (excluding accrued interest) used to hedge (expenses), net. Net cash receipts and payments relating to ­indebtedness as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 was €385 ­interest rate swaps used in offsetting relationships are also ­million and €1,586 million, respectively. To reduce counter­ ­recorded in line item Other financial income (expenses), net. party risk, Siemens agreed in fiscal 2013 to adjust the fixed rate of several interest rate swaps to market levels in exchange for Fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt obligations receiving a fair value compensation. Under the interest rate swap agreements outstanding during the years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the Company Cash flow hedges of a variable-rate term loan has agreed to pay a variable rate of interest multiplied by a noAs of September 30, 2012, the Company applied cash flow tional principle amount, and receives in return an amount hedge accounting for 50% of a variable-rate US$1 billion term equal to a specified fixed rate of interest multiplied by the loan. To benefit from the low interest rates in the U.S., the same notional principal amount. These interest rate swap Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to pay a agreements offset an impact of future changes in interest rates fixed rate of interest and to receive in return a variable rate of designated as the hedged risk on the fair value of the underlyinterest. These interest rate swap agreements offset the effect ing fixed-rate debt obligations. The interest rate swap conof future changes in interest payments to be made for the tracts are recorded at fair value in the Company ’s Consolidated underlying variable-rate term loan. The variable-rate term ­ Statements of Financial Position and the related portion of loan and the corresponding interest rate swap agreements fixed-rate debt being hedged is recorded at an amount equal to matured in August 2013. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the cash flow the sum of its carrying amount plus an adjustment representhedges of the variable-rate term loan did not result in any ing the change in fair value of the debt obligations attributable ­ineffective portion. Net cash receipts and payments relating to to the respective interest rate risk being hedged. Changes in such interest rate swap agreements are recorded as interest the fair value of interest rate swap contracts and the offsetting expenses. changes in the adjusted carrying amount of the related portion of fixed-rate debt being hedged are recognized in line item COMMODITY PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT Other financial income (expenses), net in the Consolidated Derivative financial instruments not designated Statements of Income. Adjustments in the carrying amount of in a hedging relationship the debt obligations resulted in a gain (loss) of €293 million The Company applies a portfolio approach to manage the and €(227) million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. During ­Company-wide risks associated with fluctuations in commodthe same period, the related swap agreements resulted in a ity prices from firm commitments and forecast transactions by gain (loss) of €(305) million and €233 million, respectively. entering into commodity swaps and commodity options. Such ­Accordingly, the net effect recognized in line item Other fia strategy does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. nancial income (expenses), net, representing the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship, amounts to €(12) million Cash flow hedging activities and €7 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net cash The Company ’s corporate procurement applies cash flow receipts and payments relating to such interest rate swap hedge accounting for certain firm commitments to purchase agreements are recorded as interest expenses. copper. The ineffective portion as well as resulting gains and (losses) were not significant individually or in aggregate. The Company had interest rate swap contracts to pay variable rates of interest of an average of 0.3% and 0.5% as of SeptemIt is expected that €104 million of net deferred losses in line ber 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively and received fixed rates of item Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes will be interest (average rate of 3.5% and 5.1% as of September 30, reclassified into line item Cost of sales in fiscal 2014, when the 2013 and 2012, respectively). The notional amount of indebtedconsumption of the hedged commodity purchases is recog253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 317 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows nized in line item Cost of sales. As of September 30, 2013 and come may differ substantially from VaR figures due to funda2012, the maximum length of time over which the Company is mental conceptual differences. The Consolidated Statements hedging its future commodity purchases is 87 months and 99 of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Inmonths, respectively. come are prepared in accordance with IFRS. The VaR figures are the output of a model with a purely financial perspective and represent the potential financial loss which will not be exNOTE 32 Financial risk management ceeded within ten days with a probability of 99.5%. The concept of VaR is used for internal management of the Corporate Siemens’ financial risk management is an integral part of how Treasury activities. to plan and execute its business strategies. Siemens’ financial risk management policy is set by the Managing Board. Although VaR is an important tool for measuring market risk, Siemens’ organizational and accountability structure requires the assumptions on which the model is based give rise to each of the respective managements of Siemens Sectors, Fisome limitations including the following. A ten day holding nancial Services, Cross-Sector Services, regions and Corporate period assumes that it is possible to dispose of the underlying Units to implement financial risk management programs that positions within this period. While this is considered to be a are tailored to their specific industries and responsibilities, realistic assumption in almost all cases, it may not be valid while being consistent with the overall policy established by during prolonged periods of severe market illiquidity. A 99.5% the Managing Board. confidence level does not reflect losses that may occur beyond this level. There is a 0.5% statistical probability that losses Increasing market fluctuations may result in significant cash could exceed the calculated VaR. The use of historical data as a flow and earnings volatility risk for Siemens. The Company ’s basis for estimating the statistic behavior of the relevant maroperating business as well as its investment and financing ackets and finally determining the possible range of the future tivities are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates, inoutcomes on the basis of this statistic behavior may not alterest rates, commodity prices and equity prices. In order to ways cover all possible scenarios, especially those of an excepoptimize the allocation of the financial resources across the tional nature. Any market sensitive instruments, including eqSiemens segments and entities, as well as to secure an optimal uity and interest bearing investments, that our Company ’s return for its shareholders, Siemens identifies, analyzes and pension plans hold are not included in the following quantitaproactively manages the associated financial market risks. The tive and qualitative disclosures. Company seeks to manage and control these risks primarily through its regular operating and financing activities, and uses FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK derivative financial instruments when deemed appropriate. Transaction risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk management Within the various methodologies to analyze and manage risk, Siemens’ international operations expose the Company to forSiemens has implemented a system based on parametric varieign currency exchange rate risks, particularly regarding flucance-covariance Value at Risk (VaR). The VaR methodology protuations between the U.S. dollar and the euro, in the ordinary vides a quantification of market risks based on historical volacourse of business. The Company employs various strategies tilities and correlations of the different risk factors under the discussed below involving the use of derivative financial inassumptions of the parametric variance-covariance Value at struments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those exposures. Risk model. The VaR figures are calculated based on Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may create un>> historical volatilities and correlations, wanted and unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. >> a ten day holding period, and Each Siemens unit conducting business with international >> a 99.5% confidence level counterparties that leads to future cash flows denominated in a currency other than its functional currency is exposed to for foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, comrisks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign modity price risk and equity price risk as discussed below. currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods, commodities and services in the respective Actual results that are included in the Consolidated Statements currencies as well as production activities and other contribuof Income or Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Intions along the value chain in the local markets. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 318 Operating units (including SFS) are prohibited from borrowing Siemens defines foreign currency exchange rate exposure genor investing in foreign currencies on a speculative basis. Intererally as items of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Posicompany financing or investments of operating units are preftion in addition to firm commitments which are denominated erably carried out in their functional currency or on a hedged in foreign currencies, as well as foreign currency denominated basis. cash inflows and cash outflows from forecast transactions for the following three months. This foreign currency exchange Siemens has established a foreign currency exchange rate risk rate exposure is determined based on the respective functionmanagement system that has an established track record for al currencies of the exposed Siemens’ entities. years. Each Siemens unit is responsible for recording, assessing, monitoring, reporting and hedging its foreign currency Effects of foreign currency translation transaction exposure. The binding guideline for Siemens’ operMany Siemens units are located outside the euro zone. Since ating units provides the concept for the identification and the financial reporting currency of Siemens is the euro, the fi­ determination of a single net foreign currency position for nancial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into euro each unit and commits the units to hedge this aggregated pofor the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. To sition within a narrow band of at least 75% but no more than consider the effects of foreign currency translation in the risk 100% of their net foreign currency position. In addition, the management, the general assumption is that investments in guideline provides a framework of the organizational structure foreign-based operations are permanent and that r­ einvestment necessary for foreign currency exchange rate risk manageis continuous. Effects from foreign currency e ­ xchange rate flucment, proposes hedging strategies and defines the hedging tuations on the translation of net asset amounts into euro are instruments available to the entities: foreign currency exreflected in the Company ’s consolidated equity position. change contracts, foreign currency put and call options and stop-loss orders. If there are no conflicting country specific INTEREST RATE RISK regulations, hedging activities of the operating units are transSiemens’ key consideration with respect to the interest rate acted internally with Corporate Treasury. Hedging transactions risk management is to mitigate the risk resulting from changes with external counterparties in the global financial markets in the fair value of future cash flows. Risk arises whenever inare carried out under these limitations by Corporate Treasury. terest terms of financial assets and liabilities are different. This includes hedging instruments which qualify for hedge acSiemens manages this risk using derivative financial instrucounting. ments which allow the Company to hedge fair value changes by swapping fixed rates of interest into variable rates of interSiemens has a Company-wide portfolio approach which generest. In order to optimize the Company ’s position with regard to ates a benefit from any potential off-set of divergent cash flows interest income and interest expenses and to manage the overin the same currency, as well as optimized transaction costs. all financial interest rate risk with respect to valuation risk affecting profit and loss and economic risk of changing interest The VaR relating to foreign currency exchange rates is calcurates, Corporate Treasury performs a comprehensive corporate lated by aggregating the net foreign currency positions after interest rate risk management, under which the interest rate hedging by the operating units. As of September 30, 2013 the risk relating to the SFS’ business and to the remaining group foreign currency exchange rate risk based on historical volaare managed separately. tilities and correlations, a ten day holding period and a confidence level of 99.5% resulted in a VaR of €6 million compared If there are no conflicting country-specific regulations, all to a VaR of €9 million in the year before. Changes in euro valSiemens operating units generally obtain any required financues of future cash flows denominated in foreign currency due ing through Corporate Treasury in the form of loans or interto volatile foreign currency exchange rates might influence company clearing accounts. The same concept is adopted for the unhedged portion of revenues, but would also affect the deposits of cash generated by the units. unhedged portion of cost of materials. Future changes in the foreign currency exchange rates can impact sales prices and Assuming historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day may lead to margin changes, the extent of which is deterholding period and a confidence level of 99.5% the interest mined by the matching of foreign currency revenues and rate VaR was €236 million as of September 30, 2013, increasing ­expenses. from the comparable value of €89 million as of September 30, 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 319 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 2012. This interest rate risk results primarily from euro and U.S. EQUITY PRICE RISK dollar denominated long-term fixed rate debt obligations. The Siemens’ investment portfolio consists of direct and indirect increase in VaR related mainly to a decrease in the portion of investments in publicly traded companies held for purposes the Company ’s underlying notes and bonds being changed other than trading. The direct participations result mainly from from fixed interest rates into variable interest rates by using strategic partnerships, strengthening Siemens’ focus on its interest rate swap contracts, and to an increased volatility of core business activities or compensation from M&A transacrelevant medium-term interest rates. tions; indirect investments in fund shares are mainly transacted for financial reasons. COMMODITY PRICE RISK Siemens’ production operations expose the Company to variThese investments are monitored based on their current marous commodity price risks in the ordinary course of business. ket value, affected primarily by fluctuations in the volatile Especially in the Sectors Industry and Energy a continuous technology-related markets worldwide. The market value of supply of copper was necessary for the operating activities. Siemens’ portfolio in publicly traded companies increased Commodity price risk fluctuations may create unwanted and from €796 million as of September 30, 2012 to €1.444 billion as unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. The Company of September 30, 2013, which was due primarily to the recogemploys various strategies discussed below involving the use nition of our 17.0% stake in OSRAM after the spin-off. of derivative financial instruments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those exposures. Based on historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day ­holding period and a confidence level of 99.5%, the VaR as of Siemens has established a commodity price risk management September 30, 2013 of Siemens’ equity investments was €81 system to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility. Each million compared to €85 million the year before. Siemens unit is responsible for recording, assessing, monitoring, reporting and hedging its risks from forecast and pending LIQUIDITY RISK commodity purchase transactions (commodity price risk exLiquidity risk results from the Company ’s potential inability to posure). The binding guideline for Siemens operating units meet its financial liabilities, e.g. for the settlement of its finanprovides the concept for the identification and determination cial debt or for ongoing cash requirements from operating acof the commodity price risk exposure and commits the units tivities. In addition to having implemented effective working to hedge it within a narrow band of 75% to 100% of the comcapital and cash management, Siemens mitigates liquidity risk modity price risk exposure in the product business for the by arranged credit facilities with highly rated financial institunext three months and 95% to 100% of the commodity price tions, via a debt issuance program and via a global multi-currisk exposure in the project business after receipt of order. rency commercial paper program. Liquidity risk may also be Siemens operating units are prohibited from speculative mitigated by the Siemens Bank GmbH, which increases the transactions. flexibility of depositing cash or refinancing by using European Central Bank accounts. The aggregated commodity price risk exposure is hedged with external counterparties through derivative financial hedging In addition to the above-mentioned sources of liquidity, instruments by Corporate Treasury. Derivative financial hedgSiemens constantly monitors funding options available in the ing instruments designated for hedge accounting are directly capital markets, as well as trends in the availability and costs entered into with external counterparties. Additionally, Siemens of such funding, with a view to maintaining financial flexibility applies a Company-wide portfolio approach which generates a and limiting repayment risks. benefit from optimizing the Company ’s position of the overall financial commodity price risk. The following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized Using historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day holding financial liabilities as well as from irrevocable loan commitperiod and a confidence level of 99.5%, the VaR, which comments. It includes expected net cash outflows from derivative prises the net position of commodity derivatives and the comfinancial liabilities that are in place as per September 30, 2013. modity purchase transactions with price risk, was €4 million Such expected net cash outflows are determined based on as of September 30, 2013 compared to €10 million as of Sepeach particular settlement date of an instrument. The amounts tember 30, 2012. disclosed are undiscounted net cash outflows for the respec92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 320 tive upcoming fiscal years, based on the earliest date on which Siemens had available at the respective period-end dates to Siemens could be required to pay. Cash outflows for financial fund its business operations and to pay for near-term obligaliabilities (including interest) without fixed amount or timing tions. Total liquidity comprises line items Cash and cash are based on the conditions existing at September 30, 2013. equivalents as well as line item Available-for-sale financial ­assets, as stated on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Management uses the Net debt measure for internal Year ended September 30, finance management, as well as for external communication 2016 to 2019 and with investors, analysts and rating agencies. (in millions of €) 2014 2015 2018 thereafter Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes and bonds 2,077 622 9,937 9,368 September 30, (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Loans from banks 478 393 859 11 Short-term debt and current Other financial maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,826 indebtedness 87 10 38 – Long-term debt 18,509 16,880 Obligations under finance leases 30 17 62 89 Total debt 20,453 20,707 Trade payables 7,710 19 10 1 Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (10,891) Other financial liabilities 1,188 42 422 4 Available-for-sale financial assets (current) (601) (524) Derivative Total liquidity (9,790) (11,415) financial liabilities 377 147 224 39 Net debt (Total debt less Total liquidity) 10,663 9,292 Irrevocable loan commitments 2,354 224 303 69 Siemens’ capital resources consist of a variety of shortand long-term financial instruments including, but not limited to, The risk implied from the values shown in the table above reloans from financial institutions, commercial paper, notes and flects the one-sided scenario of cash outflows only. Obligabonds as well as credit facilities. In addition to cash and cash tions under finance leases, trade payables and other financial equivalents and to available-for-sale financial assets, liquid reliabilities mainly originate from the financing of assets used in sources consist of future cash flows from operating activities. Siemens’ ongoing operations such as property, plant, equipment and investments in working capital – e.g. inventories Siemens’ capital requirements include, among others, schedand trade receivables. These assets are considered in the Comuled debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash repany ’s overall liquidity risk management. A considerable porquirements from operating and SFS financing activities, intion of the irrevocable loan commitments result from ascluding cash outflows related to the announced growth strateset-based lending transactions meaning that the respective gy of SFS, dividend payments, pension plan funding, portfolio loans can only be drawn after sufficient collateral has been activities, and cash outflows in connection with “Siemens provided by the borrower. To monitor existing financial assets 2014,” a Company-wide program aimed at improving profitabiland liabilities as well as to enable an effective controlling of ity in the Sectors. future risks, Siemens has established a comprehensive risk ­reporting covering its worldwide business units. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in cash and earnThe balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness is ings if the customer is unable to pay its obligations in due time stated in the calculation of the Net debt. Net debt results from or if the value of collateral declines. total debt less total liquidity. Total debt comprises line item Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as Siemens provides its customers with various forms of direct well as line item Long-term debt, as stated on the Consolidated and indirect financing particularly in connection with large Statements of Financial Position. Total debt comprises items projects. Siemens finances a large number of smaller customer Notes and bonds, Loans from banks, Obligations under finance orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part leases and Other financial indebtedness such as commercial through SFS. SFS is also exposed to credit risk by financing paper. Total liquidity refers to the liquid financial assets, which third-party equipment or by taking direct or indirect participa253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 321 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows tions in financings, such as syndicated loans. In part, Siemens along with the inherent credit risk to the Siemens Credit Waretakes a security interest in the assets Siemens finances or house, but remain responsible for servicing activities such as Siemens receives additional collateral. Siemens may incur collections and receivables management. The Siemens Credit losses if the credit quality of its customers deteriorates or if Warehouse actively identifies, quantifies and manages the they default on their payment obligations to Siemens, such as credit risk in its portfolio, such as by selling or hedging expoa consequence of a financial or political crisis and a global sure to specific customers, countries and industries. In addidownturn. tion to an increased transparency with regard to credit risk, the Siemens Credit Warehouse may provide Siemens with an addiThe effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a core tional source of liquidity and strengthens Siemens’ funding competency of our risk management system. Siemens has imflexibility. plemented a binding credit policy for all entities. Hence, credit evaluations and ratings are performed for all customers with an The maximum exposure to credit risk of financial assets, withexposure or requiring credit beyond centrally defined limits. out taking account of any collateral, is represented by their carrying amount. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 the collatCustomer ratings, analyzed and defined by SFS, and individual eral for financial instruments classified as financial assets customer limits are based on generally accepted rating methmeasured at fair value in the form of netting agreements for odologies, with the input consisting of information obtained derivatives in the event of insolvency of the respective counfrom the customer, external rating agencies, data service proterparty amounted to €570 million and €716 million, respecviders and Siemens’ customer default experiences. Ratings tively. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for and credit limits are carefully considered in determining the financial instruments classified as receivables from finance conditions under which direct or indirect financing will be ofleases amounted to €1,902 million and €1,685 million, respecfered to customers. As part of the process, internal risk assesstively, mainly in the form of the leased equipment. As of Sepment specialists determine and continuously update ratings tember 30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for financial inand credit limits for Siemens’ public and private customers, struments classified as financial assets measured at cost or both in the euro zone and around the world. For public cusamortized cost amounted to €2,141 million and €1,902 million, tomers our policy provides that the rating applied to individual respectively. The collateral mainly consisted of property, plant customers cannot be better than the weakest of the sovereign and equipment and letters of credit. In addition, for this class ratings provided by Moody ’s, S & P’s and Fitch for the respective Siemens holds collateral in the form of securities related to country. ­reverse repurchase agreements that can be sold or re-pledged in absence of default by the owner of the collateral. As of Credit risk is recorded and monitored on an ongoing basis ap­September 30, 2013 and 2012 the fair value of the collateral plying different systems and processes dependent on the unheld amounted to €103 million and €500 million, respectively. derlying product. Central systems are used for ongoing moniIn fiscal 2013 and 2012 Siemens has not exercised the right toring of counterparty risk. In addition, SFS uses own systems to sell or re-pledge the collateral. Credit risks arising from irrefor its financing activities. There are also a number of decenvocable loan commitments are equal to the expected future tralized tools used for management of individual credit risks pay-offs resulting from these commitments. As of September within the operating units. A central IT application processes 30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for these commitments data from the operating units together with rating and default amounted to €1,320 million and €1,178 million, respectively, information and calculates an estimate which may be used as mainly in the form of inventories and receivables. Credit risks a basis for individual bad debt provisions. In addition to this arising from credit guarantees are described in NOTE 28 COMautomated process, qualitative information is considered, in MITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES . There were no significant concenparticular to incorporate the latest developments. trations of credit risk as of September 30, 2013 and 2012. To increase transparency with regard to credit risk Corporate Concerning trade receivables and other receivables, as well as Treasury has established the Siemens Credit Warehouse to loans or receivables included in line item Other financial aswhich numerous operating units from the Siemens Group regsets that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indiularly transfer business partner data as a basis for a centralized cations as of September 30, 2013, that defaults in payment obrating process. In addition, numerous operating units transfer ligations will occur, which lead to a decrease in the net assets their trade receivables with a remaining term up to one year of Siemens. Overdue financial instruments are generally im92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 322 paired on a portfolio basis in order to reflect losses incurred Since fiscal 2012, the allocation of stock awards as a sharewithin the respective portfolios. When substantial expected based payment has been increasingly tied to corporate perforpayment delays become evident, overdue financial instrumance criteria. The target attainment for the performance ments are assessed individually for additional impairment and ­criteria ranges between 0% and 200%. are further allowed for as appropriate. Half of the annual target amount for stock awards is based on the average of earnings per share (EPS, basic) of the past three NOTE 33 Share-based payment fiscal years. The target attainment determines the number of stock awards upon allocation. Settlement of these stock Share-based payment awards at Siemens, including Bonus awards is in shares following the four-year restriction period. Awards, Stock Awards, the Share Matching Program and its underlying plans as well as the Jubilee Share Program are preThe other half of the annual target amount for stock awards is dominately designed as equity-settled plans and to a limited based on the share price performance of Siemens shares relaextent as cash-settled plans. If participating Siemens compative to the share price performance of five important Siemens nies cease to be part of the Siemens Group, they are no longer competitors (ABB, General Electric, Philips, Rockwell, Schneider) eligible to participate in future share-based payment awards at during the four-year restriction period. The target attainment Siemens. In such cases the participating Siemens companies is determined during the four-year restriction period for the have the right to settle the share-based payment awards prestock awards and accordingly, determines the number of maturely. Total pretax expense for share-based payment recogSiemens shares ultimately transferred following the restriction nized in line item Income from continuing operations amountperiod. If the target attainment is up to 100%, settlement is in ed to €185 million and €155 million for the years ended Sepshares. If the target attainment exceeds 100% (up to 200%) an tember 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and refers primarily to additional cash payment corresponding to the outperformance equity-settled awards, including the Company ’s Base Share results. Program. Additionally one portion of the variable compensation compoSTOCK AWARDS nent (bonus) for members of the Managing Board is granted in The Company grants stock awards as a means for providing the form of non-forfeitable awards of Siemens stock (Bonus share-based compensation to members of the Managing Awards). Board, members of the senior management of Siemens AG and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and other eligible emCommitments to members ployees. Stock awards are subject to a restriction period of of the Managing Board about four years and entitle the beneficiary to Siemens shares In fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which without payment of consideration following the restriction peentitle members of the Managing Board to stock awards conriod. Stock awards granted in fiscal 2008 to 2011 were generaltingent upon attaining an EPS-based target. The fair value of ly subject to a restriction period of three years. In principle, these entitlements amounting to €6 million in each of the stock awards forfeit if the beneficiary ’s employment with the ­fiscal years 2013 and 2012, was determined by calculating the Company terminates prior to the expiration of the restriction present value of the target amount. period. During the restriction period, beneficiaries are not entitled to dividends. Stock awards may not be transferred, sold, In fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which pledged or otherwise encumbered. Settlement of stock awards entitle members of the Managing Board to stock awards conmay occur in newly issued shares of capital stock of tingent upon attaining a prospective performance-based target Siemens AG, treasury shares or in cash. The settlement methof Siemens stock relative to five competitors. The fair value of od will be determined by the Managing Board and the Supervithese entitlements amounting to €7 million in each of the fissory Board. Each fiscal year, the Company decides whether or cal years 2013 and 2012, was calculated by applying a valuation not to grant stock awards. The Supervisory Board decides model. Inputs to that model include an expected weighted about the number of stock awards to the Managing Board and ­volatility of Siemens shares of 24% in fiscal 2013 and 27% in the Managing Board decides about the number of stock awards fiscal 2012 and a market price of €78.94 in fiscal 2013 and to members of the senior management and other eligible em€73.94 in fiscal 2012 per Siemens share. Expected volatility was ployees. determined by reference to historic volatilities in fiscal 2013 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 323 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and by reference to implied volatilities in fiscal 2012. The modSiemens share. Expected volatility was determined by referel applies a risk-free interest rate of up to 0.8% in fiscal 2013 ence to historic volatilities in fiscal 2013 and by reference to and up to 1.7% in fiscal 2012 and an expected dividend yield of implied volatilities in fiscal 2012. The model applies a risk-free 3.8% in fiscal 2013 and 4.1% in fiscal 2012. Assumptions coninterest rate of up to 0.6% in fiscal 2013 and up to 1.8% in fiscal cerning share price correlations were determined by reference 2012 and an expected dividend yield of 3.76% in fiscal 2013 and to historic correlations. 3.91% in fiscal 2012. Assumptions concerning share price correlations were determined by reference to historic correlations. Compensation expense related to stock awards is generally Compensation expense related to these stock awards is recogrecognized over five years until they vest, including a restricnized over four years until they vest. tion period of four years. The following table shows the changes in the stock awards In fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which held by members of the senior management and other eligible entitle members of the Managing Board to Bonus Awards conemployees: tingent upon the target attainment. The fair value of these entitlements amounting to €5 million in each fiscal year ­ ­reported, was determined by calculating the present value of Year ended September 30, the target amount. Compensation expense related to Bonus 2013 2012 Awards is generally recognized over the vesting period of one Awards Awards year. Beneficiaries will receive one Siemens share without Non-vested, beginning of period 4,217,588 3,857,315 ­payment of consideration for each Bonus Award, following an Granted 2,158,079 2,028,554 additional waiting period of four years. Vested and transferred (1,073,355) (1,531,944) Forfeited/settled (425,857)1 (136,337)1 The remuneration system of the Managing Board and the Non-vested, end of period 4,876,455 4,217,588 changes in the stock awards held by Managing Board mem1 Consists of 101,192 and 111,776 forfeited and 324,665 and 24,561 settled awards, bers are explained in detail in the Compensation Report within respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012. the Corporate Governance Report. Commitments to members of the senior SHARE MATCHING PROGRAM ­management and other eligible employees AND ITS UNDERLYING PLANS In fiscal 2013 and 2012, 1,308,171 and 1,080,609 stock awards 1. Share Matching Plan were granted to members of the senior management and In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company issued a new tranche un­other eligible employees contingent upon attaining an EPSder the Share Matching Plan. Senior managers of Siemens AG based target. The fair value of these stock awards amounts to and participating Siemens companies may invest a specified €85 million and €62 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and percentage of their compensation in Siemens shares. Within a 2012 and corresponds to the target amount representing the predetermined period in the first quarter of each fiscal year, EPS target attainment. plan participants decide on their investment amount for which investment shares are purchased. The shares are purchased at In fiscal 2013 and 2012, 849,908 and 947,945 stock awards were the market price at a predetermined date in the second quargranted to members of the senior management and other eliter. Plan participants receive the right to one Siemens share gible employees contingent upon attaining a prospective perwithout payment of consideration (matching share) for every formance-based target of the Siemens stock relative to five three investment shares continuously held over a period of competitors. The fair value of these stock awards amounting three years (vesting period) provided the plan participant has to €53 million and €58 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and been continuously employed by Siemens AG or another 2012, of which €41 million and €46 million relate to equity inSiemens company until the end of the vesting period. During struments, was calculated by applying a valuation model. In the vesting period, matching shares are not entitled to divifiscal 2013 and 2012, inputs to that model include an expected dends. The right to receive matching shares forfeits if the unweighted volatility of Siemens shares of 24.32% and 25.33%, derlying investment shares are transferred, sold, pledged or respectively, and a market price of €79.70 and €74.14 per otherwise encumbered. Matching shares may be settled in 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 324 newly issued shares of capital stock of Siemens AG, treasury 4. Resulting Matching Shares shares or in cash. The settlement method will be determined by the Managing Board. Each fiscal year, the Managing Board decides whether or not to issue a new tranche under the Share Year ended September 30, Matching Plan. 2013 2012 Entitlements to Entitlements to Matching Shares Matching Shares 2. Monthly Investment Plan Outstanding, beginning of period 1,545,582 1,977,091 In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company issued a new tranche unGranted 713,245 706,354 der the Monthly Investment Plan that is a further component Vested and transferred (351,548) (1,037,292) of the Share Matching Plan and which is available for employForfeited (140,307) (57,596) ees – other than senior managers – of Siemens AG and particSettled (33,475) (42,975) ipating Siemens companies. Plan participants may invest a Outstanding, end of period 1,733,497 1,545,582 specified percentage of their compensation in Siemens shares on a monthly basis over a period of twelve months. The shares are purchased at market price at a predetermined date once a month. The Managing Board of the Company will decide anFair value was determined as the market price of Siemens nually, whether shares acquired under the Monthly Investshares less the present value of expected dividends during the ment Plan (investment shares) may be transferred to the vesting period as matching shares do not carry dividend rights Share Matching Plan the following year. If the Managing during the vesting period. Non-vesting conditions, i.e. the Board decides that shares acquired under the Monthly Investcondition neither to transfer, sell, pledge nor otherwise enment Plan are transferred to the Share Matching Plan, plan cumber the underlying shares, were considered in determinparticipants will receive the right to matching shares under ing the fair value. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the weighted averthe same conditions applying to the Share Matching Plan deage grant-date fair value of the resulting matching shares is scribed above. Each fiscal year the Managing Board decides, €57.77 and €50.35 per share respectively, based on the number whether or not to issue a new tranche under the Monthly Inof instruments granted. vestment Plan. JUBILEE SHARE PROGRAM The Managing Board decided that shares acquired under the Under the Jubilee Share Program, eligible employees of tranches issued in fiscal 2012 and 2011 are transferred to the Siemens AG and participating domestic Siemens companies reShare Matching Plan as of February 2013 and February 2012, ceive jubilee shares after having been continuously employed respectively. by the Company for 25 and 40 years (vesting period), respectively. Generally, settlement of jubilee grants is in shares. Jubi3. Base Share Program lee shares are measured at fair value considering biometrical In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company issued a new tranche unfactors. The fair value is determined as the market price of der the Base Share Program. Employees of Siemens AG and Siemens shares at grant date less the present value of diviparticipating domestic Siemens companies can invest a fixed dends expected to be paid during the vesting period for which amount of their compensation into Siemens shares, sponsored the employees are not entitled to. The weighted average fair by Siemens with a tax beneficial allowance. The shares are value of each jubilee share granted in fiscal 2013 for the 25th bought at market price at a predetermined date in the second and the 40th anniversary is €36.92 and €24.55, respectively, quarter and grant the right to receive matching shares under based on the number of shares granted. The weighted average the same conditions applying to the Share Matching Plan defair value of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical scribed above. Each fiscal year, the Managing Board decides factors (considering fluctuation) is €18.24 and €9.99, respecwhether or not to issue a new tranche under the Base Share tively, in fiscal 2013. The weighted average fair value of each Program. The fair value of the base share program equals the jubilee share granted in fiscal 2012 for the 25th and the 40th anamount of the tax beneficial allowance sponsored by Siemens. niversary is €39.45 and €29.88 respectively, based on the numIn fiscal 2013 and 2012, the Company incurred pretax expense ber of shares granted. The weighted average fair value of each from continuing operations of €31 million and €29 million, rejubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical factors (considerspectively. ing fluctuation) is €19.01 and €13.12 respectively, in fiscal 2012. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 325 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows In fiscal 2013 and 2012, 0.29 million and 0.43 million jubilee The average number of employees in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 shares were granted; 0.18 million and 0.16 million were transwas 394.9 thousand and 408.5 thousand, respectively (based ferred, 0.12 million and 0.48 million forfeited, resulting in an on continuing and discontinued operations). Thereof, in fiscal outstanding balance of 4.68 million and 4.69 million jubilee 2013 and 2012, 248.3 thousand and 255.6 thousand employees shares as of September 30, 2013 and 2012. Considering biometwere engaged in manufacturing and services, 78.2 thousand rical factors, 3.28 million and 3.29 million jubilee shares are and 83.2 thousand employees were engaged in sales and marexpected to vest as of September 30, 2013 and 2012. keting, 31.8 thousand and 32.4 thousand employees were in research and development and 36.6 thousand and 37.3 thousand employees were in administration and general services in NOTE 34 Personnel costs fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Year ended September 30, NOTE 35 Earnings per share (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 21,874 20,633 Statutory social welfare contributions and Year ended September 30, expenses for optional support payments 3,389 3,354 2013 2012 (shares in thousands, earnings per share in €) Expenses relating to post-employment Income from continuing operations 4,212 4,642 benefits 1,148 886 Less: Portion attributable 26,411 24,873 to non-controlling interest 120 132 Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 4,093 4,510 Weighted average shares outstanding – basic 843,819 876,053 Item Expenses relating to post-employment benefits includes Effect of share-based payment 8,433 8,259 service costs for the period. Interest from post-employment Weighted average shares benefits is included in line items interest income (expenses). outstanding – diluted 852,252 884,311 Basic earnings per share (from continuing operations) €4.85 €5.15 Wages and salaries, statutory social welfare contributions and Diluted earnings per share expenses for optional support payments and expenses relating (from continuing operations) €4.80 €5.10 to post-employment benefits for continuing and discontinued operations amounts to €28,163 million and €27,009 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012. Share-based payment plans are dilutive at the Income from The average number of employees in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 continuing operations level and so, in accordance with IAS 33, was 362.4 thousand and 362.9 thousand, respectively (based Earnings per Share, have been treated as dilutive for the puron continuing operations). Part-time employees are included pose of diluted earnings per share. The diluted loss per share on a proportionate basis. The employees were engaged in the from discontinued operations is lower than basic loss per following activities: share from discontinued operations because of the effect of losses on discontinued operations. Year ended September 30, The dilutive earnings per share computation in fiscal 2013 (in thousands) 2013 2012 and 2012 does not contain 21,674 thousand shares relating to Manufacturing and services 224.2 221.3 warrants issued with bonds. The inclusion of those shares Sales and marketing 73.6 76.9 would have been antidilutive in the years presented. In the Research and development 29.8 29.5 future, the warrants could potentially dilute basic earnings Administration and general services 34.9 35.2 per share. 362.4 362.9 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 326 NOTE 36 Segment information Financial Services (SFS) – provides a variety of financial services and products to other Siemens units and their customers Segment information is presented for continuing operations. and to third parties. SFS has three strategic pillars: supporting Siemens units with finance solutions for their customers, DESCRIPTION OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS managing financial risks of Siemens and offering third-party The four Sectors comprise manufacturing, industrial and comfinance services and products. mercial goods, solutions and services in areas more or less related to Siemens’ origins in the electrical business field. RECONCILIATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Energy – offers a wide spectrum of products, solutions and Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements contains services for generating and transmitting power, and for exbusinesses and items not directly related to Siemens’ reporttracting, converting and transporting oil and gas. It primarily able segments: addresses the needs of energy providers, but also serves industrial companies, particularly in the oil and gas industry. Centrally managed portfolio activities – generally includes activities intended for divestment or closure as well as activiHealthcare – offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of ties remaining from divestments and discontinued operations medical solutions across the treatment chain – ranging from such as from Siemens IT Solutions and Services and from the medical imaging to in-vitro diagnostics to interventional sysformer Com business. tems and clinical information technology systems – all from a single source. In addition, the Sector provides technical mainSiemens Real Estate (SRE) – owns and manages the tenance, professional and consulting services, and, together Siemens real estate portfolio and offers a range of services enwith Financial Services (SFS), financing to assist customers in compassing real estate development, real estate disposal and purchasing the Sector’s products. asset management, as well as lease and services management. Industry – offers a broad spectrum of products, services and Corporate items and pensions – includes corporate charges solutions that help customers use resources and energy more such as personnel costs for corporate headquarters, corporate efficiently, improve productivity, and increase flexibility. The projects and non-operating investments or results of corpoSector’s integrated technologies and holistic solutions primar­ rate-related derivative activities and costs for carve out activiily address industrial customers, particularly those in the ties managed by corporate, which are charged to the respec­ process and manufacturing industries. The portfolio spans tive segment when the disposal gain or loss is realized or ­industry automation, industrial software, drive products and when the activities are classified as discontinued operations. services, system integration, and solutions for industrial plant Pensions includes the Company ’s pension related income (exbusinesses. pense) not allocated to the segments, SRE or Centrally managed portfolio activities. Infrastructure & Cities – offers a wide range of technologies for increasing the sustainability of metropolitan centers and Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling urban infrastructures worldwide, such as integrated mobility items – comprise consolidation of transactions within the solutions, building and security systems, power distribution ­segments, certain reconciliation and reclassification items and equipment, smart grid applications and low and medium-voltthe activities of the Company ’s Corporate Treasury. It also age products. ­includes interest income and expense, such as, for example, interest not allocated to segments or Centrally managed Equity Investments – comprises equity stakes held by ­portfolio activities (referred to as financing interest), interest Siemens that are either accounted for by the equity method, at related to Corporate Treasury activities or resulting consolidacost or as current available-for-sale financial assets and are not tion and reconciliation effects on interest. allocated to a Sector, SFS, Centrally managed portfolio activities, SRE, Corporate items or Corporate Treasury for strategic reasons. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 327 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows MEASUREMENT – SEGMENTS The effect of certain litigation and compliance issues is excludAccounting policies for Segment information are generally the ed from Profit, if such items are not indicative of the Sectors’ same as those used for Siemens, described in NOTE 2 SUMMARY and Equity Investments’ performance, since their related reOF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES . Lease transactions, however, sults of operations may be distorted by the amount and the irare classified as operating leases for internal and segment regular nature of such events. This may also be the case for ­reporting purposes. Intersegment transactions are based on items that refer to more than one reportable segment, SRE and market prices. (or) Centrally managed portfolio activities or have a corporate or central character. Profit of the Sectors and of Equity Investments: Siemens’ Managing Board is responsible for assessing the perCentral infrastructure costs are primarily allocated to the Secformance of the segments. The Company ’s profitability measure tors. The total amount to be allocated is determined at the beof the Sectors and Equity Investments is earnings before financginning of the fiscal year and is charged in installments in all ing interest, certain pension costs, and income taxes as deterfour quarters. mined by the chief operating decision maker (Profit). Profit excludes various categories of items, not allocated to the Sectors Profit of Equity Investments mainly comprises income (loss) and Equity Investments, which management does not regard as from investments presented in Equity Investments, such as indicative of their performance. Profit represents a performance the share in the earnings of associates or dividends from inmeasure focused on operational success excluding the effects vestments not accounted for under the equity method, income of capital market financing issues; for financing issues regard(loss) from the sale of interests in investments, impairment of ing Equity Investments see paragraph below. The major categoinvestments and reversals of impairments. It also includes inries of items excluded from Profit are presented below. terest and impairments as well as reversals of impairments on long-term loans granted to investments reported in Equity InFinancing interest, excluded from Profit, is any interest income vestments. or expense other than interest income related to receivables from customers, from cash allocated to the Sectors and Equity Profit of the segment SFS: Investments and interest expenses on payables to suppliers. Profit of the segment SFS is Income before income taxes. Borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying long-term In contrast to performance measurement principles applied projects are not part of financing interest. Financing interest is to the Sectors and Equity Investments interest income and excluded from Profit because decision-making regarding fiexpenses is an important source of revenue and expense nancing is typically made at the corporate level. Equity Investof SFS. ments include interest and impairments as well as reversals of impairments on long-term loans granted to investments reAsset measurement principles: ported in Equity Investments. Management determined Assets as a measure to assess capital intensity of the Sectors and Equity Investments (Net capital Similarly, decision-making regarding essential pension items is employed). Its definition corresponds to the Profit measure. It done centrally. Accordingly, Profit primarily includes amounts is based on Total assets of the Consolidated Statements of related to service cost of pension plans only, while all other Financial Position, primarily excluding intragroup financing ­ regularly recurring pension related costs – including charges receivables, intragroup investments and tax related assets, ­ for the German pension insurance association and plan adminsince the corresponding positions are excluded from Profit. A istration costs – are included in line item Corporate items and Division of Infrastructure & Cities includes the project-specific pensions. Curtailments are a partial payback with regard to intercompany financing of a long-term project. The remaining past service cost that affect Segment Profit. assets are reduced by non-interest-bearing liabilities other than tax related liabilities, e.g. trade payables, to derive Assets. Furthermore, income taxes are excluded from Profit since inEquity Investments may include certain shareholder loans come tax is subject to legal structures, which typically do not granted to investments reported in Equity Investments. In concorrespond to the structure of the segments. trast, Assets of SFS is Total assets. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 328 Orders: RECONCILIATION TO SIEMENS’ Orders are determined principally as estimated revenue of acCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cepted purchase orders and order value changes and adjustThe following table reconciles total Assets of the Sectors, ments, excluding letters of intent. New orders are supplemen­Equity Investments and SFS to Total assets of Siemens’ Contary information, provided on a voluntary basis. It is not part of solidated Statements of Financial Position: the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Free cash flow definition: September 30, Segment information discloses Free cash flow and Additions to (in millions of €) 2013 2012 property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Free cash Assets of Sectors 24,886 23,364 flow of the Sectors and Equity Investments constitutes cash Assets of Equity Investments 1,767 2,715 flows from operating activities less additions to intangible asAssets of SFS 18,661 17,405 sets and property, plant and equipment. It excludes Financing Total segment assets 45,314 43,484 interest, except for cases where interest on qualifying assets is Reconciliation: capitalized or classified as contract costs and it also excludes Assets Centrally managed portfolio activities (267) (448) non-cash income tax as well as certain other payments and Assets SRE 4,747 5,018 proceeds. Free cash flow of Equity Investments includes interAssets of Corporate items and pensions 1 (11,252) (11,693) est from shareholder loans granted to investments reported in Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items of Segment information: Equity Investments. Pension curtailments are a partial payback Asset-based adjustments: with regard to past service cost that affect segment Free cash Intragroup financing flow. Free cash flow of SFS, a financial services business, inreceivables and investments 40,850 22,046 cludes related financing interest payments and proceeds; inTax-related assets 3,924 4,453 come tax payments and proceeds of SFS are excluded. Liability-based adjustments: Post-employment benefits 9,265 9,801 Amortization, depreciation and impairments: Liabilities 39,336 42,072 Amortization, depreciation and impairments presented in Eliminations, Corporate Treasury, ­Segment information includes depreciation and impairments other items 2 (29,981) (6,482) of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals of impairTotal Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and o­ ther reconciling items of ments as well as amortization and impairments of intangible Segment information 1 63,393 71,889 assets, net of reversals of impairment. Goodwill impairment is Total assets in Siemens’ Consolidated excluded. Statements of Financial Position 101,936 108,251 Measurement – 1 In accordance with Siemens’ segment measurement principles, effects from adopting IAS 19R retrospectively increased Assets of line item Corporate items Centrally managed portfolio activities and SRE: and pension by €147 million and decreased line item Total Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items by €176 million compared to previously Centrally managed portfolio activities follow the measurereported amounts as of September 30, 2012. ment principles of the Sectors. SRE applies the measurement 2 Includes assets and liabilities reclassified in connection with discontinued operations. principles of SFS; Total assets of SRE nets certain intercom­ pany fi ­ nance receivables with certain intercompany finance liabilities. In fiscal years 2013 and 2012, Corporate items and pensions in the column Profit includes €(419) million and €(261) million related to Corporate items, as well as €(420) million and €(407) million related to Pensions, respectively. Remaining costs in connection with Siemens IT Solutions and Services charged to Corporate items in fiscal 2013 and 2012 amount to €58 million and €118 million. Effects from asset retirement obligations for environmental clean-up costs impacted Corporate items with €50 million and €19 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Legal and regulatory matters contributed positive effects to Corporate items in fiscal 2012. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 329 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ADDITIONAL SEGMENT INFORMATION NOTE 38 Related party transactions For the years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, Profit of SFS includes interest income of €873 million and €778 million, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES ­respectively and interest expenses of €317 million and €316 Siemens has relationships with many joint ventures and asso­million, respectively. ciates in the ordinary course of business whereby Siemens buys and sells a wide variety of products and services generally on arm’s length terms. For information regarding our subNOTE 37 Information about geographies sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies in fiscal 2013 see NOTE 18 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUIT Y METHOD and NOTE 42 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMRevenue by Revenue by PANIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 313 PARA. 2 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL location of customer location of companies CODE . Information regarding our subsidiaries, joint ventures Year ended Year ended September 30, September 30, and associated companies for fiscal 2012 are presented in the (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 List of subsidiaries and associated companies published sepaEurope, C.I.S.,1 Africa, rately in the German Electronic Federal Gazette (elektronischer Middle East 39,874 39,947 44,337 44,957 Bundesanzeiger). Americas 20,916 22,078 20,828 21,793 Asia, Australia 15,092 15,370 10,717 10,645 Sales of goods and services and other income from transacSiemens 75,882 77,395 75,882 77,395 tions with joint ventures and associates as well as purchase of thereof Germany 10,750 11,049 19,115 19,909 goods and services and other expenses from transactions with thereof foreign countries 65,132 66,346 56,766 57,487 joint ventures and associates are as follows: thereof U.S 14,179 15,946 16,056 17,062 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Sales of goods and services Purchases of goods and and other income services and other expenses Year ended Year ended September 30, September 30, Non-current assets (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 September 30, Joint ventures 336 432 12 16 (in millions of €) 2013 2012 Associates 1,008 528 214 228 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 17,404 16,009 1,345 959 226 244 Americas 12,598 13,723 Asia, Australia 2,752 2,695 Siemens 32,755 32,427 thereof Germany 6,510 6,446 Receivables from joint ventures and associates and liabilities thereof U.S. 11,205 12,133 to joint ventures and associates are as follows: 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Receivables Liabilities Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, September 30, September 30, goodwill and other intangible assets. (in millions of €) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Joint ventures 54 49 12 23 Associates 222 145 121 241 276 194 133 264 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 330 As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, loans given to joint venRELATED INDIVIDUALS tures and associates amounted to €17 million and €60 million, Related individuals include the members of the Managing respectively. In the normal course of business the Company Board and Supervisory Board. regularly reviews loans and receivables associated with joint ventures and associates. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, the review reIn fiscal 2013 and 2012 members of the Managing Board resulted in net losses related to valuation allowances totaling ceived cash compensation of €17.0 million and €17.4 million. €27 million and net gains related to valuation allowances totalThe fair value of stock-based compensation amounted to €17.6 ing €7 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, million and €22.2 million for 213,394 and 345,382 Stock valuation allowances amounted to €42 million and €37 million, Awards, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012. In fiscal 2013 and respectively. In fiscal 2013, Siemens increased its net invest2012 the Company granted contributions under the BSAV to ment in EN by €102 million. The carrying amount remains €0 members of the Managing Board totaling €6.4 million and €5.7 by applying the equity method. For further information see million. NOTE 7 INCOME (LOSS) FROM INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUIT Y METHOD, NET . Therefore in fiscal 2013 and 2012, compensation and benefits, attributable to members of the Managing Board amounted to As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, guarantees to joint ven€41.0 million and €45.3 million in total, respectively. tures and associates amounted to €2,789 million and €4,769 million, respectively, including the HERKULES obligations of In addition, in connection with termination of Managing Board €1,890 million and €2,290 million, respectively. As of Septemmembership, compensatory payments amounting to €20.4 ber 30, 2012 the NSN obligations were included. For additional million (gross) and one-time special contributions amounting information regarding the HERKULES obligations as well as to €3.1 million to the BSAV were agreed. It was also agreed that for information regarding guarantees in connection with the these members of the Managing Board receive their long-term contribution of the SEN operations into EN see NOTE 28 stock-based compensation for fiscal 2013 (41,554 Stock COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES . As of September 30, 2013 and Awards), which will be settled in cash, and is included in the 2012, guarantees to joint ventures amounted to €431 million above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. The and €474 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2013 and Company has furthermore agreed to reimburse out-of-pocket 2012, the Company had commitments to make capital contriexpenses up to a maximum of €130,000 plus value-added tax. butions of €187 million and €176 million to its joint ventures The 175,382 Stock Awards that were granted in the past and for and associates, therein €107 million and €113 million related to which the restriction period is still in effect, will be absolutely joint ventures, respectively. For a loan raised by a joint venmaintained. The respective fair value of these stock awards at ture, which is secured by a Siemens guarantee, Siemens grantgrant date amounted to €11.5 million. ed an additional collateral. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 the outstanding amount totaled to €134 million and €139 milIn fiscal 2013 and 2012, expense related to share-based paylion, respectively. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 there ment and to the Share Matching Program amounted to €23.2 were loan commitments to joint ventures and associates million (including the above mentioned Stock Awards in conamounting to €90 million and €144 million, respectively, therenection with the departure from members of the Managing in €90 million and €94 million, respectively related to joint Board) and €16.0 million, respectively. For additional informaventures. tion regarding the Share Matching Program see NOTE 33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT . PENSION ENTITIES For information regarding the funding of our pension plans reFormer members of the Managing Board and their surviving fer to NOTE 23 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS . dependents received emoluments within the meaning of Section 314 para. 1 No. 6 b of the German Commercial Code totaling €33.1 million (including €18.2 million in connection with the above mentioned departure from a member of the Managing Board) and €15.8 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 331 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The defined benefit obligation (DBO) of all pension commitNOTE 39 Principal accountant fees ments to former members of the Managing Board and their and ­services survivors as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 amounted to €192.5 million and €181.6 million. For additional information Fees related to professional services rendered by the Company ’s see NOTE 23 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS . principal accountant, EY, for fiscal 2013 and 2012 were as ­follows: Compensation attributable to members of the Supervisory Board comprises in fiscal 2013 and 2012 of a base compensation and additional compensation for committee work and Year ended September 30, amounted to €4.9 million and €4.8 million (including meeting (in millions of €) 2013 2012 fees), respectively. Type of fees Audit fees 45.6 44.2 No loans and advances from the Company are provided to Audit-related fees 10.2 10.6 members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. Tax fees 0.1 0.4 All other services 0.4 – Information regarding the remuneration of the members of Total 56.3 55.2 the Managing Board and Supervisory Board is disclosed on an individual basis in the Compensation Report, which is part of the Combined Management Report. The chapter B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT is presented within the chapter Audit fees and audit-related fees consist of fees associated B. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE . with the services pre-approved by the Audit Committee described below. Tax fees and all other services require specific In fiscal 2013 and 2012, no other major transactions took place pre-approval by the Audit Committee. The tax fees primarily between the Company and the other members of the Managinclude fees for support services provided in connection with ing Board and the Supervisory Board. assistance for competent authority procedures according to ­Article 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention regarding transSome of our board members hold, or in the last year have held, fer pricing issues as well as for tax compliance advice on tranpositions of significant responsibility with other entities. sition services from acquisitions. All other services consist of We have relationships with almost all of these entities in the advisory services provided by EY for a transitional period until ordinary course of our business whereby we buy and sell a the end of fiscal 2013 after they acquired one of Siemens’ wide variety of products and services on arm’s length terms. IT-suppliers in the area of supply chain management in June Michael Diekmann is the Chairman of the Board of Manage2013 and an attestation service not related to the financial ment of Allianz SE. Our transactions with Allianz Group statements. are conducted on arm’s length basis and include insurance business and asset management. In fiscal 2013, 50% of the total fees related to Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Germany. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 332 AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL POLICIES AUDIT SERVICES In accordance with German law, Siemens’ independent auditor >> Annual audit of Siemens’ Consolidated Financial Stateis appointed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting based on a ments and its internal control over financial reporting; recommendation of the Supervisory Board. The Audit Commit>> Quarterly review of Siemens’ interim consolidated tee of the Supervisory Board prepares the board’s recommen­financial statements; dation on the election of the Company ’s independent auditor. >> Audit and review services that are required by statute or Subsequent to the auditor’s appointment, the Audit Commitregulation, including statutory audits of financial statetee engages the auditor and in its sole authority approves the ments of Siemens AG and of its subsidiaries under the terms and scope of the audit and all audit engagement fees. In rules of their respective countries; addition, it monitors the auditor’s independence. >> Opening balance sheet audits in connection with ­acquisitions, including audits with regard to the allocation In order to ensure the integrity of independent audits, of ­purchase prices. Siemens’ Audit Committee has established a policy to approve all audit and permissible audit-related services provided by our AUDIT-RELATED SERVICES independent auditor prior to the auditor’s engagement. As part >> Voluntary local GAAP audits; of this approval process, the Audit Committee adopted pre-ap>> Due diligence relating to actual or contemplated acquisitions proval policies and procedures pursuant to which the Audit and carve-outs, including consultation in accounting Committee annually pre-approves certain types of services to ­matters; be performed by Siemens’ independent auditor. Under the pol>> Post-closing audits; icies, the Company ’s independent auditor is not allowed to >> Carve-out audits and attestation services in the context perform any non-audit services which either (1) may impair of carve-outs; the auditor’s independence under applicable German regula>> Certification services required by regulation, law or tions or the rules and regulations of the International Ethics ­contractual agreement; Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), the International >> Consultation concerning financial accounting and ­reporting Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the U.S. Securities and Exstandards based on the auditor’s knowledge of Siemens-­ change Commission (SEC) or the Public Company Accounting specific circumstances, including: Oversight Board (PCAOB) or (2) which can be more effectively >> Accounting advice relating to actual or contemplated or economically provided by another provider, even if permis­transactions or events; sible under the relevant independence rules. Furthermore, the >> Advice on the introduction and review of new or revised Audit Committee has limited the sum total of all fees that may ­accounting guidelines and requirements; be incurred during a fiscal year for non-audit services, includ>> Training regarding accounting-related topics; ing audit-related services, tax services and other services, to >> Comfort letters; 30% of the audit fees agreed upon for the respective fiscal year. >> Employee benefit plan audits; >> ISAE 3402 / SSAE 16 reports; The Audit Committee has generally pre-approved the perfor>> Attestation services subject to regulatory requirements, mance by EY of audit and audit-related services, including ­including regulatory advice; among others the following: >> Attestation and audits in connection with the European Community Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment; >> Attestation of compliance with provisions or calculations ­required by agreements; >> Attest services in accordance with applicable standards, ­other than audit services required by statute or other ­regulation. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 333 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Services that are not generally pre-approved as audit or auNOTE 41 Subsequent events dit-related services require specific pre-approval by the Audit Committee. An approval may not be granted if the service falls After the end of fiscal 2013, Siemens signed an agreement to into a category of services not permitted by current law or if it sell its business for treating and processing municipal and inis inconsistent with ensuring the auditor’s independence, as dustrial water and wastewater that are bundled in the Siemens expressed in the four principles promulgated by the U.S. SecuWater Technologies Business Unit, as well as the related serrities and Exchange Commission: (1) an auditor may not act as vice activities, to funds managed by American European Assomanagement or an employee of the audit client; (2) an auditor ciates Investors LP (AEA), U.S., for a purchase price of €640 may not audit his or her own work; (3) an auditor may not million. Closing of the transaction is subject to approval by serve in an advocacy role for his or her client; and (4) an audiregulatory authorities and is expected in the first half of fiscal tor may not provide services creating a mutual or conflicting 2014. interest between itself and the audit client. In November 2013, Siemens announced a share buyback of up While non-audit-related services are not prohibited by law, exto €4 billion ending latest on October 31, 2015. The buybacks cept for certain types of non-audit services enumerated in the will be made under the current authorization granted at the SEC’s rules, the Audit Committee has decided as a matter of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011, which alpolicy not to engage the principal accountant to provide non lows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 milaudit-related services unless there is a compelling advantage lion shares under this program. Shares repurchased may be to the Company in using the principal accountant and it can used for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing clearly be demonstrated that there is no impairment of indeshares to current and former employees, to members of the pendence. Managing Board and board members of affiliated companies and for meeting obligations from or in connection with convertible bonds or warrant bonds. NOTE 40 Corporate Governance The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft provided the declaration required by ­ ­Section 161 of the German stock corporation law (AktG) as of October 1, 2013, which is available on the Company ’s website at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GCG-CODE . The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of IBS AG ­excellence, collaboration, manufacturing, currently Siemens’ sole German publicly traded subsidiary which is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements provided the declaration required by Section 161 of the German stock corporation law (AktG) as of December 27, 2012, which is available at WWW.IBS-AG.DE/EN/COMPANY/INVESTOR-REL ATIONS/CORPORATEGOVERNANCE . 334 NOTE 42 List of subsidiaries and associated companies pursuant to Section 313 September 30, 2013 Equity interest in % para. 2 of the German Commercial Code Mannesmann Demag Krauss-Maffei GmbH, Munich 100 Mechanik Center Erlangen GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 messMa GmbH, Irxleben 100 OPTIO Grundstücks-Vermietungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % Objekt Tübingen KG, Grünwald 100 9 Subsidiaries Partikeltherapiezentrum Kiel Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Germany (126 companies) PETscape GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Airport Munich Logistics and Services GmbH, Hallbergmoos 100 Project Ventures Butendiek Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Alpha Verteilertechnik GmbH, Cham 100 10 Projektbau-Arena-Berlin GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 Anlagenund Rohrleitungsbau Ratingen GmbH, Ratingen 100 7 R & S Restaurant Services GmbH, Munich 100 AS AUDIO-SERVICE Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, REMECH Systemtechnik GmbH, Kamsdorf 100 10 Herford 100 RHG Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, Berlin 100 10 Atecs Mannesmann GmbH, Erlangen 100 RISICOM Rückversicherung AG, Grünwald 100 Berliner Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, Berlin 100 10 Samtech Deutschland GmbH, Hamburg 100 BWI Services GmbH, Meckenheim 100 10 SeaRenergy Offshore Projects GmbH & Cie. KG, Hamburg 100 CAPTA Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG i.L., Grünwald 100 9 Siemens Audiologische Technik GmbH, Erlangen 100 CAPTA Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Grünwald 100 Siemens Bank GmbH, Munich 100 DA Creative GmbH, Munich 100 Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH, Munich 100 10 Dade Behring Beteiligungs GmbH, Eschborn 100 Siemens Beteiligungen Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 7 Dade Behring Grundstücks GmbH, Marburg 100 Siemens Beteiligungen USA GmbH, Berlin 100 10 EDI – USS Umsatzsteuersammelrechnungen und Signaturen Siemens Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG, Grünwald 100 9 GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 100 9 Siemens Building Technologies Holding GmbH, Grünwald 100 EDI – USS Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Munich 100 7 Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg 100 9 evosoft GmbH, Nuremberg 100 10 Siemens Convergence Creators Management GmbH, Hamburg 100 7 FACTA Grundstücks-Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Siemens Energy Automation GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Munich 100 9 Siemens Finance & Leasing GmbH, Munich 100 10 HanseCom Gesellschaft für Informationsund Siemens Financial Services GmbH, Munich 100 10 ­Kommunikationsdienstleistungen mbH, Hamburg 74 Siemens Fonds Invest GmbH, Munich 100 10 HSP Hochspannungsgeräte GmbH, Troisdorf 100 10 Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology GmbH & Co. KG, Freiberg 100 9 IBS Aktiengesellschaft excellence, collaboration, Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology Verwaltungs GmbH, ­manufacturing, Höhr-Grenzhausen 81 Freiberg 100 7 IBS Business Consulting GmbH, Höhr-Grenzhausen 100 Siemens Global Innovation Partners Management GmbH, IBS SINIC GmbH, Neu-Anspach 100 Munich 100 7 ILLIT Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG i.L., Siemens Grundstücksmanagement GmbH & Co. OHG, Grünwald 100 9 ­Grünwald 100 9 ILLIT Grundstücksverwaltungs-Management GmbH, Grünwald 85 Siemens Gusstechnik GmbH, Chemnitz 100 Immosuisse GmbH Immobilien Management i.L., Berlin 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics GmbH, Eschborn 100 IPGD Grundstücksverwaltungs-Gesellschaft mbH, Grünwald 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Holding GmbH, Eschborn 100 Jawa Power Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Products GmbH, Marburg 100 KompTime GmbH, Munich 100 10 Siemens Immobilien Chemnitz-Voerde GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 Lincas Electro Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH, Hamburg 100 Siemens Industriegetriebe GmbH, Penig 100 10 LINCAS Export Services GmbH, Hamburg 100 10 Siemens Industriepark Karlsruhe GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 9 LMS Deutschland GmbH, Kaiserslautern 100 Siemens Industry Automation Holding AG, Munich 100 10 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 335 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Industry Software GmbH & Co. KG, Cologne 100 9 SKAG Principals, Munich 100 Siemens Industry Software Management GmbH, Cologne 100 7 Sky Eye Transportation Systems GmbH i.L., Braunschweig 100 7 Siemens Insulation Center GmbH & Co. KG, Zwönitz 100 9 Steinmüller Engineering GmbH, Gummersbach 100 Siemens Insulation Center Verwaltungs-GmbH, Zwönitz 100 7 SVM Star Ventures Managementgesellschaft mbH Nr. 3 & Co. Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services GmbH, Erlangen 100 Beteiligungs KG Nr. 2, Munich 99 3 Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme GmbH, Grünwald 100 SVM Star Ventures Managementgesellschaft mbH Nr. 3 & Co. Siemens Novel Businesses GmbH, Munich 100 10 Beteiligungs KG Nr. 3, Munich 99 3 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics GmbH & Co. KG, SVM Star Ventures Managementgesellschaft mbH Nr. 3 & Co. ­Constance 100 7 Beteiligungs KG Nr. 4, Munich 99 3 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Verwaltungs GmbH, SYKATEC Systeme, Komponenten, Anwendungstechnologie Constance 100 7 GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Siemens Power Control GmbH, Langen 100 10 Technopark Berlin Wohlrabedamm GmbH, Grünwald 94 Siemens Private Finance Versicherungsund TGB Technisches Gemeinschaftsbüro GmbH, Kassel 100 ­Kapitalanlagenvermittlungs-GmbH, Munich 100 10 TLT-Turbo GmbH, Zweibrücken 100 Siemens Project Ventures GmbH, Erlangen 100 10 Trench Germany GmbH, Bamberg 100 10 Siemens Real Estate GmbH & Co. OHG, Grünwald 100 9 Turbine Airfoil Coating and Repair GmbH, Berlin 100 Siemens Real Estate Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 7 Verwaltung SeaRenergy Offshore Projects GmbH, Hamburg 100 7 Siemens Spezial-Investmentaktiengesellschaft mit TGV, Munich 100 VIB Verkehrsinformationsagentur Bayern GmbH, Munich 51 Siemens Technology Accelerator GmbH, Munich 100 10 VMZ Berlin Betreibergesellschaft mbH, Berlin 100 Siemens Technopark Berlin Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald 100 7 VR-LEASING IKANA GmbH & Co. Immobilien KG, Eschborn 94 3 Siemens Technopark Mülheim GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 9 VVK Versicherungsvermittlungsund Verkehrskontor GmbH, Siemens Technopark Mülheim Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald 100 7 Munich 100 10 Siemens Technopark Nürnberg GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 9 Weiss Spindeltechnologie GmbH, Schweinfurt 100 Siemens Technopark Nürnberg Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald 100 Siemens Treasury GmbH, Munich 100 10 Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), Siemens Turbomachinery Equipment GmbH, Frankenthal 100 10 Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (277 companies) Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, Willstätt-Legelshurst 100 10 ESTEL Rail Automation SPA, Algiers / Algeria 51 Siemens Venture Capital GmbH, Munich 100 10 Siemens Spa, Algiers / Algeria 100 Siemens Water Technologies GmbH, Günzburg 100 7 Siemens S.A., Luanda / Angola 51 Siemens Wind Power GmbH, Hamburg 100 10 ComBuild Kommunikations & Gebäudetechnologie GmbH, SILLIT Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Munich 100 Vienna / Austria 100 SIM 16. Grundstücksverwaltungsund -beteiligungs-­ ETM professional control GmbH, Eisenstadt / Austria 100 GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 100 9 Hochquellstrom-Vertriebs GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIM 2. Grundstücks-GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 9 IBS Engineering Consulting Software GmbH in Liqu., SIMAR Nordost Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 Linz / Austria 100 SIMAR Nordwest Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 ITH icoserve technology for healthcare GmbH, SIMAR Ost Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 ­Innsbruck / Austria 69 SIMAR Süd Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 KDAG Beteiligungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMAR West Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 Landis & Staefa (Österreich) GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMOS Real Estate GmbH, Munich 100 10 Landis & Staefa GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SKAG Fonds C1, Munich 100 Saudi VOEST-ALPINE GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 SKAG Fonds S7, Munich 100 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Österreich, Vienna / Austria 100 SKAG Fonds S8, Munich 100 Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH, Eisenstadt / Austria 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 336 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Industry Software, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Siemens Convergence Creators Holding GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Siemens Gebäudemanagement & -Services G.m.b.H., Siemens A/S, Ballerup / Denmark 100 ­Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics ApS, Ballerup / Denmark 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Höreapparater A/S, Copenhagen / Denmark 100 Siemens Industry Software GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 Siemens Industry Software A/S, Allerød / Denmark 100 Siemens Konzernbeteiligungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Wind Power A/S, Brande / Denmark 100 Siemens Liegenschaftsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 NEM Energy Egypt LLC, Alexandria / Egypt 100 Siemens Personaldienstleistungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A.E, Cairo / Egypt 100 Siemens Urban Rail Technologies Holding GmbH, Siemens Ltd. for Trading, Cairo / Egypt 100 ­Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Technologies S.A.E., Cairo / Egypt 90 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics OY, Espoo / Finland 100 Steiermärkische Medizinarchiv GesmbH, Graz / Austria 52 Siemens Osakeyhtiö, Espoo / Finland 100 Trench Austria GmbH, Leonding / Austria 100 Flender-Graffenstaden SAS, Illkirch-Graffenstaden / France 100 URT Urban Rail Technologies Holding GmbH, Vienna / Austria 50 1 LMS France S.A.R.L, Paris / France 100 VVK Versicherungs-Vermittlungsund Verkehrs-Kontor GmbH, LMS Imagine, Roanne / France 100 Vienna / Austria 100 PETNET Solutions SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens W.L.L., Manama / Bahrain 51 Preactor Europe SAS, Dardilly / France 100 Leuven Measurement & Systems Belgium BVBA, Samtech France SA, Massy / France 100 100 ­Leuven / ­Belgium Siemens Audiologie S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 LMS Engineering NV, Leuven / Belgium 100 Siemens Financial Services SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 LMS International NV, Leuven / Belgium 100 Siemens France Holding, Saint-Denis / France 100 LMS Numerical Technologies NV, Leuven / Belgium 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 Oktopus S.A./N.V., Brussels / Belgium 100 Siemens Industry Software SAS, Vélizy-Villacoublay / France 100 Samtech SA, Angleur / Belgium 60 Siemens Lease Services SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics SA, Brussels / Belgium 100 Siemens S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens Industry Software NV, Anderlecht / Belgium 100 Siemens Transmission & Distribution SAS, Grenoble / France 100 Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software II (BE) BVBA, Siemens VAI Metals Technologies SAS, Savigneux / France 100 Anderlecht / Belgium 100 Trench France S.A.S., Saint-Louis / France 100 Siemens S.A./N.V., Anderlecht / Belgium 100 Tecnomatix Technologies (Gibraltar) Limited, Siemens d.o.o., Banja Luka / Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 ­Gibraltar / ­Gibraltar 100 Siemens d.o.o. Sarajevo, Sarajevo / Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 Broadcastle Finance Limited, Stoke Poges, Siemens Pty. Ltd., Gaborone / Botswana 100 ­Buckinghamshire / Great Britain 100 Siemens EOOD, Sofia / Bulgaria 100 Broadcastle Ltd., Stoke Poges, Buckinghamshire / Great Britain 100 Koncar Power Transformers d.o.o., Zagreb / Croatia 51 Electrium Sales Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Convergence Creators d.o.o., Zagreb / Croatia 100 eMeter International Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens d.d., Zagreb / Croatia 98 GyM Renewables Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 J. N. Kelly Security Holding Limited, Larnaka / Cyprus 100 GyM Renewables ONE Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Kintec Cyprus Ltd, Larnaka / Cyprus 100 Leuven Measurements & Systems UK Limited, Frimley, OEZ s.r.o., Letohrad / Czech Republic 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Audiologická Technika s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Marine Current Turbines Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Convergence Creators, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Preactor International Limited, Chippenham, Siemens Electric Machines s.r.o., Drasov / Czech Republic 100 ­Wiltshire / ­Great Britain 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 337 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Project Ventures Rail Investments I Limited, Frimley, Siemens Rail Systems Project Holdings Limited, Frimley, ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 Samtech UK Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Rail Systems Project Limited, Frimley, SBS Pension Funding (Scotland) Limited Partnership, ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Edinburgh / Great Britain 57 3 Siemens Real Estate Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Sea Generation (Brough Ness) Limited, Frimley, Siemens Transmission & Distribution Limited, Frimley, ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 Sea Generation (Kyle Rhea) Limited, Frimley, Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Limited, Frimley, ­Surrey / Great ­Britain 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 Sea Generation (Wales) Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Water Technologies Limited, Frimley, Sea Generation Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 7 Siemens Financial Services Holdings Ltd., Stoke Poges, The Preactor Group Limited, Chippenham, ­Buckinghamshire / Great Britain 100 ­Wiltshire / Great ­Britain 100 Siemens Financial Services Ltd., Stoke Poges, Tronic Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Buckinghamshire / Great Britain 100 VA TECH (UK) Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Ltd., Frimley, VA Tech Reyrolle Distribution Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Surrey / Great ­Britain 100 VA TECH T & D UK Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Manufacturing Ltd, Frimley, VTW Anlagen UK Ltd., Banbury, Oxfordshire / Great Britain 100 Surrey / Great Britain 100 Kintec A.E., Athens / Greece 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Products Ltd, Frimley, Siemens A.E., Elektrotechnische Projekte und Erzeugnisse, 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 ­Athens / Greece Siemens Hearing Instruments Ltd., Crawley, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics ABEE, Athens / Greece 100 ­Sussex / Great ­Britain 100 evosoft Hungary Szamitastechnikai Kft., Budapest / Hungary 100 Siemens Holdings plc, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Audiológiai Technika Kereskedelmi és Szolgáltató Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd., Frimley, Korlátolt Felelösségü Társaság, Budapest / Hungary 100 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain Siemens PSE Programés Rendszerfejlesztö Kft., Siemens Industry Software Limited, Frimley, ­Budapest / Hungary 100 100 ­Surrey / Great ­Britain Siemens Zrt., Budapest / Hungary 100 Siemens Pension Funding (General) Limited, Frimley, Siemens Sherkate Sahami (Khass), Teheran / Iran 97 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain Europlex Technologies (Ireland) Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 Siemens Pension Funding (Scotland) Limited, iMetrex Technologies Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 ­Edinburgh / Great Britain 100 7 Siemens Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 Siemens Pension Funding Limited, Frimley, Robcad Limited, Airport City / Israel 100 ­Surrey / Great ­Britain 100 RuggedCom Ltd., Herzliya / Israel 100 Siemens plc, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 100 Siemens Concentrated Solar Power Ltd., Beit Shemesh / Israel 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Limited, Frimley, Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Airport City / Israel 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 7 Siemens Israel Ltd., Tel Aviv / Israel 100 Siemens Protection Devices Limited, Frimley, Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software 2 (IL) Ltd., ­Surrey / Great ­Britain 100 Airport City / Israel 100 Siemens Rail Automation Holdings Limited, Frimley, UGS Israeli Holdings (Israel) Ltd., Airport City / Israel 100 ­Surrey / Great Britain 100 HV-Turbo Italia S.r.l., Mornago / Italy 51 Siemens Rail Automation Limited, Frimley, LMS Italiana S.r.l., Turin / Italy 100 Surrey / Great Britain 100 Samtech Italiana S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 338 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AS, Oslo / Norway 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Italy S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Höreapparater AS, Oslo / Norway 100 Siemens Industry Software S.r.l, Milan / Italy 100 Siemens L.L.C., Muscat / Oman 51 Siemens Renting S.p.A. in Liquidazione, Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Pakistan Engineering Co. Ltd., Karachi / Pakistan 66 Siemens S.p.A., Milan / Italy 100 Audio SAT Sp. z o.o., Poznan / Poland 100 Siemens Transformers S.p.A., Trento / Italy 100 Siemens Finance Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 Trench Italia S.r.l., Savona / Italy 100 Siemens Industry Software Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 TurboCare S.p.A., Turin / Italy 100 Siemens Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 Turboservice Torino S.p.A., Turin / Italy 100 7 TurboCare Poland Spólka Akcyjna, Lubliniec / Poland 100 Siemens TOO, Almaty / Kazakhstan 100 TurboCare Sp. z o.o., Wroclaw / Poland 80 Siemens Kenya Ltd., Nairobi / Kenya 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Unipessoal Lda., Siemens Electrical & Electronic Services K.S.C.C., ­Amadora / Portugal 100 Kuwait City / Kuwait 49 2 Siemens S.A., Amadora / Portugal 100 Tecnomatix Technologies SARL, Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 Siemens W.L.L., Doha / Qatar 40 2 TFM International S.A. i.L., Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 LMS Romania S.R.L., Brasov / Romania 100 Siemens d.o.o. Podgorica, Podgorica / Montenegro 100 Siemens (AUSTRIA) PROIECT SPITAL COLTEA SRL, SCIENTIFIC MEDICAL SOLUTION DIAGNOSTICS S.A.R.L., ­Bucharest / Romania 100 ­Casablanca / Morocco 100 Siemens Convergence Creators S.R.L., Brasov / Romania 100 Siemens Plant Operations Tahaddart SARL, Tanger / Morocco 100 Siemens S.R.L., Bucharest / Romania 100 Siemens S.A., Casablanca / Morocco 100 SIMEA SIBIU S.R.L., Sibiu / Romania 100 Siemens Lda., Maputo / Mozambique 100 OOO Advanced Urban Rail Systems, Siemens Pty. Ltd., Windhoek / Namibia 100 ­Moscow / ­Russian ­Federation 100 7 LMS Instruments BV, Breda / Netherlands 100 OOO Legion II, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 NEM Energy B.V., Leiden / Netherlands 100 OOO Legion T2, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 NEM Energy Holding B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Russian Turbo Machinery, Perm / Russian Federation 51 Siemens Audiologie Techniek B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Diagnostics Holding II B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Elektroprivod, St. Petersburg / Russian Federation 66 Siemens Finance B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Gas Turbine Technologies, Siemens Financieringsmaatschappij N.V., Novoe ­Devyatkino / Russian Federation 100 The Hague / ­Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens High Voltage Products, Ufimsky Siemens Gas Turbine Technologies Holding B.V., ­District / ­Russian Federation 100 The Hague / Netherlands 65 OOO Siemens Industry Software, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics B.V., Amersfoort / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Train Technologies, Siemens Industry Software B.V., s-Hertogenbosch / Netherlands 100 Verkhnyaya ­Pyshma / ­Russian Federation 100 Siemens International Holding B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Transformers, Voronezh / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics Holding I B.V., OOO Siemens Urban Rail Technologies, The Hague / Netherlands 100 ­Moscow / ­Russian ­Federation 100 Siemens Nederland N.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 Siemens Finance LLC, Vladivostok / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Train Technologies Holding B.V., Siemens Research Center Limited Liability Company, The Hague / ­Netherlands 51 ­Moscow / Russian Federation 100 TurboCare B.V., Hengelo / Netherlands 100 Arabia Electric Ltd. (Equipment), Jeddah / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens Ltd., Lagos / Nigeria 100 ISCOSA Industries and Maintenance Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens AS, Oslo / Norway 100 Siemens Ltd., Jeddah / Saudi Arabia 51 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 339 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % VA TECH T & D Co. Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AB, Södertälje / Sweden 100 Westinghouse Saudi Arabia Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 100 7 Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery AB, Finspong / Sweden 100 Siemens d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade / Serbia 100 Siemens Industry Software AB, Kista / Sweden 100 OEZ Slovakia, spol. s r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Dade Behring Diagnostics AG, Düdingen / Switzerland 100 SAT Systémy automatizacnej techniky spol. s.r.o., Huba Control AG, Würenlos / Switzerland 100 ­Bratislava / Slovakia 60 Siemens Audiologie AG, Adliswil / Switzerland 100 Siemens Program and System Engineering s.r.o., Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology Holding AG, ­Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Zug / ­Switzerland 100 Siemens s.r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 SIPRIN s.r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens Industry Software AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Siemens d.o.o., Ljubljana / Slovenia 100 Siemens Postal & Parcel Logistics Technologies AG, Dade Behring South Africa (Pty) Ltd, Randfontein / South Africa 100 Zurich / ­Switzerland 100 7 Linacre Investments (Pty) Ltd., Kenilworth / South Africa 0 3 Siemens Power Holding AG, Zug / Switzerland 100 Marqott (Proprietory) Limited, Pretoria / South Africa 100 Siemens Schweiz AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Marqott Holdings (Pty.) Ltd., Pretoria / South Africa 100 Stadt / Land Immobilien AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Siemens (Proprietary) Limited, Midrand / South Africa 70 Siemens Tanzania Ltd., Dar es Salaam / Tanzania 100 Siemens Building Technologies (Pty) Ltd., Siemens S.A., Tunis / Tunisia 100 ­Midrand / South ­Africa 100 Siemens Finansal Kiralama A.S., Istanbul / Turkey 100 Siemens Employee Share Ownership Trust, Siemens Isitme Cihazlari Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, ­Johannesburg / South Africa 03 Istanbul / Turkey 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (Pty.) Limited, Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Istanbul / Turkey 100 ­Isando / South Africa 100 100% foreign owned subsidiary “Siemens Ukraine”, Siemens Hearing Solution (Pty.) Ltd., Randburg / South Africa 100 Kiev / Ukraine 100 Siemens IT Solutions and Services (Pty) Ltd., SD (Middle East) LLC, Dubai / United Arab Emirates 49 2 ­Johannesburg / South Africa 100 Siemens LLC, Abu Dhabi / United Arab Emirates 49 2 Fábrica Electrotécnica Josa, S.A., Barcelona / Spain 100 Siemens Middle East Limited, Petnet Soluciones, S.L., Sociedad Unipersonal, Madrid / Spain 100 ­Masdar City / ­United Arab ­Emirates 100 Samtech Iberica Engineering & Software Services S.L., Siemens Pvt. Ltd., Harare / Zimbabwe 100 7 ­Barcelona / Spain 100 Siemens Fire & Security Products, S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Americas (106 companies) Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.L., Barcelona / Spain 100 Siemens IT Services S.A., Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Siemens Holding S.L., Madrid / Spain 100 Siemens S.A., Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Siemens Industry Software S.L., Barcelona / Spain 100 VA TECH International Argentina SA, Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Siemens POSTAL, PARCEL & AIRPORT LOGISTICS, S.L. Siemens Soluciones Tecnologicas S.A., Santa ­Sociedad Unipersonal, Madrid / Spain 100 7 Cruz de la ­Sierra / Bolivia 100 Siemens Rail Automation Holding S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Chemtech Servicos de Engenharia e Software Ltda., Siemens Rail Automation S.A.U., Madrid / Spain 100 Rio de Janeiro / Brazil 100 Siemens Renting S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Iriel Indústria Cómercio de Sistemas Eléctricos Ltda., Siemens S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 ­Canoas / Brazil 100 Telecomunicación, Electrónica y Conmutación S.A., LMS da América do Sul Servicos de Engenharia Ltda, Madrid / Spain 100 São ­Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens AB, Upplands Väsby / Sweden 100 Siemens Aparelhos Auditivos Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Financial Services AB, Stockholm / Sweden 100 Siemens Eletroeletronica Limitada, Manaus / Brazil 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 340 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Healthcare Diagnósticos Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, S. de R.L. de C.V., Siemens Industry Software Ltda., São Caetano do Sul / Brazil 100 México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Industry Software, SA de CV, Santa Fe / Mexico 100 Siemens Rail Automation Ltda. , São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Inmobiliaria S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens SERVIÇOS DE MONITORAMENTO ELETRÔNICO LTDA., Siemens Innovaciones S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 São Paulo / Brazil 100 7 Siemens Servicios S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens VAI Metals Services Ltda., Volta Redonda / Brazil 100 Siemens, S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 VAI – INGDESI Automation Ltda., Belo Horizonte / Brazil 100 Siemens S.A., Managua / Nicaragua 100 Dade Behring Hong Kong Holdings Corporation, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Panama, S.A, ­Tortola / ­British Virgin Islands 100 ­Panama City / Panama 100 RuggedCom Inc., Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens S.A., Panama City / Panama 100 Siemens Canada Ltd., Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens S.A.C., Lima / Peru 100 Siemens Financial Ltd., Oakville / Canada 100 Siemens S.A., Montevideo / Uruguay 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Inc., Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens Telecomunicaciones S.A., Montevideo / Uruguay 100 Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Ontario / Canada 100 Audiology Distribution, LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Ltd., eMeter Corporation, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Oakville / Canada 100 7 FCE International, LLC, Huntingdon Valley, PA / USA 100 Siemens Transformers Canada Inc., Trois-Rivières / Canada 100 HearUSA IPA, Inc., New York, NY / USA 100 Siemens Water Technologies Ltd., Oakville / Canada 100 HearX West LLC, West Palm Beach, FL / USA 50 2 Trench Ltd., Saint John / Canada 100 HearX West, Inc., Los Angeles, CA / USA 100 Turbocare Canada Ltd., Calgary / Canada 100 IBS America, Inc., Lexington, MA / USA 100 Wheelabrator Air Pollution Control (Canada) Inc., LMS North America, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 ­Ontario / ­Canada 100 Mannesmann Corporation, New York, NY / USA 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Manufacturing Limited, NEM USA Corp., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 George Town / Cayman Islands 100 Nimbus Technologies, LLC, Bingham Farms, MI / USA 100 Siemens S.A., Santiago de Chile / Chile 100 P.E.T.NET Houston, LLC, Austin, TX / USA 51 Siemens Manufacturing S.A., Bogotá / Colombia 100 Pace Global, LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens S.A., Costado Sur – Tenjo / Colombia 100 PETNET Indiana LLC, Indianapolis, IN / USA 50 1 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A., San José / Costa Rica 100 PETNET Solutions Cleveland, LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 63 Siemens S.A., San José / Costa Rica 100 PETNET Solutions, Inc., Knoxville, TN / USA 100 Siemens, S.R.L., Santo Domingo / Dominican Republic 100 Preactor North America Inc., Dallas, TX / USA 100 Siemens S.A., Quito / Ecuador 100 Siemens Capital Company LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens S.A., San Salvador / El Salvador 100 Siemens Convergence Creators Corp., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 7 Siemens HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS GUATEMALA, S.A., Siemens Corporation, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 ­Guatemala / Guatemala 99 Siemens Credit Warehouse, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens S.A., Guatemala / Guatemala 100 Siemens Demag Delaval Turbomachinery, Inc., Siemens S.A., Tegucigalpa / Honduras 100 ­Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Dade Behring, S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens Electrical, LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Grupo Siemens S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens Energy, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Indústria de Trabajos Eléctricos S.A. de C.V., Ciudad Siemens Financial Services, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Juárez / Mexico 100 Siemens Financial, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Ingdesi S.A. de C.V., Monterrey / Mexico 100 Siemens Fossil Services, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Proyectos de Energia S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens Generation Services Company, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 341 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Government Technologies, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Kaon Holdings Pty. Ltd., Loganholme QLD / Australia 100 7 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc., Los Angeles, CA / USA 100 Memcor Australia Pty. Ltd., South Windsor / Australia 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Pty. Ltd., Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Industry, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Ltd., Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Rail Automation Holding Pty. Ltd., Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Molecular Imaging, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens RAIL AUTOMATION INVESTMENT PTY. LTD., 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics LLC, ­Clayton / Australia ­Wilmington, DE / USA 100 7 Siemens RAIL AUTOMATION PTY. LTD., Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Power Generation Service Company, Ltd., Siemens Water Technologies Pty Ltd, Bayswater / Australia 100 7 ­Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Westinghouse McKenzie-Holland Pty Ltd, Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc., Siemens Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka / Bangladesh 100 ­Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Beijing Siemens Cerberus Electronics Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Public, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Chengdu KK&K Power Fan Co., Ltd., Chengdu / China 51 Siemens Rail Automation Carborne Systems Inc., DPC (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Tianjin / China 100 ­Harrisburg, PA / USA 100 GIS Steel & Aluminum Products Co., Ltd. Hangzhou, Siemens Rail Automation Corporation, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 ­Hangzhou / China 51 Siemens Treated Water Outsourcing Corp., IBS Industrial Business Software (Shanghai), Ltd., ­Wilmington, DE / USA 100 ­Shanghai / China 100 Siemens USA Holdings, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 LMS (Beijing) Technology Co. Ltd, Beijing / China 100 Siemens Water Technologies LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 MWB (Shanghai) Co Ltd., Shanghai / China 65 SMI Holding LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Building Technologies (Tianjin) Ltd., Tianjin / China 70 TurboCare, Inc., Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Business Information Consulting Co.,Ltd, Wheelabrator Air Pollution Control Inc., Baltimore, MD / USA 100 ­Beijing / ­China 100 Winergy Drive Systems Corporation, Wilmington, DE / USA 100 Siemens Circuit Protection Systems Ltd., Shanghai / China 75 Siemens Rail Automation, C.A., Caracas / Venezuela 100 Siemens Eco-City Innovation Technologies (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Siemens S.A., Caracas / Venezuela 100 Tianjin / China 60 7 Siemens Electrical Apparatus Ltd., Suzhou / China 100 Asia, Australia (147 companies) Siemens Electrical Drives (Shanghai) Ltd., Shanghai / China 100 Australia Hospital Holding Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Electrical Drives Ltd., Tianjin / China 85 Exemplar Health (NBH) 2 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 7 Siemens Factory Automation Engineering Ltd., Exemplar Health (NBH) Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Beijing / China 100 ­Bayswater / ­Australia 100 Siemens Finance and Leasing Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Exemplar Health (NBH) Trust 2, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Financial Services Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Exemplar Health (SCUH) 3 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 7 Siemens Gas Turbine Parts Ltd., Shanghai / China 51 Exemplar Health (SCUH) 4 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 7 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Exemplar Health (SCUH) Holdings 3 Pty Limited, ­Shanghai / China 100 ­Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments (Suzhou) Co. Ltd., Suzhou / China 100 Exemplar Health (SCUH) Holdings 4 Pty Limited, Siemens High Voltage Circuit Breaker Co., Ltd., ­Bayswater / Australia 100 ­Hangzhou / ­China 51 Exemplar Health (SCUH) Trust 3, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Shanghai, Exemplar Health (SCUH) Trust 4, Bayswater / Australia 100 ­Shanghai / China 51 Kaon Consulting Pty. Ltd., Loganholme QLD / Australia 100 7 Siemens High Voltage Switchgear Guangzhou Ltd., Kaon Electric Pty. Ltd., Loganholme QLD / Australia 100 7 ­Guangzhou / China 94 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 342 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Siemens Industrial Automation Ltd., Shanghai, Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Co., Ltd., Shanghai, ­Shanghai / ­China 100 ­Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery (Huludao) Co. Ltd., Siemens Venture Capital Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 100 ­Huludao / China 84 Siemens Water Technologies and Engineering (Tianjin) Co., Siemens Industry Software (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Ltd., Tianjin / China 68 ­Shanghai / ­China 100 Siemens Water Technologies Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens International Trading Ltd., Shanghai, Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Wind Power Blades (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Siemens Investment Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 100 ­Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Ltd., China, Beijing / China 100 Siemens Wind Power Turbines (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Siemens Manufacturing and Engineering Centre Ltd., ­Shanghai / China 49 2 ­Shanghai / China 51 Siemens Wiring Accessories Shandong Ltd., Zibo / China 100 Siemens Mechanical Drive Systems (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Siemens X-Ray Vacuum Technology Ltd., Wuxi / China 100 ­Tianjin / China 100 Smart Metering Solutions (Changsha) Co. Ltd., Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics Ltd., Beijing / China 100 ­Changsha / ­China 60 Siemens Medium Voltage Switching Technologies (Wuxi) Ltd., Trench High Voltage Products Ltd., Shenyang, Shenyang / China 65 Wuxi / China 85 Winergy Drive Systems (Tianjin) Co. Ltd., Tianjin / China 100 Siemens Numerical Control Ltd., Nanjing / China 80 Yangtze Delta Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Hangzhou, Siemens PLM Software (Shenzhen) Limited, Shenzhen / China 100 ­Hangzhou / China 51 Siemens Power Automation Ltd., Nanjing / China 100 Asia Care Holding Limited, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 7 Siemens Power Equipment Packages Co. Ltd., Shanghai, SAMTECH HK Ltd, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Shanghai / China 65 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Limited, Siemens Power Plant Automation Ltd., Nanjing / China 100 Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Siemens Rail Automation Technical Consulting Services Siemens Industry Software Limited, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 (­Beijing) Co. Ltd., Beijing / China 100 7 Siemens Ltd., Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Siemens Real Estate Management (Beijing) Ltd., Co., LMS India Engineering Solutions Pvt Ltd, Chennai / India 100 ­Beijing / China 100 PETNET Radiopharmaceutical Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Siemens Sensors & Communication Ltd., Dalian / China 100 New ­Delhi / India 100 Siemens Shanghai Medical Equipment Ltd., Shanghai / China 100 Powerplant Performance Improvement Ltd., New Delhi / India 50 1 Siemens Shenzhen Magnetic Resonance Ltd., Preactor Software India Private Limited, Bangalore / India 100 Shenzhen / China 100 Siemens Convergence Creators Private Limited, Mumbai / India 100 Siemens Signalling Co. Ltd., Xi’an, Xian / China 70 Siemens Financial Services Private Limited, Mumbai / India 100 Siemens Special Electrical Machines Co. Ltd., Changzhi / China 77 Siemens Hearing Instruments Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore / India 100 Siemens Standard Motors Ltd., Jiangsu, Yizheng / China 100 Siemens Industry Software (India) Private Limited, Siemens Surge Arresters Ltd., Wuxi / China 100 New ­Delhi / India 100 Siemens Switchgear Co. Ltd., Shanghai / China 55 Siemens Ltd., Mumbai / India 75 Siemens Technology Development (Beijing) Ltd. Corp., Siemens Postal and Parcel Logistics Technologies Private ­Beijing / China 90 ­Limited, Mumbai / India 100 7 Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd., Siemens Postal Parcel & Airport Logistics Private Limited, ­Guangzhou / ­China 63 ­Mumbai / India 100 Siemens Transformer (Jinan) Company Ltd., Jinan / China 90 Siemens Rail Automation Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore / India 100 Siemens Transformer (Wuhan) Company Ltd., Siemens Technology and Services Private Limited, Wuhan City / ­China 100 ­Mumbai / India 100 Siemens VAI Manufacturing (Taicang) Co., Ltd., Taicang / China 100 P.T. Siemens Indonesia, Jakarta / Indonesia 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 343 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % PT. Siemens Industrial Power, Kota Bandung / Indonesia 60 VA TECH Holding (Thailand) Co. Ltd., Bangkok / Thailand 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Batam, PT, Batam / Indonesia 100 VA TECH Transmission & Distribution Co. Ltd., Acrorad Co., Ltd., Okinawa / Japan 57 ­Bangkok / ­Thailand 100 Best Sound K.K., Sagamihara / Japan 93 Siemens Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City / Vietnam 100 LMS Japan KK, Kanagawa / Japan 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 Associated companies and joint ventures Siemens Hearing Instruments K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 Germany (30 companies) Siemens Industry Software K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 Advanced Power AG und Siemens Project Ventures GmbH Siemens Japan Holding K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 in GbR, Hamburg 50 Siemens Japan K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 ATS Projekt Grevenbroich GmbH, Schüttorf, Schüttorf 25 8 Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software II (JP) K.K., BELLIS GmbH, Braunschweig 49 8 Tokyo / Japan 100 BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich 50 LMS Korea Co. Ltd, Seoul / Korea 100 BWI Informationstechnik GmbH, Meckenheim 50 4 Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Seoul / Korea 100 DKS Dienstleistungsgesellschaft f. Kommunikationsanlagen Siemens Ltd. Seoul, Seoul / Korea 100 des Stadtund Regionalverkehrs mbH, Cologne 49 8 Siemens PETNET Korea Co. Ltd., Seoul / Korea 100 EMIS Electrics GmbH, Lübbenau / Spreewald 49 HRSG Systems (Malaysia) SDN. BHD., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 FEAG Fertigungscenter für Elektrische Anlagen GmbH, Reyrolle (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 ­Erlangen 49 8 Siemens Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya / Malaysia 100 HANSATON Akustik GmbH, Hamburg 50 8 Siemens Subsea Systems SDN. BHD, Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 IFTEC GmbH & Co. KG, Leipzig 50 Siemens Transportation Turnkey Systems Sdn. Bhd., Infineon Technologies Bipolar GmbH & Co. KG, Warstein 40 ­Petaling Jaya / Malaysia 100 Infineon Technologies Bipolar Verwaltungs-GmbH, Warstein 40 8 Siemens Water Technologies SDN. BHD., Innovative Wind Concepts GmbH, Husum 50 ­Petaling Jaya / ­Malaysia 100 7 LIB Verwaltungs-GmbH, Leipzig 50 8 VA TECH Malaysia Sdn.Bhd., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH, Regensburg 26 Siemens (N.Z.) Limited, Auckland / New Zealand 100 MeVis BreastCare GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen 49 Dade Behring Diagnostics Philippines, Inc., MeVis BreastCare Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Bremen 49 8 Manila / Philippines 100 OWP Butendiek GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen 23 Siemens Power Operations, Inc., Manila / Philippines 100 Partikeltherapiezentrum Kiel GmbH & Co. KG, Kiel 50 8 Siemens, Inc., Manila / Philippines 100 Power Vermögensbeteiligungsgesellschaft mbH Die Erste, PETNET Solutions Private Limited, Singapore / Singapore 100 Hamburg 50 8 RuggedCom Asia Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 PTZ Partikeltherapiezentrum Kiel Management GmbH, Siemens Industry Software Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 ­Wiesbaden 50 8 Siemens Medical Instruments Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 Siemens Venture Capital Fund 1 GmbH, Munich 100 4, 8 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics PTE. LTD., Siemens-Electrogeräte GmbH, Munich 100 4, 8 ­Singapore / Singapore 100 7 SKAG Eurocash, Munich 11 6 Siemens Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 SKAG Qualität & Dividende Europa, Munich 34 Siemens Rail Automation Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 Symeo GmbH, Neubiberg 65 4, 8 Siemens Water Technologies Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 7 Transrapid International Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH i.L., Siemens Industry Software (TW) Co., Ltd., Taipei / Taiwan 100 ­Berlin 50 8 Siemens Ltd., Taipei / Taiwan 100 Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Heidenheim 35 Siemens Limited, Bangkok / Thailand 99 Voith Hydro Holding Verwaltungs GmbH, Heidenheim 35 8 Siemens Water Technologies Limited, Bangkok / Thailand 100 7 Wustermark Energie GKW Beteiligungs-GmbH, Hamburg 50 8 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 344 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), Temir Zhol Electrification LLP, Astana / Kazakhstan 49 Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (63 companies) Solutions & Infrastructure Services Limited, Gzira / Malta 50 Arelion GmbH, Hagenberg im Mühlkreis / Austria 25 8 Energie Electrique de Tahaddart S.A., Tanger / Morocco 20 Aspern Smart City Research GmbH, Vienna / Austria 44 8 Enterprise Networks Holdings B.V., Aspern Smart City Research GmbH & Co KG, Vienna / Austria 44 Amsterdam / Netherlands 49 E-Mobility Provider Austria GmbH, Vienna / Austria 50 8 Infraspeed Maintainance B.V., Zoetermeer / Netherlands 46 E-Mobility Provider Austria GmbH & Co KG, Vienna / Austria 50 Ural Locomotives Holding Besloten Vennootschap, Oil and Gas ProServ LLC, Baku / Azerbaijan 25 8 The Hague / Netherlands 50 Dils Energie NV, Brussels / Belgium 50 VOEST-ALPINE Technical Services Ltd., Abuja / Nigeria 40 8 T-Power NV, Brussels / Belgium 20 Wirescan AS, Torp / Norway 27 8 Meomed s.r.o., Prerov / Czech Republic 47 8 Rousch (Pakistan) Power Ltd., Karachi / Pakistan 26 A2SEA A/S, Fredericia / Denmark 49 Windfarm Polska II Sp. z o.o., Koszalin / Poland 50 8 Compagnie Electrique de Bretagne, S.A.S., Paris / France 40 OOO Northern Capital Express, Moscow / Russian Federation 25 8 TRIXELL S.A.S., Moirans / France 25 OOO Transconverter, Moscow / Russian Federation 35 8 Breesea Limited, London / Great Britain 50 OOO UniPower Transmission Solutions, Cross London Trains Holdco 2 Limited, London / Great Britain 33 Region Moskau ­Krasnogorsky District / Russian Federation 50 Gwynt y Mor Offshore Wind Farm Limited, Swindon, OOO VIS Automation mit Zusatz ­Wiltshire / Great Britain 10 6 “Ein ­Gemeinschaftsunter­nehmen von VIS und Siemens”, Heron Wind Limited, London / Great Britain 33 ­Moscow / Russian Federation 49 Lincs Renewable Energy Holdings Limited, ZAO Interautomatika, Moscow / Russian Federation 46 ­London / Great ­Britain 50 ZAO Nuclearcontrol, Moscow / Russian Federation 40 8 Njord Limited, London / Great Britain 33 ZAO Systema-Service, St. Petersburg / Russian Federation 26 Odos Imaging Ltd., Edinburgh / Great Britain 50 8 Impilo Consortium (Pty.) Ltd., La Lucia / South Africa 31 Optimus Wind Limited, London / Great Britain 50 Merida Power, S.L., Madrid / Spain 50 8 Plessey Holdings Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 50 8 Nertus Mantenimiento Ferroviario y Servicios S.A., Pyreos Limited, Edinburgh / Great Britain 37 8 ­Barcelona / Spain 51 4 Sesmos Limited, Edinburgh / Great Britain 50 8 Soleval Renovables S.L., Sevilla / Spain 50 SMart Wind Limited, London / Great Britain 50 Solucia Renovables 1, S.L., Lebrija (Sevilla) / Spain 50 SMart Wind SPC 5 Limited, London / Great Britain 50 8 Termica AFAP S.A., Villacanas / Spain 23 8 SMart Wind SPC 6 Limited, London / Great Britain 50 8 Certas AG, Zurich / Switzerland 50 SMart Wind SPC 7 Limited, London / Great Britain 50 8 Interessengemeinschaft TUS, Männedorf / Switzerland 50 SMart Wind SPC 8 Limited, London / Great Britain 50 8 Zentrum Oberengstringen AG, Unincorporated Joint Venture Gwynt y Mor, Swindon, Oberengstringen / Switzerland 42 8 ­Wiltshire / Great Britain 10 6 Eviop-Tempo A.E. Electrical Equipment Manufacturers, Americas (12 companies) ­Vassiliko / Greece 48 Cia Técnica de Engenheria Eletrica Sucursal Argentina Szeged Energia Zrt., Szeged / Hungary 50 VA ­TECH ARGENTINA S.A. Union transitoria de Empresas, Arava Power Company Ltd., D.N. Eilot / Israel 40 8 ­Buenos Aires / Argentina 30 8 Global Sun Israel, L.P., D.N. Eilot / Israel 35 BritePointe, Inc., Dover, DE / USA 40 8 Metropolitan Transportation Solutions Ltd., Rosh HaAyin / Israel 20 8 Brockton Power Company LLC, Boston, MA / USA 23 Transfima GEIE, Turin / Italy 42 8 Brockton Power Holdings Inc., Boston, MA / USA 25 8 Transfima S.p.A., Milan / Italy 49 8 Brockton Power Properties, Inc., Boston, MA / USA 25 8 VAL 208 Torino GEIE, Milan / Italy 86 4, 8 Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc., Dover, DE / USA 32 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 345 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2013 in % September 30, 2013 in % PhSiTh LLC, New Castle, DE / USA 33 Shanghai Electric Power Generation Equipment Co., Ltd., Power Properties Inc., Boston, MA / USA 25 8 Shanghai / China 40 Rether networks, Inc., Berkeley, CA / USA 30 Shanghai Electric Wind Energy Co., Ltd., Shanghai / China 49 Siemens First Capital Commercial Finance, LLC, Siemens Traction Equipment Ltd., Zhuzhou, ­Oklahoma ­City, OK / USA 51 4 Zhuzhou / China 50 Treated Water Outsourcing, a Nalco/U.S. Filter Joint Venture, Zhenjiang Siemens Busbar Trunking Systems Co. Ltd., Naperville, IL / USA 50 ­Yangzhong / China 50 Innovex Capital En Tecnologia, C.A., Caracas / Venezuela 20 6 Bangalore International Airport Ltd., Bangalore / India 26 Transparent Energy Systems Private Limited, Pune / India 25 8 Asia, Australia (21 companies) P.T. Jawa Power, Jakarta / Indonesia 50 Exemplar Health (NBH) Partnership, Melbourne / Australia 50 PT Asia Care Indonesia, Jakarta / Indonesia 40 Exemplar Health (SCUH) Partnership, Sydney / Australia 50 Kanto Hochouki Co., Ltd., Ibaragi / Japan 25 8 ChinaInvent (Shanghai) Instrument Co., Ltd, Shanghai / China 30 8 Kikoeno Soudanshitsu Co., Ltd., Tochigi / Japan 50 8 FCE (Beijing) Heat Treatment Technology Co., Ltd., Koden Co., Ltd., Hiroshima / Japan 43 8 ­Beijing / ­China 30 8 Yaskawa Siemens Automation & Drives Corp., GSP China Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 50 ­Kitakyushu / Japan 50 ROSE Power Transmission Technology Co., Ltd, Anshan / China 50 Power Automation Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 49 Saitong Railway Electrification (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., Modern Engineering and Consultants Co. Ltd., ­Nanjing / ­China 50 8 ­Bangkok / ­Thailand 40 8 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to economic circumstances. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 5 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 346 Equity interest Net income Equity in in % in millions of millions of € September 30, 2013 € Other investments 12 Germany (10 companies) Ausbildungszentrum für Technik, Informationsverarbeitung und Wirtschaft gemeinnützige GmbH (ATIW), Paderborn 100 4, 5 0 2 BOMA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 4, 5 3 (44) BSAV Kapitalbeteiligungen und Vermögensverwaltungs Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 4, 5 3 50 Kyros Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Grünwald 100 4, 5 46 339 MAENA Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 97 4, 5 1 (101) OSRAM Licht AG, Munich 20 5, 11 (3) 0 Realtime Technology AG, Munich 9 5 35 Siemens Global Innovation Partners I GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 50 5 7 75 Siemens Pensionsfonds AG, Grünwald 100 4, 5 0 8 SIM 9. Grundstücksverwaltungsund -beteiligungs-GmbH, Munich 100 4, 5 1 10 Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (4 companies) Atos S.A., Bezons Cedex / France 14 228 2,349 Siemens Benefits Scheme Limited, Frimley, Surrey / Great Britain 74 4, 5 0 0 Medical Systems S.p.A., Genoa / Italy 45 5 7 79 Corporate XII S.A. (SICAV-FIS), Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 4, 5 88 6,800 Americas (4 companies) Middle East Opportunities Fund SPC obo Solar Energy I Segregated Portfolio, George Town / Cayman Islands 42 5 1 6 Global Healthcare Exchange LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 7 (4) 204 iBAHN Corporation, South Jordan, UT / USA 9 (3) 34 Longview Intermediate Holdings B, LLC, Wilmington, DE / USA 7 (36) 810 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) or legal circumstances. ­German ­Commercial Code. 2 Control due to contractual arrangements. 7 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 11 Interests in the capital of 2.5% are held by Siemens 3 Control due to economic circumstances. Pension Trust e.V. 8 Not accounted for using the equity method due to 4 No control due to contractual arrangements or immateriality. 12 Values according to the latest available local GAAP ­legal circumstances. financial statements; the underlying fiscal year may 9 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b 5 No significant influence due to contractual differ from the Siemens fiscal year. ­German ­Commercial Code. ­arrangements or legal circumstances. This is a translation of the German ”Konzernabschluss gemäß §315a (1) HGB der Siemens AG zum 30. September 2013.“ Sole authoritative and universally valid version is the German language document. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 347 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board D.7.1 Supervisory Board Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. Lothar Adler* Michael Diekmann Bettina Haller* Chairman Chairman of the Central Works Chairman of the Board of Chairwoman of the Combine Works Chairman of the Supervisory Board ­Council, Siemens AG ­Management, Allianz SE Council, Siemens AG of Siemens AG Date of birth: February 22, 1949 Date of birth: December 23, 1954 Date of birth: March 14, 1959 Date of birth: February 25, 1943 Member since: January 23, 2003 Member since: January 24, 2008 Member since: April 1, 2007 Member since: January 23, 2003 External positions External positions German supervisory board positions: Jean-Louis Beffa Hans-Jürgen Hartung* German supervisory board positions: >> Allianz Asset Management AG, (until January 23, 2013) Chairman of the Works Council, >> Axel Springer AG, Berlin Munich (Chairman) Honorary Chairman of Siemens Energy Sector, Erlangen, >> Allianz Deutschland AG, Munich ­Compagnie de Saint-Gobain ­Germany >> BASF SE, Ludwigshafen am Rhein Berthold Huber* Date of birth: August 11, 1941 (Deputy Chairman) Date of birth: March 10, 1952 Member since: January 24, 2008 >> Linde AG, Munich Member since: January 27, 2009 First Deputy Chairman (­­Deputy ­Chairman) External positions 3 First Chairman, IG Metall Positions outside Germany: Positions outside Germany: Robert Kensbock* Date of birth: February 15, 1950 >> Allianz France S.A., France Member since: July 1, 2004 >> Claude Bernard Participations (since January 23, 2013) (­Deputy Chairman) S.A.S., France (Chairman) External positions >> Allianz S.p.A., Italy Member of the Central >> GDF SUEZ S.A., France Works ­Council, Siemens AG German supervisory board positions: >> JL2B Conseils, France (Chairman) >> Audi AG, Ingolstadt >> Le Monde S.A., France Date of birth: March 13, 1971 Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. (­Deputy ­Chairman) >> Le Monde & Partenaires Associés Member since: January 23, 2013 S.A.S., France Supervisory board member >> Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart >> Saint-Gobain Corporation, USA Date of birth: March 2, 1942 >> Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg >> Société Editrice du Monde S.A., Member since: January 24, 2008 Harald Kern* (­Deputy Chairman) France External positions Chairman of the German supervisory board positions: Siemens Europe Committee Gerd von Brandenstein >> BDO AG WirtschaftsprüfungsDate of birth: March 16, 1960 Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 gesellschaft, Hamburg Member since: January 24, 2008 (until September 30, 2013) Member of the Supervisory Boards (­Deputy Chairman) Second Deputy Chairman 2 of Siemens AG and degewo AG >> HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG, Advisory board member Date of birth: April 6, 1942 Düsseldorf Jürgen Kerner* Member since: January 24, 2008 Date of birth: February 7, 1948 Executive Managing Board Member since: January 23, 2003 External positions ­Member, IG Metall Peter Gruss, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. External positions German supervisory board positions: Date of birth: January 22, 1969 >> degewo AG, Berlin President, Max-Planck-Gesellschaft Member since: January 25, 2012 Positions outside Germany: zur Förderung der Wissenschaften e.V. >> Belenos Clean Power Holding AG, External positions Date of birth: June 28, 1949 Switzerland (Deputy Chairman) Member since: January 24, 2008 German supervisory board positions: >> EQT Holdings AB, Sweden >> Airbus Operations GmbH, Hamburg >> Investor AB, Sweden External positions >> Eurocopter GmbH, Donauwörth >> Royal Dutch Shell plc, Netherlands German supervisory board positions: >> MAN SE, Munich >> Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ >> Premium Aerotec GmbH, Augsburg Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft (Deputy Chairman) in München, Munich Positions outside Germany: >> Actelion Ltd., Switzerland 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 348 Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller, Werner Mönius* Rainer Sieg*, Prof. Dr. iur. Sibylle Wankel* Dr. phil. (until January 23, 2013) Chairman of the Committee of Attorney, Bavarian Regional President and Chairwoman Chairman of the Works Council, Spokespersons, Siemens Group; ­Headquarters, IG Metall of the Managing Board, Siemens Healthcare Sector, ­Chairman of the Central Committee Date of birth: March 3, 1964 TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG ­Erlangen, Germany 4 of Spokespersons, Siemens AG Member since: April 1, 2009 Date of birth: December 15, 1959 Date of birth: May 16, 1954 Date of birth: December 20, 1948 External positions Member since: January 24, 2008 Member since: January 24, 2008 Member since: January 24, 2008 German supervisory board positions: External positions >> Audi AG, Ingolstadt German supervisory board positions: Jim Hagemann Snabe 1 >> Vaillant GmbH, Remscheid Güler Sabancı >> Axel Springer AG, Berlin (since January 23, 2013) (since October 1, 2013) >> Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Cologne >> Voith GmbH, Heidenheim Chairwoman and Managing Director, Co-Chief E­ xecutive Officer of Werner Wenning Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. SAP AG; CEO, Snabe ApS (since January 23, 2013) Date of birth: August 14, 1955 Date of birth: October 27, 1965 Second Deputy Chairman 6 Gérard Mestrallet Member since: January 23, 2013 Member since: October 1, 2013 Chairman of the Supervisory Boards (since January 23, 2013) External positions of Bayer AG and E.ON. SE Chairman of the Board and Chief Positions outside Germany: Håkan Samuelsson Date of birth: October 21, 1946 ­Executive Officer of GDF SUEZ S.A. >> Bang & Olufsen A/S, Denmark Member since: January 23, 2013 (until January 23, 2013) Date of birth: April 1, 1949 (­Deputy Chairman) External positions Member since: January 23, 2013 President and CEO, >> Danske Bank A/S, Denmark ­Volvo Car ­Corporation >> SAP Labs LLC, USA German supervisory board positions: External positions Date of birth: March 19, 1951 >> Success Factors Inc., USA >> Bayer AG, Leverkusen (Chairman) Positions outside Germany: >> Syclo LLC, USA >> E.ON SE, Düsseldorf (Chairman) Member since: January 24, 2008 >> Compagnie de Saint-Gobain S.A., >> Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Düsseldorf 7 France External positions 3 >> Henkel Management AG, >> Electrabel S.A., Belgium (Chairman) German supervisory board positions: Birgit Steinborn* ­Düsseldorf >> GDF Suez Energy Management >> Scandferries Holding GmbH, Deputy Chairwoman of the Central Trading CVBA, Belgium (Chairman) ­Rostock (Chairman) 5 Works Council, Siemens AG >> GDF Suez Energie Services S.A., >> Scandlines GmbH, Rostock France (Chairman) Date of birth: March 26, 1960 (­Chairman) >> International Power Ltd., UK Member since: January 24, 2008 Positions outside Germany: >> Pargesa Holding S.A., Switzerland >> Volvo Car Corporation, Sweden >> Sociedad General de Aguas de ­Barcelona S.A., Spain Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel (­Deputy Chairman) (until January 23, 2013) >> Suez Environnement Company Chairman, Amsphere Ltd. S.A., France (Chairman) Date of birth: May 20, 1943 Member since: January 23, 2003 The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has 20 members. As stipulated by the German Codetermination Act, half of the members represent Company shareholders, and half represent Company employees. The shareholder representatives were elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. The employee representatives, whose names are marked with an asterisk (*), were elected in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act on September 25, 2012, effective as of the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. The present Supervisory Board’s term of office will expire at the conclusion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2018. As successor to Dr. Josef Ackermann, who resigned from the Supervisory Board effective September 30, 2013, Jim Hagemann Snabe has been appointed to the Supervisory Board by court order until the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2014. 1 As successor to Dr. Josef Ackermann, who resigned from the Supervisory Board effective September 30, 2013, Jim Hagemann Snabe has been appointed to the Supervisory Board by court order until the end of the A ­ nnual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2014. It will be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting that Mr. Snabe be elected as a shareholder representative on the Supervisory Board for the remainder of Dr. Ackermann’s term of office. 2 Until September 30, 2013. 3 As of January 23, 2013. 4 Until January 31, 2013. 5 Advisory board. 6 Since October 1, 2013. 7 Shareholdersʼ Committee. As of September 30, 2013 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 349 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7.1.1 SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has established seven standing committees. Information on their activities in fiscal 2013 is provided in A.3 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD , ­pages 108-109 above. Committees Meetings Duties and responsibilities Members in ­fiscal 2013 as of ­September 30, 2013 Chairman’s 9 The Chairman’s Committee performs the collective tasks of a Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee 3 decisions by ­nominating and corporate governance committee to the extent (Chairman) notational voting that such tasks are not performed by the Nominating Committee Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 using written and German law does not require that such tasks be performed Lothar Adler ­circulations by the full Supervisory Board. In particular, the Committee makes Berthold Huber proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of Managing Board members and handles contracts with members of the Werner Wenning 2 ­Managing Board. The Chairman’s Committee concerns itself with questions regarding the Company’s corporate governance and prepares the resolutions to be approved by the Supervisory Board regarding the Declaration of Conformity with the Code, including the explanation of deviations from the Code, and regarding the approval of the Corporate Governance Report and the Report of the Super­visory Board to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, the Committee submits recommendations to the Super­ visory Board regarding the composition of Supervisory Board committees and decides whether to approve business transactions with Managing Board members and parties related to them. Compensation 1 The Compensation Committee prepares the proposals for decisions Werner Wenning Committee 1 decision by by the Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings regarding the system (Chairman) ­notational voting of Managing Board compensation, including the implementation Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 using written of this system in the Managing Board contracts, the definition of Lothar Adler ­circulations the targets for variable Managing Board compensation, the deterGerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. mination and review of the appropriateness of the total compensaMichael Diekmann 3 tion of individual Managing Board members and the approval of the annual Compensation Report. In addition, the Compensation Berthold Huber Committee prepares the regular review by the Supervisory Board’s Birgit Steinborn plenary meetings of the system of Managing Board compensation. Audit Committee 6 The Audit Committee oversees the accounting process. It also preHans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. 4, 5 pares the Supervisory Board’s recommendation to the Annual (Chairman) Shareholders’ Meeting concerning the election of the independent Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 auditors and submits the corresponding proposal to the full SuperGerd von Brandenstein 3 visory Board. In addition to the work performed by the indepenGerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. 4 dent auditors, the Audit Committee also discusses the Company’s financial statements, which are prepared by the Managing Board Bettina Haller quarterly, half-yearly and annually. On the basis of the indepenRobert Kensbock 3 dent auditors’ report on the annual financial statements, the Audit Jürgen Kerner Committee makes, after its own review, recommendations to the Jim Hagemann Snabe 3 Supervisory Board regarding the approval of the Annual Financial Birgit Steinborn Statements of Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements of Siemens worldwide. It concerns itself with the Company’s risk monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the internal control system as this relates, in particular, to financial reporting, the risk management system and the internal audit system. The Internal Audit Department reports regularly to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee awards the audit contract to the independent auditors elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and monitors the independent audit of the financial statements – including, in particular, the auditors’ independence, ­professional expertise and services – and performs other functions assigned to it under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOA). 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 350 Committees Meetings Duties and responsibilities Members in ­fiscal 2013 as of ­September 30, 2013 Compliance 5 The Compliance Committee concerns itself, in particular, ­with the Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee Company’s adherence to statutory provisions, o ­ fficial ­regulations (Chairman) and internal Company policies. Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 Lothar Adler Gerd von Brandenstein 3 Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. Bettina Haller Harald Kern 3 Jim Hagemann Snabe 3 Sibylle Wankel Finance and 3 Based on the Company’s overall strategy, which is the focus of Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Investment an annual strategy meeting of the Supervisory Board, the Finance (Chairman) ­Committee 6 and ­Investment C ­ ommittee prepares the discussions and resoluLothar Adler tions of the Supervisory Board regarding questions relating to Gerd von Brandenstein 7 the Company’s financial s­ ituation and structure as well as its fixed Peter Gruss, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. 3 asset and financial investments. In addition, the Committee has been authorized by the Supervisory Board to decide on the approvHarald Kern al of transactions and measures that require Supervisory Board Jürgen Kerner approval and have a value of less than €600 million. Gérard Mestrallet 7 Jim Hagemann Snabe 3 Birgit Steinborn Werner Wenning Nominating 5 The Nominating Committee is responsible for making recommenGerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee dations to the Supervisory Board on suitable candidates for election (Chairman) as shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board by the Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller, Dr. phil. Werner Wenning 2 Mediation 0 The Mediation Committee submits proposals to the Super­visory Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee, Board in the event that the Supervisory Board cannot reach the (Chairman) ­under Section 27 two-thirds majority required for the appointment or dismissal of Josef Ackermann, Dr. oec. 1 a Managing Board member. Lothar Adler para. 3 and Section 31 para. 3 and 5 Berthold Huber of the German Werner Wenning 3 Codetermination Act 1 Until September 30, 2013. 4 Audit committee financial expert as 5 Fulfills the requirements of Section 6 Renamed “­Innovation and Finance defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 100 para. 5 and Section 107 para. 4 of ­Committee” in November 2013. 2 Since October 1, 2013. the German Stock Corporation Act 7 Until November 2013. 3 Since November 2013. (­Aktiengesetz). Further information on corporate governance at Siemens is available at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 351 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7.2 Managing Board Joe Kaeser Peter Löscher Brigitte Ederer Barbara Kux President and Chief Executive Officer, (until July 31, 2013) (until September 30, 2013) (until November 16, 2013) Siemens AG 1 President and Chief Executive Officer, Date of birth: February 27, 1956 Date of birth: February 26, 1954 Date of birth: June 23, 1957 Siemens AG 5 First appointed: July 1, 2010 First appointed: November 17, 2008 First appointed: May 1, 2006 Date of birth: September 17, 1957 Term originally to have expired: Term expired: November 16, 2013 Term expires: July 31, 2018 First appointed: July 1, 2007 June 30, 2015 External positions External positions Term originally to have expired: External positions German supervisory board positions: March 31, 2017 German supervisory board positions: German supervisory board positions: >> Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Düsseldorf >> Allianz Deutschland AG, Munich External positions 6 >> Jenoptik AG, Jena Positions outside Germany: Positions outside Germany: German supervisory board positions: Positions outside Germany: >> Firmenich International SA, >> NXP Semiconductors B.V., >> Deutsche Bank AG, >> Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH, ­Switzerland ­Netherlands ­Frankfurt am Main Austria >> Total S.A., France >> Münchener Rückversicherungs>> Österreichische Industrie­ Group Company positions Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft holding AG (ÖIAG), Austria German supervisory board positions: in München, Munich Group Company positions 7 Hermann Requardt, >> BSH Bosch und Siemens Positions outside Germany: Prof. Dr. phil. nat. ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich Positions outside Germany: >> TBG Limited, Malta Date of birth: February 11, 1955 (­Deputy Chairman) 2 >> Siemens AG Österreich, Austria (­Thyssen-­Bornemisza Group) First appointed: May 1, 2006 Positions outside Germany: (Chairwoman) Term expires: March 31, 2016 >> Siemens Holdings plc, UK >> Siemens AG Österreich, Austria 3 External positions >> Siemens Nederland N.V., >> Siemens Corp., USA Roland Busch, Dr. rer. nat. ­Netherlands (Chairwoman) German supervisory board positions: (­Deputy ­Chairman) 4 Date of birth: November 22, 1964 >> Siemens S.A., Spain (Chairwoman) >> Software AG, Darmstadt >> Siemens Ltd., India First appointed: April 1, 2011 >> Siemens S.p.A., Italy Term expires: March 31, 2016 Group Company positions (­Deputy ­Chairwoman) External positions Positions outside Germany: >> Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Positions outside Germany: Klaus Helmrich Inc., USA >> Atos S.A., France Date of birth: May 24, 1958 >> Siemens Japan Holding K.K., Japan Group Company positions First appointed: April 1, 2011 (Chairman) Positions outside Germany: Term expires: March 31, 2016 >> Siemens Japan K.K., Japan (­Chairman) >> Siemens Industry Inc., USA External positions >> Siemens Medical Solutions USA, >> Siemens Ltd., China (Chairman) German supervisory board positions: Inc., USA (Chairman) >> Siemens Ltd., India >> Siemens Pte. Ltd., Singapore >> EOS Holding AG, Krailling >> Siemens Schweiz AG, Switzerland Group Company positions (Chairman) German supervisory board positions: >> BSH Bosch und Siemens ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 352 Siegfried Russwurm, Peter Y. Solmssen Prof. Dr.-Ing. Date of birth: January 24, 1955 Date of birth: June 27, 1963 First appointed: October 1, 2007 First appointed: January 1, 2008 Term expires: March 31, 2017 8 Term expires: March 31, 2017 Group Company positions External positions Positions outside Germany: German supervisory board positions: >> Siemens Corp., USA (Chairman) >> Deutsche Messe AG, Hanover >> Siemens S.A., Colombia (Chairman) >> inpro Innovationsgesellschaft für fortgeschrittene Produktions­ systeme in der Fahrzeugindustrie Michael Süß, Dr.rer.pol. mbH, Berlin Date of birth: December 25, 1963 >> OSRAM GmbH, Munich (Chairman) First appointed: April 1, 2011 >> OSRAM Licht AG, Munich Term expires: March 31, 2016 (­Chairman) External positions Group Company positions German supervisory board positions: German supervisory board positions: >> Herrenknecht AG, Schwanau >> BSH Bosch und Siemens ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich Positions outside Germany: Ralf P. Thomas, Dr.rer.pol. >> Arabia Electric Ltd. (Equipment), Date of birth: March 7, 1961 Saudi Arabia (Deputy Chairman) First appointed: September 18, 2013 >> Siemens Industry Inc., USA Term expires: September 17, 2018 (­Chairman) Group Company positions >> Siemens Ltd., China Positions outside Germany: >> Siemens Ltd., Saudi Arabia (­Deputy Chairman) >> Siemens Holdings plc, UK >> Siemens Ltd., South Africa >> Siemens Industry Inc., USA (­Chairman) >> Siemens VAI Metals Technologies >> Siemens Middle East, FZ-LLC, GmbH, Austria ­United Arab Emirates >> Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, Austria >> VA TECH T & D Co. Ltd., ­Saudi ­Arabia 1 Since August 1, 2013. 7 Until September 30, 2013. 2 Until November 30, 2013. 8 As a rule, reappointments are effected until the completion of the 60th year of life only, 3 Until November 5, 2013. but with the added proviso that they may be 4 Until October 1, 2013. extended one year at a time for a maximum 5 Until July 31, 2013. of five additional years if neither the member of the Managing Board nor the Supervisory 6 As of July 31, 2013. Board objects. As of September 30, 2013 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 353 254 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 258 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 255 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 260 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 256 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 348 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 257 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7.2.1 MANAGING BOARD COMMITTEES Committee Meetings Duties and responsibilities Members in ­fiscal 2013 as of ­September 30, 2013 Equity and 5 decisions by The Equity and ­Employee Stock ­Committee oversees the utilizaJoe Kaeser ­Employee Stock notational ­voting tion of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of (Chairman) 1 ­Committee using ­written employee stock as well as the implementation of certain capital Brigitte Ederer 2 ­circulations measures. It also determines the scope and conditions of the Klaus Helmrich 3 share-based compensation c­ omponents and / or compensation Ralf P. Thomas, Dr. rer. pol. 4 programs for employees and managers (with the exception of the Managing Board). 1 Since August 1, 2013. 3 Since October 1, 2013. 2 Until September 30, 2013. 4 Since September 18, 2013. Further information on corporate governance at Siemens is available at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE 354 E. Additional Information 358 E.1 Responsibility statement Additional 359 E.2 Independent Auditor’s report Information 361 E.3 Statement of the Managing Board 362 E.4 Five-year summary 364 E.5 Glossary Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 368 E.7 Company structure 370 E.8 Further information and information resources Independent Auditor’s report 371 E.9 Financial calendar Statement of the Managing Board Five-year summary Company structure E. Additional Information Financial calendar 357 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Additional Information Chapter may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. D.7.2.1 MANAGING BOARD COMMITTEES How have the company ’s key business figures developed over the past five Committee Meetings years? Duties andWhat are the key financial dates responsibilities Members in fiscal 2013 as of September 30, 2013 for the next twelve months? How is Equity and Employee Stock theThecompany 5 decisions by structured? All this inforEquity and Employee Stock Committee oversees the utilizanotational voting tion of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of Joe Kaeser (Chairman) 1 Committee using written circulations mation is available here. A wealth of employee stock as well as the implementation of certain capital measures. It also determines the scope and conditions of the Brigitte Ederer Klaus Helmrich 2 3 guidance for finding your way around share-based compensation components and / or compensation programs for employees and managers (with the exception of Ralf P. Thomas, Dr. rer. pol. 4 Annual Report 2013 is also available. the Managing Board). 1 Since August 1, 2013. 3 Since October 1, 2013. 2 Until September 30, 2013. 4 Since September 18, 2013. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ADDITIONAL-INFORMATION Further information on corporate governance at Siemens is available at WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE 354 E. Additional Information 358 E.1 Responsibility statement Additional 359 E.2 Independent Auditor’s report ­Information 361 E.3 Statement of the Managing Board 362 E.4 Five-year summary 364 E.5 Glossary 366 E.6 Index 368 E.7 Company structure 370 E.8 Further information and ­information resources 371 E.9 Financial calendar E. Additional Information 357 Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­Additional Information Chapter may not add up ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. E.1 Responsibility statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the the Management Report for Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, inapplicable reporting principles, the Consolidated Financial ­ cludes a fair review of the development and performance of Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the business and the position of the Group, together with a financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the description of the material opportunities and risks associated Group Management Report, which has been combined with with the expected development of the Group. Munich, November 20, 2013 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft The Managing Board Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Peter Y. Solmssen Dr. Michael Süß Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 358 E.2 Independent Auditor’s report To Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich ­ ccordingly, we are required to comply with ethical requireA ments and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED assurance about whether the consolidated financial state­ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ments are free from material misstatement. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich, An audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated stateevidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated ments of income, comprehensive income, financial position, financial statements. The selection of audit procedures depends cash flow and changes in equity, and notes to the consolidated on the auditor’s professional judgment. This includes the asfinancial statements for the business year from October 1, 2012 sessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolito September 30, 2013. dated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal conManagement’s Responsibility for the trol system relevant to the entity ’s preparation of the consoli­Consolidated Financial Statements dated financial statements that give a true and fair view. The The management of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft is responsible aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements. appropriate in the given circumstances. An audit also includes This responsibility includes preparing these consolidated finanevaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used cial statements in accordance with International Financial and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by ­Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of (EU), the supplementary requirements of German law pursuant the consolidated financial statements. to Sec. 315a (1) HGB [“Handelsgesetzbuch“: German Commercial Code] and full IFRS as issued by the International AccountWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiing Standards Board (IASB), to give a true and fair view of the cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. net assets, financial position and results of operations of the group in accordance with these requirements. The company ’s Audit Opinion management is also responsible for the internal controls that Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we state that our audit management determines are necessary to enable the preparaof the consolidated financial statements has not led to any tion of consolidated financial statements that are free from ­reservations. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consoliAuditor’s Responsibility dated financial statements comply in all material respects with Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidatIFRS as adopted by the EU, the supplementary requirements of ed financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB and full audit in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and German generally IFRS as issued by the IASB and give a true and fair view of the accepted standards for the audit of financial statements pronet assets and financial position of the Group as at September mulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of 30, 2013 as well as the results of operations for the business Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW) as well as in supplementary year then ended, in accordance with these requirements. compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 359 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary REPORT ON THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we state that our audit We have audited the accompanying group management report, of the group management report has not led to any reservations. which is combined with the management report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, for the business year from October 1, 2012 In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the conto September 30, 2013. The management of the company is solidated financial statements and group management report, ­responsible for the preparation of the group management report the group management report is consistent with the consoliin compliance with the applicable requirements of German dated financial statements, and as a whole provides a suitable commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB. We are required view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportuto conduct our audit in accordance with Sec. 317 (2) HGB and nities and risks of future development. German generally accepted standards for the audit of the group management report promulgated by the IDW. AccordMunich, November 20, 2013 ingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the group management report to obtain reasonable assurance Ernst & Young GmbH about whether the group management report is consistent Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft with the consolidated financial statements and the audit findings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Krämmer Prof. Dr. Hayn Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 360 E.3 Statement of the Managing Board The Managing Board of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft is responunder their responsibility have confirmed to us the correctness sible for preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the financial data they have reported to Siemens’ corporate the Group Management Report. The Consolidated Financial headquarters and the effectiveness of the related control sysStatements have been prepared in accordance with Internatems. Compliance with the guidelines as well as the reliability tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the and effectiveness of the control systems are continuously exEuropean Union as well as with the additional requirements amined by Internal Corporate Audit throughout the Siemens set forth in Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code Group. Our risk management system complies with the re(Handelsgestzbuch). The financial statements are also in acquirements of the German Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Our cordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting risk management system is designed to enable the Managing Standards Board (IASB). The Group Management Report is conBoard to recognize potential risks early on and initiate timely sistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements and is comcountermeasures. bined with the Management Report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. In accordance with the resolution adopted at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, Ernst & Young GmbH WirtschaftsprüSiemens employs extensive internal controls, company-wide fungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial uniform reporting guidelines and additional measures, includStatements and Group Management Report, which is coming employee training and continuing education, with the inbined with the Management Report of Siemens Aktiengetention that the Consolidated Financial Statements and the sellschaft, and issued an unqualified opinion. Together with Group Management Report are conducted correctly and in acthe independent auditors, the Supervisory Board has thorcordance with the applicable legal requirements. Members of oughly examined the Consolidated Financial Statements, the the management of the Sectors, Divisions, Financial Services, Group Management Report, and the Independent Auditors’ ReCross-Sector Services, Regional Clusters and certain Corporate port. The result of this examination is included in the Report of Units, supported by certifications of management of entities the Supervisory Board ( A.3 OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ). Munich, November 27, 2013 The Managing Board Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Peter Y. Solmssen Dr. Michael Süß Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 361 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary E.4 Five-year summary Revenue and profit 1, 2 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Revenue in millions of € 75,882 77,395 72,526 67,862 68,726 Gross profit in millions of € 20,829 21,925 21,907 19,768 18,707 Income from continuing operations in millions of € 4,212 4,642 6,625 4,065 2,456 Net income in millions of € 4,409 4,282 5,899 3,881 2,448 Assets, liabilities and equity 2 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Current assets in millions of € 46,937 52,128 52,540 50,179 44,087 Current liabilities in millions of € 37,868 42,627 43,549 40,602 36,510 Debt in millions of € 20,453 20,707 17,940 19,913 19,638 Long-term debt in millions of € 18,509 16,880 14,280 17,497 18,940 Net debt 3 in millions of € 10,663 9,292 4,995 5,560 9,309 Post-employment benefits in millions of € 9,265 9,801 7,188 8,342 5,859 Equity (including non-controlling interests) in millions of € 28,625 31,424 32,271 29,222 27,351 as a percentage of total assets in % 28 29 31 28 29 Total assets in millions of € 101,936 108,251 104,210 102,791 94,911 Cash flows 1, 2 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations in millions of € 7,126 6,923 8,140 9,009 6,299 Amortization, depreciation and impairments 4 in millions of € 2,819 2,732 2,471 2,558 2,353 Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations in millions of € (4,836) (5,029) (2,890) (2,285) (2,544) Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in millions of € (1,869) (2,195) (2,151) (1,932) (2,126) Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations in millions of € (3,422) (3,523) (6,970) (2,868) (441) Change in cash and cash equivalents in millions of € (1,717) (1,561) (1,715) 4,023 3,275 Free cash flow – continuing operations in millions of € 5,257 4,727 5,989 7,077 4,172 Employees – continuing operations 1 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Employees (September 30) in thousands 362 366 355 330 327 Stock market information FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Basic earnings per share (continuing and discontinued operations) 2 in € 5.08 4.74 6.55 4.28 2.59 Basic earnings per share (continuing operations) 1, 2 in € 4.85 5.15 7.37 4.50 2.61 Diluted earnings per share (continuing and discontinued operations) 2 in € 5.03 4.69 6.48 4.23 2.57 Diluted earnings per share (continuing operations) 1, 2 in € 4.80 5.10 7.29 4.45 2.57 Dividend per share in € 3.005 3.00 3.00 2.70 1.60 Stock price range (Xetra closing price) High in € 90.33 79.71 99.38 79.37 66.45 Low in € 76.00 63.06 64.45 60.20 35.52 Fiscal year-end in € 89.06 77.61 68.12 77.43 63.28 Performance of Siemens shares year-over-year Compared to DAX® in %-points 3.67 (12.57) 2.17 15.53 2.24 Compared to MSCI World in %-points 2.55 (3.01) (5.16) 18.53 1.86 Number of shares issued (September 30) in millions 881 881 914 914 914 Market capitalization 6 in millions of € 75,078 66,455 59,554 67,351 54,827 Credit rating – long-term debt Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ A+ A+ Moody’s Investors Service Aa3 Aa3 A1 A1 A1 1 Regarding activities classified as discontinued operations, long-term debt as well as long-term debt. Total liquidity depreciation and impairments of property, plant and prior years are presented on a comparable basis. comprises cash and cash equivalents as well as availableequipment, net of reversals of impairments. for-sale financial assets (current). 2 Adjusted for effects adopting IAS 19R. Prior years are 5 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. presented on a comparable basis. 4 Amortization, depreciation and impairments contains 6 On the basis of outstanding shares. amortization and impairments, net of reversals of impair3 Net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. Total ments, of intangible assets other than goodwill as well as debt comprises short-term debt and current maturities of 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 362 Quarterly data 1 FY 2013 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter Revenue in millions of € 75,882 21,168 19,009 17,779 17,925 Net income in millions of € 4,409 1,068 1,098 1,030 1,214 Quarterly data 1 FY 2012 4 Quarter th 3 Quarter rd 2 Quarter nd 1 Quarter st Revenue in millions of € 77,395 21,444 19,271 19,033 17,648 Net income in millions of € 4,282 1,191 770 938 1,383 1 Regarding activities classified as discontinued operations, prior periods are presented on a comparable basis. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 363 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 370 E.8 F  urther information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary E.5 Glossary A D Adjusted EBITDA Abbreviation for the performance measure Debt Issuance Program A kind of framework agreement between com­ »earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation panies and traders of notes (usually banks), and amortization«. Siemens defines adjusted enabling a company to issue securities in the EBITDA on group level as result of the follow­ capital market under predetermined terms and ing line items: Income from continuing oper­ conditions, thus providing flexibility in raising ations before income taxes less Financial debt within a very short period of time. income (expenses), net (comprised of Interest Derivatives / Derivative An instrument that derives its value from that expenses, Interest income and Other finan­ ­financial instruments of an underlying instrument or index, is cial income (expenses), net) and less Income ­settled at a future date and often requires no (loss) from investments accounted for using or a relatively low initial investment. the equity method, net (adjusted EBIT), plus amorti­zation and depreciation and impair­ Discontinued operations A component of an entity that either has been ment of property, plant and equipment and disposed of in the fiscal year or is classified as goodwill. held for sale and represents a separate major American Depositary A U.S. dollar-denominated certificate issued line of business or geographical area of opera­ Shares (ADSs) / by a U.S. bank, representing a share of a for­ tions; is part of a single coordinated plan to ­American Depositary eign-based company available for purchase dispose of a separate major line of business Receipts (ADRs) on an American stock exchange. The entire or geographical area of operations; or is a issuance is called an American Depositary subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to Receipt (ADR) and the individual shares are resale. referred to as ADSs. Asset management The process of managing and controlling E company assets in order to enhance opera­ Emerging markets Economies that are not industrialized econo­ tional efficiency in using these assets in mies. Siemens defines emerging market ­business operations. countries in accordance with the International Monetary Fund’s definition of “Emerging C ­Market and Developing Economies”. Captive finance unit A financial services unit organized as a busi­ ness within an industrial company that offers F financial solutions primarily to customers of Free cash flow A measure of operative cash generation. the operating units of that company. Siemens defines “Free cash flow” as cash Comfort letter A written statement prepared by an indepen­ flows from operating activities less additions dent auditor which expresses an opinion on to intangible assets and property, plant and the results of certain audit procedures. equipment. Commercial paper Short-term debt instrument in the form of Functional costs Functional costs comprise the following bearer bonds, issued in the money market by line items: Cost of sales, Research and companies with strong credit ratings. ­development expenses, and Selling and ­general administrative expenses. Commercial Paper Program Program for the issuance of commercial papers that can be drawn in different currencies. G Compliance Adherence to laws and to external and German Corporate Drafted by a German government commission, ­internal guidance or codes of conduct. ­Governance Code the German Corporate Governance Code is a Corporate Treasury A corporate unit responsible for financial set of recommendations and suggestions for management, particularly relating to the the good management and supervision of liquidity and cash management as well as publicly listed companies. the financial risk management. Credit Rating Standardized indicator for the assessment of issuers’ credit ratings; determined by special­ ized agencies. 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 364 H S Hybrid bond A corporate bond that, due to its characteris­ Sensitivity analysis Analysis of effects of possible changes in tics such as long maturity date and subordi­ assumptions. It is used, for example, to estimate nation, bears the character of both debt and how the defined benefit obligation is affected equity. by decreasing / increasing discount rates. Supply Chain Management Comprises the planning and management O of all processes in connection with supplier selection, procurement and logistics. Operating net The net amount of inventories less advance ­working ­capital payments received plus trade and other receivables minus trade payables and minus W billings in excess of costs and estimated earn­ Weighted Average Cost The rate that a company is expected to pay ings on uncompleted contracts and related of Capital (WACC) on average to all its providers of capital to advances. finance its assets. Order backlog Inventory of orders for goods and services based on binding contractual arrangements with customers. R Return on capital employed This key performance indicator shows how (ROCE) efficiently a company works with the capital of its shareholders and lenders. Risk management Systematic process to identify and assess potential opportunities and risks and to select and implement response strategies with respect to these opportunities and risks. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 365 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary E.6 Index A E Audit Committee 109, 120, 333, 350 Earnings per share 173, 182, 231, 254, 265, 326 Audiology Solutions 161 Economic environment 166 Emerging countries 83, 166, 180, 227 B Employees 84, 221, 248 BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte Energy 4, 157, 168, 171, 183, 228, 327 GmbH (BSH) 165, 189, 289 Energy Service 158 Building Technologies 164, 170, 189, 230 Energy solutions 4 Business and economic environment 156 Environmental Portfolio 82, 218 Environmental protection 220 C Equity and Employee Stock Committee 354 Capital resources and requirements 198 Equity Investments 164, 189, 327 Capital structure 85, 174, 193 Chairman’s Committee 108, 119, 350 F Climate change 15, 82, 170, 218 Finance and Investment Committee 109, 121, 351 Clinical Products 160 Financial calendar 371 Code of Ethics 118 Financial performance system 85, 173 Collective action 127, 225 Financial position 192, 247 Combined Management Report 155 Financial Services 165, 189, 230, 327 Company structure 368 Five-year summary 362 Company ’s values 125, 170 Compensation Report 129 G Compliance 126, 224 Globalization 51, 170 Compliance Committee 108, 120, 351 Compliance Report 126 H Consolidated Financial Statements 253 Healthcare 22, 160, 169, 172, 185, 228, 327 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 257 Healthcare solutions 22 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 258 I Consolidated Statements of Imaging & Therapy Systems 160 ­Comprehensive Income 255 Independent Auditors’ report 359 Consolidated Statements of Industry 161, 169, 172, 186, 229, 327 Financial ­Position 256 Industry Automation 162, 169, 187, 229 Consolidated Statements of Income 254 Industry solutions 40 Continuing education 84, 171, 223, 248 Infrastructure & Cities 60, 163, 170, 172, 187, 229, 327 Corporate Governance Report 118 Infrastructure solutions 60 Corporate Governance statement 124 Integrity Initiative 127, 225 Credit rating 113, 194, 304 Inventions 213 Customer focus 83, 171, 217 Investing activities 195 Customer Services (Industry) 162 Investor Relations 111 Customer Solutions (Healthcare) 160 K D Key Account Management 217 Demographic change 33, 170, 222 Key figures fiscal 2013 88 Diagnostics 160, 185 Diversity 84, 222 L Dividend 112, 175, 232 Legal proceedings 306 Drive Technologies 162, 169, 187, 229 Letter to our Shareholders 92 Low and Medium Voltage 164 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 366 M S Management and control structure 118 Service business 83, 171 Managing Board of Siemens AG 98, 352 Share Ownership Guidelines 114, 131, 144 Medanta – The Medicity 22 Share-based payment 323 Mediation Committee 108, 121, 351 Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines 211, 223, 225 Mobility and Logistics 163 Siemens Real Estate 189, 327 Siemens share 112 N SMART 83, 243 Net assets position 204, 247 Smart Grid 164 Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. (NSN) 165, 182, 189, 275 Statement of the Managing Board 361 Nominating Committee 108, 120, 351 Strategy 80, 170 Notes and forward-looking statements 250 Subsequent events 209, 249 Notes to Consolidated Supervisory Board 348 Financial Statements 260 Sustainability 210 O T One Siemens 80, 171, 173 Transportation & Logistics 163, 170,188, 229 Open Innovation 212 Orders 178, 179, 329 U OSRAM Licht AG 113, 165, 276 Urbanization 73, 170 Overall assessment of the economic ­position 207 V Vision 80, 170 P Patent applications 213 W Portfolio management 82, 171 Wind Power 158, 169, 184, 228 Power Generation 158, 228 Power Grid Solutions & Products 163, 170, 189, 230 Power plant modernization Kirishi 2 Power Transmission 158, 169, 185, 228 Profitability and capital efficiency 173, 231, 232 R Rail Systems 163 Related party transactions 330 Report of the Supervisory Board 102 Report on expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks 227 Research and development 211 Responsibility statement 358 Results of operations 179, 246 Results of Siemens 179 Revenue growth 85, 173 Risk management 232 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 367 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary E.7 Company structure Managing Board of Siemens AG Joe Kaeser Roland Busch Klaus Helmrich Hermann Requardt President and Chief Executive Officer Infrastructure & Cities Human Resources Healthcare ­Corporate ­Development Corporate Corporate Technology South America, Japan ­Sustainability Office Governance & Markets Asia (excluding Japan), ­Communications and Australia Government Affairs Legal and Compliance Sectors Energy Healthcare Industry Michael Süß Hermann Requardt Siegfried Russwurm Energy Service Randy Zwirn Clinical Products Britta Fünfstück Customer Services Dirk Hoke Power Generation Roland Fischer Customer Solutions Norbert Gaus Drive Technologies Ralf-Michael Franke Power Transmission Karlheinz Springer Diagnostics Michael Reitermann Industry Automation Anton Sebastian Huber Wind Power Markus Tacke Imaging & Therapy Systems Bernd Montag Regional organization by reporting region Americas Asia, Australia Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East Brazil Paulo Ricardo Stark Australia Jeffery Connolly Austria Wolfgang Hesoun Canada Robert Hardt China Lothar Herrmann Belgium André Bouffioux Colombia Daniel Fernandez India Sunil Mathur Czech Republic Eduard Palisek Mexico Louise Koopman Goeser Indonesia Josef Winter France Christophe de Maistre United States Eric Spiegel Japan Junichi Obata Germany Rudolf Martin Siegers Republic of Korea JongKap Kim Italy Federico Vilfredo Golla Singapore Armin Bruck Netherlands Ab van der Touw 1 Commonwealth of Independent States 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 368 Siegfried Russwurm Michael Süß Ralf P. Thomas Industry Energy Finance and Controlling Corporate Supply Chain North America, Financial Services Management Middle East Siemens Real Estate Information Technology Global Shared Services Corporate Security Office Equity Investments Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa Cross-Sector Activities Infrastructure & Cities Roland Busch Building Technologies Johannes Milde Financial Services Roland Chalons-Browne Low and Medium Voltage Ralf Christian Global Shared Services Michel E. de Zeeuw Mobility and Logistics Sami Atiya Siemens Real Estate Zsolt Sluitner Rail Systems Jochen Eickholt Smart Grid Jan Mrosik Poland Peter Baudrexl Switzerland Siegfried Gerlach Portugal Carlos Melo Ribeiro Turkey Hüseyin Gelis Russian Federation Dietrich Möller United Arab Emirates Dietmar Siersdorfer Saudi Arabia Arja Talakar United Kingdom Roland Aurich South Africa Sigi Proebstl Spain Rosa María García Sweden Ulf Troedsson As of January 1, 2014 The members of the Supervisory Board are listed in D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD , pages 348-349. 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 369 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 370 E.8 F  urther information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary E.8 Further information and information resources Further information on the contents Copies of the Annual Report can be ordered at: of this Annual Report is available from: E-mail siemens@bek-gmbh.de Address Siemens AG Internet WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ORDER-ANNUALREPORT Wittelsbacherplatz 2 Fax + 49 7237 1736 80333 Munich Germany Siemens employees may obtain copies at: Phone + 49 89 636 33443 (Media Relations) Intranet H T TPS://INTRANET.SIEMENS.COM/ + 49 89 636 32474 (Investor Relations) ORDER-ANNUALREPORT Fax + 49 89 636 30085 (Media Relations) English Order no. A19100-F-V100-X-7600 + 49 89 636 32830 (Investor Relations) German Order no. A19100-F-V100 E-mail press@siemens.com investorrelations@siemens.com Employees should include their postal address and ­complete order data (Org-ID and cost center information) when ordering. Additional information The Siemens Annual Report for 2013 is available online at: Concept and coordination WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT Communications and Government Affairs Dr. Johannes von Karczewski Annette Häfelinger Combined reporting This Siemens Annual Report combines our previously separate Finance and Controlling Annual and Sustainability Reports to provide an integrated Dr. Marcus Mayer overview of our Company’s key topics. Further information on Siemens’ commitment to sustainability and additional indicators are available at: Layout / Production WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y hw.design GmbH WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y-FIGURES Publicis München, ZN der PWW GmbH In addition to an Annual Report at the end of each fiscal year, Siemens publishes quarterly consolidated financial statements Copyright notice in the form of press releases. Conference calls and press conDesignations used in this document may be trademarks, ferences supplement these reports, giving journalists and the use of which by third parties for their own purposes could analysts further opportunities to review developments in our violate the rights of the trademark owners. businesses. Financial reporting for the first three quarters is complemented by extensive interim reports. These reports are submitted to Deutsche Börse and the U.S. Securities and Ecofriendly production Exchange Commission (SEC), among other organizations. This Annual Report has been produced using chlorine-free Siemens also provides the SEC with the Annual Report on bleached materials and climate-neutral production processes. Form 20-F. All these financial reports are available at: In accordance with the guidelines of the Forest Stewardship WWW.SIEMENS.COM/FINANCIAL-REPORTS Council (FSC), all the paper used in this Annual Report comes from controlled sources such as sustainable forests. The mill Information on research, development and innovation at in which the paper was produced is certified in accordance Siemens is available at: with ISO 9001, 14001 and 18001 guidelines. It uses only WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION ­chlorine-free bleached pulps (ECF), which are subsequently processed without the use of elemental chlorine. The Siemens publication Pictures of the Future: The Magazine for Research and Innovation is available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/POF © 2013 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich 92 A. To our Shareholders 117 B. Corporate ­Governance 155 C. Combined ­Management Report 370 E.9 Financial calendar 1 28 First-quarter January 2014 28 January 2014 Annual Shareholders’ financial report ­Meeting for fiscal 2013 29 Ex-dividend date January 2014 08 Second-quarter May 2014 financial report 31 Third-quarter July 2014 06 Preliminary figures November 2014 financial report for fiscal 2014 27 Annual Shareholders’ January 2015 ­Meeting for fiscal 2014 1 Provisional. Updates will be published at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/FINANCIAL-CALENDAR 253 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 357 E. Additional ­Information 371 358 E.1 Responsibility statement 366 E.6 Index 359 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs report 368 E.7 Company structure 361 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 370 E.8 Further information and information resources 362 E.4 Five-year summary 371 E.9 Financial calendar 364 E.5 Glossary Order no. A19100-F-V100-X-7600 For 166 years, Siemens has stood for innovative strength, a passion Energy, Healthcare, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities. In fiscal 2013, for technology, sustainability, responsibility and an uncompromising our roughly 362,000 employees generated revenue from continuing commitment to quality and excellence. As a globally operating tech­ operations of about €75.9 billion and income from continuing oper­ nology company, we’re rigorously leveraging the advantages that ations of about €4.2 billion – further proof that we’re thinking for the our setup provides. To tap business opportunities in both new and long term and providing answers for the challenges of our time. established markets, we’ve organized our Company into four Sectors: siemens.com /annual-report
