Press release Gebrüder Weiss publishes latest sustainability report How can logistics be made sustainable? Gebrüder Weiss sets a good example and focuses on environmental, social and economic issues in its latest sustainability report. Lauterach, 13 August 2014. Sustainable economic development is closely linked to efficient and future-ready logistics systems. Gebrüder Weiss is fully aware of its corporate responsibility and the company's many activities in the area of sustainability put it at the forefront of the sector. The company provides information about its various activities through its up-to-date and publicly accessible sustainability report. For example, the company invests in the latest technology when rebuilding or renovating its sites and takes a variety of environmental and energy-related factors into account. In order to evaluate the success of these environmental measures for the benefit of its customers, Gebrüder Weiss uses a special CO2 calculator throughout the corporate group. Numerous social projects – such as aid supplies to crisis zones or fund-raising campaigns for charitable organisations – are representative of the responsible management practised by Gebrüder Weiss at all its locations worldwide. Drawn up in accordance with GRI standards In 2009, Gebrüder Weiss became one of the first companies in the industry to draw up a sustainability report according to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which defines fixed international principles for measuring economic, environmental and social activities. With the latest online version of the report, the company would like to give all stakeholders an insight into its activities: http://www.gw-world.com/en/sustainabilityreport/ About Gebrüder Weiss With about 6,000 employees, 150 company-owned locations and an annual turnover of 1.2 billion euros (in 2013), Gebrüder Weiss ranks among the leading transport and logistics companies in Europe. In addition to its core business of overland transport, air and sea freight and logistics, the company also operates a number of highly specialised industry solutions and subsidiaries under the umbrella of Gebrüder Weiss Holding AG, based in Lauterach (Vorarlberg, Austria). This includes logistics consultancy x|vise, tectraxx (industry specialist for hi-tech businesses), inet-logistics (software solutions for TMS transport management), dicall (telephone service, consulting, telemarketing), Railcargo (railway transport) and the Gebrüder Weiss parcel service, GWP, a shareholder in the Austrian company DPD. This bundling of services allows the Group to respond to customer needs quickly and flexibly. Having implemented a variety of ecological, economic and social initiatives, the family-owned company, which has a history going back 500 years, is considered a pioneer in terms of sustainable business today. Contact Gebrüder Weiss Corporate Communications press@gw-world.com Bundesstraße 110, 6923 Lauterach, Austria Tel +43 5574 696 2165 Fax +43 5 9006 2173 www.gw-world.com http://newsroom.gw-world.com/en/
