The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2013 to December 2013. Page 1 of 10 Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what SQUARE had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 2014. Page 2 of 10 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes  Informing Physician Community on Latest Development  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical professionals. Human Rights We are in Medical Science committed to Being in the pharmaceutical sector, the Company maintains a A close relation with the physician community is maintained (UNGC extend our very close relation with the physician community. The Principles 1-2) support for the management believes a better informed and educated doctor Product knowledge is increased significantly. protection of community creates a win-win situation for all the stakeholders. internationally For this purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives under its Medical professionals receive updated information on different proclaimed Continual Medical Education (CME) programs. drugs and other relevant information. human rights within their  Clinical Meeting: These meetings are organized aiming to A better informed and educated community of doctors creates sphere of upgrade the day-to-day developments in medical sector. a win-win situation for all the stakeholders. influence & These meetings act as a forum for training and knowledgemake sure that sharing among the medical professionals and often attended The physician community is supported with contemporary and they are not by experts on the respective subject as key-note speakers critical issues related to medicine, disease, medical innovation complicit in which are continued efforts; these meetings are conducted etc. human rights by dedicated team of medical graduates of the Medical abuse. Services Department (MSD). Number of Number of Year Programs Participants January 2013 to 389 28911 December 2013  Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regular updated information of different drugs. These meetings are organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary Services Department (VSD). Number of Number of Year Programs Participants January 2013 to 286 10010 December 2013 Page 3 of 10 Human Rights SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis which are distributed among (UNGC the physicians of Bangladesh. They are: Principles 1-2) 1. The SQUARE – provides various informative articles on healthcare, diseases and also product information. 2. e-SQUAREonline version of the articles 3. SQUAREBengali version of the articles. Electronic versions of these bulletins are available in our website. The SQUARE http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/periodicals-thesquare.php E-SQUARE http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/periodicals-esquare.php SQUARE http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/periodicals-psquare.php  Support to local community: SQUARE takes continued  The institution received the necessary resources to function initiatives to provide support for the local community. efficiently. SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. handed over medicines & Information on SQUARE and its products were disseminated other daily-need appliances to 'School of Hope' which is a among children and the community. non-profit, non-political, non-religious educational institute situated at Badda, Dhaka, established in January 1990 as a The typhoon affected people received humanitarian aid. private initiative. It provides quality education & healthsupport to 200 disadvantaged children every day. SQUARE’s products reached Philippines creating awareness among the people. SQUARE is also involved in philanthropic activities. SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. donated medicinal products worth Tk. 3 million for the victims of Typhoon Yolanda in Philippines. Page 4 of 10 Human Rights  Support to Education: SQUARE Kindergarten & High School  The children of the employees are receiving quality education provides educations and educational facilities to the children at a subsidized rate. (UNGC of the employees as well as the children of the local Principles 1-2) This educational service results in lasting employee satisfaction. community. The children of the local community are equally benefitted with Around 500 students are receiving primary and secondary quality education. education from SQUARE Kindergarten and SQUARE High School annually. SQUARE recognizes the merits of higher educated students and awards Gold Medal to the student of Dhaka Medical College who secures the highest mark.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. (a sister concern of SQUARE Group) is  Boosts morale of the student. providing pick & drop services with school buses for the Creates future customers for SQUARE. children of factory employees. Since the factory is located at a distance from town, the service creates great convenience The service generates employee satisfaction. and facilitates the movement of the children. The children enjoys hassle free journey.  Senora Acid Victim Campaign: SQUARE Toiletries Ltd., one of the concerns of SQUARE Group is involved in a continuing  In 2013, around 3,500,000 packs of Senora were sold. fund raising program with the Acid Survivors Foundation. We The fund raising program also acts as an awareness program. are committed to provide Tk 1 from each of the sold unit of Senora 10 pad belt and panty. SQUARE stands alongside the acid victims assisting them with rehabilitation. Page 5 of 10 Human Rights  Empowerment: SQUARE Group established a Training  The initiative offers an alternative training solution to the Institution of IT (Dishari Computer Training Institute) in section of the community unable to afford costly training (UNGC Pabna to train the underprivileged community. A total 120 programs. Principles 1-2) students (Male-55, Female-65) have received training from Dishari Computer Training Institute. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of future technology enabling them to build their future with contemporary knowledge in computer science.  Women Empowerment: SQUARE operates a fuel station  The station generates employment opportunities to rural named Eakub Filling Station which is run by women women allowing them to be self-sufficient. employees. Currently, six women are working as fuel operators in Eakub Filling Station and providing services to Women are empowered as they are able to have their own around 28,800 vehicles monthly. source of income.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd, is partnering one of the projects of  Product awareness and demand increases in those areas CARE – “JITA” which enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to Increases earnings of JITA and helps rural women to experience households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), keeping the the better & safer way of living. margin (not less than 10%) for themselves. More women (3900+) are able to earn their livelihood by selling Regular awareness programs are conducted in rural yards our products. (Uthan Program) and rural schools in the JITA operating areas In 2013, the project increased the total number of districts from 31 to 46 nationally.  This initiative has educated 1.6 million Bangladeshi girls about  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. has provided health & hygiene menstruation facts and made them ready for a healthier future. information to adolescent girls under the brand “Senora”. This is a free campaign that creates awareness among High The initiative has also introduced our product to them. School girls. Page 6 of 10 Human Rights  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries Ltd.) took the  Mothers are benefitted with adequate knowledge on initiative to make life better for Bangladeshi mothers by breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy (UNGC conducting awareness programs. future. Principles 1-2)  Health awareness program of SQUARE hospital is broadcast  Doctors and senior consultants communicate directly with live on “Maasranga” Television (sister concern of SQUARE) patients over telephone, providing valuable information and every Friday. advice on various important topics related to diseases, treatment etc. Creates health awareness among the mass population. Page 7 of 10 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established Workers’ Trade  The door to negotiation with management is open as a result of Labour We are Union named “SQUARE Kormochari Samity” (Registration this Trade Union. Standards committed to No: 1322). There are around 1203 members of the Trade Various concerns of the workers are addressed. freedom of Union. Salary and other benefits are reviewed. (UNGC association, Principles 3-6) not to recruit  Detailed background and reference verification is done as a  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law. any child part of recruitment & selection process to ensure no child is labour and employed. eliminate any  Competency based recruitment system are carried out.  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or discrimination Employees are selected based on their skills and religion is eliminated. in respect to competence. Last year a total of 587 employees were employment recruited under the system. and  HR policies are continuously updated as per the Labour Law  Retirement policy for the employees has been implemented occupation. of the country. due to the amendment in the Labor Law.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the program “Shohoj Kisti  At present, total 467 employees are benefited by this scheme. Reen Prokalpa” under which all unionized employees can take loan to purchase necessary home appliances with a small service charge.  Female employees do not work during night shift operations.  This ensures security and work-life balance for the female employees.  All of our employees (5868) are covered under mandatory  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee Group Life Insurance. satisfaction.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing profit sharing  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship. through WPPF (Workers’ Profit Participation Fund) which is a The plan is an additional earning for employees as it is paid in direct payment & equally distributed to the employees addition to salary and bonuses. depending on company's profitability.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Allows festival leave, sick  Ensures compliance with the Labor Law. leave, casual leave & annual leave for all its employees.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing gratuity benefit for its employees after separation as per the amendment in  Employees are satisfied and the adjustment is implemented. the Labor Law. Page 8 of 10 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in our  Our stakeholders are satisfied and there are no formal Environment We are manufacturing plants. Purified water through ETP is used to complaints regarding environment. committed to maintain Green belt around plants. SQUARE’s (UNGC support Environmental license has been updated on a continuous  We are being responsible to environment protection. Principles 7-9) precautionary basis. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) of our ETP is 200  Increases aesthetics around the compounds. approach to mg/L. (International Standard for COD has to be less than environmental 400 mg/L for the efficacy of ETP).  Received award from the government of Bangladesh in challenges &  We use incinerators for disposing solid wastes to protect the association with UNDP for contributing to the environment by promote environment from pollution. In 2013 a total of 11798.08 producing HFA based inhalers. greater kilograms waste were disposed through incinerator.  Environmental friendly practices ensure protection of wildlife environmental • Waste Powder: 2960.84 kilograms and maintenance of biodiversity. responsibility. • Solid Waste: 6507.24 kilograms • Batch Documents: 2250 kilograms  Soil erosion is prevented. • Carton, Leaflet etc.: 80 kilograms.  Poverty is eliminated through employment generation.  We maintain large greeneries around SQUARE  SHNL has been awarded “Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship establishments. Awards 2014 –South Asia”  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has stopped producing any CFC based inhaler from 1st January 2013 as it harms the  About 60,000 marginal farmer family are earning through ozone layer. medicinal plant cultivation in the northern part of Bangladesh  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd. (a sister concern of SQUARE  Poverty has been alleviated as they are earning from Tk. 2500 Group), we use organic fertilizer to produce tea. The tea to 25000/month garden uses natural pest & controls weed manually. It uses only renewable resources and maintains the soil’s fertility.  Women participation in earning process is maximum, so they As of 2013, the total kilograms of tea produced were are also contributing to the economy. 1, 76,012.  The medicinal plant cultivation and marketing model enhances  SQUARE Herbal & Nutraceuticals ltd. (SHNL) seeks to reduce social integrity through arranging interaction among the and reverse the adverse effects on the environment by farmers. Green Product Designs especially for ‘Basak cultivation’ (Medicinal Plant).  Huge cultivation of medicinal plant in the abundant land has The company produces herbal medicine such as “Adovas” enhanced forest development (450 KM road side) which not only impacts in environment positively but  Use of natural pesticides and organic fertilizer enhanced the increases social values and integrity. caring for environment. We have provided adequate training targeting mostly women and unemployed youth.  Roadside “Basak” cultivation decreased the soil erosion. Page 9 of 10 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes  Introduction of SAP ERP Systems to integrate the core  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. Anti-Corruption We are business functions/processes. committed to  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation and (UNGC work against  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” against all kinds of fraud. Principle 10) corruption in Corruption & we have an “Internal Audit” department which  Operations of company are run effectively and efficiently. all its forms, specifically deals with this issue. The head of “Internal Audit” including directly report to the Managing Director to ensure better  Cost of the company is optimized. extortion and control.  Built awareness in newly joined employees. bribery.  All 587 newly joined employees went through orientation  Fair and legal transactions are processed end-to-end and data program on business ethics & anti-corruption. inconsistencies are eliminated.  Every transactions are monitored Page 10 of 10
