BlackStar UN GLOBAL COMPACT: Communication on Progress 2014-2015 To Our Stakeholders The need for truly sustainable options for 21st century life remains one of the most critical challenges facing the global community. As a society we need to find ways to encourage innovation in ways that drive energy and resource efficiency, develop a more sustainable infrastructure and encourage job creation. As a global solutions company, BlackStar has the experience and expertise to put our solutions to work in ways that can engender attributes that can deliver solutions that help protect or enhance human health, safety, development and the environment. We will design processes that pass rigorous criteria for maximizes efficient and sustainable use of energy, water and materials and encourages the use of renewable resources. We believe this is a direct route to a successful, profitable business that add value to our customers, their customers, consumers and the planet. Statement of Continued Support The BlackStar core values of innovation and discovery, safety and environmental stewardship, integrity and high ethical standards, and treating people fairly and with respect meet and in many respects exceed the goals embodied in the values set out in the Global Compact. As with other commitments at the principle level, we will develop implementation actions that are consistent with BlackStar’s policies and practices. However, we also expect that our association with the UN and other Global Compact companies will provide the opportunity to learn and leverage the best practices of others. The BlackStar mission is sustainable growth creating shareholder and societal value while reducing our footprint throughout the value chain. This encompasses our belief that economic growth, enhancing societal value and reducing environmental impacts are all necessary for a successful company in the 21st Century. Sincerely yours, Perry F. Davis President & CEO OUR PROGRESS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BLACK STAR affirms is promise to maintain an ongoing assessment of corporate policies and goals that exceed the benchmark for achievement in the areas of environmental impact, anti-corruption practices and commitment to absolute transparency of operations in the global marketplace.
