Sustainability Report 2013 Bosch Group NOW is the time to take action for sustainability. In 2013, ... global energy demand continued to rise. It is estimated that it will increase by a third between 2011 and 2035. ... the world’s population produced more than 3.5 million metric tons of waste every day. This is enough to fill a convoy of garbage trucks that is several thousand kilometers long. ... young people were more than twice as likely to be affected by unemployment as older employees. You can read about how Bosch is meeting these and other current challenges in the 2013 sustainability report. Stuttgart, Germany Great Missenden, U.K. 48° 47' N, 9° 11' E 51° 42' N, 0° 42' W Promoting diversity – Shaping the future – Working How Bosch is supporting ­toward the best training, p. 15 ­international exchange, p. 12 Wuxi, China 31° 29' N, 120° 18' E Conserving resources – A plant that no longer produces wastewater, p. 6 Serenbe, U.S. 33° 30' N, 84° 43' W Using energy efficiently – This house helps its residents save money, p. 9 Company Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts 3 Dear readers, The title of our current sustainability report is “Now.” On the pages that follow, we will show you what Bosch associates around the world are doing to help achieve our ambitious sustainability targets. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we are also committed to the ten principles of responsible corporate governance. At the end of this report, you will find a concise summary of the progress we made in 2013 toward protecting the environment, upholding human rights, maintaining working standards, and preventing corruption. All over the world, we are developing technologies “Invented for Life” every day. This also means that we pay attention to the environmental impact of our products, just as we have always done. Our engineers are thus constantly working to reduce the energy consumption of our efficient heating and household appliances, for instance. Using micromechanical sensors, our international teams of experts are paving the way to smart buildings that will regulate their own energy requirements. Today, we generate close to 40 percent of our global sales with eco-friendly and energy-efficient solutions. At Bosch, developing eco-friendly products also means keeping a close eye on our own consumption of resources. By 2020, we are committed to achieving a 20 percent reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions of our locations over the 2007 levels, relative to value added. We have already achieved a relative reduction of 16 percent. We are also steadily reducing our water consumption and waste volumes. We learn from our day-to-day experience. To ensure that good ideas spread quickly, we encourage knowledge sharing in the international “Bosch Connect” network. Something that proves useful in England today could be put into practice in Brazil or France tomorrow. To secure our company’s lasting success, we need teams and associates who feel responsible for a common goal, and who are open to change and innovative ideas. In the context of sustainability, “now” also means that the right strategy is not the only determinant of our success. Rather, success is reflected in our daily practices and achievements. Thank you for your interest. Sincerely, Dr. Volkmar Denner Chairman of the board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH Further information about sustainability activities at Bosch and our sustainability blog can be found here 4 Stuttgart, Germany 48° 47' N, 9° 11' E Bosch company profile Who we are The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier on committed and responsible associates. of technology and services. It comprises Around the world, 281,000 people contribute ­Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 360 subtheir expertise to the success of the Bosch sidiaries and regional companies in some Group. With over 100 different work time mod50 countries. The company is divided into els, international exchange programs, and four business sectors: Automotive Technolopportunities for lifelong learning, we aim to ogy, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, encourage associates to perform to the best and Energy and Building Technology. In fiscal of their ability. 2013, the Bosch Group generated sales of 46.1 billion euros. True to the tradition of company founder ­Robert Bosch, we strongly believe that we 92 percent of the share capital of R ­ obert can only secure our lasting success in a Bosch GmbH is held by Robert Bosch Stiftung socially and ecologically sound environment. GmbH, a charitable foundation. The majority Doing business in a sustainable manner is of voting rights are held by Robert Bosch therefore an integral part of our corporate Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust. The strategy. In addition to protecting the environspecial ownership structure of R ­ obert Bosch ment and the climate, and to conserving GmbH guarantees the entrepreneurial freeresources, this also involves supporting dom of the Bosch Group, making it possible social projects close to our locations. One of for the company to plan over the long term and the major focal points of our charitable acti­v­ to undertake significant up-front investments ities is implementing education projects and in the safeguarding of its future. supporting young scientific talent. What drives us The aim of the Bosch Group is to improve the More information on the company can quality of people’s lives by developing innobe found here vative, beneficial, and eco-friendly products and services. In other words, technologies More information on the Robert Bosch “Invented for Life.” To achieve this goal, we rely Stiftung can be found here ▶ Company Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts 5 Looking back at 2013/2014 January June vices with each other. This has 75 years of promoting young enabled residents to receive infortalent Since 1938, Bosch-Jugend­ mation about municipal services hilfe has been helping associates such as bus networks or garbage and their children realize their procollection online and in real time. fessional ambitions. Scholarship They can thus react to the traffic recipients receive financial supsituation or potential service disport and also have the opporturuptions, for example. The partnity to meet other current and ners aim to make Monaco a role former program participants. model for the networked city of Funding is provided for study and Number one for diversity Equal the future. training courses at accredited uniopportunities, flexible working More information about the versities and colleges. conditions, and international proj­ collaboration can be found here ects – Bosch enjoys an excellent More information on Bosch-Jugend­ hilfe can be found here reputation among people starting their careers. In June, this image 2014 March earned the company the German May Diversity Prize, awarded by Wirtschaftswoche magazine and the management consultancy McKinsey. The winner in the “Best diversity image” category is determined using a representative market research study, which this year included some 30,000 graduates and employees. CSR award for Bosch NetherBosch supports victims of natulands The MVO Award Weer­terland More information on the German ral disasters In Germany, Bosch Diversity Prize can be found here 2014/2015 has been awarded to associates helped clean up flood Robert Bosch Packaging Technolregions last spring. The company ogy B.V. in Weert, Netherlands. The itself supported aid organizaNovember prize recognizes companies for tions at affected locations and outstanding work in the field of cordonated heating systems, for porate social responsibility. The example. People in the Philiphonor highlighted the Bosch site’s pines also needed support. Prihealth management activities, varimavera, the organization that is ous cooperation programs with run by Bosch associates, proschools, and its newly introduced vided initial assistance on the energy-saving measures. ground. With the support of the More information about the award can company, they also funded the be found in English and Dutch here rebuilding of schools and multipurpose centers on the islands of Networked principality Cebu and Leyte. Monaco is using new Bosch techMore information on the Primavera e.V. nologies to network its municipal aid organization can be found here infrastructure and various ser6 Environment Conserving resources as a central task Today, each person consumes an average of about ten metric tons of raw materials per year – and this figure is rising rapidly. If the impact of this consumption on the environment is to be reduced, significant improvements in resource management must be made. For forward-looking companies like Bosch, the sustainable use of resources and intelligent recycling concepts are decisive. he technology company relies on a aims to use water according to the “zero number of resources every day at ­discharge” principle, meaning no disposal. its locations across the globe. This involves treating and reusing the proWhile energy and water are particularly cess water in a closed loop instead of releasimportant, metals and ores are also essening it into the environment. tial. The efficient use of raw materials is not only a social obligation for Bosch, it is also an economic necessity and makes a lasting contribution to securing the company’s competitiveness. To conserve resources worldwide, Bosch is currently focusing its attention on water and waste. The company has been recording detailed figures since 2003 and aims to make exemplary water and waste management projects accessible to its locations around the world. Wastewater-free production Water scarcity and pollution are among the greatest ecological challenges that China faces. Bosch Automotive Diesel Systems in Wuxi contributes to protecting the local environment and conserving resources in a targeted manner. In 2013, the plant built a facility that can treat up to 50,000 liters of industrial wastewater per day. To date, the Wuxi plant has treated approximately eleven million liters of wastewater. The location Company ▶ Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts 7 Wuxi, China 31° 29' N, 120° 18' E Key data 2013 Relative CO2 emissions: 16 percent decrease* Energy consumption: 8.3 percent decrease* Water consumption: 12.6 percent decrease* Wastewater: 3.8 percent decrease* Expenditure on environmental protection: 61.0 percent increase* * compared with 2007 levels More information on environmental and climate protection at Bosch can be found here Bosch UK is recycling old Worcester boilers. The plastic that is obtained is used to make garden sheds. Reduced fresh-water consumption From boiler to garden shed Bosch is also committed to intelligent water Recycle raw materials and eliminate waste – management in Korea. Take Daejeon, for this is the goal of the “Zero to landfill” proexample, a Robert Bosch Korea Ltd. location. gram at Bosch Thermotechnology in WorcesIn the past, more than 2,600 liters of freshter, U.K. The location takes back old boilers water were required every day to grind and and recycles them at its own waste collecpolish work pieces during the welding protion and treatment site. Separating the indicess, and to keep them free of foreign objects. vidual fractions recovers approximately one To reduce the consumption of resources, the metric ton of plastic per week. Once it has location made major improvements to the been shredded and granulated, it can be entire process in 2013. The water required for used in the manufacture of garden sheds for grinding is now collected in a circulation tank a community project, for instance. Each and reused. This saves the location some shed consists of approximately one metric 60,000 euros per year – and reduces its freshton of recycled material. water consumption to 50 liters a day. 8 Environment Project portfolio Naganathapura, India, 12° 52' N, 77° 39' E Multi-use, not single-use Bosch is saving tons of packaging material at its location in Naganathapura, India, thus conserving resources such as water and wood. Until 2013, the plant used corrugated cardboard boxes to safely transport starters and alternators. This disposable packaging has now been replaced by reusable plastic boxes for deliveries to 15 customers. This procedure has already saved the location more than More information about current sustainability projects 69 metric tons of corrugated cardboard boxes and 10,350 by Bosch in India can be found here wooden pallets. Glenrothes, U.K., 56° 12' N, 3° 9' W Intelligent combination To heat its premises more efficiently, Bosch Rexroth in Glenrothes, Scotland, switched to combined heat and power in 2013. The plant manufactures hydraulic motors for forklifts and mini-excavators, among other things, and had previously used gasfired heating appliances and boilers that were about 20 years old. The combined generation of electricity and heat in three state-of-the-art facilities now ensures an optimized energy yield and improves the company’s carbon footprint. The location has reduced its CO2 emisMore information about Bosch Rexroth’s sions by 30 percent and is thus helping achieve the Bosch climate activities in the United Kingdom can be protection target. found here Vénissieux, France, 45° 41' N, 4° 53' E Eco-friendly on the move Hundreds of Bosch associates in the Rhône-Alpes region commute to their workplace in Vénissieux near Lyon every day – many of them by car. But things were different on June 6, 2013. That day, more than 290 associates used alternative means of transport when they took part in the regional “Challenge Mobilité” competition. They covered a total of 648 kilometers by bicycle alone, and their efforts paid off. The location took second place in the competition, and the campaign saved 1,043 kilograms More information on the competition can be found here of CO2. Company Environment ▶ Products Associates Society Key figures + facts 9 Products Automatically saving energy By 2015, over six billion devices will be connected to the Internet, including intelligent heating systems that regulate themselves and use local weather data to assess their energy needs. This can help save energy and contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, which have an impact on the climate. Bosch already provides connected building technology that can be used to realize ­affordable energy-plus houses. he future of living can be seen in Home can generally meet all of their electricSerenbe, which is located south of ity and heating requirements from renewab­le Atlanta in the United States. The sources. The Bosch geothermal heat pump, community is already considered a pioneer which was awarded the prestigious Energy of sustainable living and lifestyle concepts, Star once again in 2013 for being the most and Bosch opened its first North American efficient in its class, plays a significant role in Experience Center there in May 2013. The achieving this energy balance. It uses the systems on show here include the “Net Zero” constant ground temperature to cool the system – a combination of highly efficient house in summer and heat it in winter. The household appliances and heating systems Experience Center gives both specialist visithat are designed to use solar and geothertors and house owners an opportunity to see mal energy. These technologies ensure that for themselves how geothermal systems and the residents of the neighboring Net Zero other Bosch Group products work. 10 Significant savings at a low cost Serenbe, U.S. Zero-energy houses are still few and far 33° 30' N, 84° 43' W between. In Germany, for example, 75 percent of properties were built before 1979, and therefore fall well short of today’s energy standards. This is where the E-MonAut project comes in. It is a joint proj­ ect between Bosch Thermotechnology, the Fraunhofer Institute of Optronics, System Technologies and Image Exploitation, the University of Karlsruhe, and Stuttgart University of Applied Sciences. Using the example of an 18th century commercial and residential building built in Stuttgart, Germany, the project partners are highlighting ways of reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions as much as possible at a low cost. Operating heating and ventilation systems only when they are actually needed is decisive. To this end, Bosch has installed a sensor-based automation system. These sensors measure temperature, humidity, and the presence of people, for example – information that can be used to control the heating system online. Once the heating Key data 2013* data has been evaluated, it is made avail­ able to the residents. They are thus able to Bosch Thermotechnology sales 3.1 billion euros understand the effects of their heating habits and can find out how much money they Share of sales from systems that can save. exploit renewable sources of energy 13 percent Research and development Heating goes online expenditure 129 million euros The example from Stuttgart shows that the intelligent control of household appliances Number of connected products sold over 25,000 and heating and ventilation systems has CO2 reduction from the major potential. Humidity and heating can be Logapower FC10 fuel cell system 50 percent automatically regulated using micromechani* Bosch Thermotechnology cal sensors such as the Sensortec BME280, which Bosch developed in 2013. The heating appliances themselves are also getting smarter. Last year, Bosch launched three Internet-enabled oiland gas-fired condensing boilers under the Buderus brand. Customers can use an app on their smartphone or tablet to control their heating even when they are not at home. This makes it possible for More information about our energy-effithem to react to a change in weather condicient products can be found here tions, for instance. Company Environment ▶ Products Associates Society Key figures + facts 11 Products Project portfolio Weinstadt, Germany, 48° 48' N, 9° 21' E Compact power cell Bosch Thermotechnology’s powergenerating heating systems make generating your own electricity and heat possible. The systems produce electricity using a highly-efficient, ceramic solid oxide fuel cell. The integrated gas condensing boiler provides heat. Additional components include hot water storage and a storage tank that absorbs waste heat from the electricity generation process. The power facility that Bosch Thermotechnology will be testing in a field trial beginning in 2014 will make property More information about the fuel cell can be found in owners less dependent on energy suppliers and rising German here energy prices. Coimbatore, India, 11° 05' N, 76° 59' E Indian solar power In Coimbatore, India, the sun shines around 300 days a year. The Bosch plant there now makes the best of this: a photovoltaic system was installed on its roof in the fall of 2013. This makes Bosch one of the first companies to commit to the increased use of solar energy that India’s national energy campaign promotes. The system currently achieves a capacity of 140 kilowatts, and meets 4.5 percent of energy requirements. In More information about Bosch’s sustainability 2013, the location saved 216 metric tons of CO2. activities in India can be found here Drancy, France, 48° 55' N, 2° 26' E Efficient heating hybrid Bosch France aims to promote the replacement of outdated boilers in single-family homes with the Bosch e.l.m. leblanc brand’s “Mégalis Condens Hybride” hybrid condensing boiler. The device combines a conventional gas boiler with an air-water heat pump that draws warmth from the surrounding air. Depending on heating requirements, the system can operate either in full heat pump mode or with the additional boiler. It reduces energy conMore information about Bosch Thermotechnology’s efficient heating technology in France can be sumption by approximately 13 percent compared to a new found here condensing boiler. 12 Associates A team without borders As a global player, Bosch is active in 150 countries and employs associates from all over the world. People of 112 different nationalities are working in Germany alone, where Bosch was founded. This cultural diversity is one of the reasons behind the company’s major innovative strength. After all, teams with a range of different experiences and backgrounds are more likely to come up with creative solutions and unique ideas. For Bosch, it is thus important that associates are fully prepared to work in international teams from the outset. he customer service department in the years also benefit. One of these is “Abroad Worcester, U.K., receives a query and back for Bosch,” which includes over 200 that no one in the team can answer. associates from 25 countries. In addition to The service manager therefore posts the regular meetings, the site provides them with query in Bosch Connect for colleagues in an informal and far-reaching setting in which other countries. Just a few hours later, 13 they can discuss their experiences in another useful tips have appeared online. The new country, talk to like-minded people, and social business platform was launched in answer everyday questions. September 2013 to connect 220,000 Bosch associates around the world. And it makes Overcoming international borders their work easier. International teams can use The Bosch Connect virtual platform is yet the platform to post and edit their meeting another milestone on the road to networking documents, pass on questions in expert associates in a way that extends beyond culforums, or form interest groups. The many tural boundaries. It makes sharing easier and associate networks that had developed over therefore provides motivation to overcome Company Environment Products ▶ Associates Society Key figures + facts 13 Great Missenden, U.K. 51° 42' N, 0° 42' W intercultural training that focuses on the values and mind-sets of people in the countries they are going to. Furthermore, colleagues on international assignment have local support while they are working abroad. Upon their return, German associates have the option of qualifying as cultural consultants. This position enables them to assist in preparation courses and help co-workers who are language barriers and meet cultural differplanning to go abroad. Other departments ences with openness – both among co-workcan also call upon the services of cultural ers and in cross-border cooperation. Develconsultants as contacts and seminar speakopment and production teams in particular ers for matters concerning working in interare already working in global networks. International teams. national engineers share knowledge with their colleagues at other locations, and plants come together to form manufacturing netMore information on our diversity manworks. The Nuremberg location, for example, agement measures can be found here is the German lead plant in a network with twelve other locations that manufacture the same product. The plants share both best practices and knowledge with one another and develop joint improvement strategies. Key data 2013 Sharing knowledge Each year, Bosch also enables around 2,900 Share of local executives in top associates to spend a year or more outside management positions at Bosch locations worldwide 80 to 90 percent their home countries. The benefits are obvious: people who work in another culture Total number of associates working for develop intercultural skills that make it easBosch outside of their home countries 6,000 ier for them to interact with colleagues and Associates in Germany who share their customers from other countries. This skill is expertise as cultural consultants 250 crucial for the success of a company such as Bosch, which generates 77 percent of its Number of associate networks that actively support cultural diversity 4 sales outside of Germany. It therefore prepares the expatriates in a targeted way. They not only learn the language, they also have 14 Associates Project portfolio Stuttgart, Germany, 48° 47' N, 9° 11' E Orientation for everyone The Turkish Forum and Cam@ Bosch associate networks hold Orientation Days on a regular basis to support young people from different cultures as they start their careers. These events allow school and university students to talk about their options for joining Bosch with executives from various divisions, and to discuss how their professional development at the company might progress. More information about intercultural associate Some 45 young people attended the Orientation Day in networks can be found here December 2013. Campinas, Brazil, 22° 55' S, 47° 4' W Training for world champions Henrique da Silva Santana is a world champion. He is an apprentice at the Bosch location in Campinas, Brazil, and won a gold medal in manufacturing technology at the 2013 WorldSkills competition in Leipzig. The event saw over 1,000 apprentices compete against each other in various professional disciplines. The students from the Bosch Engineering Technical School in Brazil regularly perform exceptionally well in competitions. Some 1,365 young people have been trained there since 1960, and over 90 percent of them More information about the WorldSkills competition then went on to gain a permanent position with Bosch. can be found here Farmington Hills, U.S., 42° 29' N, 83° 23' W Network for diversity Dino Candela, an engineer at Bosch USA and father of three daughters, promotes equal opportunities through his position on the board of Women@Bosch. The aims of the associate network include raising colleagues’ awareness of gender diversity through mentoring and training events, and highlighting different career paths. Both men and women are welcome to take an active role in the network. On September 25, the first Women@Bosch executive breakfast More information on equal opportunities at Bosch took place in Farmington Hills. Over 75 associates received can be found here career advice from Bosch managers at the event. Company Environment Products Associates ▶ Society Key figures + facts 15 Society Prospects for career starters The recent period of poor global economic growth has hit young people especially hard. According to International Labour Organization (ILO) figures, around 74.5 million men and women under the age of 25 were unemployed in 2013. This equated to a global youth unemployment rate of over 13 percent – a rate that is still rising. For this reason, the UN organization has been promoting increased investment in education and training for many years. Against this backdrop, Bosch launched various activities once again in 2013 to enable high school graduates to gain qualifications for the start of their working lives. he 60 students in the gym of Training more than needed ­Misbourne School in England clap The dual education model supplements learnenthusiastically as a loud bang is ing in vocational college with practical training heard. A Bosch associate has just used two at a company. Apprentices thus not only benparabolic mirrors to demonstrate how sunefit from the expertise of experienced collight can be harnessed and turned into leagues, they also learn how to work in a team energy. The demonstration is part of the from the very beginning. This is one of the annual “All Around You Roadshow,” a proreasons why this German training model has gram that involves Bosch UK associates visproven to be such an international success. So iting schools near their sites. The aim is to far, Bosch has provided around 100,000 young bring technology to life, and thus encourage people in 20 countries with the qualifications interest among 13to 16-year-olds in promisthey need to begin their working lives. For the ing engineering careers and dual education company, which celebrated the 100th anniverat Bosch. sary of its first apprentice workshop in 2013, 16 the reasoning behind this is simple: welltrained associates around the world ensure the high quality standard of Bosch products and thus contribute to the company’s competitiveness. At the same time, the company demonstrates a good sense of corporate citizenship by training more apprentices than it needs itself, as good qualifications provide Worcester, U.K. better protection from unemployment. 52° 11' N, 2° 13' W Supporting southern Europe In view of the high level of youth unemploysurroundings quickly. They will first take ment in some southern European countries, part in a three-month language course in Bosch launched a new training initiative in their home country. During their three-year November 2013. The company is offering one stay in Germany, the Spanish apprentices hundred additional vocational training posiwill also have the support of an intercultural tions – half of which are in Italy, Portugal, and mentor. This person will help the new arri­ Spain. The other 50 spots are for Spanish vals with everyday matters, such as finding applicants who will complete their training in an apartment and registering with the Germany. Bosch is also helping the young authorities, and will also answer questions career starters feel comfortable in their new about life in Germany. For a four-year period, around 7.5 million euros have been earmarked for the initiative. Bosch foundations committed to ­education In addition, Bosch uses its own foundations in Brazil, China, India, and the United States to provide free education and vocational courses for people from socially deprived backgrounds. The organizations work independently of each other, but share a common goal – enabling people to escape poverty through education. The Bosch China Charity Center (BCCC), for example, will conduct approximately 40 projects between 2013 and 2016 to provide financial support for education establishments as well as for school and university students. One of the first largescale foundation projects is the construction of a school canteen in the western province Key data 2013 of Ningxia in China. Since October 2013, around 1,000 teachers and pupils have been Apprentices worldwide able to eat their lunches there. In cooperation (as of January 2014) over 6,100 with the local government, the Bosch China Charity Center has thus made a major contriShare of women in the 2013 annual intake of apprentices in Germany 24 percent bution to improving learning conditions in the poverty-stricken province. Bosch Group charitable donations 13.6 million euros Sponsorship volume of More information on our social involveRobert Bosch Stiftung GmbH 69.5 million euros ment can be found here Company Environment Products Associates ▶ Society Key figures + facts 17 Society Project portfolio Warsaw, Poland, 52° 13' N, 21° 2' E Platform for young inventors How do the aerodynamics of a Formula 1 car and those of an ordinary sports car differ from one another? This was one of many interesting questions that schoolchildren investigated at the latest Robert Bosch Inventor Academy in Poland in 2013. Launched in 2011, the event gives young people aged 14 to 16 the opportunity to enter their own inventions in a competition. Prototypes of the 20 most original ideas are produced. More information in Polish about the Bosch Inventor Academy can be found here Denham, U.K., 51° 35' N, 0° 29' W New talent for mathematical and scientific subjects Recruiting young engineers is a major part of Bosch UK’s sustainability program. In 2013, engineers from Bosch Lawn & Garden in Stowmarket were active as “STEM ambassadors” (science, technology, engineering, maths). In cooperation with local schools, they organized various projects to support young people and encourage their interest in mathematical and scientific subjects. For example, Bosch associates helped pupils prepare for their secondary school More information about Bosch STEM exams and gave presentations about promising fields of work. ambassadors can be found here Clayton, Australia, 37° 55' S, 145° 8' E Soft skills for young career starters At 17.8 percent, Australia recorded an exceptionally high level of youth unemployment in 2013. Bosch is using several strategies to improve young people’s chances on the job market. Bosch associates in Clayton, for example, work with a local school to provide training courses on subjects related to job preparation. These include learning how to work in a team and dealing with feedback in a productive manner. The workshops are part of the Employee Volunteering Program, which gives each associate one working day per year to take part More information about Bosch’s sustainability in social projects. More than 80 associates took advantage of this activities in Australia can be found here offer in 2013. 18 Key figures 2013 Financial figures Sales 46.1 billion euros (3.1% year-on-year increase)* R&D expenditure 4.5 billion euros (2.3% year-on-year increase)* Earnings after tax 1.3 billion euros (45.7% year-on-year decrease)* Investments in fixed assets 2.5 billion euros (6.4% year-on-year decrease)* Personnel expenses 14.9 billion euros (5.0% year-on-year increase) * figures after adjustment due to changed accounting and evaluation methods Shareholder structure Sales revenue by region bosch family robert bosch Asia Pacific Europe gmbh 7 1 11.1 (24%) % billion 25.5 euros (55%) 9.5 (21%) robert bosch 92 stiftung Gmbh The Americas Environment Corporate target 20 % reduction of CO2 emissions (relative) by 2020 over 2007 levels Status of target in 2013 16 % reduction of CO2 emissions over 2007 levels CO2 emissions (absolute) 2.5 million metric tons (2.0% lower than 2007 levels) Annual energy consumption 6.2 million megawatt hours (8.3% lower than 2007 levels) Annual waste volume 0.5 million metric tons (12.6% lower than 2007 levels) Annual water consumption 16.6 million cubic meters (3.8% lower than 2007 levels) Environmental protection investments 34.0 million euros (61.0% more than in 2007) Ongoing environmental protection costs 94.1 million euros (11.1% lower than 2007 levels) Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts 19 Products and Supply Chain Corporate target 310 environmental and social audits of suppliers by the end of 2014 Status of target in 2013 260 (since 2011) Patent applications 4,964 Environmental/Safety portfolio: Share of Group sales 37% Share of R&D expenditure 48% Associates Corporate target 20% female executives by 2020 Target status in 2013 12.2% Labor turnover rate 2013 4.6% (2.1% decrease over 2007) Training days 628,000 (7.9% increase over 2007) Training participants 461,000 (11.6% increase over 2007) Training expenditure 2013 185 million euros (15.9% decrease over 2007) Number of associates 281,381* Corporate target 3 accidents per million hours worked by 2020 Target status in 2013 3.6 (48% decrease over 2007) Days lost 27,164 (29.3% decrease over 2007) Number of accidents 1,787 (39.6% decrease over 2007) * no comparison with previous years possible due to first-time consolidation of the financial data Society Bosch Group donations to charitable causes 13.6 million euros Sponsorship volume of Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH 69.5 million euros for 800 projects Regional involvement: Bosch India Foundation approx. 0.4 million euros annually, around 160 projects since foundation in 2008 Instituto Robert Bosch approx. 1.0 million euros annually; founded in 1971 Bosch Community Fund up to 3 million euros annually, 90 projects since foundation in 2012 Bosch China Charity Center 3.7 million euros since foundation in 2011 20 Communication on progress Activities – an overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2013 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. Principle Basis / goals Actions Results Human rights Corporate objective: Auditing suppliers on social and • Target of 240 audits by the end of 2013 achieved – 310 supplier audits by the environmental issues approximately 260 audits conducted so far • Principle 1: Support and end of 2014 • Since 2010, 86 percent of the supplier audits respect human rights planned by 2014 have been conducted Code of Business Conduct • Principle 2: No complicity in human rights abuses Basic principles of Acknowledging the best suppliers with • Awards for 38 suppliers from nine countries social responsibility at the Bosch Global Supplier Award • Prize awarded for the first time in the “Innovation” Bosch category Bosch purchasing Sanctioning suppliers Suppliers are putting advice on improvements into guidelines practice; sanctions have not been necessary so far Working standards Corporate objective: Diversity management: Group-wide • Proportion of female executives at 12.2 percent Women to fill 20 percent of programs to promote diversity and attract in 2013 • Principle 3: Uphold management positions by the best staff have been continued and • Awarded the German Diversity Prize 2013 freedom of association 2020 expanded • Associates from 112 countries employed in Germany • Principle 4: Elimination of Make the topics of all forms of forced and diversity and share of Senior experts program: Former Bosch Number of retirees who work as senior experts: 1,600 compulsory labor women part of the Bosch associates support the company as expert Group’s strategic roadmap advisors after they retire, and thus continue • Principle 5: Abolition of to feel valued on a professional level child labor Bosch Human Resources System (BHS) Cultural consultants advise colleagues There are currently 250 cultural consultants active • Principle 6: Elimination of who are going abroad for Bosch and act as at Bosch discrimination experts for intercultural cooperation Education shapes the future: In 2013, the organization had 755 members, and ­Primavera, the international charitable collected donations amounting to over 630,000 organization founded by Bosch associeuros; support went to 29 projects that helped ates, promotes education and training children and young people to improve their living for disadvantaged children in poor situation and prospects for the future regions of the world Foundations around the world: The Bosch Group donated 13.6 million euros in 2013: The national companies are committed • Support for the victims of natural disasters (floodto social well-being in the regions, and ing in Germany, Austria, and the Czech Republic, there are four international Bosch Group typhoon in the Philippines) foundations in Brazil, China, India, and • Support for science and research (endowed chairs the U.S. at universities in China, Germany, India, and the U.S.) Dual training worldwide: The Bosch • Bosch is training approximately 6,100 young people training model is being systematically worldwide expanded – after China, India, Thailand, • Since 1961, almost 2,400 young people have been and Brazil, now also in Russia and Vietnam trained at the Bosch Vocational Centre in Bangalore, and they have won 211 gold medals for “Best apprentice” in national competitions Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts 21 Principle Basis / goals Actions Results Working standards Corporate objective: Working culture: Continuous improve• Over 100 work-time models across all levels of the Women to fill 20 percent of ments with regard to work-life balance hierarchy, including part-time work, teleworking, • Principle 3: Uphold management positions by and job sharing freedom of association 2020 • Investment of 1.8 million euros in a new children’s daycare center in Schwieberdingen, Germany • Principle 4: Elimination of Make the topics of • Associates are testing flexible and more familyall forms of forced and diversity and share of friendly working models as part of the “MORE” and compulsory labor women part of the Bosch “Inspiring Working Conditions” projects Group’s strategic roadmap • Principle 5: Abolition of In-house and external training: Launched in August 2013, the Internet learning platform child labor Bosch Human Resources Comprehensive support through numerwww.automotive-campus.com provides online System (BHS) ous seminars, the Robert Bosch Kolleg, training courses that enable structured training for • Principle 6: Elimination of and the Carnegie Bosch Institute car repair shops and their associates discrimination New vocational training positions are Some 7.5 million euros made available over four years being created at Bosch to help combat for 100 additional places on vocational training youth unemployment in Europe courses for young people from southern Europe “Afrika kommt” initiative: Bosch and 16 21 scholarships for budding executives from subother companies are committed to Saharan Africa promoting African executives Environmental protecCorporate objective: CO2 reduction: Targeted reduction of • Reduction of relative CO2 emissions by 16 percent tion Cut relative CO2 emissions relative CO2 emissions at production compared to 2007 by 20 percent by 2020 locations around the world • Absolute reduction of 0.1 million metric tons • Principle 7: Precautioncompared to 2007 ary environmental Guidelines for occupational • Plants that have completed the realization phase protection safety and environmental reduced their emissions by an average of up to protection 30 percent • Principle 8: Initiatives to • Environmental/Safety portfolio accounts for a promote greater environBosch Product Engineering 37 percent share of group sales mental responsibility System (BES) Sustainable research and develop• Use of just under 50 percent (2.3 billion euros) of • Principle 9: Development Bosch Production System ment: Continuous investment in the the group-wide research and development budget and diffusion of environ(BPS) further development of products that for particularly sustainable products mentally-friendly conserve resources and protect the • Around 5,000 patents registered worldwide technologies Design for Environment environment (DfE) Design for Environment (DfE): • Further development of DfE requirements profile Systematic expansion of the group-wide strategy on developing especially ecofriendly products launched in 2000 Seven-point program: The goal is to • Various efficiency technologies, such as turbochargreduce average CO2 emissions for new ing downsized diesel and gasoline engines, reduce vehicles to 95 grams/kilometer by 2020 fuel consumption by as much as 20 percent compared with 2012 levels • Automation of manual transmission using the eClutch – savings of approx. five percent • Enhancement of the start/stop system to make it a coasting assistant achieves fuel savings of up to 15 percent • The Boost Recuperation System (BRS) for regenerative braking and coasting reduces fuel consumption by as much as seven percent • The world’s first hydraulic hybrid drive for cars reduces consumption by an average of 30 percent, or by up to 45 percent in urban driving • Strong hybrid systems for large vehicles reduce consumption by up to 25 percent • Plug-in hybrid systems can be charged at the power socket and reduce fuel consumption in the driving cycle by 50 percent. Bosch navigation: Navigation-based Recognized by the EU Commission as an “eco-innovamanagement of battery status in hybrid tion,” this technology uses navigation data to provide vehicles a benefit that can be used as a credit to offset the CO2 emissions of vehicle fleets ISO 14001: Bosch locations certified Just under 200 of the 242 Bosch production and with this international environmental development locations have thus far been certified management system standard Bosch Energy and Building Solutions • Bosch experts achieve average energy savings of (BEBS): Professional advice to leverage 20 percent in commercial buildings efficiency potential • Ongoing BEBS projects reduce annual CO2 emissions by 80,000 metric tons 22 Principle Basis / goals Actions Results Environmental protecCorporate objective: Efficient house: Advisory services for • Launch of the “effizienzhaus-online” platform (www. tion Cut relative CO2 emissions building owners and renovators on saving effizienzhaus-online.de), where home owners can by 20 percent by 2020 energy in their own homes enter their building data and receive suggestions for • Principle 7: Precautionrenovations based on the objective calculation modary environmental Guidelines for occupational els of the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics protection safety and environmental • Finalist in the Deutsche Unternehmensinitiative protection Energieeffizienz e.V. (DENEFF – German Industry • Principle 8: Initiatives to Initiative for Energy Efficiency) Perpetuum energy promote greater environBosch Product Engineering efficiency award 2014 mental responsibility System (BES) • Examples of three energy-plus houses: Solar Decathlon house, Eco Plus Home, ROSE Cottage • Principle 9: Development Bosch Production System and diffusion of environ(BPS) Worcester Boiler & Spares Returns • 300 service technicians take back parts or complete mentally-friendly Recycling: Recycling as a contribution to boilers every day technologies Design for Environment resource efficiency and waste avoidance • Each week, as much as one metric ton of plastic is (DfE) (“Zero Landfill”); every Worcester boiler disassembled and used to make garden sheds can be returned and recycled Remanufacturing: The Bosch eXchange • More than 11,000 different remanufacturing parts replacement parts program remanufacon offer tures and repairs Bosch vehicle parts • Repairing components requires up to 90 percent less energy than producing new ones • Material savings are between 50 and 90 percent iBooster: The new technology boosts • Braking is almost three times faster than with braking power intelligently with almost current systems, leading to shorter braking distotal recuperation in hybrid and electric tances to increase safety vehicles • In normal street traffic, all braking is done through the electric motor and the kinetic energy is transformed into electricity Common-rail systems: The performance • Injection pressure increased from 1,400 to 2,500 and fuel consumption of the efficient and bar since 1999 eco-friendly common-rail injection system • Higher injection pressure leads to significant is continuously being improved reductions in raw emissions from engines; combustion can be complete and hardly any soot is generated Process and energy efficiency: Energy • The Stuttgart-Feuerbach and Homburg production consumption and processes at Bosch plants in Germany are joint winners of the “Lean & production plants are continuously Green Efficiency Awards 2013” in the “Automotive improved. This makes operations more OEM/Group” category eco-friendly and cost effective • For the second time in a row, the Homburg site received the German Ideas Award (Deutscher­ IdeenPreis) for the “Best environmental idea” • Since 2007, Stuttgart-Feuerbach has reduced its energy consumption by 40 percent, and its total CO2 emissions by 50 percent • Since 2007, Homburg has reduced its energy consumption by over 20 percent Alternative drives – electromobility: • Participation in the UN dialog on sustainable cities Bosch is a founding member of the national and urban transport with integrated vehicle systems electromobility platform. The aim is to make for electromobility Germany a leading supplier of and leading • The “Lithium Energy and Power” joint venture market for electromobility by 2020 develops batteries for electric vehicles with double capacity • With a total of 13 million euros over three years, the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology has subsidized the Alpha-Laion project to develop high-energy traction batteries; the consortium partners themselves have contributed about 19.5 million euros • With components for eBikes and eScooters, Bosch is supporting multimodal traffic concepts in cities • The Bosch Software Innovations eMobility starter package creates a standard that makes it possible to charge vehicles at any charging station • More than 1,100 associates are working on electromobility • 400 million euros a year are spent on electromobility Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts Principle Basis / goals Actions Results Environmental protecCorporate objective: Efficient energy storage for the • Market-ready storage media for wind and solar tion Cut relative CO2 emissions energy revolution: Research activities to farms, co-generation and biogas plants, and by 20 percent by 2020 counter the volatility of renewable sources individual households • Principle 7: Precautionof energy and meet the challenges of • Unveiling of a virtual power station of the future for ary environmental Guidelines for occupational decentralized power generation smart management of decentralized power protection safety and environmental generators at distribution grid level protection • As a result of its contribution to reducing grid load, • Principle 8: Initiatives to the German Federal Ministry for the Environment promote greater environBosch Product Engineering has subsidized the Bosch Power Tec BPT-S 5 Hybrid mental responsibility System (BES) PV storage system • The Sol-ion+ research project focuses on more • Principle 9: Development Bosch Production System efficient energy consumption and more stable and diffusion of environ(BPS) power grids mentally-friendly technologies Design for Environment (DfE) Research networks: The international • Research into pioneering solutions for all aspects of InterCampus Program, launched in 2011 electromobility with a total investment of 50 million euros • Power generation, energy efficiency, and lower over a period of ten years, is being emissions – for example in Shanghai (China), continued and expanded Reutlingen, and Stuttgart (Germany) • Bosch Energy Research Network (BERN) founded in the U.S. Fighting corruption Member of Transparency Compliance officers and whistle­ Annual reporting to management board, supervisory International e.V. (since blower portal: A portal in which all board, and group works council on recorded • Principle 10: Work 1995) associates can report identified or breaches and action taken against corruption suspected breaches of compliance; Member of the Forum for contact persons in the regions and Compliance & Integrity whistleblower portal for personal, (since 2007) telephone or electronic reports (Bosch Compliance Hotline) – also anonymous Code of Business Conduct if desired Compliance training: Training courses Raising awareness and improving competencies and web-based training sessions to raise through increased use of group-wide compliance awareness among Bosch associates are structures and training courses, for example on the scheduled to continue issues of cartel law, product liability, export controls, and Code of Business Conduct Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: The Bosch “House of Orientation”: Vision, mission, values, core competencies, and the Bosch Business System. In 2010, an office, expert committee, and steering committee were founded. These bodies have since been responsible for the efficient implementation of all ­sustainability-related activities in the group. Scope of reporting The validity of information is specified in the relevant text, key figures, or targets. This report presents a summary of current activities from the whole area of ­sustainability in the Bosch Group. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period The reporting period covers January 2013 to spring 2014. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2013. The editorial deadline was March 31, 2014. Memberships (excerpt) United Nations Global Compact (2004), B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, organizational stakeholder), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007). Published by Robert Bosch GmbH Corporate Communications, Brand Management, and Sustainability (C/CC) Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany Phone +49 711 811-0 Senior Vice President Uta-Micaela Dürig Contact Head of Sustainability Office Bernhard Schwager bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Phone +49 711 811-6402 Project team Sylvia Aßmann Madeleine Förster Bernhard Schwager Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: Annual Report 2013 Magazine “24 hours” Bosch today csr.bosch.com
