Communication on Progress Participant: Victoria Group Published: 2014/06/03 Time period: 06/2013-06/2014 Format: Standalone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level: This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Victoria Group supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Zoran Mitrović Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a Code of Conduct, communicated to all our employees and published on our website, to make our position clear.  The company has implemented an EBRD funded project on gender balance, targeting women rights in business environment. Implementation  We have published and actively informed all our employees of our Code of Conduct and encouraged them to commit as well.  We have produced the document on work mobbing prevention, which has been distributed to all the employees. Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented.  Project on gender balance consisted of questionnaires answered by 846 women and men employed in Victoria Group and member companies. Over 85% of the respondents consider that men and women have equal opportunities, and 92% prefer to work in a mixed gender environment. 90% of female respondents think that there are no barriers in workplace for women taking maternity leave. Labour Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles on labour standards in addition to following local laws on labour rights.  The company is dedicated to providing suitable and motivating working environment for its employees.  The company respects its partners and supports local communities in which it operates  Victoria Group promotes corporate culture in which all employees share this mutual policy  The company has implemented an EBRD funded project on working environment satisfaction among employees Implementation  Our recruitment policy follows the UNGC principles and secures equal opportunity employment platform for everyone.  Our written Code of Conduct additionally regulates our policies and it is compliant with UNGC principles. The document is published on our internal portal and has been distributed to all the employees.  We adopted and implemented EHS policy for 2014-2016, which includes work safety and working environment as one of top priorities Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. Environment Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment.  Environmental protection is among our key business principle  Energy saving is within Victoria Group’s core business Victoria Starch, VG member company, has initiated production of biomass pellets providing fuel for biomass boilers, which help reduce fossil fuel consumption and CO2 emission Implementation  Victoria Group strives to minimize the environmental impact of our activities.  We have been investing in further reduction CO2 emission and usage of fossil fuels (latest investment is the biomass boiler constructed in Veterinary Institute Subotica, VG member company)  The company organizes paper and waste recycling  We do not use water for technological process in fertilizer production  Victoria Group, and every member company, has black&white double-side printing option set as default and printing within company is monitored  VG uses energy saving printers that use the least amount of electricity  Part of the induction of every new employee refers to environmental protection instructions, as defined by corporate procedures Measurement of outcomes  Our manufacturing facilities divert 95,61% of their waste away from landfills and into the recycling stream  30% reduced the amount for printing paper Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms. Implementation  The company has its representative in Enforcement working group within AmCham business organisation.  We have Internal Audit department as independent body that monitors business conduct of all our employees and representatives. Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing. No incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented.
