Report 2013/2014 Vip mobile, Republic of Serbia 2013 Annual report 1. Introduction 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address Contents 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance FROM THE ROOTS 1. Introduction 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address 1. Introduction We keep following our customers’ trends, habits and needs, and designing services tailored to fit. We are aware that every individual is unique and requires a unique approach. Vip was awarded by the Serbian Consumer Association “My Serbia” In 2013 Vip mobile grew in all segments of prize “My Choice” for providing the best telecommunications its operations and acquired over 2 million services in 2013. customers. We achieved sustainable growth quarter by quarter and strategic focus We invested a lot in our employees, provided them with was shifted towards customer experience, additional training adjusted to their development needs, and adding to the best value for money and at the same time shown concern for their health and wellinnovative offers and services. Vip is still being, all of which yielded rich results. Vip was pronounced the biggest greenfield investor in Serbia the second best employer in 2013 by the Serbian Association with EUR 800 million contributions to our of Managers. operations, including the license fee. We are recognized as a leader in the social responsible business with many projects like “Be a Vip student“, “Vip Ecomotivation“, Belgrade Dance Festival, Vip Beach Masters tournaments and other. We understand the customer and our business, and we believe that this is the right path to success. The ownership has extended us all the support in this; so, provided that we are prudent in our operations and management, and ready for all market challenges. 1. Introduction 7 1.1. Dejan Turk Ever since our arrival to the Serbian market in 2007 we have education in Serbia, environmental protection, development been carefully listening to the needs of our environment and of entrepreneurship and children’s health. Recent director/CEO address community and actively contributing to solving different social catastrophic floods in Serbia gave us a chance to show and environmental issues. Year after year these efforts have our expertise and solidarity, primarily through fast network had a positive result and have contributed to tackling certain recovery and free traffic packages for affected population, Committed to challenge social and environmental issues that were recognized as serious and urgent. We cautiously monitor and recognize but also through donations in goods and money. Serbian telecommunications the most important issues that could be addressed in order to make a change and a difference in people’s lives. We will continue with the implementation of corporate social responsibility based on UN Global Compact market and tell our “different Our CSR strategy in 2013/2014 has been mainly focused principles and lead other companies as a good example of permanent and stable CSR practice in the Serbian stories” to the benefit of all Vip on our long-term projects related to support to higher business sector. stakeholders. Dejan Turk director/CEO Vip mobile Dejan Turk, director/CEO 8 1. Introduction 1. Introduction 9 FOREVER GREEN 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance 2. Vip mobile on the market 11 2. Vip Social Gender structure Responsibility 54% female Corporate social responsibility is one of Vip’s In 2013 we had a strong focus on boosting the employees strategic objectives. Company accepts its social engagement, development of their competencies and responsibility by giving a strong support to its performance and development of stimulating and inspiring customers, employees, environment and the working environment. society. By using the most advanced human resource tools we have Vip has a clear vision of how to improve its activities in the worked on identifying and development of the best individuals social responsibility area and always acts as a socially and Vip talents. We have been engaged in improvement of 46% responsible company. Corporate CSR activities are directed the working environment through strengthening of the corporate male to youth, education, culture and sports with focus on activities culture in line with the development stage of the company. targeting young population (15-35) which add true value. So far Vip invested substantial means in various CSR projects. At the same time we have been engaged in positioning Vip as a desirable employer with a focus on the young generation Vip is a member of UN Global Compact, the world’s largest and attracting promising talents. voluntary corporate citizenship initiative, which connects companies committed to CSR practices with UN agencies, Success indicators are as follows: governments and civil organizations. Company is also one of the founders of local Business Leaders Forum Serbia. • Vip Commitment index in the Telekom Austria Group survey was 85%, which is a remarkable result. Management structure • Vip was pronounced the second best employer in 2.1. Care for employees 2013 by the Serbian Association of Managers. The following criteria were evaluated: working conditions 44% In 2013, Vip mobile HR Sector focused on and motivation of employees, possibility of professional female continuous professional employees development, development, talent management, reputation and social talent management and employees engagement. responsibility. • High percentage of employee participation in internal Vip’s treatment of employees is based on the principles of projects and programs and an extremely high level equal opportunities and respect for diversity and investment of satisfaction both with the contents and the effect of in education and professional development of employees is a programs. strategic goal of the company. 56% Our goal is that every single employee feels passion for male performance and that Vip is perceived as inspiring environment for career development. 12 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 13 2.1.1. Investment in Employee Development Vip Stars It is a long-lasting program used to identify and reward Age structure Investment in Employee Development colleagues who achieve the best results and serve as role and Benefits models for other employees. Four Vip star generations have 38.0% been selected since 2010 and 17 employees received this Over the last year, Vip invested RSD 31.6 million in various award last year. employee development activities and in that manner achieved 20.6% one of the strategic company goals. Improvement of relevant Certification 29.7% competencies of each employee is planned systematically, 6.1% in accordance with the company strategy, targets of each Certification is a competency and talent management program 1.5% 0.7% department and professional interests of individuals. In 2013 within the Customer Service, Business and Residential Sales 0.5% employees took part in various training programs, for a total Departments. The main objective of the project is to provide 2.8% of 14,191 hours. the quality of service to our customers through the development of competencies of employees who directly take care of the Introduction of new and improvement of the existing benefits customers. The program also identifies employees with high for the employees is one of the important elements in efforts potential who are willing to take on more responsible roles. to raise the level of commitment and create a positive working The total of 14 agents at the Customer Service Department, 92 0-24 24-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55+ environment. During 2013 the company invested RSD 14.5 employees at the Residential Sales Department and 8 employees million in various programs. at the Business Sales Department were certified during 2013. Vigor 2011-2013 Benefits for Employees The development program is focused on strengthening Vip offers a number of benefits to employees in order to leadership and retention of top and second-level management improve their quality of life and health. Most often we provide in the company. Vigor was launched in 2011 and last year discounts for purchase of consumer products and travel Educational structure we focused on resonant and innovative leadership through arrangements, but we also provide benefits for recreation, various modules. The total number of training hours for Vigor in culture, entertainment and banking benefits. 43.8% 2013 was 1,792 and 270 individual sessions with managers were held as well. Employees with three children receive a monthly benefit of RSD 10,000 gross which is payable until the youngest child Talent Management reaches the age of 15. 36.2% The content of this program in the first part consists of the Vip Kindergarten and Dr. Vip 16.3% identification and evaluation of talent, and the second is based on the analysis of their competencies, approaches to In 2010 we opened a “Fairytale” kindergarten at the the development of recognized talent. company’s headquarters and young parents, while at work, 2.5% 1.1% are greatly relieved of their concerns about their children who 0.1% The first part of the program consisted of the identification are close to them, in a modern environment and under the and evaluation of talents and the second part is focused supervision of professional and creative teachers. on later development of identified talents based on the analysis of their competencies. The talent development In collaboration with the Health Care Center Novi Beograd, programs among experts and juniors were organized in 2012 we opened a Vip clinic, where employees and their III level IV level V level VI level VII-1 level VII-2 level in several modules with various topics based on Vip family members can have all general practice examinations corporate values, their implementation and importance. and obtain referrals for further treatment and therapy. 14 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 15 2.1.2. Projects Aimed at Strengthening 2.2. Responsibility towards In 2009, “Be a Vip student” was awarded as the best Pulmonary function testing for children in Serbia of Corporate Culture community marketing event by Taboo magazine and Serbian Chamber of Commerce. In 2010, the project won European award for Owing to New Year’s donation of Vip mobile and its customers employee volunteering at national level, as the best project in to the Association for the rights of asthmatic children “Dašak” in Simplicity in Everything Vip is very much associated with an orientation the innovation category. the amount of 3 million dinars, it was possible to purchase the towards the wishes and needs of customers state-of-the-art spirometer, an instrument for testing of pulmonary During the promotion of “Simplicity” as one of the key and Serbian citizens because we take a lead in function and to implement the project of testing of pulmonary company values, we organized an internal competition aimed various corporate social responsibility activities. Partnerships in education function of children in Serbia, aged 6 to 18, in 8 cities in at simplification of work processes entitled “Simplicity in Serbia during 2013. everything”. We collected as many as 41 proposals from our We provide emergency relief in the event of disasters and Aiming to support development of young talents, Vip mobile colleagues which aim at streamlining of work processes and respond to requests for sponsorships, charitable and incompany concluded in 2011 strategic partnerships with the Results of testing will enable composition of standard parameters the top-ranking proposal was an initiative of Danilo Bigović kind donations and volunteers. In special situations we Faculty of Organizational Sciences and the Faculty of Transport of pulmonary function of children in Serbia. The project is being related to replacement of SIM cards and their returning through open humanitarian SMS numbers to collect donations and Traffic Engineering, and as of 2013, cooperation was implemented under auspices of the Ministry of Health and the the register and it was immediately implemented. from Vip customers for children or other citizens in need. established also with a local group of Electrical Engineering Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Students’ European Association (EESTEC) in Belgrade. Strategic while thereof holders are pediatric pulmonologists from the partnerships are being implemented through organization of cities covered by the research. Vip culture 2.2.1. Investing in education students’ educational practice in Vip, lectures given by visiting Vip experts on faculties, as well as through providing students In order to remind our employees of the important baselines with an opportunity to write research and scientific papers in Humanitarian SMS numbers of Vip corporate culture and of the important steps and “Be a Vip Student” cooperation with mentors from Vip. achievements of our company, we organized a virtual quiz In 2009, Vip mobile became a member of Alpbach club According to the strategy of socially responsible business, about Vip corporate culture and top 3 participants, with the More than six years ago, Vip launched one of the biggest and got involved with the program of investing in students Vip mobile enables, for charity purposes, implementation of fastest time and the most correct answers received prizes. long-term projects of social responsibility in the field of high and young experts from Serbia. Through scholarships, Vip SMS donations to raise funds for actions of general social education under the name “Be a Vip student”, dedicated to enables prominent students of faculties in Serbia to take part interest, including philanthropy purposes. In 2013 only, over development of future experts in telecommunications field in in seminars and symposiums of the European Forum Alpbach 20 million dinars were raised via humanitarian SMS numbers An afternoon with... Serbia. The programme is officially supported by the Ministry and encourages gaining of new knowledge and sharing of for various humanitarian purposes. Vip does not collect from of Foreign and Domestic Trade and Telecommunications experience with experts from all over the world. administration of humanitarian SMS numbers, and all of the The personalities of 900 top experts and professionals at Vip and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological money raised is being transferred every month directly to hide hikers who know no boundaries, rafters on rapids, sailors Development, universities and faculties in Belgrade, Novi the account of the organization which got the humanitarian on stormy seas, passionate cooks, dancers and singers from Sad, Niš, Kragujevac and Novi Pazar with the right of 2.2.2. Community Support number for use. all genres, artists who bring color to the canvas (and business participation, as well as numerous student organizations. The as well) and many other talents. In order to encourage our “Be a Vip student” project provides students with a unique creative colleagues for us to enjoy their hobbies together, synergy of theoretical and practical knowledge in the field Vip New Year’s Donation we launched an internal program entitled “An afternoon of telecommunications, enables them to share the expertise with…” and workshops, such as cooking classes, gardening, that Vip mobile possesses as a member of Telekom Austria As of 2008, instead of distribution of corporate New Year’s dancing, stand-up comedy and mini concerts featuring the Group and, at the same time it creates young experts who presents to business partners and employees, Vip donates talented Vip employees. subsequently may easily be a part of Vip business processes. funds earmarked for that purpose to help the most vulnerable social groups, such as children without parental care, autistic From the previous six generations, around 900 talented children, blind and visually impaired persons, victims of human students from 20 faculties all over Serbia, having average trafficking and asthmatic children. grade above 8.00, have applied for participation in the project. Out of them, 117 have been rewarded, out of whom 17 got jobs within Vip. 16 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 17 Employee volunteer service 2.2.3. Vip Ecomotivation Hour, World Environment Day and others. Employees are engaged in soft landscaping, planting and recycling activities. Employees of Vip often initiate and take part in numerous In 2013, premises of Vip head office were branded with volunteering activities, putting in energy, time and knowledge About the project ecological messages which remind of the importance of for the welfare of other people and the community. recycling and invite employees to enter Ecomotivation. Striving to incorporate environmental protection in all aspects Every year, employees of Vip prepare New Year’s presents of business, Vip Company introduced a long-term program In addition to call for employees to be a part of Ecomotivation for children without parental care, participate in the traditional “Vip Ecomotivation” which is dedicated to employees, and give their own contribution, an internal photo competition volunteering action “Our Belgrade” organized by Forum of customers and general public. Within the company, the was organized, where the employees had the chance to show Business Leaders of Serbia, dedicated to mentoring work employees are being constantly reminded of environmental their engagement in this regard through a photo. Author of the with students taking educational internship in Vip, participate care through messages regarding saving of energy, water, most inspiring photo was rewarded with a unique Vip bicycle. in voluntary blood donation campaigns, as well as in resources, recycling and other important issues. Aiming to environmental actions often organized by Vip Eco Team. diminish quantities of communal waste, bins for recycling of paper, plastic, glass and metal have been deployed. Electrical Special Events waste is collected separately and recycled in line with the Entrepreneurship development legislation. Seeking to decrease emissions of greenhouse As another way to invite customers to take initiative and be gases, there is an attempt to optimize the number of business a part of Ecomotivation, Vip organized an action in which Vip recognizes the significance of entrepreneurship for the travels, and there is an initiative to use video-conference “flying gardeners” embellished facades of old buildings in development of Serbia and wishes to encourage owners offices for meetings with members of Telekom Austria Group. Belgrade with flowers and other greenery and thus motivated of family companies to attain necessary knowledge and Vip’s fleet, in line with Ecomotivation, is composed also of fellow citizens to adorn their balconies. skills for successful management and market entry. Modern 27 hybrid Toyota Prius vehicles. By using alternative energy technologies, first of all telecommunications, help managers sources, these vehicles reduce CO2 emissions by as much as improve family business, because they enable business 45 tons a year. operation according to the latest standards, and they open new possibilities on domestic market, and provide better In order to motivate its customers to behave responsibly, in 2012, access to foreign markets. Vip started the campaign of collecting old mobile phones. Within this action, more than 100,000 mobile phones were In 2013, Vip awarded for the first time, in cooperation with collected and handed over to the recycling centre for further the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, a Vip Business Partner treatment. By collecting old mobile phones from its customers, Award to the most successful young entrepreneurs, owners of Vip impeded thereof negative impact and enabled for their three small and medium sized family enterprises from the field components to be reused for some other functions. of production, trade and safety and protection at work. The busiest bus stops in Belgrade have been redecorated so as The aim of Vip award is to stimulate young managers to Internal Campaigns to represent spots for collection of plastic bottles for recycling, improve family business, by operating according to the latest and on the stops it is presented how Belgrade should look like standards using modern technologies. In order to bring the attention of the employees to the importance if everyone would participate in Ecomotivation. of a responsible relation towards the environment and smart management of natural resources at work, but also in everyday life, for few years now, various ecological motivation projects within Vip have been organized. Supported by Vip’s eco team, composed of employees from different departments who are voluntary Vip company ambassadors, various activities are organized aiming to celebrate important ecological dates: Planet Earth Day, Earth 18 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 19 In the organization of Vip company and the Centre for Green Fest 2.3. Sponsorships Protection of Babies, Children and Youth in Zvečanska Street in Belgrade, an ecological volunteer action was conducted For the second time in a row, Vip sponsored the green culture Vip’s orientation is to support young people who regarding the completion of the first phase of works for festival “Green Fest” where through workshops, lectures, achieve top results and have the competitive spirit; construction of Therapeutic Garden. The construction is debates and movies, attention is brought to daily problems of who are eager to succeed, daring, energetic and enabled by the program ‘Vip Ecomotivation’ within which Vip our environment and to possibilities for positive action of every different all features that perfectly match our company donated 500 dinars for each phone its customers individual. Within the frame of the festival, a competition was brand’s character. recycled during June 2013. With professional assistance of the organized for the best movie shot using mobile phone, “Find famous “Guerrilla Gardeners”, volunteers planted herbs and an inspiration for Ecomotivation”, where everybody could In accordance with the corporate business strategy, we vegetables in a section of the Therapeutic Garden intended use their mobile phone and shoot a short video and state established several long term sponsorships which are directed for cultivating of vegetables, and thus they helped the children his/her own opinion about the problem and solution of the towards the young people striving for success in sports and to become more familiar with and connect to the nature and environmental problem. Within the festival, Vip organized culture as well as to once who are engaged in ecology actions. healthy habits in nutrition. collecting of old mobile phones, and all visitors had a chance to use interactive platform to post their ecological messages, In addition to planting with “Guerrilla Gardeners”, the along with a photo from the festival, on social networks, 2.3.1. Partnership with Serbian Volleyball participants took part in creative workshop “Musicyling”, to use zen garden, or to charge their phone using special Federation during which children made music instruments out of recyclable bank-bicycle. materials. Key to a successful long term brand partnership is focusing on In three days, Green Fest was visited by 9.000 people. growth. Vip has been investing into Serbian volleyball since Within the movie program, 123 movies were presented and 2008 in order to raise the sport profile while increasing positive twenty-one workshops were carried out and 19 companies effects that volleyball sponsorship has on the Vip brand. participated in the exhibition part of the program. Vip recycling program collected 41 old mobile phones. With the support of Vip, our national teams successfully participated in various prestigious international competitions in 2013. Senior women’s team won a bronze medal at World Results Grand Prix, 4th place at European Championship and 5th place at CEV European league. Senior men’s team, on the Within the company, paper collected on points of sale and other hand, won a bronze medal at European Championship in head office, recyclable packaging waste, as well as all and 8th place at World League. Junior teams came back electrical equipment no longer in use, are being delivered from Balkan championship with two medals, gold and silver for recycling. In 2013, the following was collected and ones. In youth category, women won silver at European Youth recycled: Olympic festival and a bronze medal at Balkan Championship. CSR activities named “Volleyball Connects” were continued • 6 tons of paper, last summer, when our national teams visited and donated • 11 tons of packaging waste and jerseys to mentally challenged children and those without • 16 tons of electrical and electronic equipment. parental care at “Kolevka” in Subotica, “Sremčica” in Belgrade and “SOS Village” in Novi Sad. Within the promotion of “Vip Ecomotivation”, customers were able to bring their old mobile phones to Vip points of As a General Sponsor of Volleyball Federation of Serbia sale, and all collected phones were delivered to recycling (VFS), apart from supporting indoor volleyball, Vip creates center for further treatment. In 2013, a total of 81,000 of and develops professional and attractive beach volleyball old mobile phones were collected. tournaments, both national Vip Beach Masters (VBM) and international CEV European Championship. Vip customers are also able to pay bills electronically, and in 2013, 135,000 customers have saved 27.6 tons of paper. 20 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 21 National Championship Vip Beach Masters 13 was the Vladimir Vanja Grbić, our renowned volleyball player, VFS largest to date since it included 10 cities across Serbia. Vice President, FIVB Development Commission Member and Between June 21 August 25, beach volleyball tournaments Special Olympics Volleyball Ambassador was VBM endorser took place in Novi Sad, Bačka Palanka, Aranđelovac, Užice, for the third year in a row. Together with other professional Bač, Veliko Gradište, Kanjiža, Temerin, Kraljevo. Traditionally, trainers Vanja led beach volleyball school for kids up to 14 National League Finals was preserved for Belgrade (August years in all cities where tournaments took place. The classes 28 31) as the culmination of the season and the place where were held in 11 cities each day of the tournament and the Serbia got new beach volleyball champions. Total of 61 total of 3150 kids participated. Over the past 3 years total female and male teams competed in the Finals. In addition of 6190 kids went to VBM volleyball school. The idea is to to national tournaments, VBM 2013 included organization interest more kids in beach volleyball each year by giving of CEV Beach Volleyball European Championship Novi them an opportunity to learn from the best. Sad Masters, which hosted last summer 74 teams from 28 European countries. During the National Finals in Belgrade, 40 most talented boys and girls from 10 cities were invited to train at the Vip Beach Masters 2013 included Vip Beach Masters volleyball camp. Volleyball School and Kids Beach Volleyball camp. 2.3.2. Belgrade Dance Festival Owing to this cooperation Serbia became an indispensable stopping point to a large number of significant international Last year, Belgrade Dance Festival celebrated its 10th dance performances. anniversary and presented us with an exclusive jubilee worthy program. Over the years the Festival has gained a Last year, for the third time in a row, we awarded the “Vip prominent position among the best European and worldwide is inviting” plaque to a prominent dance artist who had built dance events, becoming the most important manifestation of an impressive international career, promoting Serbia and our contemporary dance in the country and the region. dance scene. The laureate was Vesna Orlić, Deputy Director Vip mobile, as an exclusive sponsor of the event, for the sixth of the Vienna State Opera Ballet and the Vienna National year in a row, proudly supported the 10th Belgrade Dance Opera. Festival, which gathered the contemporary dance lovers in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Pančevo between April 5-19. Through the accompanying “Vip Talents” project, Belgrade The total of 18.700 visitors had seen 15 performances from Dance Festival and Vip mobile had the youngest ballet talents 11 countries worldwide. The Festival’s program and its parallel enrolled into the high quality educational and practical activities generated great publicity, while 119 accredited workshops held by top mentors. The project’s goal was to journalists from Serbia and abroad covered the performances. contribute to children’s orientation on their path of pursuing the professional artistic dance. During September 2012 and Vip mobile and Belgrade Dance Festival, through their May, June 2013 theoretical classes were being held at 17 joint efforts, continuously improve the event program and different elementary schools in Belgrade and Zemun, with the accompanying activities contributing to popularization of aim of raising interest in contemporary dance among children. contemporary dance in our country and in the region. 22 2. Vip Social responsibility 2. Vip Social responsibility 23 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2.4. Responsibility towards with all business ethics principles. Vip is also fully committed Compliance to transparency in business reporting. Compliance is actively implemented and incorporated into existing processes and controls. Vip mobile, as member of Telekom Austria Group, complies with the highest corporate Right way Right results. Compliance awareness through management standards, which are a foundation Code of Conduct, compliance management policies, regular for establishing an excellent and long-term compliance trainings to all level employees within Vip mobile, relationship with our customers, partners and whistle-blower (local and group), Compliance Risk assessment relevant state institutions. sessions clearly shows that it is important not only to achieve our goals, but also how we achieve them. Our business Telekom Austria is listed on Vienna Stock Exchanges and partners, users of our services, shareholders, public, and our operates in accordance with Austria security trade acts as employees expect us to meet the highest standards, also in well as with stock exchange regulations. the sense of integrity. Vip mobile is conducting its operations in accordance with all laws and regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia and 24 2. Vip Social responsibility www.vipmobile.rs
