NQC Ltd Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact January 2014 w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Statement of Commitment cognisance of. We are the UK Government's partner in the collection of supply chain sustainability data and our relationship with the UK Government requires that our information security and anticorruption policies must be robust and regularly reaffirmed. Through our supply chain engagement programmes we have the opportunity to promote responsible business practice to a wide array of UK and international businesses. In this, our second annual Communication of Progress, we describe our current and forthcoming actions to continue to improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of I am pleased to confirm that NQC reaffirms its communication. ongoing support and commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in We are committed to the positive reinforcement of the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and the principles of CSR and sustainability within our Anti-Corruption. The principles of the UN Global organisation and see the Global Compact as a Compact are fundamental to our approach to pivotal driving force to achieving these aims. conducting business and they inform many of our policies and our organisational governance structure. Yours sincerely, Our primary business focus is to support and encourage responsible business practices through our web-based supplier engagement systems. Our approach to engagement mirrors the UN Global Compact Principles through the questions we ask the supply chain. We consider the themes of environmental stewardship and human and labour rights as critical areas that organisations should have John F McClelland CBE Chairman, NQC Ltd w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Engagement Company Background About NQC Our Approach Based in Manchester, England, NQC is an SME Our sphere of influence when promoting our beliefs working with the UK public sector and global private and ethics is significantly bolstered by our sector organisations. NQC specialises in supply partnership with, and service provision to, the UK chain engagement through the application of Government and their extensive supply chain. The technology and support services in the areas of UK Government aims to be a leader in sustainability sustainable development, corporate social and requires NQC operations and services to responsibility and information assurance. Our promote these ideals at a high level. NQC must engagement approach enables organisations to drive exhibit strong commitment to responsible and ethical responsible business practices through their global business practices and sustainability criteria. supply chains via effective, relevant and timely assessment and risk management. The Policy & Research team within NQC is charged with ensuring that question sets and The topic areas covered by our supply chain recommendations that are part of our supply chain assessments are directly in line with UN Global engagement solutions are up to date and relevant for Compact Principles and NQC also expects the same the industry, size and location of participating high ethical and responsible standards to be evident organisations. throughout our own supply chain. NQC offers participating organisations a web-based NQC aims to make supply chain sustainability a engagement system designed to assess an board level responsibility and priority in each individual organisation or an entire supply chain's organisation that we engage through our work. Our level of compliance against relevant sustainability work with the UK Government supply chain enables criteria. Our CAESER assessment (Corporate us to share the need for responsible business Assessment of Environmental Social and Economic practice to a significant number of local, national and Responsibility) probes an organisation on the international businesses. Our supply chain importance of, and their actions relating to, engagement facilitates the assessment of an environmental stewardship, economic transparency organisation's policies and practices and creates and social commitment. These are critical policy appropriate recommendations for improvement to areas taken directly from national sustainability policy enable the participating organisations to comply with as well as international best practice. high level sustainability, corporate social responsibility and international best practice criteria. Our assessments are based on internationally mandated rights, stemming from recognised C authorities such as the UN Global Compact and the International Labour Organization, alongside best practice criteria – keeping participating and willing organisations compliant and, often times, ahead of minimum standards. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Engagement Materiality Assessment Background Summary of Key Issues During the last 12 months, NQC has taken the Our analysis of the key issues concluded: opportunity to reassess our corporate responsibility efforts and focus on an approach that is linked Productand service-related opportunities, such directly to our core business drivers. as expanding access to technology, represent the leading areas where we can create value for We have undertaken a materiality assessment to society and for our business. identify and prioritize sustainability issues that are “material” to NQC’s business. Managing our operations responsibly — from decreasing environmental impacts to protecting Areas considered by the assessment include those customer privacy, to promoting diversity and with which external stakeholders are most concerned ensuring ethical behaviour — remains an as well as those we believe present the greatest risks important area for NQC. and opportunities for our business. Enhancing corporate responsibility within global We are leveraging the results of the materiality supply chains is among the most important ways assessment to provide strategic direction to the we can drive sustainable development. business, drive resources and goals, and guide communications. Understanding these linkages The following specific issues ranked highest in the allows us to be more focused in our engagement and latest assessment and NQC will be devoting resources to allocate resources where there is the greatest towards mitigating and minimising the issue and/or opportunity for sustainable growth while mitigating realising the opportunity: potential risks. Information privacy and security; Key issues to the organisation were identified through a consideration of numerous sources, including: Digital inclusion; NQC corporate plans, objectives and strategies; Inclusion and diversity; Company policies and initiatives related to Business ethics; company policies; Skills development and training; Employee surveys and other input from employees; Direct environmental impacts; Client feedback; Responsible supply chains. Feedback received through ongoing dialogue with NQC has received positive feedback on our materiality shareholders; assessment process to date. We anticipate our process will evolve as we learn from experience and Partners, suppliers and other stakeholders; from continued dialogue with our stakeholders. Media coverage; Our next Communication on Progress report will include an detailed materiality index that outlines the Industry benchmarking. issues that are most important to our stakeholders and how we are prioritizing them internally. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Engagement Internal Documents NQC is committed to ensuring our business practices positively influence our corporate social responsibility and incorporate relevant sustainability criteria whereever possible. Employee Handbook Competency Framework The Employee Handbook is based on the UN Global The Competency Framework is another internal Compact Ten Principles for responsible business and document that stipulates our expectations for embeds protected international rights mandated by employee behaviour with each other, clients, and the International Labour Organisation and Universal suppliers. Declaration of Human Rights relevant to the workplace and employee freedoms. NQC does its The Competency Framework is designed to utmost to ensure safety and civility for all associated complement the Employee Handbook and is with the company. embedded within every job description within the company. The Employee Handbook is available to all employees. Upon induction our employees are required to sign a document signalling their understanding and commitment to the ethics of NQC as communicated in the Handbook. The Handbook specifically requires employees to C respond accordingly to instances of non-compliance if they become aware of any infractions of the Employee Handbook and general code of ethics within the organisation. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Human Rights & Principles As an employer, NQC is committed to providing employees all basic Human Rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. Internationally protected Human Rights are at the heart Policies of the NQC Employee Handbook and the company NQC policies explicitly embrace the ideals of the refuses to do business with any company that violates Equality Act 2010 to provide effective protection for these basic rights. NQC outlines very specific employees and vulnerable groups. This is central to approaches to Human Rights of employees in the NQC employment policy and ensures that NQC is workplace and when dealing with partner not complicit in any violation of internationally agreed organisations. and protected Human Rights. As an employer, NQC acknowledges the obligation to Within the organisation, NQC uses the Employee provide employees at the very minimum basic Human Handbook, in which employees have specific Rights that are internationally guaranteed by the responsibilities to highlight any Human Rights Universal Declaration of Human Rights, UN Global violations that they become aware of during their Compact Principles and other regulatory bodies. time with NQC. Instances such as: When operating externally with suppliers, and with Protecting the right to life; clients, it is the policy of NQC to avoid doing business with any organisation that fails to uphold Protecting the right to a nationality; basic human rights, conform to current legislation and laws, or any organisation that contravenes with Treating each employee fairly and consistently; the spirit of the NQC code of conduct. The right to movement and residence. NQC has undertaken the HRCA Quick Check to confirm that all relevant areas are effectively covered Additional commitment to the Equality Act 2010 and pinpoint areas that require further attention. protects vulnerable groups in employment and informs the diversity policy that is integral to NQC employment policy and our pursuit of success. Working in the UK and specifically with UK Government, NQC has a high level of commitment to Human Rights principles. NQC is a supporter and vocal defender of these expectations. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Human Rights & Principles Implementation NQC has developed a new Code of Conduct for the organisation and a Supplier Code of Conduct Action to Date to reconfirm in simple terms the expectations and A senior member of staff has overall responsibility commitments of the organisation. These for upholding Human Rights within NQC. documents supports the more detailed policies already in place. NQC provides a clean, safe and healthy working environment for all its employees; physically and Forthcoming Plans psychologically. All new members of staff will be specifically All members of staff within the organisation have educated on the Ten Principles of the UN Global been provided with education on Human Rights compact which complement the existing policies and specifially the Principles within the Global and will be made aware of the commitment NQC Compact. has made to these principles. The Policy and Relationship team at NQC is Additionally, any and all updates in legislation will continuously conducting research and keeping up be communicated to employees in a timely to date with the international legislation on Human manner and communicated through education Rights and assessing how this applies to the and awareness training. organisation. NQC will review the Employee Handbook 12 NQC has both a grievance policy and procedure in months after the previous review, assuming no place which ensures that any issues raised by significant regulatory or best practice criteria employees are dealt with promptly, fairly and changes have taken place in the meantime. consistently. The procedure takes account of the ACAS Code of Practice on grievance procedures and is reviewed periodically in line with Measurement of Outcomes developments in good practice. In the past year NQC has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving NQC affords employees the ability to move around Human Rights violations. the organisation with reviews focussing on particular talents and contributions an individual We have completed and achieved very strong scores makes to the organisation. in our CAESER self-assessment with respect to Labour standards. This confirms there are no Evaluation and updating of the Employee immediate areas of concern to be addressed. Handbook is conducted every 12 months unless Regardless of this, NQC acknowledges that significant changes need to be acknowledged constant monitoring and communication is the only sooner. This ensures that the organisation is as up certain way of maintaining operational compliance to date as possible with international legislation and positive reputation. and provides a good basis for employees to act responsibly. Furthermore, because of the scope of our activities and the number of employees (25) in the organisation, an external audit on Human Rights performance is not required. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Labour Rights & Principles NQC is committed to ensuring that all internationally mandated labour rights and principles are embedded and guaranteed within the organisation. As an employer NQC is committed to providing Policies employees with all basic Labour Rights guaranteed by NQC policies are in line with UN Global Compact the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN principles as well as other internationally mandated Global Compact Principles. NQC is committed to labour rights. applying positive action and promoting employment equality in its efforts to eliminate discrimination and NQC has a policy which prohibits, in every create working environments where all are treated circumstance, the use of child labour and the fairly and with respect. exploitation of employees. The Employee Handbook guarantees employees: NQC supports and embraces the Equality Act Fair and decent wages at least in line with national 2010. NQC's goal is to ensure that anyone who minimum wage levels with a view to provide extra works for the company, or who applies for a job money to provide a true living wage for staff. with the company will not be treated either directly or indirectly, less favourably than anyone else as a No part of wages are taken for accommodation. result of their individual characteristics or as a result of association with any other individual Contracts with working details and employee holding such characteristics. responsibilities. NQC, as a minimum, complies with the Clear indication of working hours. requirements of Equality and Diversity legislation and approved codes of practices. Employment will be based on who is best for the job with no bias on an individual's economic NQC actively employs from the local area and standing, race, creed, language, sexual supports young apprentice schemes giving young orientation or gender. people the chance to gain valuable experience with many signing full-time employment contracts. This A clean and safe working environment. is one of the ways that NQC sees itself giving back to the local community. Active abolition of child, forced or bonded labour and reasonable access to justice. The Policy and Relationship team at NQC is continuously conducting research and keeping up Protection from any form of harassment based on to date with the international legislation on labour personal characteristics. rights and assessing how this applies to the organisation. The right to time off in line with national and international regulations including paid holiday NQC has a written policy recognising the freedom leave. of association as an internationally guaranteed Labour Right of its workers. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Labour Rights & Principles Policies Measurement of Outcomes Forthcoming Plans In the past 12 months NQC has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving NQC is working with Investors In People to child labour, forced labour or discrimination. implement their standard across the organisation and further demonstrate our application of best Appraisals are conducted every 12 months to ensure practice in workforce recruitment, management that no employees have any concerns over their and development. working environment. Where discrepancies arise there is a system in place Implementation that allows for grievances to be acknowledged and NQC does not employ members of staff under dealt with as quickly and as professionally as the age of 15. Before employment commences possible. This grievance system is supported by the new candidates must present the HR Department Employee Handbook which is central to NQC with copies of their passport, driving license or policies. birth certificate. By reviewing official forms of identification NQC can ensure that no member of Furthermore, because of the scope of our activities staff is below the minimum age for employment. and the number of employees (25) in the organisation, an external audit on labour rights NQC ensures that all employees are aware of the performance is not required as any discrepancy can non-discrimination policy as part of a structured be dealt with in-house. induction process, and that any incidents of victimisation, discrimination and harassment are Qualification / Quality Assurance: Labour Rights disciplinary offences within the company. NQC takes very seriously its accreditation and ensures that it is as up to date as possible with As a minority owned business, over 75% of staff relevant legislation and best practice criteria. are female as is 50% of the Board of Directors. Specifically using the following as guiding material: Equality Act 2010 ACAS Codes of Practice International Labour Organisation w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Environmental Principles & Stewardship At NQC, we believe that a good environmental commitment can complement economic and social drives towards more responsible business practices. We are constantly looking to improve our own operations while simultaneously offering advice to partner and client organisations to be aware of changes in legislation, best practice, and their own capabilities. As a constant supporter and promoter of sustainability, Policies & Implementation NQC is well aware of the commitment we need to Action to Date make to the natural environment and these provide the basis for many of our internal policies. A senior member of staff has overall responsibility for environmental sustainability within the Our Employee Handbook has an entire section organisation. dedicated to environmental conscience and protection, obliging employees to take these matters seriously and All members of staff within the organisation have act accordingly. Indeed NQC policy is in line with, and been provided with education on environmental often goes beyond, UN Global Compact Principles targets and responsibilities. surrounding environmental stewardship. At NQC we have adopted an employee-led The Employee Handbook requires NQC to: initiative to reduce our waste production and emphasise recycling. At the end of every week, Promote environmental management policies and desk bins are checked for recyclable content and practices at every level and in every part of our weighed. This promotes awareness and best work within our clients and our suppliers. practice within the office and makes it easy to monitor the amount of waste generated and Educate, inform and train staff on the impacts of disposed of and set further reduction targets. their activities on the environment and their responsibilities to minimise these impacts. Five waste streams are now diverted from landfill and incineration: food waste, plastic, cardboard, Invest in environmentally friendly technologies and paper and aluminium. techniques as they become available and relevant to our operations. Old office equipment such as phones, computers, lamps, fans are donated or sold rather than sent to Working with the UK Government puts NQC in a landfill. position that requires constant attention and reaffirmation of environmentally sound processes. This Printing double sided, turning off electronic obligation is communicated to suppliers and clients in a equipment when not in use and recycling waste bid to convey the importance of UN Global Compact are actions expected and encouraged throughout Principles in an environmental context. NQC. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Environmental Principles & Stewardship Policies & Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Action to Date NQC has not been subjected to any legal cases, rulings or other events related to environmental Greenhouse gas emissions and water use are both infractions. individually measured and monitored when possible. This includes the use of carbon NQC has reduced its total annual carbon emissions calculators for business travel. by encouraging staff to use public transportation, car pools or cycle to work schemes, by using only The Policy and Relationship team at NQC is energy efficient equipment in the office, educating continuously conducting research and keeping up staff members and using video conferencing instead to date with the international and national of travelling to attend face-to-face meetings. legislation on environmental sustainability and assessing how this applies to the organisation. Additionally, education on recycling and food waste has increase the number of waste streams and as a Forthcoming Plans result, NQC has reduced the amount of waste sent to landfill or incineration by 90% over the last 12 months. NQC will continue to research best practice through web research, expert consultation, Finally, NQC has taken the CAESER selfseminar and event attendance and communicate assessment in: Reducing GHG Emissions; Reducing results back to employees, stakeholders and Waste Generated; Reducing Water Use; and clients. Sustainable Resource Consumption. This highlights that there are no immediate areas of risk, but still NQC will continue to train employees on areas that require attention and constant monitoring. important environmental topics at induction and provide refreshers in a timely manner whenever best practice updates become available. Qualification/Quality Assurance: Environmental Stewardship NQC takes very seriously its accreditation and ensures that it is as up to date as possible with relevant legislation and best practice criteria. Specifically using the following as guiding material: GHG Protocol HMG Buying Standards DEFRA guiding principles w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Anti-Corruption Principles NQC has a policy which does not condone any act of fraud, bribery or corruption when working with both our clients and suppliers. We have internal processes that are designed to prevent, detect and report fraud, theft or corruption and employees are required to abide by such policies and processes. The integrity of our staff, and those with whom we Implementation do business, is critical to our success. Our clients and stakeholders have every right to expect that Action to Date professional, competent and trustworthy people are All staff within the organisation have an overall working for NQC. commitment for preventing bribery and corruption. NQC’s Anti-Bribery Policy reflects our commitment to The anti-bribery policy mandates that any uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and instances of corruption or unprincipled practices corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. be challenged, exposed and reported to relevant In particular, we are committed to compliance with the authorities. Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and abroad. The Bribery Act 2010 applies to Education regarding bribery and corruption has individuals and all organisations carrying on a business been given to members of staff. in the UK. The territorial jurisdiction of the prosecutors extends to offences committed both in the UK and All employees are made aware of NQC's policy on abroad. bribery and corruption during induction and this policy is explicitly stated in the in the Employee Working with the UK Government and suppliers Handbook. demands the need for high levels of confidentiality and security in our business practices. NQC is ISO27001 NQC has develop company guidelines instructing certified and has security clearance for the majority of employees on how to deal with bribery and our staff. corruption issues. These guidelines are included in the Employee Handbook and are highlighted to NQC are keen to demonstrate our commitment and employees who are involved in legal matters compliance with the UK Bribery Act. This desire relating to company business. heavily informs our anti-corruption policies, protecting ourselves and our clients against infraction and noncompliance. Security and anti-corruption awareness training is mandatory for all employees when entering the company and depending on the role and responsibilities of our client contracts, formal security clearance is necessary for some employees. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Anti-Corruption Principles Implementation Measurement of Outcomes NQC has not been involved in any legal cases, Forthcoming Plans rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. NQC will aim to gain confirmation that they are not involved in the bribery and corruption of NQC has completed the CAESER self-assessment government officials from relevant NGOs or in: Ensuring Working Conditions & Ethical Trade external parties (e.g. NQC could have their which provides an assessment of organisational accounts audited which would identify any commitment to preventing unethical business spurious payments which could be related to practices, bribery and corruption, achieving a strong bribery and corruption). score. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved. NQC Ltd is registered in England and Wales with company registration number 04854362. Registered address is 1 George Leigh Street, Manchester, M4 5DL. w: nqc.com t: +44(0) 845 299 2994 e: info@nqc.com © 2014 NQC Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
