Jotun Protects Property GROUP REPORT 2013 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Sales summary 2 Highlights 4 OUR BUSINESS 6 A durable business model 8 Indonesia – Growth in action 10 Marine Coatings 12 Powder Coatings 14 Protective Coatings 16 Decorative Paints 18 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATIONS 20 Jotachar – Game-changing technology 22 Dubai Metro – Single source solution 24 MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 26 Making CR count 28 Assessing our performance 30 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 32 Recruit, develop, retain 36 Competence in a digital world 38 Our commitment to HSE 39 Providing a safe workplace 40 Safety and preparedness 41 Strengthening our corporate culture 42 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 44 Safer, smarter, greener 46 Our carbon footprint 47 Reducing our impact on the environment 48 LEEDing the way on green construction 49 Jotun R&D: Engineering durability 50 JOTUN AND SOCIETY 52 Contributing to a better world 54 Living our values 56 Responsible sourcing 58 Building resilience against corruption 60 The UN Global Compact 61 FINANCIAL INFO 62 Chairman of the Board 64 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 Consolidated statement of financial position 66 Consolidated statement of cash flows 67 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 68 Executive summary of the financial statement 69 Company overview 70 Organisation 72 INTRODUCTION SALES SUMMARY INTRODUCTION 27+37+2610 The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale of Decorative Paints and Performance Coatings (Marine, Protective and Powder Coatings). The company has 36 BUSINESS SEGMENTS production facilities in 21 countries, 70 companies 27 % Marine Coatings in 44 countries and is represented in more than 90 37 % Decorative Paints countries around the world. 26 % Protective Coatings 10 % Powder Coatings REGIONS: SEGMENTS • Scandinavia Decorative Paints: Jotun manufactures, Protective Coatings: Jotun’s protective GROUP KEY FIGURES • West Europe sells and distributes interior and exterior coatings are sold to companies active • East Europe and Central Asia paints to consumers and professionals in industries related to offshore, energy, • Middle East, India and Africa worldwide. infrastructure, hydrocarbon processing 2013 2012 2011 2010 (Figures in USD million from consolidated Group accounts) • South East Asia and Pacific industry and mining. REVENUE • North East Asia Marine Coatings: Jotun is the world’s Operating revenue 2 049 1 952 1 902 1 617 • Americas leading provider of marine coatings to Powder Coatings: Jotun Powder Operating revenue outside Norway in % 82 80 77 75 the newbuilding and DryDock (mainteCoatings is a leading supplier to nance) markets. companies active in industries related to appliances and metal furniture, building PROFIT/LOSS components, pipelines and general Operating profit 214 194 171 205 industries. Profit before tax expense 203 181 159 198 Net cash flow from operations 140 155 54 117 SALES AND EBITA DEVELOPMENT PROFITABILITY Return on capital employed, in % 1) 20.0 19.5 18.3 29.2 EBITA SALES Operating margin, in % 2) 10.5 9.9 9.0 12.7 (NOK mill) (NOK mill) Return on equity, in % 3) 16.3 15.8 13.1 19.9 1 400 14 000 YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITION 1 200 12 000 Total assets 1 780 1 670 1 522 1 329 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 121 106 144 95 1 000 10 000 Equity (including minority interests) 909 899 837 801 Equity / assets ratio, in % 51.1 53.8 55.0 60.3 800 8 000 Number of employees in Group 6 695 6 379 5 884 5 577 600 6 000 Number of employees in Group 8 991 8 740 8 296 7 819 including 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies 400 4 000 DEFINITIONS 200 2 000 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit amortisation of intangible assets x 100 Average total assets non-interest-bearing liabilities 0 0 2) Operating margin % = Operating profit 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2013 x 100 Operating revenues 2012 3) Return on equity % = Total comprehensive income for the year From 2003 the sales and EBITA is according to IFRS. Before 2003 the figures are according to NGAAP. x 100 Average equity EBITA is earning before interest, tax and amortisation. 2 3 INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS SANDEFJORD, NORWAY The launch of Drygolin Pluss and Drygolin Ultimat resulted in a significant ST. PETERSBURG, RUSSIA Construction of a new paints and LAHORE, PAKISTAN Jotun opens a new factory for waterborne paints to serve a growing QINGDAO, CHINA Together with partner COSCO International, Jotun opens a new paint INTRODUCTION rise in Jotun’s share of the premium powder coatings factory continues on market. factory with an annual production decorative paints market. schedule. Completion expected in capacity of 72,500 tons to serve the 2014. marine market. MANILA, PHILIPPINES Jotun purchases land and begins planning phase for the construction of a new paint factory. BELLE CHASSE, LOUISIANA Jotun opens a new factory to meet growing demand for Jotun marine and protective coatings in the region. HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM Jotun completes the successful launch RIO DE JANEIRO, BARCELONA, SPAIN CZECH REPUBLIC of Jotashield AntiFade, a durable BRAZIL DUBAI, UAE YANGON, MYANMAR exterior decorative paint. In its first Jotun Iberica celebrates 50 year Jotun closes a factory in Norway year, the product helped Jotun Vietnam Construction of a new factory for Jotun anniversary and receives Innovation and relocates production of powder Jotun opens powder coatings technical Jotun establishes a legal entity and buys achieve a growth rate in decorative Brasil to be completed in 2014. award for launch of Majestic Resist, coatings for all Western Europe and centre and launches Lady Design, a line land to construct a new paint factory. sales. a washable stain resistant interior Scandinavia to one facility in Trmice, of interior decorative paints that create decorative paint. north of Prague. stylish effects. 4 5 SECTION SECTION OUR BUSINESS The Jotun Group Management, from left to right: Bård K. Tonning, Vidar Nysæther, Morten Fon, Esben Hersve 6 7 A DURABLE JOTUN’S DEVELOPMENT OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Regions BUSINESS MODEL SCA Scandinavia Full time employees WE West Europe 2400 EECA East Europe and Central Asia 2200 2000 MEIA Middle East, India and Africa 1800 SEAP South East Asia and Pacific 1600 In 2013, Jotun experienced a slowdown in the Marine NEA North East Asia 1400 1200 Coatings segment. However, positive results in the AM Americas 1000 Decorative, Protective and Powder Coatings segments 2003 800 600 have retained the company’s growth trend, proving the 2013 400 200 durability of Jotun’s business model. 0 SCA WE EECA MEIA SEAP NEA AM Corporate Production facilities J 13 otun recorded satisfactory sales SEGMENT DIVERSITY willingness to adapt to local market 12 growth in 2013 in Protective and As a company active in four segments, conditions have helped support the 11 Powder Coatings and Decorative Jotun is sensitive to macro-economic company’s long term growth ambitions. 10 9 Paints, continuing a growth trend that trends that impact industrial and 8 has endured for a decade. While these consumer segments where we are active. In 2013, the company reorganised inter7 developments are welcome, managing In 2013, persistent tonnage over-capacity nally, dividing the company’s activities 6 5 the pace of growth and the expanding issues in the shipping industry have lead into seven regions. The new set-up 4 size of the organisation represents a to a weaker market for newbuildings, creates a platform to better support the 3 challenge. In 2013, costs continued to resulting in declining demand for marine local companies and encourages more 2 1 rise, and the company’s working capital coatings. At the same time, expanding efficient regional and inter-regional 0 remains high. These issues are related world population and rising global cooperation. While brands in the SCA WE EECA MEIA SEAP NEA AM in part to weak markets in certain economic activity in high growth regions Protective and Marine Coatings segments and regions. However, the has created a new generation of middle segments must conform to global company recognises the need to improve class consumers, supporting Jotun’s standards and specifications, Jotun Production volume (litres/kilos) (1 000 tonnes) systems and processes to control costs. growth in the Decorative, Protective and has encouraged regional R&D labs to Meanwhile, steps undertaken to lower Powder Coatings segments. Global and regional develop brands in the Decorative Paints 240 events will continue 220 working capital showed improvement. segment and some powder coatings 200 Work will continue to improve profitIn 2013, Jotun performed well in products to suit local markets. ability as the company continues to the Decorative segment (notably in to impact segment 180 160 pursue the three main components of Jotun’s core strategy: Organic growth, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Indonesia) and achieved record high sales in the performance year by CAPTURING NEW MARKET OPPORTUNITIES 140 120 segment diversity and a differentiated Protective segment (notably in China, year. But by remaining Over the next two years, Jotun has 100 approach to markets and regions. Russia, Turkey and Indonesia). Jotun identified significant market potential also saw satisfactory gains in the Powder true to our core in Asia and will focus more resources 80 60 ORGANIC GROWTH Coatings segment. As noted, sales of strategy, Jotun can to develop our business in selected 40 Pursuing an organic growth strategy 20 Jotun Marine Coatings fell significantly emerging markets. At the same time, can be a time and labour intensive in 2013. However, Jotun retained its sustain its steady growth Jotun will work to make more products 0 SCA WE EECA MEIA SEAP NEA AM process, but Jotun’s long-term approach leading market share in the segment and trend for years to available to the market, faster, and to growing the business step by step expects market conditions to improve in continue to develop paints and coatings has been successful in building a 2014. come.” that help customers reduce their environTotal Sales (in NOK mill) strong global brand. Work to generate mental impact and contribute to a more new opportunities continued in 2013, DIFFERENTIATED APPROACH Morten Fon, President and CEO, sustainable world. 4500 when Jotun celebrated the opening of a Jotun has established common Group Jotun Group 4000 new marine coatings factory in China standards that apply to all Jotun 3500 (Qingdao), broke ground on a new businesses worldwide, but the company 3000 marine, protective and powder coatings recognises that no two markets are alike. 2500 factory in Russia (St. Petersburg) and Differences include local rules and 2000 a new marine and protective coatings regulations, economy, climate, business factory in Brazil (Rio de Janeiro). culture and consumer buying habits, all 1500 The company also plans to build new of which impact how Jotun products are 1000 factories in Oman, Myanmar and the developed, produced, marketed, sold and 500 Philippines. distributed. Jotun’s selective investment 0 8 strategies in different regions and SCA WE EECA MEIA SEAP NEA AM 9 OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Bundaran HI, Jakarta, Indonesia. Indonesia’s economy grew by just under six percent in 2013. Growth in action F rom humble beginnings 25 years the Indonesian government was in the ADAPTING TO LOCAL MARKETS PROMISING FUTURE “Jotun’s success in Indonesia is the result of bold ago, Jotun Indonesia has emerged process of introducing financial reforms, As in other markets, Jotun’s overall Now active in all four segments, as a leading supplier of paints and a policy that helped attract foreign success in Indonesia is linked to the Indonesia is one of Jotun’s most action, patience and years of hard work.” coatings to Indonesia, one of the most investment and spur rapid economic country’s GDP growth. However, successful markets, selling about 24 dynamic economies in the world. growth. distinct features of Indonesia’s economy million litres of paint and 4,000 metric Eric Mallace, Managing Director, Jotun Indonesia have influenced how Jotun has grown tons of powder coatings a year. Despite The foundation of Jotun’s remarkable Investment and construction of infrain different segments that are wholly fierce competition, Jotun enjoys a growth over the past decade has been structure followed, supporting Jotun’s unique to Indonesia. For example, leading position in Marine, Protective JOTUN INDONESIA: SALES VALUE built on the company’s ability to identify Protective Coatings business, and while Jotun has seen an overall decline and Powder Coatings in Indonesia. In promising new markets, invest time and Indonesia’s growing manufacturing base in demand for marine coatings in the Decorative segment, the company (In billions IDR) resources into building its brand and encouraged the company to compete most countries, increased domestic is expanding rapidly, with about 700 1200 a willingness to adapt to local market for contracts in the Powder Coatings and intra-regional shipping activity in retailers throughout the country and is 1100 conditions. While Jotun’s organic growth segment. In 1996, Jotun began producing Indonesia has resulted in positive growth on pace to become a top three decorative 1000 Decorative 900 strategy is a time and capital-intensive powder coatings in the same factory as in this segment. Likewise, Jotun’s market paint supplier by 2016. With projects to Protective 800 process, it helps the company establish a paints. In the early 2000s, the company position and the emergence of a new expand production capacity at both the Marine 700 strong position at an early stage in highdecided to enter also the decorative paint generation of middle class Indonesian powder coatings and wet paint factories 600 Powder growth markets. market to serve Indonesia’s expanding homeowners has lead the company by 2014, Jotun Indonesia will be in a 500 Total middle class. In 2005, Jotun completed to focus on the sale of a number of strong position to meet expected growth 400 ENTERING A NEW MARKET construction of a new wet paint factory premium interior decorative paints, in demand. 300 Once a satellite market for Jotun and volume sales in the Marine, rather than focus on medium range 200 Singapore, Jotun Indonesia was estabProtective and Decorative segments products. 100 lished in 1988, when the company rose significantly. The powder coatings 0 leased a paint factory to produce marine manufacturing facility was relocated in 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 10 and protective coatings. At the time, the same year. 11 “Increasingly, the industry recognises that marine OUR BUSINESS coatings not only protect assets but play a critical SECTION role in optimising hull performance.” Geir Bøe, Vice President, Jotun Marine Coatings Cycling through adversity A s expected, Jotun experienced speed loss over time, helping to reduce a contraction in its marine coatfuel consumption and corresponding MARINE COATINGS ings business in 2013. While emissions. the segment remains profitable, persistent Sales in billion NOK tonnage over-capacity issues in primary ESTABLISHING COATING shipping segments have resulted in a STANDARDS sharp decline in newbuilding deliveries. Jotun has contributed to two submissions 6 These market forces had a negative to the International Maritime 5 impact on sales, especially in China and Organization’s Marine Environment Korea. However, a modest growth in Protection Committee that helped 4 global trade over the past two years has to quantify the impact of hull and 3 increased demand for sea-borne transpropeller performance on fuel costs and portation and the newbuilding market green house gas emissions. Jotun has 2 seems to be on a path to recovery. also contributed to a proposal to the 1 development of an international standard FOCUS ON MAINTENANCE on these same issues and is currently 0 MARKET leading an on-going International 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 7+20+5614462 Over the past three years, Jotun has Standards Organization (ISO) project successfully developed its SeaStock and to this effect (ISO 19030). By actively DryDock concepts to support growth engaging with the industry on the role Sales per region in the maintenance market. By working marine coatings play in fuel efficiency, closely with owners and offering unique Jotun is strengthening its reputation as product solutions, Jotun has built a leader within antifouling technologies customer loyalty and generated positive and is helping the shipping industry to sales growth. The company has also achieve its emission reduction targets. strengthened its position in the highly specialised tank coatings and yachting Looking forward, Jotun will continue to segments. develop both the SeaStock and DryDock concepts to strengthen its presence In 2013, the company continued to in the maintenance market. Rather market its industry-leading expertise than marketing individual brands, the in antifouling technologies. Jotun’s company will focus on the sale of unique SeaQuantum line, based on third generconcepts, like Jotun’s optimised solutions 7% Scandinavia ation silyl acrylate technology, includes for onboard maintenance, designed for 20% West Europe products customised for different smaller maintenance and repair jobs. By 5% East Europe and Central Asia trades. Jotun’s Hull Performance taking a more concept-driven approach 6% Middle East, India and Africa Solutions (HPS) combines premium to sales and continuing to focus on global 14 % South East Asia and Pacific marine coatings, priority technical key accounts, Jotun will be in a strong 46 % North East Asia 2% Americas service and reliable tools to measure position when the market recovers. hull performance. This allows owners 12 to choose antifoulings that best reduce 13 THE JOTUN GROUP “Jotun has taken decisive action to improve SECTION OUR BUSINESS performance significantly in the next two years.” Ram Ramnath, Vice President, Jotun Powder Coatings The pathway to profitability J otun performed moderately well time, the company is streamlining in the Powder Coatings segment production manufacturing and logistics. POWDER COATINGS in 2013 lead by strong growth in For example, in 2013 Jotun shifted all Turkey, Malaysia, Indonesia, United Arab production for Scandinavia to the Czech Sales in billion NOK Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Growth Republic and expanded production in China, which represents the world’s capacity in Turkey. Jotun has completed 6 leading market for powder coatings, was the construction of a new factory in 5 slowed by intense competitive pressure China and made investments in Thailand and the need to customise products to to improve flexibility. Other investments 4 manage the lack of uniform standards in production capacity are currently 3 found in China. In India, price pressure, being considered in Asia and the Middle the unavailability of locally produced East. 2 raw materials and the weakening rupee 1 cut into profits. KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT While a significant portion of Jotun’s 0 EXPANDING THE PRODUCT revenues in the Powder Coatings segment 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ASSORTMENT are generated locally, the company also 7+12+1740231 In 2013, Jotun reorganised the Powder actively tracks and tenders for projects Coatings segment into the following involving global customers. These high Sales per region categories: Appliances & Metal profile projects, which may range from Furniture, General Industries (e.g airports to pipelines, large commercial machinery, equipment, automotive buildings to multinational furniture components, etc.), Building Components manufacturers, require strong, global and Pipelines. While Jotun continues to Key Account Management teams and develop and launch premium products good cross-border communication. such as Reveal Edge, a metallic powder These teams often work with Jotun coating for appliance and furniture colleagues representing other segments manufacturers, the company has also on high profile Single Source Solution introduced medium-range products in projects, especially in the Middle East certain segments and regions to improve and Asia. competitiveness. Two examples of the latter include Guard Endure, a scratchLooking ahead, the further development resistant product for furniture manufacof a more concept-based approach to the 7% Scandinavia turers and Tradex, a value-engineered, business will lead to a strong focus on 12 % West Europe general-purpose product for the Building selected market segments and specialisa17 % East Europe and Central Asia 40 % Middle East, India and Africa Components segment. tion in global concepts. To meet growing 23 % South East Asia and Pacific demand for smarter solutions, Jotun will 1% North East Asia Jotun provides a broad range of powder In order to achieve faster growth, Jotun continue to develop thin-film products Americas coatings to manufacturers of Appliances and is working to align R&D, marketing that cure at lower temperatures, helping Metal Furniture. and technical service with specific users save money and reduce emissions. 14 concepts for each category. At the same 15 “Jotun’s strong performance in the Protective OUR BUSINESS SECTION Terminal 3, Soekarno–Hatta Coatings segment is the result of hard work to International Airport, Jakarta, Indonesia. Jotun is a leading supplier build a truly global network and the development of protective coatings to airports and related infrastructure projects. of a product assortment capable of meeting the specific needs of different industries.” Bjørn Wallentin, Vice President, Jotun Protective Coatings A breakout year I ncreased global economic activity Coatings personnel also work with combined with a growing world colleagues in the Decorative, Powder PROTECTIVE population, has created a rising Coatings and Marine segments to offer COATINGS demand for energy and civic infrastruccomprehensive (Single Source Solution) ture. These mega-trends have resulted in service on a number of complex projects. Sales in billion NOK increased investment and construction of large installations involving different MEETING MARKET DEMAND 6 industrial sectors, contractors and Jotun continues to invest in the develengineers. Serving this diverse, highly opment of coatings solutions to help 5 complex market requires the right customers save money or comply with 4 products, a strong local presence and in environmental regulations or project an increasing number of cases a global specifications which restrict the use of 3 network to coordinate specification certain chemicals. The company has also 2 management. launched Jotachar, a revolutionary meshfree intumescent coating introduced to 1 EXCEPTIONAL RESULTS enable Jotun take a significant position in 0 In 2013, Jotun experienced continued the Passive Fire Protection (PFP) market. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 strong growth in China, especially in 3+9+142021321 the Offshore, Hydrocarbon Processing SECURING LONG-TERM Industry (HPI) and Infrastructure GROWTH Sales per region concepts. The company also recorded While Jotun expects growth to accelerate excellent results in Turkey, Russia, rapidly in the protective segment over the Indonesia, Thailand and throughout the next few years, the company recognises Middle East. Overall, Jotun achieved that the construction of infrastructure record bottom-line growth in the and energy-related installations are Protective segment. subject to cyclical economic shifts. However, Jotun has identified a signifiJotun’s concept-focused approach to cant market for maintenance of existing sales has helped the company attract new installations and is working to develop business. By providing more industryboth the competencies and products to specific training to personnel, Jotun is serve this growing market. able to better understand the individual needs of customers. The company has also developed strong local and regional 3% Scandinavia teams to more effectively manage 9% West Europe specifications, serve complex projects 14 % East Europe and Central Asia and provide quality technical service. 20 % Middle East, India and Africa 21 % South East Asia and Pacific For projects involving multinational 32 % North East Asia stakeholders, Jotun has identified key 1% Americas global players and works across borders 16 to secure projects. Jotun Protective 17 Jotun’s strength in the Decorative Paints segment SECTION OUR BUSINESS is built on the company’s commitment to product innovation, close relationships with retailers and our ability to serve large, complex projects.” Bård K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President, Jotun Decorative Paints Building on our enduring success B uilding on its expanding global About one third of Jotun’s revenues in network of retailer shops, strong the Decorative Paint segment are derived DECORATIVE PAINTS global brand and innovative from the project market, which includes products, Jotun enjoyed another year of commercial real estate developments, Sales in billion NOK good results in the Decorative segment large hotels, malls and large-scale in 2013, accounting for about 38 per cent housing projects, etc. To build on 6 of Jotun’s total revenues. Positive growth our success in this market, Jotun has 5 is expected to continue and the company strengthened project teams who work remains committed to developing prodacross borders to track projects, manage 4 ucts and concepts to improve profitability specifications, and coordinate technical 3 in the years to come. support. In addition, Jotun’s ability to provide decorative paints, protective 2 Jotun manages the sale of both interior coatings and powder coatings allows 1 and exterior paints to the consumer and the company to compete for high profile professional market through a global projects through the Single Source 0 network of about 7,000 retailer shops Solution concept. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 30+2+34419 around the world. Over the past five years, the company has almost doubled HEALTHIER, MORE Sales per region the number of shops. In 2013, Jotun’s SUSTAINABLE PAINTS growth in the Decorative segment was Product innovation has played a critical driven mostly by positive results in role in Jotun’s success. Over the last few the Middle East, South East Asia and years, Jotun has introduced a number Eastern Europe. of new interior and exterior products to meet growing demand for healthier, more IMPROVING THE CONSUMER sustainable paint solutions. While recogEXPERIENCE nised as a leader in premium paints, In 2013, Jotun launched its first internaJotun has also introduced medium range tional colour cards, developed to inspire solutions to help the company compete consumers worldwide with the latest with lower cost products. trends in interior design. Furthermore, the company worked to improve Jotun encourages regional R&D shopping materials and the shopping laboratories to customise products to fit experience for customers. Jotun will local buying patterns. While Jotun will 30 % Scandinavia 2% West Europe continue to strengthen awareness and continue to fine-tune elements of its long3% East Europe and Central Asia knowledge of the Jotun brand through term strategy in the Decorative segment, 44 % Middle East, India and Africa various forms of advertising media in the existing model has proven highly 19 % South East Asia and Pacific selected markets, but the core focus effective in establishing a strong brand in 2% North East Asia will remain on improving the in-shop fast-moving markets the world over. Americas consumer experience and strengthening retailer relationships. 18 19 SECTION SECTION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATIONS The Varyap Meridian is Turkey’s first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) registered project. Jotun Toz Boya supplied high performance sustainable powder coatings in 15 different colours to protect the building’s window frames and surface panels. 20 21 GAME-CHANGING “Jotachar represents a genuine step-change CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION in intumescent passive fire protection, one that may accelerate Jotun’s growth in the Protective TECHNOLOGY Coatings segment.” Svein Gunvaldsen, Vice President, R&D (Performance Coatings) Innovations in the paints and coatings industry often occur incrementally, building on years of experience and patient laboratory work to create a better solution. But sometimes a new product emerges with the potential to have a big impact on customers and markets alike. NORSOK STAMP OF APPROVAL Jotachar JF750 is fully compliant to NORSOK M-501 revision 6, widely considered to be the industry’s most rigorous test standard, proving corrosion resistance, material durability and mechanical performance after exposure. Importantly, NORSOK M501 post-weathering fire testing, demonstrates that Jotachar JF750 has no reduction in fire performance after the rigorous ISO 20340 cyclic durability test. These standards provide operators with confidence that fire performance and excellent corrosion protection are assured, even after many years of exposure in severe offshore environments. (Left) Existing epoxy Passive Fire Protection technology requires mesh reinforcement to prevent the coating from cracking when exposed to intense heat. (Right) Jotachar JF750 incorporates an advanced fibre matrix in the material. This technology, combined with a robust and temperature stable insulating char, eliminates the need for complex mesh reinforcement, saving time and reducing installation costs. A s a recognised leader in the robust epoxy-based coatings technoloIn 2009, Jotun began an ambitious MEETING MARKET DEMAND The company is confident that once the research and development of gies and has provided the construction programme to develop an epoxy In 2013, Jotun announced the launch of market becomes more familiar with innovative paints and coatings industry with highly effective fire protecintumescent passive fire protection Jotachar JF 750, the industry’s first meshJotachar JF750, demand will increase. solutions, Jotun has developed a strong tion coatings. However, the company (PFP) coating system. Existing epoxy free intumescent PFP coating system. And now that Jotun can offer a total track record in product development. did not have a product that could protect intumescent PFP coating solutions are Jotachar JF750 incorporates an advanced coatings solution for offshore and hydroMost innovation processes at Jotun are steel from the intense heat generated by based on the use of a reinforcing carbon fibre matrix system in the coating, carbon-processing installations, volume driven by customer demand or shifts in hydrocarbon pool fires and jet fires – a fabric mesh that helps prevent cracking eliminating the need for additional mesh growth for other Jotun products in the market preferences, but occasionally, requirement for offshore installations and under intense heat. While effective, the reinforcement, reducing complexity Protective segment are likely to increase. the company will develop a product refineries. Because offshore yards and application process is complex, time and making it significantly faster to For Jotun, the measure of a successful specifically designed to compete in this fabricators prefer to work with coatings consuming and subject to a broad range apply. The technology helps owners, innovation is one that is sustainable, market. suppliers who offer complete solutions, of strict certification rules. For offshore fabricators and applicators save time and benefits customers and supports the the company was often at a competitive yards, fabricators and applicators, costs. The product has been extensively company’s growth ambitions. ACCELERATED INNOVATION disadvantage in tendering for oil and gas working with mesh-based PFP solutions and independently fire tested to all key Jotun has decades of experience related projects. is an expensive and laborious process. industry standards. Remaining approvals 22 protecting offshore assets with Jotun’s are expected in 2014. 23 “Jotun’s segment diversity, local production and CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION SINGLE SOURCE SOLUTION GROUP experience in managing large, complex project Formed in 2002, the Single Source Solution Group was created in response to rapid growth in the United Arab Emirates. To win mega-project contracts, the are a genuine advantage when competing for highcompany established a dedicated team made up of Jotun personnel representing profile mega-projects like the Dubai Metro.” different segments to offer a coordinated single source solution to different project stakeholders. Mohammed Amin, Regional SSS Manager, MEIA Once a project is secured, the SSS Group works to ensure that Jotun meets or exceeds project expectations. The concept has proven to be highly successful, serving as a model for other fast-growing markets in Jotun’s global network. Single Source Solution J otun’s approach to winning decorative paints, protective and powder importance in the region. The first two contracts varies from segment to coatings, ensuring local supply. While lines (Red and Green) of the Dubai segment and market to market. the contractors did consider awarding Metro stretch 70 kilometres, with 47 However, for certain complex infradifferent parts of the project to multiple platforms (including nine underground structure projects and high-profile real coatings manufacturers, the decision was stations), carrying about 110 million estate developments, Jotun personnel taken to have a single source provider – passengers a year. In addition to being representing different segments combine an advantage on such a complex project. the preferred coatings supplier for the forces to deliver a “Single Source maintenance of the existing lines, Jotun Solution”, providing decorative paints, Jotun Dubai’s Single Source Solution is in a good position to supply coatings protective and powder coatings in one Group, a dedicated team tasked with solutions for the planned expansion of integrated asset protection system. tracking, monitoring and tendering the system. In 2013, the RTA announced Jotun’s ability to provide multiple coatfor “single source” contracts in the a three-phase plan that will add 52 ings solutions has enabled the company region, has managed the project. Jotun kilometres of elevated track and 22 more to serve some of the world’s most iconic has supplied about 3.1 million litres of stations by 2025. buildings and projects including the decorative paints and 1.7 million litres Dubai Metro, the longest, fully autoof protective coatings (steel and concrete PARTNERING FOR SUCCESS mated metro network in the world. protection) for the elevated monorail Jotun’s ability to offer local production viaduct, and powder coatings, used on and provide integrated paints and First announced in 1997, the Dubai elements of the Metro stations. coatings solutions is a critical advantage Metro was conceived to alleviate traffic when tendering for mega-projects. congestion in the rapidly growing urban MANAGING COMPLEXITY However, Jotun’s success as a Single centre. The project, administered by Supplying the Dubai Metro was a Source Solution provider is grounded in Dubai’s Road & Transport Authority, complex assignment, involving many the company’s experience in managing required the participation of multinadifferent parts of Jotun’s organisation. complex projects. For Jotun, the job is tional network of stakeholders, including For example, coating the viaducts more than supplying paints and coatings consultants, engineers, station architects occurred in high-traffic areas, requiring – it is about working in partnership with and contractors specialising in light rail. suspended scaffolding. In addition, all the stakeholders involved to ensure In 2004, the project was awarded to the because applicators were active at the success of the project. Dubai Rail Link Consortium, a Japanesedifferent sections of the Metro, Jotun had Turkish joint-venture company. Tendering to develop precise production schedules for sub-contractors, including coatings and logistics systems to coordinate delivsuppliers, began shortly thereafter. eries to multiple sites. Project deadlines were tight, and Jotun personnel worked THE SINGLE SOURCE hard to get various approvals from ADVANTAGE consultants working on different parts of Jotun’s strong track record in the region the project. Nevertheless, the project ran on other infrastructure projects in Dubai smoothly, and the first line of the Metro helped place the company in a strong began service in 2009. position to win the contract. Jotun The Dubai Metro is the world’s longest fully automated metro network in the world. was the only coatings company in the Since then, Dubai Metro has emerged as 24 region with local factories producing a potent symbol of Dubai’s commercial 25 SECTION SECTION MANAGING CR Busan, Korea: Volunteers for Chokwang Jotun meet four times a year to clean up a local riverbed. 26 27 MANAGING “We continue to strengthen our strategic MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY approach to Corporate Responsibility activities, which is based on commitment to our corporate CORPORATE values and the 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles, including Human Rights compliance RESPONSIBILITY and the fight against corruption.” Morten Fon, President and CEO Jotun has been practicing good Corporate Responsibility (CR) principles since we were established in 1926. Making CR count C orporate Responsibility, good • Working with suppliers that support In short, our reputation, boosted by our corporate citizenry, doing the our values and business principles, CR activities, has enabled us to grow right thing, Penguin Spirit – including supplier audits through the global financial crisis and whatever you call it, it has always been • Providing customers with innovative not just get through it. central to what Jotun stands for. We products and dealing with them in a combine this ethos with a systematic professional and transparent way approach to the management and admin• Working to promote the health and JOTUN VALUES istration of our company. When it comes well-being of employees as well as to CR, this means implementing policies, providing good working conditions LOYALTY providing training and following up our • Being a responsible employer and • Reliable and trustworthy companies in audits, reports and reviews. creating valuable training and • Long-term relationships between development opportunities customers, Jotun and colleagues BUILDING CONTENT • Conducting business while making a • Commitment to Jotun’s values, strategies, policies and decisions INTO OUR VALUES positive impact in the local community We have built real substance into our • Acting responsibly towards the CARE CR programmes through the following environment through the Jotun • Help and support others governance structure: GreenSteps programme • Display trust and empathy • Appraise and judge fairly • Our CR vision is promoted by the PENGUIN SPIRIT • Protect internal and external environment Board of Directors and the Group While this systematic approach to Management CR is critical, it is our close to 10,000 RESPECT • The main areas within CR are defined employees that ultimately create success • Value differences in people in strategies and in operational goals or failure. That is why – starting with • Be honest and fair • Policies and guidelines, including recruiting the right people – we work • Build diverse teams across culture and gender specific rules on compliance areas have hard to build a culture based on honesty • Follow laws and regulations been established and integrity. In other words, it is our • Treat others the way they expect to • Reporting and follow-up routines are aim that each employee embodies what be treated the preferred method for ensuring we call “Penguin Spirit.” compliance BOLDNESS GOOD CR IS GOOD BUSINESS • Take initiatives to create the future • Initiate and nurture change The core values that guide our thinking As well as being a worthy goal in itself, • Communicate openly, honestly and and direction remain the same – corporate responsibility makes good with integrity Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. business sense. It strengthens our reputa• Be proactive These values form the basis of our CR tion, builds trust with key stakeholders, • Address difficulties constructively programmes, which is made up of a host improves risk management, helps to of initiatives, such as: identify new business opportunities, and reduces costs through efficiency. • Continuous work with promoting and Together, these payoffs make us more implementing business principles, resilient, a characteristic which has including internal culture building enabled us to thrive in the current tough 28 activities and actions business environment. 29 MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Assessing our performance J otun actively follows up, audits and reviews. They are carried out locally, HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE reviews performance and complitogether with a team of key people from ENVIRONMENT (HSE) AUDITS ance across all business functions. the local management team, segments, The audits check that we are in compliOur governance principles are supported the region, and top management ance with local laws and regulations and through governing bodies, documents representatives. Jotun HSE Standard. The audit findings and evaluations at the corporate, regional are used to define HSE objectives, target and segment levels. Jotun’s business reviews cover all areas risk-areas and develop training activities of the business and are concentrated to address specific issues. DEVELOPED GLOBALLY, around Key Performance Indicators APPLIED LOCALLY (KPIs), including: The audits cover every aspect of HSE, Jotun develops sound policies on a global and include: basis and entrusts each company to • Financial performance implement them locally. We then work • Operations and supply chain • Discussions with employees with the companies to ensure that our • Market, sales and customer status • Inspection of the production sites’ high standards are consistently upheld • Claims status indoor and outdoor areas and function correctly. This collabora• HSE performance • Inspection of operating conditions and tion takes the form of informal discus• Human Resources equipment sions as well as audits and reviews. • Anti-corruption and human rights • Review of journals compliance • Check-up of written procedures and USE OF INTERNAL RESOURCES other relevant documentation When it comes to internal audits and FINANCIAL AUDITS reviews, we believe that the means Our internal audits check each HUMAN RESOURCES (HR) is just as important as the ends. It is company’s financial compliance and REVIEWS our own people that carry out these selected non-financial items, such as HR professionals from the Jotun network reviews and audits and there are several anti-corruption. In 2013 we strengthened work with local HR staff to ensure advantages to this approach. The overall this function with both resources and a that policies and standards are being goal is to ensure compliance. We also broader and more in-depth examination observed. The findings from the review emphasise conducting the reviews in a and reporting. are then discussed with the top managecollaborative manner where the goal is ment of that company. to learn, improve business performance, share best practices and harmonise our JOTUN’S INTERNAL SUPPLIER AUDITS thinking across the regions. Meeting AUDITS AND Jotun audits all new suppliers. The first face-to-face also helps to build relationREVIEWS priority of these audits is to check that ships, which are the foundation of our basic human rights – such as child labour company culture. • Business reviews laws and fair working conditions – are • Financial audits being complied with. In addition they BUSINESS REVIEWS • Human Resources (HR) reviews also review quality and HSE standards All Jotun companies are subject to twice• Health, safety and the and provide recommendations for impleyearly business reviews in connection environment (HSE) audits menting a range of best practices. with the board meetings, which are • Supplier audits the most comprehensive of all Jotun’s 31 32 SECTION EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 33 SECTION EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE MAIN INITIATIVES IN 2013: • Launched human rights risk assessment, for which each company ensures a THE WORKPLACE rectification process in the case of a breach. • Collaborated with all regions to raise the quality and quantity of job descriptions. • Ran Employee Engagement Surveys in selected regions using a standard professional approach and format. To build an organisation that is capable of enabling • Rolled out Hay Group PayNet, which allows all HR managers to benchmark salary and compensation elements for their local markets for any position. people to reach their potential, first you need to protect • Aligned company policies in countries with more than one legal entity. basic human rights. We therefore base our labour policies • Changed global insurance providers for risk, medical, travel and pension for the on the UN Human Rights and the International Labour International Assignees and spouses. Organisation (ILO) convention. However, our policies go • Further developed our global mobility policy and procedures has taken place in order to create alternative terms and conditions for assignments/contracts that well beyond these international standards. will be applicable according to the purpose. EMPLOYEES BY NUMBERS NUMBER OF STAFF MALE FEMALE NATIONALITIES Jotun total 9,379 7,637 1,742 78 Scandinavia 1,095 791 304 21 West Europe 708 553 155 24 East Europe and Central Asia 520 402 118 10 Middle East, India and Africa 2,581 2,424 157 48 South East Asia and Pacific 2,542 1,889 653 21 North East Asia 1,766 1,455 311 13 Americas 167 123 44 9 W e comply with three layers of empower our employees through opportunities in the hiring process. employment standards, local involvement and ownership. A high level Regular climate surveys also aim to laws, international standards of employee involvement and engagedetect harassment or discrimination and and Jotun’s standards. This approach ment is reflected in low turnover rates, identify areas for improvement. ensures that the human rights of our training activities and internal career employees are respected, particularly development. APPLYING POLICIES AND with regard to working hours, child STANDARDS labour and forced labour. It also allows EMBRACING DIVERSITY The corporate HR function establishes employees to do their job without fear Jotun aims to prevent discrimination in policies and standards in collaboration or intimidation and with an appropriate all its forms. In addition we strive for with regional HR, while the individual compensation. a higher goal; to champion diversity. companies have responsibility for Without an emphasis on maintaining implementing them with support from PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER diversity in gender, culture, religion and the regional network. To ensure compliAll Jotun employees receive employage, Jotun would not be the company it ance, we perform HR reviews in each ment contracts and a job description, is today. Diversity creates challenges, company. This involves going through which form an important basis for all but the benefits are clear; it opens up all global HR policies and concepts, employees in order to formally anchor new perspectives, exposes employees tools, formats, contracts, templates and rights and expectations. and stimulates innovation. A diverse procedures with local HR staff to ensure workforce also helps us to improve that corporate, regional and local policies INVOLVING OUR WORKFORCE stakeholder engagement within our local and standards are met. Jotun has a strong commitment to markets. Our commitment to diversity 34 freedom of association. We aim to starts with our policy of ensuring equal 35 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Recruit, develop, retain W ith Jotun’s organic growth closely linked to the requirements for the • Targeted on-the-job-training from day We work hard to promote and offer and needs of their employees through and other team-building events with strategy, it is crucial to job. As part of our global compensation one career opportunities in order to attract yearly talks on performance and our staff get the right people on and benefit structure, we use Hay Group • Jotun Academy – internal training and develop employees on all levels. development (yPOD) and followed up • Engaging our workforce in Corporate board, develop them, make them true Job Evaluation methodology and their courses covering all main professional Our extensive international network is through key issue talks (KIT) Responsibility activities “penguins” and retain them well. We PayNet solution to help us offer a right, areas an opportunity and an advantage in this • Conducting Employee Engagement strongly believe that success in these fair and competitive compensation • Jotun Learning Gateway – e-learning respect. Surveys. Results are evaluated and By providing an enjoyable and even more areas leads to a competitive advantage package. portal available to every Jotun planned actions are important in order fulfilling workplace, we have managed having engaged and enabled employees employee The overall goal of high retention rates to respond to the feedback by targeting to drive down our average voluntary that see Jotun as an attractive employer. DEVELOP • Regional/Local trainee programmes requires operational efforts on a broad key improvement areas. turnover to 6.1 per cent. Moreover, 24 As well as cultivating a work environ• External training based on needs range of initiatives. With this is mind, • Offering international assignments, per cent of our employees have been in RECRUIT ment that promotes learning, competence our retention activities include the both short and long term, including the company for more than ten years, Jotun manages the entire recruitment development is carried out through: RETAIN following measures: extensive support for employees who even though we have grown extensively process internally. We do this because • Leaders who care about their We have a strategic goal to retain and • Promoting mobility. Employees are relocate across borders the last few years. we believe that our highly competent employees’ professional and personal develop people beyond their first posiencouraged to take on new roles as • Arranging overseas and regional and certified HR professionals are best development tion. This means during the hiring phase, they gain experience and their interests meetings to ensure transfer of placed to assist the managers in selecting • A thorough induction programme, we give consideration to a candidate’s change. experience, knowledge as well as the right candidate for the job based on including corporate culture awareness long-term potential in the organisation. • Encouraging managers to understand relationship building 36 their competence, skills and personality training and manage the individual potential • Organising value days, fun activities 37 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Our commitment to health, safety and the environment (HSE) W hen it comes to HSE, our this through both audits and training. In aim is to safeguard life, 2013, we further expanded our training LEARNING FROM health and property and programmes. INCIDENTS prevent pollution of the environment. Getting HSE right in an organisation A FORMAL APPROACH All producing companies report requires both a high level of commitment We apply Jotun HSE standard, which is non-conformances in defined cateand rigorous procedures. At Jotun, we primarily based on European legislation, gories. Based on this we define focus work hard to continually improve both. in situations where it is more stringent areas for the coming year. than local laws and regulations. In COMPANY-WIDE ENGAGEMENT addition all producing companies are In 2014 we will aim to reduce the risk of: Our commitment to HSE comes right certified according to ISO 9001, 14001 from the top of our company. In 2013, and OHSAS 18001. • Fire Jotun’s Chairman of the Board, Odd Handling of waste to reduce risk Competence in a digital world Gleditsch d.y., stated: “We are dedicated to ensuring the well-being of our people JOTUN’S HSE VISION of self-ignition Electrical installations – follow up and the environment. One of our core electrical surveys S ince launching our e-learning ACCESSIBLE LEARNING helps Jotun reduce the costs involved in values, Care, guides us in this respect Safe working procedure – “Hot portal, Learning Gateway, in Learning Gateway is an efficient and hiring external training consultants. It and is central to the Jotun culture.” Jotun will enhance long-term work” 2007, we have discovered that cost-effective way to develop compehas also contributed to reduced travel Jotun’s HSE performance also features competitiveness and financial digital tools are best used to compliment tence. It makes training more accessible costs, which has the added benefit of a prominently in our board meetings, busiperformance through a responsible • Injuries and fatal accidents face-to-face classes in Jotun Academy. for all employees who can browse the smaller carbon footprint. ness reviews and management meetings approach, attitude and actions Safe storage of goods regarding health, safety and “Work at height” This means using digital tools before, course catalogue, complete courses and throughout the year. environment. Reduce risk for squeeze during and after Jotun Academy courses, read through training material online. NEW E-LEARNING PORTAL accidents with the aim of increasing the retention It is also an effective way to quickly Jotun is now developing a new HSE EVALUATION OF RAW All of Jotun’s activities shall: of knowledge, prolonging the learning educate our global workforce about new Learning Gateway portal, which will MATERIALS • Prevent work-related illnesses • Accidental release – spill process and, ultimately, affecting products. This was demonstrated to be launched early 2014. It will be an Our first responsibility is to evaluate, • Promote employees’ physical and Fork lift driving – internal behavioural change. great effect in 2013 with the launch of interactive portal, with greater focus from a HSE perspective, all the chemimental health transportation Jotachar and the e-learning course “Fire on recommended learning paths for cals we use in our products. This ensures • Protect life and property Unloading/loading of raw Nearly 50,000 coursed have been Protection in the Oil and Gas Industry”. individual employees, off-the-shelf the safe handling of these materials • Prevent pollution material and finish goods completed since the launch. The In addition, induction modules help courses, group exercises and digital through the supply chain. In relation catalogue comprises 136 courses that fall new employees to better understand our communication tools. It will make to the environment, Jotun GreenSteps into the following categories: unique penguin culture. relevant learning more accessible and programme provides a systematic result in more courses being completed approach to managing all environmental • Jotun Academy courses COST-EFFICIENCY with the overall aim of developing the efforts within the company. • Induction for new employees Learning Gateway is an efficient and skills of our employees. • Sales and product training cost-effective way to develop compeCONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT • Business skills tence. Along with an in-house training To keep improving our HSE level, we team of 340 trainers, Learning Gateway require all of our employees to follow 38 Jotun’s HSE procedures. We achieve 39 HSE training EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Hours per employee in Jotun Group 10 9 9.4 9.5 8 7 7.2 7.3 6 5 5.4 4 3 2 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Days of absence per injury for Jotun Group 25 20 Providing a safe workplace 15 16.1 13.2 13.4 13.6 10 12.3 J 5 otun has strict occupational health equipment when handling hazardous Jotun personnel in Korea training with fire fighting equipment. Drills and training exercises are a critical part of Jotun’s HSE policy. and safety measures in order to chemicals. In 2013, 2,200 employees 0 minimise the risk of accidents. We attended first aid training courses, corre2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 identify risks and provide recommensponding to 1,175 working days spent on dations and resources to mitigate those first aid training, which was up from 920 risks. In 2013, we focused on reducing days in 2012. Safety and preparedness risk in the following areas: E Absence due to illness (%) ABSENCE THROUGH ILLNESS veryone has the right to work in a – was carried out compared to 10,280 for Jotun Group • Safe storage racks Absence due to illness for Jotun Group safe and secure environment and hours in 2012. This equates to an Hours firefighting training • Proper use of PPE when handling in 2013 was 1.7 per cent, slightly up Jotun has implemented a range of average of five hours of training for each per rescue personnel 1.7 1.68 corrosive chemicals from 2012. In 2013 there were a total of measures to make this a reality. First and of the 2,030 rescue personnel in the 1.6 1.62 1.62 • “Work at height” 30,424 days of absence due to illness, foremost, we ensure that all employees organisation. 6 1.5 1.58 1.57 compared to 27,036 days in 2012. This undergo safety training, which targets 5.9 5.5 5 1.4 In 2013 Jotun started a campaign includes figures for Jotun A/S. In 2013, higher-risk activities. SPECIFIC INCIDENTS IN 2013 5.1 5.1 5.0 “Who cares” to improve the overall the level of absence through illness at Six fires which had the potential to cause 4 1.3 HSE-level worldwide. The first part Jotun A/S was 4 per cent, compared to IDENTIFYING RISK injuries or major damage to property 3 1.2 of the campaign, “Drive Safely,” was 4.1 per cent in 2012. Our HSE audits help to detect nonwere reported in 2013. In addition, we 2 1.1 launched in August and encouraged conformances. A non-conformance is had some initial stages of fires mainly 0 Jotun employees to drive safely, both at OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES anything that results in, or could lead caused by electrical equipment, self1 and outside of work. In 2013, there were 954 days of absence to, personal injury or damage to the ignition and hot work. Jotun employees 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 as a result of injuries, equating to less environment. We do our utmost to ensure extinguished these fires and none caused 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TRAINING than 0.1 per cent of the total working that non-conformances are rectified and injuries or major damage to property or Training is the best way to develop a hours. The H-value is the number of acciare not repeated. the environment. robust safety culture and our aim is dents/injuries resulting in one or more H-values that all employees receive an average of days of absence per million working SITE SECURITY AND TRAINING FIRE PREVENTION MEASURES Number of injuries leading to absence eight hours of training per year. In 2013 hours for all employees. In 2013, Jotun A high level of security is essential Jotun’s fire prevention measures include DRIVE SAFELY! per million working hours – H-value we surpassed this goal by 1.5 hours per Group’s H-value was 4.5, slightly up in the chemical industry. Companies training, fire-resistant facilities and employee, and this represents an increase from 4.4 in 2012. The H-value for Jotun such as Jotun need to be prepared for a personal protective equipment. We The Drive Safely campaign has been 10 of four hours over the last five years. 2,050 A/S in Norway was 3.4 for 2013, down range of threats and incidents, including ensure that we have the correct fire run in all Jotun sites around the world 9 8 employees completed training in using from 3.5 in 2012. Over a five-year period, intoxicants, organised crime, violence in detection systems and fire fighting with focus on safe driving of forklifts and trucks in our operation and 7 the correct protective equipment when the number of days of absence per injury the workplace and even terrorism. Jotun equipment at our sites in order to prevent safe driving of cars and motor-bikes. 6 handling hazardous chemicals in 2013, has been reduced by 2.5 days. constantly evaluates our preventative and put out fires. The fire detection More than 6,000 employees have 5 5.6 5.4 5.5 compared to 2,250 employees in 2012. measures to such threats. All factories and fire fighting systems are automatic. attended this training in 2013. 4 4.6 DEATHS also have crisis management plans in Foam-based extinguishing equipment is The global HSE-coordinator meeting In November one employee of Jotun place. normally used at factories and ware3 4.3 2 was held in Sandefjord, Norway. Focus Egypt died in a tragic traffic accident. houses handling solvent-based products. 1 0 areas during the three-day event were In 2013, a total of 10,040 hours of the safe use of chemicals, correct HSE preparedness training – consisting of fire 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 labelling and proper use of protective fighting and emergency preparedness 41 “What makes Jotun different is not only the EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE quality of the products and services we offer but our “Penguin Spirit”, which enables people from different backgrounds to work together towards common goals.” Morten Fon, President & CEO Strengthening our corporate culture F rom gala factory openings to supports Jotun’s business by strengthweekend barbecues, from family ening the company’s brand, helps retain and value days to formal dinners, experienced personnel and allows for Jotun companies all over the world better communication across borders sponsor events to mark special occasions, and segments. For employees, a strong both big and small. These events not only corporate culture contributes to a better strengthen our corporate culture, values work environment and reinforces a sense and teamwork, but demonstrate Jotun’s of teamwork, loyalty and shared purpose. appreciation for the company’s greatest asset: Our people. CELEBRATIONS, LARGE AND SMALL Jotun’s success in the last five years In 2013, Jotun personnel throughout the owes a lot to the skill and dedication of company’s global network gathered to Jotun personnel. But while the compaparticipate in various social activities. ny’s employees work hard to build the For example, the opening of a new business, they also find time to have fun. factory in Belle Chasse, Louisiana, was attended by more than 300 guests. For a company with close to 10,000 employees working in about 90 countries In the Philippines, Jotun sponsored a worldwide, building and maintaining a Family Day, a two-day event for Jotun strong corporate culture is crucial. With personnel and their families featuring new employees joining every day we fun activities such as dancing, relays, need to make sure that Jotun values are charades and a magic show. Another embraced by the entire organisation. Family Day, organised by Jotun This requires good communication, Malaysia, had an Olympic sports theme, management support and cross funcwhile in the UK, Jotun employees tional and cross cultural teambuilding meet every month to participate in fun exercises. activities, such as bowling, sporting contests or festive dinners. From the THE BENEFITS OF A STRONG UAE to Australia, Korea to Brazil, Jotun CORPORATE CULTURE personnel meet informally to pursue The company remains committed to shared interests in various sporting organising and sponsoring formal activities, including sailing, football, and informal events to bring people cricket, cycling and hiking, among together. Through our Jotun Academies others. and regional and other cross functional networks, the company actively supports efforts to bring people together to share best practices, build contacts, and share 42 information. A robust corporate culture 43 SECTION SECTION ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Despite weakness in some shipping segments in 2013, Jotun Marine continues to perform well in the offshore segment. The Blue Protector, a Platform Supply Vessel built by Ulstein shipyard in Norway, is protected by Jotun’s antifouling products SeaMate and SeaQuantum Ultra. 44 45 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT COMMITMENT Jotun contributes to a cleaner environment throughout the lifecycle of our products. This means developing products that minimise impact on the environment, producing those products in efficient factories and, not least, providing our customers with paints and coatings that will reduce their carbon footprint and protect their property. Safer, smarter, greener Our carbon footprint J R otun GreenSteps programme the agreement. GDB helps Jotun save educing CO2 output is the • New, efficient compressors THE REPORT’S METHODOLOGY was established as a framework money and take another step towards most important contribution • New pumps which reduce air Greenhouse gas emissions were for guiding our environmental reducing our environmental impact. a company can make to the consumption by 30 per cent calculated according to the international initiatives. We aim to improve our • The start-up of a “Green Factory” environment. At Jotun, electricity creates • The modification of domestic water standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol environmental performance through a modular concept around 75 per cent of our emissions. pumps with a converter controller Initiative (GHG-protocol), scope 1 and 2. range of internal actions and by offering • Further development of more That is why we have a goal to reduce our customers more sustainable products. environmentally friendly products our consumption of electricity per tonne SAVING ENERGY In addition to the ecological benefits, within R&D produced, by three per cent each year. In 2014, Jotun will roll out the “Save Emissions per tonne produced Jotun GreenSteps helps to better position • Investment in the capability to provide energy” campaign, which aims to (kg CO2e/ton) –Jotun Group the company in a changing market. documentation on the environmental In 2013, Jotun Group production sites increase awareness and encourage good impact of our products consumed 123 GWh, compared to 116 habits for reducing electricity use – and 150 MAIN ACTIVITIES THIS YEAR • The promotion of GreenSteps products GWh in 2012. The use of purchased electherefore our CO2 emissions. Group HSE In 2013, Jotun introduced a series of and concepts implemented in all tricity per tonne produced increased by develops the guidelines and procedures, GreenSteps initiatives. Below are some innovation processes three per cent compared to 2012, mainly and it is up to each factory to implement 100 100 102 103 notable initiatives. • The consolidation of Jotun’s position as due to increased powder production, the elements of the campaign they find a supplier of more sustainable products which requires more energy. However, appropriate. • The launch of the “Who Cares” we reduced our energy consumption per 50 campaign, which aims at improving OUR GOALS FOR 2014 tonne produced by 3.35 per cent between CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORT The Solvent Recovery System, Jotun Korea. our HSE attitudes and results, including We will continue to: Recycling solvents reduces costs related to 2010-2013. Since 2009 we have produced an annual saving energy the safe and sustainable disposal of chemical carbon footprint report, which gives a 0 • The decision to phase out lead • Reduce consumption of electricity per global overview of our total emissions 2011 2012 2013 waste. This unit has the capacity to recycle ALL MEASURES BIG AND 4+7+1277 500 litres per day. chromates – a toxic chemical ton produced, (kW/t) by three per cent. SMALL of CO2-equivalents. The report contains compound – from all paint and • Reduce waste in terms of percentage of Jotun has implemented a number of detailed information on all production Jotun Group coatings formulations worldwide. This production from 2.5 to 2.3 per cent • Develop third party documentation initiatives around the world to reduce facilities worldwide, as well as the Emissions by source 2013 is scheduled for implementation in • Provide more comprehensive carbon of the environmental impact of our purchased electricity. The factories in corporate unit in Norway. In addition, it 2014, but already implemented in our footprint reports products Nilai, Malaysia and in Vietnam, are great measures our performance and provides Chinese operation. • Implement employee awareness • Perform targeted product development examples of how to reduce consumption insight into opportunities for making • The strengthening of our global campaigns in order to offer products and complete of electricity per tonne produced. further improvements. agreement with recycling company, • Run the CEO HSE world tour product systems with a proven greener GDB, who buys Jotun’s discontinued, “I Care” campaign profile At the Nilai factory the following measThe results show that the global emisoverstock, and off-specification paint • Raise the priority of sustainability at ures have been in place since 2011: sions for Jotun in 2013 were 82,000 and paint-related raw materials. both the strategic and operational level tonnes of CO2 equivalents, compared to In 2013, we added powder coatings to • Run the save energy campaign • Day time – skylight roof 78,000 in 2012. Compared to produc• Street light automatic timers tion this is equivalent to one per cent. • Energy saving bulbs However, this increase should be seen • Applying the Save Energy campaign, in the context of increased powder 77 % Electricity Jotun GreenSteps has helped us define and meet our environmental targets within these five areas: including using campaign stickers near coatings production. As well as analysing 12 % Internal transport light switches these details through the report, senior 7% Energy generation management at all facilities is respon4% Chemical process emissions Since 2011, the factory in Vietnam has sible for developing and implementing 46 put these measures in place: action plans that assist in CO2 reduction. 47 Production volumes ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT (1000 ton) 900,0 800,0 700,0 763 768 797 600,0 674 617 Reducing our impact 500,0 400,0 300,0 200,0 100,0 on the environment R 0 ecycling energy and using it potential sources of environmental risk 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 to produce more energy is one and to recommend whether any measures of the most effective ways of for avoiding pollution are required. Hazardous and reducing waste. Production planning is Non hazardous waste also critical. By producing greater series, EMISSIONS TO AIR as per cent of produced volume for we cut the amount of washing needed Emissions to air, mostly made up of Jotun Group on the production facilities and reduce solvents, from Jotun’s factories are Hazardous waste waste water. mainly caused by the production of Non hazardous waste solvent-based paints. In accordance with REPORTING ON WASTE Jotun standard, filters are used to reduce 3.0 In 2013, we introduced a global standard the emissions of dust to below 10 mg 2.5 1.25 1.55 for reporting waste, which allows for suspended solids per cubic metre. results to be compared across countries. 1.49 1.43 1.44 2.0 In 2013, the total waste volume from DISCHARGE TO WATER 1.5 Jotun’s factories was 18,400 tonnes. The cleaning of production equipment This was 2.3 per cent of the production is the main reason for discharge from 1.25 1.0 0.90 0.92 volume, which is the same amount as in production. In 2013, Jotun’s factories 0.85 0.82 0.5 The factory expansion project in Indonesia is LEED compliant. 2012. Jotun met its goal of reducing the generated 80,000 tonnes of washing and 0 total amount of waste from 2.5 per cent process water worldwide, compared to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 to 2.3 per cent of the production volume 60,000 in 2012. This waste water was between 2011-2013. We are now setting either treated in our waste water treatnew targets for 2015. ment plants or delivered to an approved Hazardous and waste contractor. In 2013, there was no accidental release of any substance that LEEDing the way on green construction Non hazardous waste HAZARDOUS WASTE for Jotun Group in 1000 ton Hazardous waste comprises water, packresulted in a significant impact on the Hazardous waste aging from hazardous raw materials, and environment. J Non hazardous waste solvent-based waste which is mainly the otun is taking GreenSteps in • Energy consumption A RUNNING START result of washing production equipment ENERGY CONSUMPTION making our factories and admin• Carbon emissions Jotun’s model for constructing buildings, 14 and which is largely recycled in producProducing paint requires little energy istrative buildings more environ• Water use Jotun Engineering Standard, has been 12 tion. In 2013, Jotun factories generated compared to other process industries. mentally friendly. We are designing two • Waste production refined over many years and numerous 10 12,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, The main source of energy is electricity, new factories, in Indonesia and Oman, • Operational cost projects and already shares some design 8 equating to 1.5 per cent of production In 2013, the volume of oil used on-site in accordance with the Leadership features with LEED certified buildings. 6 volume, which is the same percentage as for creating energy was 1,800 cubic in Energy & Environmental Design LEED certification also increases: This experience with green solutions will 4 in 2012. metres, which is equal to that used in (LEED) rating system. In addition, • The value of the property be valuable as we construct buildings of 2012. Most of this oil is used for heating LEED will be proposed as an option for • Productivity by raising the comfort and the future. 2 CONTAMINATED SITES and producing binders in Norway. all new factory projects. LEED is a set of health in the working environment 0 Before buying land for industrial activity, rating systems for the design, construc• Brand value through the promotion of a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 we use external experts to check for tion, operation and maintenance of green greener profile LEED points and prerequisites are buildings, homes and neighbourhoods. divided amongst seven categories: Although there are numerous green MEETING FUTURE • Sustainable Sites (SS) GWh Energy consumption building standards, Jotun chose to use REQUIREMENTS • Water Efficiency (WE) for Jotun Group SHOWING THE WAY ON WASTE LEED in these projects. Adopting a more sustainable approach • Energy and Atmosphere (EA) to construction enables Jotun to further • Materials and Resources (MR) 140 Jotun’s factory in South Africa has reduced its waste by nearly 50 per cent over the • Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ) REDUCED LIFE CYCLE COST reduce our impact on the environment 120 last two years through the following means: • Innovation in Design (ID) While such LEED certified buildings and provide a better workspace, while 122 111 116 100 • Regional Priority (RP) cost more, the initial outlay is offset by driving efficiencies. It also provides 109 100 80 • A bailing system ensures that the amount of waste delivered is correct • All cleaning solvents are re-used lower operational costs and improved a good platform for our factories and The total of points assigned to a 60 • Sludge and cleaning solvents are separated productivity and employee wellbeing. offices to meet future environmental building qualifies it for a certain level: 40 • Scrap metal is separated from plastic and paper This results in an estimated payback regulations and customer requirements. Certified: 40–49 points 20 • Dirty solvents are recycled and purchased back for cleaning solvent period of between five and seven years. In this way, constructing LEED certified Silver: 50–59 points 0 • All paper from offices is recycled buildings helps us reduce risk. Gold: 60–79 points Implementing the LEED requirements to Platinum: 80 points and above 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 48 new sites adds value by reducing: 49 “By developing durable paints and coatings ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT solutions that prolong the life-cycle of assets and structures, Jotun helps customers reduce environmental damage, contributing to global sustainability.” Bent W. Haflan, Vice President, R&D (Decorative Paints) Svein Gunvaldsen, Vice President, R&D (Performance Coatings) Jotun R&D: Engineering durability J otun’s approach to product JOTUN PROTECTS PROPERTY development has always been In the Decorative segment, Jotun R&D BURJ AL ARAB guided by market demand. But develops products that protect assets with growing global concerns about the exposed to different weather conditions. Dubai’s iconic hotel, Burj Al Arab sits environment, Jotun’s innovation process For example, in 2013, the company on a man-made island in the Persian has increasingly focused on developing launched Drygolin Ultimat, an oil-based, Gulf. The building is exposed to more durable, value-added products that exterior decorative paint that provides intense heat, and high winds carrying contribute to a more sustainable world. excellent colour and gloss durability sand and dust. Jotun was selected as a single source provider of Protective and long intervals between maintenance (concrete protection, and corrosion Jotun R&D is made up of about 300 for homeowners living in Scandinavia. protection), Decorative (interior) and skilled personnel active in four segments. At the same time, the company has Powder coatings (window and door Headquartered in Sandefjord, Norway, developed a number of products (e.g. frames). Jotun R&D has a global network of Jotashield Extreme and Cool Shades) regional labs in the Middle East (UAE), in the Decorative Paints and Powder The coated area on Burj Al Arab is South East Asia (Malaysia), North Asia Coatings segments specifically engi120,000 square meters, and about (Korea and China) and the Americas neered to provide users protection 67,000 of these are painted with (USA). In addition to adapting products against the intense heat found in the Baltoflake, which combines the to meet local demand or customising Middle East. And in the warmer humid strength of specially formulated paint solutions to meet project specclimate of South East Asia and India, polyesters reinforced by glass flakes. Following a recent inspection, no ifications, the regional labs are also Jotun developed the Jotashield product damage to the steel structure was responsible for testing raw materials range to protect building facades against detected to the 16-year-old building. and providing claims and verification fungal or bacterial growth – a genuine services when required. threat to structures. Declining public tolerance for enviPROTECTING ASSETS In the Protective Coatings segment, ronmental damage has led to new AT SEA AND ON LAND Jotun offers a broad range of products regulations and a growing market for Marine Coatings represent a special duradesigned to preserve high-value assets more sustainable paints and coatings. bility challenge. In addition to offering a that are expensive to maintain, such as Jotun R&D has worked to meet this new range of premium antifouling products offshore installations, refineries and civic market reality by substituting harmful (the SeaQuantum line) that extend periods infrastructure. For example, Jotun manusubstances found in some formulations between drydockings by keeping the factures a line of Intumescent coatings and developing paints and coatings that vessel fouling-free for five years, Jotun has for steel structures (Steelmaster) that help users reduce energy costs. However, developed Hull Performance Solutions provides long-term protection against a core focus of Jotun’s R&D effort that helps owners cut speed loss over time, structural collapse in the event of a fire. remains to develop paints and coatings reducing fuel usage and corresponding Whatever the asset, Jotun R&D remains that protect property, longer. In addition emissions. Jotun has also developed committed to developing products that to saving on maintenance costs, durable specialised water ballast tank coatings protect property. paints and coatings systems extend the engineered to prevent corrosion in critical life cycle of the asset, helping to reduce areas, which play a role in extending the replacement costs. life of the vessel. 50 51 52 SECTION 53 JOTUN AND SOCIETY SECTION JOTUN AND JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY GIVING SOMETHING BACK As hosts, these local communities provide us with a licence to operate and a workSOCIETY force, and we believe it is important for us to give something back. We contribute to local societies around the world by: • Providing employment • Paying taxes • Complying with local laws Achieving business success relies on our ability to develop • Communicating in a respectful manner with local populations good community relations. That is why we invest our • Sourcing our raw materials from responsible local businesses time, expertise and resources to build an environment On a corporate, regional and local level, we donate funds to organisations and where both our company and the local society benefit. backs initiatives that we believe will contribute to quality of life and development. Contributing to a better world J otun works with several humanhandlers and two explosive detection itarian organisations in various dogs, called Rypa and Razz that search countries. In 2013, we presented and find the mines. Dogs are twenty Norwegian People’s Aid (NPA) with times faster at seeking out land mines a donation which is used to fund two than a human with a metal detector and separate projects: Mine demolition NPA has now also started to use dogs in Cambodia and educating people for cluster bomb clearance. With Jotun’s about human rights in Myanmar. These support, this team is able to clear around projects exemplify Jotun’s willingness nine football fields in one month. to make a difference beyond providing employment and paying taxes. As well Obrestad says an area is not handed over Community engagement: Jotun sponsors as contributing to positive change, this to the local community before all efforts seminars in Myanmar to educate people in helps us to gain unique insight into the are made to remove the mines. “To prove rural areas about their rights in a democracy. countries and their cultures. the area is safe, we often play a game of football with the locals on the cleared MAKING LIFE SAFER land. It is amazing to see how relieved IN CAMBODIA people are and how our work changes Cambodia has the world’s second their lives.” largest number of land mines per square kilometre and one in every 245 people A NEW BEGINNING 280 people to be put through the human in Cambodia is an amputee due to land IN MYANMAR rights education sessions. mine injuries. Jotun is helping to rid the Myanmar is at a turning point in its country of these weapons by funding a history. The holding of elections and In addition to this donation, Moa says land-mine clearing team through NPA. other democratic reforms has led to an Jotun’s investment in Myanmar is The team operates in Kratie province in easing of economic sanctions against critical to supporting democratic change. eastern Cambodia, which is one of the the country and Jotun is among the first “Economic development and democracy worst affected parts of the country. foreign companies to enter. According go hand in hand. For people to believe in to NPA’s political advisor to Myanmar, democracy, they need to see an improveNPA advisor, Kristin Obrestad, says Ingeborg Moa, 50 years of dictatorship ment in their everyday lives. In this that poverty in the region exacerbates has left many people with no knowledge respect, Jotun’s on-going contribution to the problem. “The economy in Kratie is of their rights and responsibilities in a Myanmar is that it is providing jobs and based on agriculture, and while people democratic society. promoting economic growth,” she says. often know they are taking a risk by working their land, they often don’t have To address this problem, Jotun is funding a choice because they need to generate a programme, run by NPA and the income to support their families,” she Human Rights Education Institute of explains. Burma (HREIB), to educate people in MINE DISPOSAL rural areas about their working rights, The team sponsored by Jotun consists of property rights and human rights. Jotun’s It is estimated that at least 64,202 people have been killed or injured by landmines, cluster munitions and other explosives a male supervisor, two male searchers contribution funded the training of 40 remnants of war between 1979 and 2012. 54 that remove the mines, two female dog course instructors, as well as sponsoring 55 “At Jotun, we strongly believe in a pragmatic JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Students at a Jotun sponsored trade approach to corporate responsibility, school in Jakarta, Indonesia working within selected areas based on local considerations on a case-by-case basis.” Merete Aspaas, Group Vice President, Corporate Affairs Living our values J otun’s holistic approach to corporate responsibility covers a broad range of locally developed programmes implemented in different ways around the world. In Indonesia, the company is making a difference, one student at a time. Jotun may be a global brand, but its success is built on interacting with local businesses and regional consumers. This approach not only represents a business advantage, but lies at the core of the company’s approach to corporate responsibility. Jotun’s strong local presence makes the company more sensitive to regional needs. And because the company hires locally, its personnel are In Indonesia, Jotun helped establish a school will offer courses in mechanical equipped to navigate complex cultural trade school to provide disadvantaged engineering and expand capacity to and bureaucratic systems more effecstudents with the skills to succeed in 850 students. In addition to helping to tively, helping to implement corporate Indonesia’s rapidly expanding economy. organise the school in cooperation with responsibility initiatives more swiftly. With manufacturing processes becoming other companies nearby, Jotun supplied increasingly complex, many companies the paint for the school, provided used A PART OF THE COMMUNITY in Indonesia have struggled to find laptops, furniture and time: A Jotun In many places, Jotun is regarded as more workers with the right skills to manage employee serves as headmaster. The than a paints and coatings supplier: It is complex tasks or operate increasingly project has attracted significant interest part of the fabric of the community. As sophisticated equipment. Working from government officials who see the such, many of the company’s corporate together with other companies in an school as a model that may be applied to responsibility programmes are unique to industrial zone outside of Jakarta and in other industrial zones in Indonesia. specific regions. Examples include: cooperation with various local organisations and government agencies, the While the school was established to • Providing paint to schools damaged by school was opened in 2011. provide training to disadvantaged flooding in Thailand students, it also represents a strong • Raising money to support a cancer A REGIONAL SUCCESS STORY recruiting pool for local companies, treatment centre for children in Oman Today, the school has about 530 students including Jotun. In this way, the project • Supporting a promotional event to raise in 14 classes studying different subjects is linked with both Jotun’s business and awareness for disabled people in India related to manufacturing including values, which underpin the company’s • Developing a social media campaign to industrial, electronic, automotive and approach to corporate responsibility. 56 benefit the blind in Turkey electrical engineering. In 2014, the 57 JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY OUR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PLANS Sourcing our materials from responsible suppliers is both ethical and beneficial. We are committed to driving further improvements in this area, including: • Enhancing supplier audits, which are central to our responsible sourcing strategy. • Taking steps towards establishing a central supplier database. This would allow selected Jotun employees to quickly find relevant information on our suppliers and confirm that a certain supplier had been approved. A supplier database would make our supplier systems more transparent and diminish the risk of doing business with unapproved suppliers. • Increasing awareness of responsible sourcing in Jotun Purchasing Academies. This would help to ensure that we only do business with suppliers that have sound attitudes and that we help those suppliers to improve their business performance. Responsible sourcing D oing business with companies is to assist these companies to become RAW MATERIALS SECURITY that respect human rights and thriving businesses and excellent Jotun has developed a strong reputation protect the environment reduces suppliers. Many suppliers have stated among suppliers over many years. This risk and helps improve our suppliers’ that implementing recommendations standing enables us to secure raw matebusinesses. That is why we work hard to from our audits has led to gains in effirials even in times of scarcity. A lack of ensure that our suppliers act responsibly. ciency, quality and working conditions. titanium dioxide during the last year has, for example, caused severe challenges for RECOGNISED GLOBAL PROGRAMMES AND some operators. However, through our STANDARDS ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013: strong supplier relationships Jotun has We work with our suppliers to make sure • A total of 430 suppliers audited since maintained a steady supply of titanium their operations are consistent with the initiating the audit programme in 2009 dioxide and other important materials. United Nations (UN) Global Compact, • Audits enhanced to cater for suppliers including UN Human Rights and Antiof indirect materials, which include corruption standards. Using a recognised services, manufactured goods and global standard simplifies this process off-the-shelf goods for both Jotun and our suppliers. • Implementation of a global standard for managing indirect purchasing The Global Compact encourages busi• New purchasing policy established. The nesses worldwide to adopt environmenpolicy describes: tally sustainable and socially responsible Our objective of conducting worldpolicies. Like more than 10, 000 class purchasing businesses in 130 countries, many of Our strategic approach to purchasing our suppliers already refer to the Global The roles and responsibilities of the Compact. employees in this area Purchasing processes and execution To formalise this approach, Jotun’s Ethical requirements and dealing with supplier contract states that the supplying our suppliers in a professional and company shall abide by the 10 principles transparent manner of the Global Compact. While this Anti-corruption principles provides additional assurance, there is no replacement for inspecting a supplier’s The purchasing policy helps to build premises to check whether these global transparency and consistency in principles are being put into practice. the way we deal with our suppliers. We These inspections are carried out under have also found the policy to be particuour supplier audit programme. larly useful as a tool for new employees to quickly understand the company’s LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS purchasing strategy, principles and Responsible sourcing certainly reduces requirements. risk, but it also helps build Jotun’s relationships with suppliers and improve Audits help to build long-term relationships with our suppliers and lead to gains in efficiency. 58 their business performance. Our aim 59 JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL Jotun supports Transparency International (TI) and its global fight against corruption. TI is a global NGO comprising more than 90 locally established national chapters. These bodies fight corruption by promoting transparency in elections, public administration, procurement, and in business. Building resilience against corruption The UN Global Compact C T orruption prevents economic he United Nations (UN) Global 2000, and is now supported by more Jotun is commited to aligning our development, contributes to Compact, Compact or UNGC, than 10,000 businesses spread across 130 company’s strategy and operations with poverty around the world, and is a UN initiative to encourage countries. these universal principles. damages corporate reputation and businesses worldwide to adopt sustainshareholder value. Jotun’s anti-corruption able and socially responsible policies,The Global Compact states ten principles policy is reinforced by our Business and to report on their progress. in the areas of human rights, labour, Principles and applies to all Jotun entithe environment and anti-corruption. ties, affiliated companies and employees. The Global Compact was first announced Under the Global Compact, companies We take appropriate steps to ensure that by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi are brought together with UN agencies, Jotun’s agents, distributors and other Annan and was officially launched at labour groups and civil society. representatives comply with the same UN Headquarters in New York in July standard. In 2013, we introduced the following anti-corruption initiatives: Human Rights pages • All Jotun companies now report on Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 29, 34, 35, 54, 58, 61 their anti-corruption activities in a Principle 2 Make sure the company is not complicit in human rights abuses 31, 34, 35, 58 yearly report, in business reviews, and in Board meetings twice a year • Anti-corruption review points in the Labour internal financial audit were made more Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 34 specific • Offering e-learning and regular PREVENTION Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 34 • Introduction of a yearly report practical dilemma training that BETTER THAN CURE Principle 5 Abolish child labour 31, 34 presented to the Board on antiprioritises higher-risk groups, such Jotun helps new companies develop the Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 34 corruption work in the organisation as management, purchasing and sales right structures and culture from day teams one. This year, for example, Jotun Group COMPANY CULTURE • Including anti-corruption in the worked in an interactive way with Jotun Environment BUILT ON INTEGRITY Jotun induction programme for new Cambodia to a provide an understanding Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 9, 12, 19, 28, 39, 41, 46-49 In spite of the robust policies and tools employees of Jotun’s business principles and the Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9, 12, 15, 19, 28, 39, 41, 46-49 we have in place, with close to importance of hiring employees with Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 9, 12, 15, 19, 46, 48, 50 10,000 employees and represented in 90 WHISTLEBLOWING integrity. By doing so, we help to ensure countries, it is impossible to eliminate Jotun supports whistleblowing and that Jotun Cambodia is more resilient to the risk of corruption. That is why we encourages employees to speak out the risk of corruption. Anti-corruption work hard to strengthen the best defence about any business dealings they feel go Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery 28, 31, 58, 60 against corruption there is – a company against our policy or business principles. culture built on integrity and high ethical We have systems and procedures in place standards. We do this by: to protect whistleblowers. For more information on the Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org • Increasing awareness and nurturing the 60 right attitudes among our employees 61 SECTION SECTION FINANCIAL INFO From left to right: Richard Arnesen, Birger Amundsen, Stein Erik Hagen, Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman), Einar Abrahamsen, Ingrid Luberth, Terje Andersen and Nicolai A. Eger. 62 63 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD ODD GLEDITSCH D.Y. FINANCIAL INFO FOCUS ON FURTHER JOTUN GROUP FINANCIAL INFO IMPROVEMENTS Jotun’s excellent results in 2013 have strengthened the company’s resolve to increase focus on health, safety and the environment and work to improve on the quality of project execution. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The income statement presents revenues and expenses for the companies consolidated in the Group and measures the results for the accounting period in accordance with current IFRS standards as adopted by the EU. All internal matters have been eliminated. The income statement distinguishes between what is deemed to be the Group’s operations and what is deemed to be of a more financial nature.The result of investments in associates is presented on a single line. The notes explain the content of the various accounting lines. The statement of other comprehensive income is presented as a separate table in connection with the income statement. The I n the past decade, Jotun has emerged table shows all income and expenses that are not included in the “Profit for the year“. as a truly global player in the paints and coatings industry. Despite 1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER 2013 2012 recording more modest increases in (NOK thousand) sales in 2013 than in previous years, the Operating revenue 12 034 454 11 350 602 company’s growth trend seems likely to Share of profit of associated companies and joint ventures 286 961 339 728 continue. Jotun’s rapid expansion represents a significant achievement, but our Cost of goods sold -6 515 133 -6 301 822 long-term success cannot be measured Payroll expenses -2 016 281 -1 876 583 in factory openings or sales alone. Other operating expenses -2 228 257 -2 138 024 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -303 883 -248 090 FUTURE GROWTH Operating profit 1 257 862 1 125 810 An important element of Jotun’s strategy is to grow organically in both existing Net finance costs -66 494 -70 423 and new markets. Emphasis will be put Profit before tax 1 191 368 1 055 387 on investments to support this strategy, and preparing the organisation to handle Income tax expense -334 625 -260 582 more business entities and higher Profit for the year 856 743 794 805 volumes in the future. Other comprehensive income HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: ENVIRONMENT (HSE) Being a chemical company, Jotun has Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans -9 623 -6 798 always had high focus on HSE. While Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: the company has maintained a good Currency translation difference 217 883 -255 786 health and safety record, Jotun recogQUALITY OF IMPLEMENTATION expensive. By renewing our focus on Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 208 260 -262 583 nises that a greater focus in this area Over the past five years, Jotun has efficient project execution, the company has become increasingly important, undertaken a number of factory and can keep costs down and improve Total comprehensive income for the year 1 065 003 532 222 considering the growing size of the warehouse construction and upgrade profitability. company. projects. These projects are necessary to handle future growth, but also to The Board is satisfied with the result Profit for the year attributable to: In 2013, Jotun reviewed a number of improve working conditions for our for 2013 and has high expectations to Equity holders of the parent company 798 268 749 635 plans to upgrade older factories and employees. While most of these projects the future development of Jotun. By Non-controlling interests 58 475 45 170 has supported investments in fire safety are related to investments in markets continuing to focus on safe operations Total 856 743 794 805 equipment and other equipment and where Jotun has a strong position, a and continuous improvement, the Board systems to improve working conditions substantial portion also goes into new expects the company to grow further Total comprehensive income attributable to: at all our facilities. Jotun employs close markets, where there is more risk. and create value for shareholders. to 10,000 people worldwide and recogEquity holders of the parent company 1 002 222 494 435 nises their right to a safe workplace. The Board has supported these investNon-controlling interests 62 781 37 787 This will remain a top priority in the ments, but notes that projects have Total 1 065 003 532 222 64 years to come. become increasingly complex and 65 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The statement of financial position presents the Group’s total assets and shows how they have been financed, broken down into equity and liabilities. All internal matters between companies in the Group have been eliminated. According to the system of classiThe statement of cash flows shows how the Group’s cash flows are broken down into cash flow from operating, investing and fication applied to the balance sheet, current assets and liabilities belong to a normal operating cycle, are cash and cash equivalents financing activities, according to the indirect method. The cash flow statement explains the general changes in the Group’s liquidity or have a useful life/repayment time of less than one year. Other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. IFRS are balancesince the previous accounting period. sheet oriented and only items that satisfy the criteria for definition as assets and liabilities may be recognised in the balance sheet. Equity is a residual. The various standards determine how the items are to be treated. The valuation of the balance sheet items is 2013 2012 therefore a combination of fair value (Derivative financial instruments), amortised cost (trade receivables), cost (inventories), cost (NOK thousand) minus depreciation (property, plant and equipment), and recoverable amount (certain written down assets). The balance sheet items are explained in the notes to the financial statements. Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 1 191 368 1 055 387 31.12.13 31.12.12 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: (NOK thousand) Share of profit of associated companies and joint ventures -286 961 -339 728 ASSETS Dividend paid from associated companies and joint ventures 247 916 204 094 Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 97 732 110 724 Gains/losses on sale of fixed assets -3 081 -47 375 Other intangible assets 231 868 167 249 Depreciation 303 883 248 090 Property, plant and equipment 2 967 311 2 559 367 Change in accruals, provisions and other -48 944 -174 194 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 1 163 318 1 012 373 Working capital adjustments: Other investments 8 248 8 248 Change in trade and other receivables -440 190 116 968 Other interest-bearing receivables 184 647 264 125 Total non-current assets 4 653 125 4 122 087 Change in trade payables 138 597 -244 134 Current assets Change in inventories -192 571 270 018 Inventories 1 762 005 1 569 434 Tax payments -90 657 -187 432 Trade and other receivables 3 263 759 2 823 569 Net cash flow from operating activities 819 358 901 695 Cash and cash equivalents 1 120 161 802 012 Total current assets 6 145 925 5 195 016 Cash flows from investing activities TOTAL ASSETS 10 799 050 9 317 103 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8 932 47 149 Purchase of property, plant and equipment -659 790 -533 449 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Purchase of intangible assets -73 376 -56 778 Equity Purchase of shares from non-controllling interests -17 145 -5 231 Share capital 102 600 102 600 Net cash flow used in investing activities -741 379 -548 310 Other equity 5 301 977 4 824 495 Non-controlling interests 110 090 88 641 Cash flows from financing activities TOTAL EQUITY 5 514 667 5 015 736 Proceeds from borrowings 1 373 607 714 204 Non-current liabilities Repayment of borrowings -682 272 -240 865 Pension liability 184 888 177 333 Dividend paid to equity holders of the parent -513 000 -513 000 Deferred tax 36 489 22 826 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -35 927 -26 157 Provisions 30 006 41 227 Net cash flow from financing activities 142 408 -65 819 Interest-bearing debt 1 368 482 60 424 Interest-free long term debt 23 325 21 144 Total non-current liabilities 1 643 190 322 952 Net currency translation effect 97 762 -103 476 Current liabilities Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 220 388 287 566 Interest-bearing debt 1 258 748 1 875 471 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 802 012 617 923 Other current liabilities 2 382 445 2 102 944 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1 120 161 802 012 Total current liabilities 3 641 193 3 978 415 The Group had unused credit facilities of NOK 900 million as at 31 December 2013 (2012: NOK 2 000 million). TOTAL LIABILITIES 5 284 383 4 301 367 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10 799 050 9 317 103 Sandefjord, Norway, 13 February 2014 Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Terje Andersen Chairman Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Stein Erik Hagen Ingrid Luberth 66 Morten Fon 67 President & CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Executive summary of the FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO The statement of changes in equity from one period to the next in accordance with the Group’s profit or loss. Transactions with owners will be specified and applies to matters such as dividends to shareholders and share issues. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will affect equity in the form of currency differences on translation of foreign operations. Financial Statement for 2013 Attributable to parent company equity holders GENERAL PROFIT FOR THE YEAR SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY Share Other Translation Non-controlling The consolidated financial statement The profit for the year amounted to Total equity including non-controlling Total Total equity (NOK thousand) capital equity differences interests consists of Jotun A/S and 58 subsidNOK 857 million, an increase of NOK interests amounted to NOK 5,515 Equity as at 1 January 2012 102 600 4 634 040 212 851 4 949 491 78 411 5 027 902 iaries, 4 joint ventures in China and 62 million from 2012. Net financing million (2012: NOK 5,016 million) Dividends -513 000 -513 000 -26 157 -539 157 Korea and 7 associated companies charges for the year are still at a low due mainly to the net effect of profit of in U.A.E., Saudi Arabia and Yemen. level, and decreasing from last year. Net the period of NOK 857 million, other Profit of the period 749 635 749 635 45 170 794 805 Subsidiaries are fully consolidated financial costs ended at NOK 66 million comprehensive income of NOK 208 Other comprehensive income -74 168 -181 032 -255 201 -7 383 -262 583 independent of shareholding, while joint (2012: NOK 70 million). million, payment of the dividend for Acquisition of non-controlling interests -3 831 -3 831 -1 400 -5 231 ventures and associates are accounted 2012 (declared in 2013) of NOK 513 Equity as at 31 December 2012 102 600 4 792 677 31 819 4 927 095 88 641 5 015 736 for based on the equity method and INVESTMENTS million. The equity ratio remains strong Dividends -513 000 -513 000 -35 927 -548 927 share of profit reported in the income Total purchase of property, plant and at a level of 51 per cent (2012: 54 per Profit of the period 798 268 798 268 58 475 856 743 statement based on actual shareholding. equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets cent). Jotun Myanmar Services Company Ltd. amounted to NOK 733 million for 2013 Other comprehensive income 24 294 179 661 203 954 4 306 208 260 was established as a new subsidiary (590 million for 2012), representing The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S Acquisition of non-controlling interests -11 739 -11 739 -5 406 -17 145 during the year. 6 per cent of operating revenue. Total for 2013 amounting to NOK 513 million Equity as at 31 December 2013 102 600 5 090 499 211 479 5 404 578 110 090 5 514 667 investment in PP&E for the purpose of will not be recognised in equity until The Jotun Group’s consolidated producing Jotun branded products was finally declared in 2014. financial statements have been prepared NOK 985 million. The largest investin accordance with International ments relate to factories and buildings in CASH FLOW Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Russia, China, Brazil and Vietnam. Operating activities in 2013 resulted and interpretations as adopted by the in a cash inflow of NOK 819 million International Accounting Standards Jotun Group’s share of total equity in (2012: NOK 902 million). The change Board (IASB) and approved by the associates and joint ventures amounts to compared with 2012 is mainly due to European Union (EU). NOK 1,163 million (2012: NOK 1,012 changes in working capital. million), and is reported as non-current REVENUE assets in the balance sheet. WORKFORCE Operating revenue for the Group was At year-end 2013, Jotun Group had NOK 12,034 million. The revenue WORKING CAPITAL 6,695 full time employees related to increase of 6 per cent is primarily ascribTo facilitate revenue growth, net on-going business in Jotun A/S and able to growth in East Europe, South investment in operational working its subsidiaries (2012: 6,379 full time East Asia and parts of the Middle East. capital (inventory, trade receivables and employees). Including employees in joint trade payables ) amounted to NOK 3,841 ventures and associates Jotun had in Considering the full revenues in million (2012: NOK 3,296 million) total 9,380 employees. associates and joint ventures, total sales of Jotun branded products was NOK NET INTEREST BEARING DEBT 16,022 million (2012: NOK 15,852 The net interest bearing debt for the JOTUN ANNUAL million). Group was NOK 1,322 million at year REPORT end 2013 compared to NOK 870 million OPERATING PROFIT as of 31 December 2012. Jotun Group’s The Group’s consolidated Annual Operating profit in 2013 increased main source of financing is bilateral Report and the Annual Report of by 12 per cent to NOK 1,258 million loans from the Group’s relationship Jotun A/S including the Board of compared with 2012, yielding an operbanks and loans in the Norwegian Bond Directors’ report, financial statements ating margin of 10 per cent (2012: 10 market. At year end 2013 Jotun A/S had and related notes, are available at per cent). Lower raw material prices and NOK 600 million of bonds and NOK jotun.com. product mix management with increased 730 million in non-current bank debt sale of premium products higher margin outstanding. External borrowing in the markets, contributed to a positive subsidiaries is primarily short term and Gross Margin trend. Revenues from the through local banks. Marine segment declined substantially due to the cyclical downturn in the shipJotun A/S has NOK 800 million of building industry, especially affecting long-term credit lines. This committed associated companies in North East funding serves as a back stop for the Asia. Jotun Group’s share of net result certificate loans as well as a strategic after tax in associates and joint ventures reserve for short-term financing of the totalling NOK 287 million (2012: Group. At year-end all of these credit NOK 340 million) are reported on a lines were unused. single line of the consolidated income 68 statement as an operating item. 69 COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Lda., Lahore 100 P BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Lda., Lahore 98 P BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 S PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 S BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdynia 100 S CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 S Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paint South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun Powder Coatings (CZ) a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S FINLAND Nor-Maali OY, Lahti 33 P THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 95 P FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd. Glyfada 100 S Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 99 P UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P P.T. Jotun Powder Coatings Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P USA Jotun Paints Inc., Belle Chasse, LA 100 P IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P ITALY Jotun Italia S.p.A., Trieste 100 S KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, Casablanca 100 S Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S P Production S Sales Office NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licesees in Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Jotun Powder Coatings (N) AS, Larvik 100 S Croatia, Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Ghana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Namibia, Netherland Antilles, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Slovak Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S Republic, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Trinidad, Tunisia, Ukraine and Uruguay. 70 71 COMPANY OVERVIEW President & CEO Morten Fon CFO Group functions Vidar Nysæther Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Esben Hersve Middle East, India & Africa Powder Marine Protective Peder Bohlin Ram Ramnath Geir Bøe Bjørn Wallentin South East Asia & Pacific Martin Chew North East Asia Erik R. Aaberg Scandinavia Stein Petter Lunde West Europe Kjell Gundersen East Europe & Central Asia Sükru Ergün Board of Directors: Americas Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman) Idar Salvesen Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Terje Andersen Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Stein Erik Hagen Ingrid Luberth Corporate Assembly: Olav Christensen (Chairman) Richard Arnesen jr. Terje V. Arnesen Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Thomas Hammer Kai Roger Johansen Beatris Malo de Molina Kristian O. Smith Kjell Sundsli Karl Otto Tveter Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Damien Devlin / Blue-C AS Design: Daniel Barradas / SAY PR & Communications AS The paper used to print this report ILJ ØMERKE T M All pictures by Morten Rakke Photography, except: Front cover: Shutterstock; pages 13, 25, 35, 41, 46: has the Nordic Eco-labeling – the Svein Brimi; page 18: Siren Laudal; pages 20-21: Mustafa Nurdogdu; page 43: Allegro, Trond & Trond, Jotun; Swan – and is also approved by the 1 24 45 6 page 44-45: Ulstein Group / Per Eide; page 51: Shutterstock; page 54-55: Norsk Folkehjelp, PEFC Council (Programme for the Trykksak page 22, 23, 59: Jotun Endorsement of Forest Certifications Printed by: BK Gruppen schemes). 72
