Creating Future Value and Promoting OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 01 Creating the Best Value POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2013 Creating Future Value and Promoting 02 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix About this Report Contents Introduction OVERVIEW CEO Message 04 This report discloses activities and performances of POSCO E&C (Engineering & Construction) in economic, environmental, and social Company Overview 06 areas that have been identified through materiality test. The report primarily focuses on disclosing sustainability elements of our domestic Vision and Strategy 08 business areas (excluding investee companies and subsidiaries), and also covers major overseas project sites in Brazil, Vietnam, and Chile. Quantitative performance disclosed in this report is based on data of domestic business areas. Reporting period of this report is from Corporate Governance 09 January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. We present key quantitative data for the most recent three years to help readers understand Ethics Management 10 changes, trends and improvements for time-series analysis. There is no change in the reporting scope, boundary, and calculation method Risk Management 12 compared to the previous year. We prepared this report on the basis of the Core option of the GRI G4 guideline and conducted verification Sustainability Management 13 by a third party. Independent assurance statement provided by a third party is presented on Page 78 and 79 of this report. Stakeholder Engagement 14 * GRI: Global Reporting Initiative Materiality Test 16 Features of the Report Global Expanding Global Market Entry 18 POSCO E&C Application of the GRI G4 Guideline Brazil 20 POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2013 was written based on the GRI G4 guideline updated in May 2013. We prepared contents in Vietnam 24 accordance with material aspects drawn from the materiality test and applied the Disclosure on Management Approach to provide Chile 26 background issues, our corresponding actions and outcomes. In this way, we aim to enhance stakeholders' understanding of the key material aspects of our sustainability management. Creating Product Competitiveness 30 Future Value Innovation and Financial Soundness 36 Report on Sustainability Management Activities of Overseas Project Sites and Pursuing Profitability POSCO E&C reports sustainability management activities performed in major overseas project sites (currently in Brazil, Vietnam and Chile), introducing detailed aspects of environment, safety, employees, and local communities and relevant key quantitative data. Promoting EHS Eco-friendly Management 44 Enhancement Response to Climate Change 50 Creating the Best Value Safety and Health at Project Sites 52 포스코건설 지속가능성보고서 2012 Improving Customers 58 GRI G4 GLOBAL POSCO E&C OO Social Value Q OO Q Q   Q OO Employees 62 Q Q Q OO  Q Q Q '06 포스코건설 지속가능성보고서 2011 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ Local Communities 68 Reporting Leading Sustainable Management Aspect DMA Brazil Vietnam Chile Engineering Procurement Construction 3FQPSU Boundary  Supply Chain 72 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2013 2012 2011 Appendix Financial Information 76 Awards & Association Membership 77 Cover Story Contacts Statement of Third-Party Assurance 78 Department CSR Group, General Administration Division, POSCO E&C The title of this report “Creating the Best Value” reflects our comStatement of Assurance Report of 80 Address POSCO E&C Tower 1, 241 Incheon Tower-daero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea mitment to adding new values to all human lives by pursuing Greenhouse Gas Emissions sustainable growth. POSCO E&C will lead changes on forward Tel. 82-32-748-3737 UN Global Compact 81 thinking, advanced technologies, and passion for what we do to Fax. 82-32-748-4006 GRI G4 Index 82 build a better and healthier future. E-mail csr@poscoenc.com Creating Future Value and Promoting 04 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 05 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, Since its establishment, sustainability has been at the heart of the POSCO E&C. At POSCO E&C, We are eager to enrich the quality of lives by delivering innovative technology and forward thinking business. We continue to build a sustainable future by fulfilling our responsibility as a corporate citizen and leading changes and innovation. Along the journey we have taken, we are proud to be at the forefront of the industry; POSCO E&C is ranked one of Korea’s five largest construction companies, achieving more than KRW 10 trillion in annual orders for the past four consecutive years. This is a result of our consistent efforts to enhance competitiveness and reach our business goals. Today, mega global challenges and rapidly changing business environment require us to implement sustainable growth and embody environmental and social aspects as a part of our core values. POSCO E&C is a progressive company who aims to integrate sustainability in every essence by further focusing on the following management activities. Sustainable Growth and Future Value Creation We will continue to develop first-class services and products through our projects. We will focus on expanding our services and business regions by leveraging our competitive edge. To optimize corporate values and secure profitability we will develop our business strategy in accordance to a holistic market insight. In addition, we will strictly monitor, manage and mitigate potential risks that may take place during every process of our projects. Enhancing Corporate Value and Profitability We are determined to build a corporate culture where creative resilience is valued, performances of employees are fairly evaluated, and active communication is encouraged. We will help employees relate their personal goals with the company vision, for we understand that synergetic success relies on employees identifying and aligning their goals with the company’s vision and strategy. Over the course of 2014, we will also foster an open and collaborative working environment, for the employees to nurture their potentials and fully utilize their abilities. Safety as a Core Value Safety is one of our core values. POSCO E&C will continue to pursue the highest level of safety and health management system by enforcing safety measures of global standards and putting efforts to achieve zero accident rate at all stages of our projects. Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Citizenship have always been fundamental to POSCO E&C. We will embrace new ideas to address societal challenges faced by local communities and create long-term values that go beyond POSCO E&C and touch the local communities around the world. We will pursue transparent management systems at all times and also strive to enhance our environmental management system by pioneering eco-friendly technology. We understand that sustainability is the key to a successful journey which we have embarked. We will continue to dedicate POSCO E&C is committed to enriching the quality of our lives by delivering ourselves for the evolution of sustainable corporate values and take-the essential steps to fulfill our responsibility as a conscientious innovative technology and forward thinking business. Corporate Citizen. Our pursuit of social values and profitable business will lead us to be a global E&C company in the coming future, and we look forward to receiving your support throughout this journey. President & CEO of POSCO E&C Tae-Hyun Hwang Creating Future Value and Promoting 06 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 07 Company Overview POSCO E&C is growing into a company leading the E&C industry worldwide with globally competitive technology and knowhow Business Status and Operating Performances on plant engineering. We have extended our business into Asia, the Middle East, South America, and Europe, and strengthened POSCO E&C has continuously diversified its business portfolio with years of firm experience in steel plant construction. Our business our position in the global market place. As a leading total solution provider of projects, POSCO E&C will continuously devote its includes civil engineering, architecture, energy, and urban development and is now expanding to renewable energy and urban best efforts to enhancing core technologies and professionalism and provide greater value to customers. regeneration. New orders in 2013 amounted to KRW 12.1 trillion (KRW 6.2 trillion in Korea and KRW 5.9 trillion in the global market). Sales in 2013 increased by KRW 1,517.9 billion year-on-year to KRW 10.2 trillion and operating profit also rose by KRW 122.8 billion to KRW 448.4 Business Model billion. To respond to unfavorable global construction market conditions such as intensified competition and weakening profitability, Responding to increasing overseas projects and diversification of its business portfolio, POSCO E&C is focusing on upgrading its current POSCO E&C is refraining from indiscriminately winning new orders for quantitative growth. We will continue to create performances by business model centered on EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) to PEPCOM (Planning, Engineering, Procurement, expanding valuable new orders through strict profitability analysis. Construction, Operation & Maintenance) system. In effect, we have strengthened risk management level in each step of projects, (As of December 31, 2013, building a high level of quality management, environment, and safety control system. We also strive to enhance the sustainability of our Corporate Profile Operating Performance consolidated financial statements) company and society by implementing socially responsible business activities such as engaging in community affairs and reinforcing Classification Conent ethical management. Company name POSCO E&C Co., Ltd. Total assets KRW 8,641.6 billion Headquarters 180, Daesong-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea No. of employees 4,262 persons (as of December 2013) Total equity KRW 2,946.4 billion Overseas China, U.S., Venezuela, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, Mexico, Brazil, Business subsidiaries Cambodia, Australia, and Ecuador Sales KRW 10,155.2 billion Support Risk Management Establishment December 1, 1994 President & CEO Tae-Hyun Hwang Operating profit KRW 448.4 billion Industry Engineering & Construction Management KRW 12.1 trillion Operation & Steel plant, energy plant, chemical plant, water treatment & Planning Engineering Procurement Construction Business area New orders in 2013 Maintenance environmental plant, civil infrastructure, and architecture HR & HRD Finance Planning & Marketing Planning Planning Supply Chain Planning Q-HSE R&D Sales Management Management Business Area Plant Engineering & Construction Division: Laying the Foundation Civil & Environment Division: Contributing to Local Energy Engineering & Construction Division: Demonstrating Architecture Division: Building Striking and for the National Economic Development Development through Advanced Technology World-Class technological competitiveness Creative Landmarks Based on knowhow and technology accumulated from the construction of Civil & Environment Division, currently contributing to local communities in In December 2006, POSCO E&C was the first large domestic construction company POSCO E&C has successfully conducted large scale urban development projects Pohang and Gwangyang steelworks, Plant E&C Division successfully completed overseas markets, has been producing high performance evenly in areas of to establish Energy Engineering & Construction Division and so far, the division has in Songdo, Incheon and An Khanh, Vietnam. These projects allowed us to gain Indonesia Integrated Steelwork Project, and is in the process of building Brazil railroads, harbors, and tunnels of Korea by focusing on technology enhancement achieved noticeable growth in energy business. Especially, based on EPC capability high recognition in the field of urban development in the global market and led CSP Steel Plant. With its global recognition of EPC capability, the E&C Division such as E&M (Electric & Mechanic) Steel mill projects in Gwangyang and Indonesia that was highly recognized through Nueva Ventanas Coal-fired Power Plant in to winning and completing the Hanoi New City Master Plan. These performances earned the order of Brazil CSS Steel Plant, and also is spurring on new market allowed POSCO E&C to secure capabilities to build seawater desalination facilities. Chile, we have been emerging as a leader in the Central and South American carved our status as a leader in the urban development business. In addition, entry in Venezuela and other countries. In addition, winning the construction project of waste recycling facility in Poland energy market. The scope of our energy business also expands to private-invested we are making great success in the housing market backed by proving our opened opportunities to enter the Eastern Europe market. power plant projects in Korea such as Ansan Combined Cycle Power Plant as well differentiated marketability and quality to customers. as eco-friendly energy projects. Creating Future Value and Promoting 08 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 09 Vision and Strategy Corporate Governance Under the vision of “2020 Global Top 10 E&C Company,” POSCO E&C endeavors to achieve the management goal of KRW 50 POSCO E&C enhances transparency and efficiency of management through its Board of Directors (BOD). By capitalizing on trillion in new orders, KRW 30 trillion in sales, and 70% of sales from overseas markets by 2020. To this end, we established the expertise and professionalism of the BOD, we will make the best decision and swiftly respond to a rapidly changing business 3 core strategic directions of “Expanding top-tier products and overseas markets”, “Securing global competitiveness for EPC environment. projects”, and “Strengthening financial soundness”. We will enhance our execution capability to realize these strategies by setting up detailed action plans and goals. Structure and Operation of the BOD “Global Top 10 E&C Company by 2020” The BOD is composed of 9 executive directors and 1 non-executive director and chaired by the CEO of POSCO E&C. The BOD convenes both regular and emergency meetings, and in 2013, a total of 19 meetings were held. It makes decisions on significant matters that are directly and indirectly related to the business objective which are stipulated in the Charter of Incorporation. Major approval issues Vision include management policies and directions, annual business goals and budget, mid to long-term management plans, and issue of new Achieving KRW 50 trillion in new orders, KRW 30 trillion in sales, and 70% of sales from overseas markets by 2020 stocks and debentures. BOD Members 現 pePCom 中 pEPCoM 長 PEPCOM Biz Model Centered on C Focusing on EPC Completing PEPCOM Classification Name Duty Tae-Hyun Hwang President & CEO President / Plant Engineering & Construction Division, Brazil CSP Sung-Kwan Kim 1. ‌Expanding top-tier products and 2. ‌Securing global competitiveness 3. ‌Strengthening financial Business Unit overseas markets for EPC projects soundness Senior Executive Vice President / Plant Engineering & Byung-Sik An Construction Division • Fostering global top-tier products • ‌Enhancing capability for new orders • ‌Managing project risks Executive Dae-Bog Si Senior Executive Vice President / Architecture Division • ‌Enhancing independent engineering and sales • ‌Considering the promotion of IPO Director Strategic Gyu-Jin Cho Executive Vice President / Global Marketing Division Direction capability • ‌Making overseas project sites robust Kyu-Sung Yeon Executive Vice President / Energy Engineering & Construction Division • ‌Expanding our market abroad based • ‌Reinforcing of global procurement Woo-Sig Jeon Executive Vice President / Strategic Planning Division on MI* capability Jae-Heyon Yae Executive Vice President / General Administration Division • ‌Building organizations suitable for • ‌Recruiting and cultivating global Yong-Suek Choi Senior Vice President / Civil & Environment Division global operations talents Non-executive Jin-Il Kim President of POSCO Director BOD Members of POSCO E&C * Market Intelligence Audit System Expanding Top-tier Products and Overseas Markets POSCO E&C operates the audit system to enhance the transparency of the BOD operation, which is governed by an independent To increase competitiveness in the global market, we are focusing on fostering steel plant, thermal power plant, and eco-friendly urban standing auditor and the Corporate Audit Department as a subsidiary body. The standing auditor is appointed at the shareholders’ development businesses, which will provide us with a firm foundation for our future growth. When advancing into overseas markets, meeting and the Corporate Audit Department is composed of Audit Planning Group, Auditing Group 1, Auditing Group 2, and Ethics our focus is on expanding market share and regions that we have a competitive edge for, through selection and concentration. Based Group. The standing auditor has access to the necessary management information for auditing and is able to attend the BOD meeting on success in Vietnam, we have expanded our business in Southeast Asia and won an order for USD 220 billion, for the Myanmar Hotel to state his opinions. If necessary, the standing auditor can demand the directors to report on business status. construction project. Our plans for the South American market include not only strengthening our position in the existing steel and power plant fields but also creating new values through entering civil and architecture fields. Shareholder Structure Securing Global Competitiveness for EPC Projects POSCO possesses approximately 90% of POSCO E&C shares and the rest is held by POSTECH, Employee Stock Ownership Association and other minority shareholders. POSCO E&C has an integrated global procurement system to systematically manage domestic and overseas suppliers and business partners. We are also upgrading the management system in project sites to ensure accurate and fast decision making with overseas Shareholder Structure (As of December 31, 2013) Share Ownership subsidiaries and project sites. These efforts help sharpen our procurement capability as well as process management and quality in Shareholder Relation 3.58 % 4.54 % POSCO construction. In addition, we focus on recruiting and cultivating talents to secure global level EPC capability. POSCO Parent Company POSTECH POSTECH Nonprofit Organization ‌Employee Stock Strengthening Financial Soundness Employee Stock Ownership Association Employees 2.36 % Ownership Association Minority Shareholders ‌Minority To fundamentally improve profitability, we aim to win high-quality orders, strengthen the risk management system, and strictly manage 89.53 % Shareholders less profitable projects to improve. We are also proactive in conducting IR activities and securing profitability and financial soundness to carefully promote the IPO in consideration of the domestic stock market condition. Creating Future Value and Promoting 10 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 11 Ethics Management POSCO E&C is well aware that business ethics is an essential foundation for sustainable growth and it is focusing on planting Ethics Management of Business Partners ethics management as part of key corporate culture. We will continue to comply with the principle and process of ethics To ensure transparent and ethical trade with business partners, we make the attachment of special terms for ethics in all contracts management to enhance the transparency of the company. compulsory. They face restrictions in case of unethical actions and violations of the Framework Act on the Construction Industry. Those have also been applied to all transactions and contracts with the POSCO Family since 2012. We offer ethics training to new business Direction and System partners. Ethics trainings are also conducted for project site managers and staff of all business partners before national holidays. In 2013, a total of 123 projects sites (97 in Korea and 26 in the world) received ethics training. Ethics and integrity management have been core values and principles of POSCO E&C since its establishment. In 2003, we established a global ethics management system by setting the Code of Conduct and the guideline to comply with the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Audit Portal System Practices Act). In 2005, the Ethics Group in charge of ethics management was launched to conduct and manage ethics training, POSCO E&C operates the Audit Portal System to continuously monitor the level of ethics management in each project site. Through the unethical behavior prevention activities, Compliance Program, and online reporting bulletin. In addition, we organized the Ethics system upgrade in 2013, we have set 102 scenarios to discover any symptom related to ethics management. Upon the occurrence of Committee chaired by the Independent Standing Auditor to revise the ethics standard and review the compensation for reporting symptom in each scenario, it is immediately reported to relevant departments and the Corporate Audit Department monitors all the unethical cases. We also appointed the Ombudsperson who manages ethical activities of each division and the ethics promotion leader procedures. who manage ethical activities of each department in order to put ethics management into action throughout the company. Reward System for Reporting Unethical Behaviors 3 Principles for Ethics Practice We receive reports on violations of business ethics through diverse channels such as homepage, fax, mail, and phone. In 2013, the Initiatives by Becoming role models of ethics practice online reporting bulletin was realigned as a banner onto the initial screen of our homepage to help users easily find it, and the Leaders and leading new ethics culture procedure for reporting was simplified. The report can be written anonymously or using their real name and the reporter’s identity is Ethics protected based on the Whistleblower Protection Act. Since May 2012, we have increased the compensation up to maximum KRW 1 Management Various enlightenment activities Enhancing inspection and strictly billion for reporting unethical activities and also operate the autonomous report immunity system. In 2013, a total of 778 cases were Consistent Harsh and development by self-learning complying with ethics principles reported and appropriate measures taken and KRW 174 million was given to the reporters as of the end of 2013. Training Punishment Key Activities and Performances Future Plans Departmental Ethical Practical Assessments As our global business has been expanding, we will establish a global ethics management system and offer customized ethics training POSCO E&C encourages each department to voluntarily implement business ethics and provides fair evaluation and feedback on their materials to overseas project sites. This will help ethics management to be embedded in not only dispatched employees but also locally activity results in order to increase the level of company-wide ethics management. In 2013, we evaluated 177 departments and project hired employees. sites. The evaluation items included participation results in all ethics training sessions of each department’s ethics practices such as execution of corporate ethics self-practice program, completion of ethics training, occurrence of unethical activities, awards from external institutes, and records of stakeholder meeting result reporting. Case Study Stakeholder Meeting Result Reporting System Stakeholder Meeting Result Strengthening Ethics Training Dept. Overseas Sales Office of Plant E&C Div. ID number Register At POSCO E&C, ethics management has routinely practiced through various training courses customized training for each department To prevent unethical behaviors and promote proper meetings Stakeholder and project site conducted by direct visit of the independent standing auditor and the staff of the Ethics Group, cyber training, popwith stakeholders, we operate the “Stakeholder Meeting Result Name Organization Position up training, and executive-led training. Since 2013, it has been mandatory for newly appointed project site managers to take a pledge Reporting System.” Once an employee reports the result of Meeting Result to comply with business ethics and an interview with the Independent Standing Auditor. We also offer ethics trainings to leaders and meeting with stakeholders, it is reported to the superiors Date July 1, 2014 Time 2~3 p.m. Place 3F, Head Office Bldg. executives when holding operation meetings for each division. through email. Then, superiors make coaching comments about 1. Sector: supply of piping materials 2. Location: Gangseo-gu, Busan the results and the comments are automatically sent back to Contents 3. Purpose: request for estimates for piping materials 4. Details: sharing of information on overseas piping materials market environment and the employee. This system helps to preemptively prevent the features of clients related to Saudi Aramco Ethics Training Results occurrence of unethical behaviors. Coaching Comment by Superior Ethics Training Unit 2011 2012 2013 Contents Draw up an estimate after exactly checking the standards prescribed in the ITB of clients with respect to materials Participants Persons 15,275 17,743 15,994 Employees Training hours Hours 18,820 18,479 18,938 Business Participants Persons 568 476 1,558 Partners Training hours Hours 568 476 1,558 Ethics training for employees Creating Future Value and Promoting 12 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 13 Risk Management Sustainability Management POSCO E&C operates risk management system for the entire process of each project. By preemptively managing any risk that POSCO E&C will continue to add impetus to its sustainability management by monitoring and improving the following four may occur depending on the situation, we will prevent potential losses and increase profitability overall. strategies; strengthening sustainability management culture, consolidating infrastructure, developing businesses for sustainable growth, and activating stakeholder communication. Direction and System Direction and System POSCO E&C manages risks which can occur during the entire process of a project by dividing them into types and situations. Risk types are classified into 5 sectors: economy, policy, sales, construction, and management. We also manage risks that may occur in the stages Our sustainability management is further driven by operating a systematic process consisting of establishment of sustainability of development and execution depending on the situation. In the development stage, we examine the project quality in the financial management systems, activities based on strategic directions, monitoring, performance review, and reporting. Relevant departments aspect by holding the Risk Review Meeting and Contract Inspection Meeting. In the execution stage, we manage financial and nonparticipate in each stage of the process to boost the sustainability throughout the company. We also check performances in financial risks in conducting projects through the Risk Inspection Meeting. sustainability management and upgrade our strategic directions by publishing the Annual Sustainability Report. Sustainability Management Process Classification of Risks Risk Management System Category Risks in the Construction Industry Performance Publication of Establishment Activities Based on Monitoring of Improvement • Changes ‌ in demands for products • ‌Economic recession Review and Target Sustainability Economy Total Project of Sustainability Strategic Directions Promotion Activities Activities Establishment Report • Changes ‌ in exchange rate • ‌Labor-management dispute Execution Management • Political ‌ instability • ‌Regime change Sustainability Management TFT: General CSR Group / Practice and Operation – Responsible Departments and Persons Related to Safety, Period System Policy • Changes ‌ in systems, regulation Environment, Ethics Management, Employees, Social Contribution, Business Partners, and etc. and policies • ‌Deterioration of selling condition • ‌Bankruptcy of developers Improvement of Strategic Directions & Enhancement of Promotion Activities Sales • ‌Disputes with contracting parties • ‌Acquisition of financial liabilities due to guarantees Development Execution • ‌Cost increase • ‌Bankruptcy of business partners Construction • ‌Occurrence of civil complaints • ‌Occurrence of disaster/defect Key Activities and Performances • ‌Construction period extension • ‌Wrong decision-making • ‌Insufficient process/standard Risk Review Contract Inspection Risk Inspection We have been striving to improve our capabilities to manage each sector of sustainability management. In 2013, a total of 11 items were Management • ‌Negligence • ‌Unstable financing condition Meeting Meeting Meeting identified as improvement activities, of which 7 were completed and the remaining 4 are currently in progress. Completed items were registered on the DB of the company. We will continue to grow our sustainability by consistently developing and setting tasks and targets. Key Activities and Performances Classification Improvement Task Details Remark Strengthening Risk Management before Winning Orders Human Rights Establishing human rights issue management system • Including ‌ human rights protection in contract requirements Completed • ‌Including human rights issues in HR information database of overseas project sites We strictly manage risks from the initial development stage before winning orders by holding the Risk Review Meeting and Contract Local Establishing and conducting local purchasing policies at • ‌Inspecting local purchasing results at each project site Ongoing Inspection Meeting. Each project is evaluated in terms of 7 criteria – scale, profitability, investment amount, P/F guarantee, participation Communities major project sites type, client, and business environment – and risks are divided into the classes of A, B, and C through the meetings. The Risk Review Employees Promoting certifications for organizational culture ‌ • Promoting certifications for the Best Family Friendly Management Completed • Building ‌ criteria for evaluating business partners’ CSR activities Meeting and Contract Inspection Meeting take company-wide deliberation, RM deliberation, and deliberation by division in accordance Business Reflecting CSR elements in evaluating business partners • Planning ‌ to expand supports for business partners’ CSR activities Ongoing Partners with the level of risk, enhancing the efficiency of risk management. Building mid to long-term plans for promoting win-win growth • ‌Establishing mid to long-term win-win growth plans Completed Building mid to long-term environmental management • Identifying ‌ mid to long-term strategic directions and promotional Completed Environmenstrategy system tasks by each step Risk Management Performance tal ManageEstablishing carbon risk management system • ‌GHG management system per unit Completed Our tightening preemptive risk management enabled us to mitigate guarantee conditions and reduce investment amount, which ment Improving capability for managing GHG and environment • Settling ‌ GHG management system Completed through establishing green management realized KRW 260 billion worth of financial improvement effect. We also identified and resolved more than 30 risk factors after Strengthening ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) system reviewing risks in non-financial aspects such as project schedule, quality, and complaints. Risk • ‌Listing company-wide risks Ongoing containing nonfinancial risks Social Developing manuals for social contribution at • ‌Defining social contribution process at overseas project sites Completed Contribution overseas project sites • ‌Defining activities by each social contribution process Future Plans Report on • Developing ‌ a manual for publishing annual sustainability report Enhancing ability to publish annual sustainability report Ongoing Performance • Reporting ‌ CSR educational materials on the online bulletin board By performing risk analysis for each type of project based on past cases, we will strengthen the preemptive risk management of new projects. As for risks in the execution of projects, we will establish a system to manage all kinds of risks spanning the project life cycle to increase profitability. Future Plans We will promote education for responsible staff of each area and workshops with experts in order to reinforce the capability to promote sustainability management. To raise the awareness of sustainability management amongst all employees, we will think innovatively and use various ways such as placing CSR educational materials on the online bulletin board. Creating Future Value and Promoting 14 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 15 Stakeholder Engagement Active communication with stakeholders is a crucial factor for promoting successful sustainability management. POSCO E&C operates various communication channels to gather the opinions of major stakeholders and endeavors to reflect issues raised by them in management activities. Society Investor POSCO E&C’s social contribution in the domestic and overseas project sites has become a Current real estate market conditions in Korea are bringing a lot of uncertainty in the major public service for local communities beyond just volunteer work. A recent trend of Definition of Stakeholder Definition of Stakeholder domestic housing construction industry. Global business also encounters higher risks Whole society affected by our business Direct and financial investors including corporate social contribution is involving stakeholders in activities. In this aspect, POSCO with regard to construction, schedule, and costs than domestic business. Therefore, strict activities including geographical and potential investors E&C’s social contribution together with university student volunteers has significance. I risk management system is essential. POSCO E&C should create synergy by organizing administrative local communities where know POSCO E&C has been actively conducting social contribution activities centered on POSCO E&C operates and conducts Communication Channel consortiums with the POSCO Family to capitalize on their advantages. For instance, the education and culture in the world. I hope the company will develop and diffuse exemplary business. • ‌IR briefing (once a quarter) engineering capability of POSCO Engineering and facilities and equipment of POSCO cases to boost global social contribution. • ‌DART system (frequent) PLANTEC will help win more new orders. Communication Channel • ‌Face-to-face meeting (frequent) Hyuk-Jun Choi I President of Lime Globe Han-Seung Choi I Senior Researcher of Korea Ratings • ‌Social contribution program (year-round) • ‌Participating in surveys by domestic and • ‌Discussion meeting with opinion leaders global credit-rating providers (frequent) POSCO E&C is promoting social contribution activities centered on local communities. By focusing on overseas (frequent) We newly established the PMO (Project Management Office) Group to manage risks from increasing projects, we are carrying out social contribution activities that meet the characteristics of each country. We will • ‌Survey on public perception (once a year) overseas projects. We will continue to strengthen our capabilities to manage risks in all processes ranging continue to grow together with local communities by conducting contribution activities they need. from preparing orders to executing construction. Customer Environment I believe figuring out the customers’ need beforehand to remove inconvenience is the most We highly appreciate your commitment to voluntarily participating in the GHG and important in customer satisfaction management. If any trouble arises, customers cannot Definition of Stakeholder Definition of Stakeholder Energy Target Management pilot project and reducing GHG emissions in 2013 compared People who use products and services Natural environment which is affected by help feeling dissatisfaction even though the trouble is solved in time. I hope POSCO E&C to the previous year. Your environmental performances are more meaningful in that the provided by POSCO E&C. Not only the endPOSCO E&C’s business activities and should will consider this aspect in customer satisfaction management. Last but not least, I expect construction industry has been recognized to be passive in reducing GHG emissions. It users but people to share the value POSCO be protected for sustainable growth POSCO E&C to continuously manage and monitor all houses, so that customers living in E&C generates in all business processes. is especially great that POCO E&C verified the status of GHG emissions from a third party these spaces feel a sense of pride. Communication Channel institute to ensure the credibility of the data. Communication Channel • ‌Eco-friendly construction and R&D Ju-Hee Lee I Resident at Songdo The Sharp Harbor View I Choon-Seung Yang I Executive Director of Korea Sustainability Investing Forum • ‌Housewives advisory group (The Sharpist) (frequent) (frequent) • ‌Improving eco-friendly management • ‌Homepage (year-round) process (frequent) POSCO E&C is committed to understanding customer needs and adopting them to products in order to • ‌Survey on customer satisfaction • ‌Environmental campaign We plan to execute GHG management in overseas project sites, which is currently only executed in raise customer satisfaction. We will increase satisfaction and minimize inconvenience at the initial stage of (once a year) (once or twice a year) domestic project sites. We are also striving to protect the biodiversity around overseas project sites moving in by assigning managers to support each household. including the CSP project site in Brazil. Last year, we collected employees’ opinions and strived to improve working conditions Employee Partner by holding the Labor-Management Council and jointly visiting project sites. Through POSCO E&C has built a win-win partnership to ensure prosperity within SMEs(Small and Definition of Stakeholder Definition of Stakeholder Medium-Sized Enterprises) based on an ethics management system. POSCO E&C’s Industry this process, we were able to identify their high interest in communication within Employees are the most important and All subjects including business partners who the organization and fair performance evaluation. It is necessary to further activate Innovation Movement 3.0, unwavering interest and affection of the Win-win Growth essential resource allowing the company have direct and indirect influences mutually communication not only between the head office and project sites but also among Supporters, and performance sharing system have helped us ensure differentiated quality to grow. They include not only full-time in our business activities employees. I hope for the current performance evaluation system to be embedded in the employees but all workforces in local and and productivity, which contributes to upgrading our corporate competitiveness. I hope company and employees’ opinions to be reflected in management activities. global project sites. Communication Channel that POSCO E&C will fulfill its social responsibility and role by expanding win-win growth • ‌Win-win Growth Supporters (once a activities. Jin-Gab Kim I Representative of the Labor-Management Council Communication Channel month) Yeong-Jun Jang I Head of Construction Business, Woojin Form Tech • ‌Labor-Management Council (once a • ‌Satisfaction survey of business partners POSCO E&C will continue to improve systems for healthy labor and management relationship as well as quarter) (once or twice a year) build an organizational culture based on trust and active communication. To this end, we will upgrade • ‌Junior Board, Challenge Board (frequent) • ‌Discussion meeting with business • ‌In-company bulletin board (frequent) partners (frequent) Regarding business partners as companions that grow together, POSCO E&C continuously promotes winthe in-company bulletin board operation and prepare additional methods to systematize mutual win growth activities centered on supports for enhancing their corporate competitiveness. communication among employees. Creating Future Value and Promoting 16 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 17 Materiality Test Reflection in decision-making for sustainability management Disclosure of key reporting areas POSCO E&C identified key issues through the materiality test in order to effectively respond to various sustainability issues Step 4 Step 5 • Development of sustainability improvement tasks • Analysis on changes in key issues raised by internal and external stakeholders and to report the results. Every stakeholder evenly participated in the process of • Review of task performance and target setup materiality test to objectively evaluate POSCO E&C’s sustainability issues. We prioritized those issues based on evaluation results and reflected them in our sustainability management activities. Changes in Key Issues Materiality Test Process Newly-rising key issues in 2013 were “enhancement of corporate competitiveness through management innovation,” “reinforcement of R&D competence,” “development of eco-friendly technologies (methods and materials),” and “expansion of new overseas markets.” First, we analyzed various internal and external sustainability issues related to our businesses, and then, identified key issues through This is due to increasing needs for improving profitability through management innovation, R&D enhancement, and oversea market reviews of the GRI G4 guideline and ISO 26000, benchmark of advanced companies, and media research. A stakeholder survey expansion to respond to extending recession in the construction industry. In addition, “enhancement of onsite safety and health was conducted to find the priority of the selected issues in which a total of 1,184 internal and external stakeholders participated. management system” became a newly-listed key issue in 2013, as the safety issue of site workers was on the rise due to increasing By evaluating the levels of effect on POSCO E&C and interest of external stakeholders, we selected 23 key issues and conducted occupational accidents in the construction industry. improvement task identification and performance inspection for them. This report was composed of those key issues to provide stakeholders with significant performances in our sustainability management. * GRI : Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Contents and Classification of Aspect We classified 23 key issues in line with the GRI G4 guideline, then, we shortlisted 14 material aspects – 3 aspects in economy and governance, 6 aspects in environment and safety, and 5 aspects in society. Those aspects contain overall sustainability management of POSCO E&C and have significant influences on its internal and external stakeholders. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Analysis of internal and external Stakeholder engagement Materiality test sustainability issues • ‌Evaluation on issue materiality by • ‌Identification of key issues Key Issue G4 Aspect Aspect Boundary • R‌ eview of global initiatives and standards for our task force E‌ valuation on the materiality of each Economy / Governance sustainability S‌ hort-term financial aspect and issue by classifying the results from the -G ‌ RI G4, G4 Supplement for the Construction mid to long-term strategic aspect Step 2 in accordance with the level of Enhancement of corporate competitiveness and Real Estate, and ISO 26000 • ‌Stakeholder survey impact on POSCO E&C and Interest level through innovation Economic Performance • Review of internal sustainability issues 1‌ ,184 internal and external of external stakeholders Reinforcement of R&D competence Internal External Management strategies and business report stakeholders participated. Identification of 23 key issues Expansion of new overseas markets • Review of external sustainability issues Ethics management Market Presence Employees Customers, investors, ‌Benchmarking of advanced companies and Development of new growth engines and business media research World-class quality management partners • Identification of a sustainability issue pool Operation of integrated risk management system Anti-corruption ‌47 issues: 15 for economy, 12 for environment, Financial structure management for stable growth and 20 for society Expansion of infrastructure for global operations Environment & Safety Energy Level of impact on POSCO E&C Materiality Test Result Development of eco-friendly technologies Emissions Financial structure management Harmonization (methods and materials) Internal External Ethics management for stable growth between work Expansion of new overseas markets Air pollutant management Effluents and Waste and life Employees Environment, Operation of integrated risk management system Active response to environmental regulations Products and Services society, and business Fair evaluation and compensation Enhancement of onsite safety and health Compliance partners Expansion of infrastructure for global operations management system Contribution to the development of local communities Energy consumption management Occupational Health and Safety Customer satisfaction and relation improvement HR development Enhancement of customer safety and health Society Enhancement of onsite safety and health management system HR development Development of multiple communication Harmonization between work and life channel for employees World-class quality management Enhancement of co-prosperity and communication Employment Recruitment and retention of talents Development of new Reinforcement of R&D Relevant Topics Material Topics with business partners Internal External Energy consumption management growth engines competence Training and Education Contribution to the development of local Active response to Enhancement of co-prosperity and Enhancement Employees Customers, society, environmental regulations communication with business partners of corporate communities Local Communities and business Development of eco-friendly competitiveness Customer satisfaction and relation improvement Air pollutant management technologies (methods and materials) through innovation Customer Health and Safety partners Fair evaluation and compensation Interest level of external stakeholders Enhancement of customer safety and health Product and Service Labeling * ‌Through an internal and external stakeholder survey to prioritize a total of 47 issues, 23 issues were selected as Development of multiple communication channel key sustainability issues. for employees Recruitment and retention of talents Creating Future Value and Promoting 18 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 19 Expanding Global Market Entry POSCO E&C is striving to expand its global business as a resolution to the slow-moving domestic construction market. The global Major Performances in the Global Business in 2013 business division is leading the business expansion into neighboring regions. We are proactively developing the Southeast POSCO E&C has become the only solution provider for steel plant EPC project in the world. We have completed an integrated steel mill Asian market based on successful results in Vietnam. In South America, we are focusing on not only building a strong position project worth about KRW 1.3 trillion in Indonesia and are currently constructing the CSP steel plant project worth about KRW 5 trillion in the steel and power plant construction market that we have conducted projects, but also entering the civil engineering and in Brazil. We are also in the process of putting up a steel plant project for Formosa in Vietnam and have won new orders for a cement architecture markets. In addition, POSCO E&C aims to secure large clients who can consistently place new orders of more than plant project in East Timor and the CSS hot & cold rolling plant project in Brazil. Other meaningful performances included rapid growth KRW 300 billion every year. in the power plant business by preoccupying the coal-fired power plant market in Central and South America and an entry into the energy business. Overseas Subsidiary Branch Office Overseas Subsidiaries (16) • ‌China (Construction, Hunchun, Dalian IT, Hunchun POSCO Hyundai International Beijing POSCO Center) Logistics Complex Development Co., Ltd. • ‌Vietnam (POSCO E&C Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh, An Khanh) • India POSCO E&C China Co., Ltd. • ‌Indonesia POSCO (Dalian) IT Center • Cambodia Development • ‌Australia Beijing POSCO Center • ‌Hawaii Unique Total Solution • ‌Venezuela POSCO E&C Saudi Arabian POSCO E&C Kazakhstan POSCO E&C Abu Dhabi Branch Office Provider for Steel Plant EPC • ‌Mexico Branch Office Branch Office POSCO E&C Hanoi Office Project in the World • ‌Brazil • ‌Santos CMI POSCO E&C India Private Ltd. An Khanh New City Development •‌Brazil CSP Project (KRW 5 trillion) POSCO E&C VIETNAM Co., Ltd. Joint Venture Co., Ltd. POSCO E&C and Integrated Steel Mill Project in International POSEC-Hawaii Inc. Houston Office Indonesia (KRW 1.3 trillion) Branches (7) CAMBODIA CO., Ltd. Business Center Expanding New POSCO E&C Cambodia Corporation • ‌UAE Branch Office POSCO E&C Smart Markets • ‌Saudi Arabia S de RL de CV • ‌Kazakhstan • Iraq, Mongolia, Indonesia, Achieving Rapid Growth in POSCO E&C Venezulea C.A. • ‌Cambodia Vietnam, and Brazil the Power Plant Business by • ‌Chile Striving to Win PT. POSCO E&C Indonesia SANTOS CMI S.A. Preoccupying the Coal-fired Power POSCO E&C BRASIL • ‌El Salvador Non-POSCO Family Projects Plant Market in Central and South POSCO E&C Sucursal del Peru • Peru Percentage of Non-POSCO Family America POSCO E&C Sucursal El POSCO E&C Rio Office Projects from Overseas POSCO E&C Australia Pty Ltd. • New Orders in the Power Plant Business: Salvador Branch Office Offices (3) 46% (in 2011)  75% (in 2013) KRW 0.4 trillion (in 2006) POSCO E&C AGENCIA DE CHILE • Hot Rolling Mill Project from Formosa in > KRW 3.6 trillion (in 2013) • Vietnam Vietnam, Cement Plant Project in East • ‌Houston Timor, and Cold & Hot Rolling • ‌Rio Mill Project from CSS in Brazil from CSS in Brazil * ‌Please refer to the business report about subsidiaries and affiliates. New Orders Breakdown of New Orders Domestic Overseas (Unit: KRW in billions) Energy Plant Architecture Civil & Environment 6.942.7 (63%) New orders in 2013 increased by 9.8% compared to the previous year to KRW 12.1 8% Energy and Plant businesses accounted for 85% of entire new orders from overseas 2012 31 % 4.060.6 (37%) trillion. In particular, we achieved KRW 5.9 trillion, a sharp increase of 46%, from overseas 7% markets. As it is projected that the global power plant market will continue to grow markets thanks to proactive global business expansion. The company continues to centered on emerging countries, we intend to expand the energy business into 6.146.3 (51%) 2013 pursue stable growth by refraining from indiscriminately winning new orders for regions with high demands for electric power such as Asian countries by capitalizing 5.929.3 (49%) quantitative growth and strictly reviewing profitability to respond to unfavorable on our accumulated experiences and reputation. Moreover, we will continuously 54 % global market environment such as fierce competition and weakening of profitability. strengthen our execution capabilities for steel plant and petrochemical plant projects. Creating Future Value and Promoting 20 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 21 In 2014, POSCO E&C purchased and rented ten sprinkler trucks to reduce increase awareness on safety, and this leads to changes in their behavior dust and improve air quality at this project site and plans to operate and attitude to implement safety on the project site at all times. The another seven ones after July when the dry season starts. We utilize system was enforced in August 2013 and 63 areas were selected in each Ringelmann Chart to measure the amount of polluted emissions drawn of nine CSP project sites. 114 employees were signed to be the Area out from diesel trucks and equipment. The Ringelmann Chart offers Owners and 3,100 cases were reported to be below the safety level. The official scale with five parameters for determining the levels of pollution Accident Rate has reduced dramatically since the start of this system. by exhaust gases from diesel engines. In Brazil, its environmental regulation restricts this level to be no more than level 3. Therefore, we Accident Rate after Implementing the Area Ownership System (Unit: %) measure the level of exhaust emissions from all construction equipment including those of business partners regularly and prohibit the operation 22.23 of diesel trucks and equipment below level 3. 20.04 20.33 15.73 14.70 11.84 [ Location: Ceara State, Brazil Beginning: July 2012 Completion: August 2015 Ordered by: CSP ] [ CSP Integrated Steel Plant Project in Brazil ] Biodiversity Protection 5.26 To preserve biodiversity, we perform various types of research to rescue animals and plants and relocate them to suitable locations. We educate May 2013 June July August September October November Brazil Environment Focused Area 1 all employees and workers on this project site on how to carefully deal with animals and plants when discovered and report to the HSE team. Onsite Environmental Management Then, the HSE team conducts confirmation procedure and relocates the Employees Focused Area 3 The CSP project is executed in compliance with all applicable animals and plants with the help of professionals. In all cases, we gather local environmental regulations and policies of Brazil as well as and keep all related data and information for historical record. We strive Recruitment and Cultivation of Local Workers Number of species Percentage of local Percentage of local our independent guidelines and principles in consideration of the At the CSP project site, we operate the PET (Programa de Encaminhaprotected procurement employment to minimize our impact on the ecosystem, in order to protect pigeons, 13.5 % 63 % environment. Wastes from the project site are moved out after being mento ao Trabalho, Program for Connecting to Local Workers) which is 157species separated into recycling dumpsters in accordance with Brazil’s snakes, wasps, frogs, squirrels, guinea pigs and various other animals in Brazil. supported by a national institution, SENAI (Servico Nacional de Aprentechnological standard and National Environment Committee’s dizagem Industrial). This program allows POSCO E&C to connect to skilled resolutions. Data on each separated waste is strictly managed through local workers in Ceara, which helps us to promote efficient HR managemonthly monitoring. ment and add value to the life of local workers in Brazil. Due to the local labor condition, it is hard to hire skilled labor force and makes companies hire workers from other regions. It causes an increase in labor costs such as trip costs, other allowances. In this situation, PET program helps companies to hire skilled workers and maintain appropriate staffing level CSP Integrated Steel Plant Project (herein “CSP project”), which is supported by a national institution. It is also expected to vitalize one of the biggest five projects in Brazil, is to construct the local economy in the long run by helping in the employment of local large-scale integrated steel plants. It is the first EPC turnkey people around our project sites. We hope confirmed and skilled local Protection of a wasp nest workforce at our current project sites can continue to work with us for base project among integrated steel plants in Brazil, the CSP steel plant operation after its completion. receiving special attention from the Central and South American market as well as Brazil. Prior to the CSP project, Safety Focused Area 2 Waste recycling dumpsters by waste type Brazil’s steel plants had been constructed with the support Onsite Safety Management of basic equipment and engineering from European POSCO E&C promotes the Area Ownership System to comply with local We manage the quality of water used during the project by installing companies. However, POSCO E&C is conducting this onsite sewage treatment facility and obtaining a permission to discharge safety regulations which require stronger execution than Korea and project on the basis of a turnkey contract encompassing treated sewage. Data on the quality of treated sewage is reported to the encourage local workers and safety staff to effectively promote safety Brazil Water Resource Corporation every month. activities. This system divides the project site into areas that should be engineering, procurement, construction, test run, and safely managed by the owners responsible for them. Each area should commissioning. This project has proved the quality of our promote safe working conditions for all workers (both Brazilian and technology to the world and has opened doors to other Korean) as well as be responsible for any accident and unsafe action that Central and Latin American markets. may have occurred within the areas. In this way, we encourage workers to Creating Future Value and Promoting 22 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 23 Local Community Focused Area 4 main process cooperate with Brazilian companies for consultation and procurement. The business meeting is a kind of exhibition to help POSCO E&C Brazil’s Quality Manual Social Contribution Activities business partners of POSCO E&C and CSP project have direct meetings 1. Understand and satisfy customers’ requirements and go beyond customers’ expectation. POSCO E&C has been conducting various social contribution activities with companies in Brazil. Procurement through consultation is to be 2. ‌Enable managers in charge of each section, understand the direction and purpose of quality management and fully participate to in collaboration with the project owner CSP in order to provide practical completed at once in the business meeting . We are preparing the create an internal environment to achieve this goal. supports to underprivileged people in Brazil. As part of this, each of fourth business meeting to ensure better and active procurement. The 3. All employees concentrate their efforts to complete projects successfully. our eight construction sites for the CSP project has set up a sisterhood meetings have helped Korean business partners who first entered Brazil 4. ‌To achieve the goal effectively and efficiently, manage resources and activities as processes, and manage relationship with eight different local welfare facilities for children conduct local procurement, which contributes to shortening product processes that are interlinked as one system and elderly people. They have been implementing not only regular delivery schedule, reducing costs, and consequently supporting them 5. To keep working to improve consistently, and not be satisfied with only the current output and outcome. volunteering works but also One & One Support activities including to successfully complete this project. 6. Make decision making based on data and information analysis water facility development to support long-cherished desires of local 7. Pursuit win-win growth with suppliers and create shared value residents. In 2013, volunteering activities were held on 80 occasions, 8. Fulfill all requirements specified in the ISO 9001 guideline alongside providing financial support amounting to 80,000 BRL (KRW 36 million). We also delivered free medical services in collaboration with volunteers from the Korean Welfare Medical Association in Brazil, supporting residents who lack health benefits, around the project site. Interview In addition, our employees are regularly involved in cleaning up areas “We have been making a concerted effort to manage risks from the where many Koreans reside, which helps raise favorable public awareness early stage of the project. Such experience is expected to provide a firm towards foreigners in Brazil. foundation in doing business and implementing projects in Brazil in the Director of POSCO E&C Brazil, future” 3rd PDR meeting Tae-Hwa Jung Quality Management Focused Area 6 We experienced difficulties in customs procedure of offshore materials, HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), and localization in early stage Compliance with the ISO 9001 of the CSP project. There were also managerial risks due to incomplete procurement, accounting, and cost control systems. We have been The Brazil CSP Business Unit established a quality management plan in overcoming these risks and difficulties by consulting with local experts and establishing the ERP system for finance and accounting. Through compliance with the ISO 9001 and encourages all employees to execute this experience, we classified risk factors that may occur when implementing projects in Brazil and systematically put it all together as a construction, analysis, and improvement activities based on the plan database. We expect that this will increase our competitive advantage in winning new orders and conducting projects in Brazil in the future. In in order to ensure high quality beyond customer satisfaction. POSCO view of the importance of the CSP project, POSCO E&C Brazil will do its best to successfully complete the first phase construction by the end of Volunteer service based on sisterhood relationship – developing wells E&C and its business partners appoint quality control managers and 2014.Thereafter, by capitalizing on experiences and knowhow in the project, we will expand our horizon to thermal/hydro/wind/solar power they engage in quality monitoring and monthly autonomous quality plants, mine and infra development projects. Supply Chain Focused Area 5 improvement activities by using the 3-step quality management system. In addition, we share quality trend analysis materials including best Securing Local Business Partners practices for construction with all workers and employees in the CSP With the progress of the CSP project, collaboration with local business project site to ensure higher quality. partners has been increased. POSCO E&C is implementing the PDR (Programa Desenvolvimento Regional, Local Development Program) with local business partners involved in this project with the support of CSP and Ceara government. This program was prepared to secure local business partners and establish a firm cooperative relationship with them, which has helped us find local business partners efficiently from the early stages of this project. As of the end of 2013, we have secured information on about 860 business partners by sourcing local companies in the fields of consulting, subcontract, material and equipment supply, environmental waste treatment, accommodation, and food supply. In addition, we have held the business meeting thrice Quality management activity to help Korean business partner companies which are performing the Creating Future Value and Promoting 24 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 25 Employees Focused Area 3 Local Community Focused Area 4 Recruitment and Cultivation of Local Workers Social Contribution Activities We use a variety of activities such as cooperation with universities in Since the entrance into Vietnamese market in 1995, POSCO E&C has Vietnam to recruit skilled local talents. When recruiting new local workers, been involved in various social contribution activities under the slogan we provide them with specific works and entry-level training programs of “5 themes CSR Activity” to become a company that is loved by local to grow into skilled workers the company expects. Every employee in people. The 5 themes are as follows; 1) Scholarship for students in need, 2) Vietnam is also provided with strategic and systematic training programs Housing for the underprivileged, 3) Medical and life support for victims for their jobs and self-development. of defoliant, 4) Operating the Welding Training School, and 5) Providing medical services. We spend approximately 4,000 hours per year for volunteer services for local communities. These activities have been highly recognized and led us to select as the best CSR Company by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Korea in 2011 and 2013. [ Location: Northern Vietnam Beginning: July 2009 Completion: June 2014 Ordered by: VEC ] [ Noi Bai – Lao Cai Highway Construction in Vietnam ] Vietnam Environment Focused Area 1 Onsite Environmental Management POSCO E&C encourages every site worker to raise awareness of environmental attitudes and behaviors at project sites. As part of Training for new employees Percentage of Percentage of local Wage level* this, every Saturday is named Environment Day , where site workers local purchasing employment 79 % 82 % 263 % including subcontractors participate in cleaning up and arranging HR Development Program the project site before works. The event helps them realize the Classification Details importance of environmental management in every function of our Global Competence Volunteer medical service in Vietnam Understanding and learning local languages and culture projects and prevent any environmental problem. In addition, our Enhancement Course * Compared to local legal minimum wage for entry-level male workers onsite environmental management capability has been enhanced by Onsite Manager Offering training on leadership, expertise, and global business Cultural Exchange Activities Course competence to onsite managers establishing and operating waste and wastewater control systems and POSCO E&C’s college student volunteers, the Happy Builder, visited Next-generation regularly measuring environmental level. Providing leaders with training on leadership and their roles the culture center located in Dong Nai to introduce various aspects Leadership Course Mentoring system to help new employees acquire corporate of Korean culture with 1,100 local residents. They presented K-pop New Employee With extensive experience in Vietnam over the past 20 Safety values and improve job performance and adapt to performances, shared Korean food, and introduced Hanbok (Korean Focused Area 2 Course organizational culture years, POSCO E&C has successfully completed the highway traditional clothing) and cultural plays such as Chegichagi. Local students Job Specialty Providing employees with systematic job training, taking into project that connects Noi Bai near Hanoi and Lao Cai, Onsite Safety Management Enhancement Course consideration the characteristics of each region and project site and cultural arts team also played their cultural performances such as We make a concerted effort to prevent any accident and create a safe Vietnamese traditional martial arts. This event served as a momentum for nearby border line of Vietnam and China. This highway is working environment for local workers as well as to ensure project qualunderstanding the culture of each other. expected to contribute to activating the logistics industry ity and schedule in Vietnam. It is crucial that all employees including reIntroduction of the MBO System in the northern area of Vietnam and trading business sponsible managers and employees of business partners come together POSCO E&C is promoting the “Glocalization” policy to achieve the Support for Defoliant Patients with neighboring countries such as China. We believe to ensure safety. Our executive provides training on HSE to all employees globalization and localization at the same time. As part of this, we POSCO E&C provided support for local defoliant patients in collaboration that in addition to this project, various infra development on a quarterly basis and regularly promotes safety work campaigns introduced the MBO (Management by Objectives) system to implement with Inha University Hospital and Medical and Pharmaceutical projects such as Ho Chi Minh-Dau Giay highway and and rewards to inspire them with the awareness of safety. To respond to fair evaluation and compensation for local employees. This system Association of Incheon of Korea. The medical volunteering team offered Me Linh roadway, steel plant construction and urban increasing demands for safety from our clients and other local foreign contributed to enhancing work efficiency by helping local employees various medical checkup services to them and, in particular, delivered companies, we obtained the ISO 9001 and OHSAS18001 certifications, obviously recognized their personal objectives and check and manage medical equipment such as wheel chairs to the patients with poor development projects are contributing significantly to both internationally recognized audit qualifications for safety manageperformances. Compensation for achieving objective also afforded mobility. We also helped poor patients relocate to better housing and the economic growth of Vietnam. POSCO E&C is receiving ment. POSCO E&C is always taking a step forward to advance its safety great satisfaction to them. Consequently, POSCO E&C’s advanced HR donated clothes to children of their family members. high recognition for its quality and transparent project site management and promote a safe working culture. management system has been a catalyst for increasing both work operation from the Vietnamese government, clients and efficiency and employee satisfaction. local business partners. Creating Future Value and Promoting 26 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 27 Safety Focused Area 2 Onsite Safety Management We are putting in every effort to promote the safety of all workers at the Cochrane project site by following the Safety Management Policy we have established. We establish a safety management policy and make all client and business partner workers in the project site comply with the policy. In extreme cases, we eliminate workers from the project site if they refuse to take action under the policy. We also created an emergency shelter near the project site and evacuation route close to the accommodation of workers to minimize any impact that may occur from natural disasters such as earthquake and tsunami. [ Location: Antofagasta, Chile Beginning: May 2012 Completion: April 2015 Ordered by: AES ] [ Cochran Coal-fired Power Plant Project in Chile ] Chile Environment Focused Area 1 Onsite Environmental Management Delivery of relief to the victims of forest fire damage in Chile A wide range of environmental activities are carried out in the Cochrane project site, which include managing fine dust and waste, preventing Percentage of Percentage of local Wage level* soil pollution and measuring marine condition. To minimize fine dust, local purchasing employment welfare activities such as supporting local residents who are in need 51 % 71 % 488 % we enforced speed limits for moving equipment and vehicles within the of surgery expenses, and constructing an artificial football field for the project site. We also operate roofed dump trucks and intensively sprinkle Emergency exit map at the Cochrane project site community. A total of USD 13,000 was donated for these activities. water on excavation areas. To avoid soil pollution, we limit installation of * Compared to local legal minimum wage for entry-level male workers oil tanks, and provide fuel for vehicles and equipment only at designated Employees Focused Area 3 Quality Management Focused Area 5 areas, through a tank lorry. We also observe changes in marine conditions through frequent monitoring by a certified organization. Furthermore, Forming Relationship with Local Employees Onsite Quality Management we observe physical and chemical impact associated with coastal POSCO E&C is striving to build a firm relationship with local employees. We are pursuing win-win growth with clients in the Cochrane project drilling through daily monitoring. Recyclable wastes are provided to the We communicate with them within small teams every month and at the site through customer focused strategy and onsite quality management. neighboring areas where they can be efficiently used. end of the year, we unite all the workers together at an Annual Gathering. We focus on reviewing quality standards for high customer satisfaction On Chile’s Independence Day, gifts and travel expenses are offered and such quality management activities are eventually helping to bring Biodiversity Protection to them. We try to understand the local culture and promote active about a positive impact on cost reduction and process enhancement. POSCO E&C has collaborated with related organizations and associations communication with local employees to reduce any risk that may occur In one case, our client required us to change the concrete strength since the start of the Cochrane project to monitor the ecosystem and between the local workforce and the management team and achieve the standard from 25 Mpa to 35 Mpa for the Cochrane project site. We tested The Cochrane project is POSCO E&C’s fourth project protect endangered species around the project site. Before starting synergy effect. the durability of the 35Mpa concrete through ASTMC 1202 international executed in Chile following the Ventanas, Angamos, and the project, we analyzed the abundance period and population of standard testing before using the new concrete. Eventually, this change Campiche projects. Its aim is to construct a coal thermal endangered birds, particularly in Gaviotin, in order to take corrective Local Community Focused Area 4 allowed us to reduce the cost of the concrete used for seawater power generation plant to supply power in the mine measures to protect them. Every year from August to February, which construction structures while guaranteeing product quality to our client. area of northern Chile. With our prior knowledge and is the period of greatest abundance of Gaviotin, we train all workers, to Social Contribution Activities We put in great efforts to support the Valparaiso region, Chile’s experience in Chile, we are efficiently managing various promote the importance of protecting biodiversity. UNESCO cultural heritage site which was severely damaged by a risks in terms of local regulations, safety, environment, fire, leaving lots of people homeless and in despair, by providing labor conditions, and quality control that may occur in $8,000 worth of relief supplies for the community in the region. Chile the course of project implementation. We will successfully has a high social inequality rate, and Mejillone, where POSCO E&C carry out this project so that we build a firm reputation in has a project site, is one of the regions where the gap between the Latin America and secure a sustainable growth engine. rich and the poor is high. To contribute to promoting community welfare in Mejillone, POSCO E&C is engaged in various community Creating Future Value and Promoting 28 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 29 Creating Future Value and Pursuing Profitability Product Competitiveness 30 Innovation and Financial Soundness 36 CAREC A380 expressway project site in Uzbekistan Creating Future Value and Promoting 30 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 31 Product Competitiveness POSCO E&C is ever determined to deliver the best products to its customers to stay ahead of the industry. To achieve this, we have built a mid to longKey Activities and Performances Number of Quality Improvement Activities (Unit: cases) term strategy to accurately identify the level of quality and enhance the maturity of quality management. Development of breakthrough and pioneering technologies for future businesses is also being promoted. Customer Inside 2H 2012 1,145 1H 2013 2,424 POSCO E&C promotes quality improvement activities that stress the 2H 2013 3,376 Major Stakeholders autonomy of each project site to reduce customer complaints and even adopt customers’ potential needs. Society Number of Quality Improvement Activities by Business Autonomous Quality EnvironBusiness Improvement R&D Investment Cumulative Patents Major Performances ment Partners Regular Quality Diagnosis System at Project Sites Plant Energy in 2013 5,800 cases KRW 67 billion 327 units Employees Investors We run a quality diagnosis system frequently in every project site to secure global standard quality management and improve construction Customers quality. This system is used for evaluating the level of construction quality 790 and any nonconformance are improved through corrective measures. We also use this system to quantitatively measure the adequacy of quality 1,242 cases cases Key Issues for Product Price competitiveness had been a significant element to secure competitive advantage in the construction Competitiveness action plan, inspection test management based on the plan, construction industry for many years. However, today, product competitiveness beyond competitors assures corporate survival. Architecture Civil & Environment quality level, participation in quality improvement activity, and Enhancing product competitiveness is not a choice but an essential factor for POSCO E&C, as the company is World-class quality management inspection on seasonally insufficient construction process management. gradually expanding the proportion of overseas business to develop new growth engines. Reinforcement of R&D competence Feedbacks on insufficiencies identified through the system and solutions are regularly reported to project sites for better quality improvement. Best-in-Class Quality through Quality Management We also reward project sites with excellent evaluation results to inspire 1,260 cases 2,508 cases employees to participate in quality management activities. Direction and System Basic Inside POSCO E&C delivers proactive quality management rather than taking a reactive stance. We believe that this can We are increasing our quality standard by following the basic principles create increased value for our customers and go beyond customers’ expectations. Three core values are the drivers and implementing standardized quality management systems to prevent of our quality management: Customer Inside, Basic Inside and, Synergy Inside, as shown below. We will achieve any quality gaps between projects. our vision of the “2020 Global Top 10 E&C Company” by enhancing the maturity of quality management based on three core values and consequently secure higher product competitiveness. In addition, we will establish a globalStandard Document System level quality management system through mid to long-term quality management strategy and concrete action The standard document system based on the ISO 9001 standard serves plans. as a basic infrastructure of our quality management system, which contributes to eliminating waste and deviation and finally upgrading work Vision 2020 Global Top 10 E&C Company Operation of regular quality inspection at project sites efficiency. Standard documents are categorized into three levels; manual, process and guidelines as shown below. Around 2,100 species of standard Autonomous Quality Improvement documents are stored on the standard document system that can be Goal Maturity of Quality Management* 850 points (in 2014)  900 points (in 2016) Our project sites implement autonomous quality improvement accessible anywhere the internet is available. We update the documents activities. When discovering defects during the construction via internal evaluation every year for better utilization of this system. Core Value Customer Inside Basic Inside Synergy Inside process, any project site suspends operations and makes the nonconformance report. And then, those defects are corrected Standard Document System Creating customer value by Eliminating variability and waste by Pursuing win-win growth with Code of extending our understanding to emphasizing fundamentals supply chain based on trust and according to corrective action plans and in-depth analysis is conducted Conduct Quality principles and requirements of the ISO 9001 potential needs of customers and principles communication to prevent reoccurrences of similar cases. We gather information on Lv. 1 Manual : 3 manuals for quality/safety/environment management nonconformance at all project sites in the NCR database system for Korean Standard-Quality Win-win Growth Index Performance Quality Maturity Company-wide work processes and standards Excellence Index Excellent rating for four years integrated management and analyze the trend on a regular base. Based in 2013 30% in Q-HSE Work Diet Lv. 2 Process : ‌1,030 items for management planning/support/business No. 1 for five years in a row in a row on this analysis, we establish preventive measures and provide training planning/operation Goals from Korean Standard-Quality Quality Maturity Win-win Growth Index accordingly to employees at each different project site. Technology standard and management guidelines for each 2014 through Excellence Index Holding the top place in Holding the top place in Lv. 3 Guideline business 2016 Maintaining No. 1 position the industry the industry : 1,070 items for architecture/civil/plant/energy/others * Maturity of quality management: Result of the evaluation on quality management effectiveness of the POSCO Family * Please refer to the supply chain section on page 72 for more details of Synergy Inside. Creating Future Value and Promoting 32 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 33 Quality Management of Overseas Projects Future Plans Enhancement of Profitability and Enhancing Technical Support for Projects POSCO E&C satisfies requirements and quality standards of clients in POSCO E&C completed the cQSS (construction Quick Six Sigma) both domestic and overseas projects through standardized quality POSCO E&C aims to secure global-level quality management capacity Technology Capacity through R&D integration system throughout all processes of our projects. We built a and to meet various quality requirements of our clients. In all the management process. We acknowledge that quality management is the database on technical support that can be of assistance and utilization key to the success of overseas projects. Thus, we review and monitor our stages of our overseas projects, we will establish an integrated quality Direction and System when implementing similar projects. We have acquired certification management system and nurture experts to acquire certifications in the project quality by following various international standards including POSCO E&C aims to strengthen technological power for new product for new technologies and eco-friendly green technologies to apply in areas of quality management, including IRCA, CWI and ASME. the ISO9001. The standardized quality control helps to reduce costs and development and secure profitability. To this end, we set up the strategic various projects. These certified technologies will provide a foundation * IRCA: International Register of Certificated Auditors shorten construction periods. In case of the R combined cycle power directions of securing core technologies, enhancing supports for projects, for winning projects, leading POSCO E&C to secure higher profitability. In * CWI: Certified Welding Inspector plant project in Israel, we succeeded in meeting the quality standard * ASME: American Society of Mechanical Engineers and expanding R&D infrastructure based on global technological trend 2013, 314 technical supports were provided to 94 projects in the plant, required by the client despite the poor infrastructure and business and management strategy. We will push ahead with systematic R&D civil engineering and architecture sectors. Those included technical environment in the Middle East, by allocating skilled human resources Quality Management Results and Plans activities by establishing mid to long-term technology master plan and supports for stress, transformation and analysis of heat flow for plant appropriately and conducting the project in compliance with global TRM (Technical Road Map) based on globally competitive steel plant sector, ground bed, structure, materials and port for civil engineering Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 standards in quality management. engineering capabilities. sector, and noise, vibration, air quality and structure for architecture sector. Diagnosis on quality Points 674.7 782.3 802.6 850 management of POSCO Family Number of IRCAs (cumulative) Persons 11 11 16 R&D Management System Expanding R&D Infrastructure * ‌16 IRCAs are those who completed relevant training. Approximately 10 persons are We have established a foundation for sharing information and advancedplanning to obtain the certification in 2014. “Focus on strengthening technological competitiveness and technology cooperation by making use of global R&D branches located profitability to become one of global top 10 E&C companies” in the US and Germany. Technical partnership has been signed with Fugro Consultant (U.S.) on marine/energy plant ground technology and Case Study with PHI (Germany) on zero energy. We also inspire creative R&D activities by providing TRIZ advanced education to R&D professionals. We are Global Q-HSE Procedure and ITP Standardization promoting the construction of an R&D facility in Chungju and utilizing Securing core Enhancing technology for Expanding R&D the POSCO Green Building for establishing an eco-friendly building POSCO E&C has standardized documents for construction process and ITP (Inspection & Test Plan) to maintain consistent quality level and technical support future business infrastructure prevent any miscommunication that may occur due to unstandardized documents from various overseas projects. As a result, construction for projects monitoring system. growth process and standards, role and responsibility of workers, and work descriptions are recorded in standardized forms, which facilitate efficient communication. In this way, we are able to maintain the quality level, by planning the witness point and required inspection items, and by • ‌Securing core technologies • ‌Expanding technical • ‌Establishing global R&D Performances standardizing ITP which needs approval by the client. This standardization allows us to reduce the occurrence of unnecessary costs as well as for the PEPCOM system by support for entire project R&D networks 2020 processes Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 ensure high quality of our projects around the world. • ‌Enhancing R&D • ‌Fostering in-house • ‌Developing new capabilities R&D investment KRW in billions 42.0 60.8 67.0 * Witness point: A working point where a supervisor wants to inspect engineering capabilities technology and • ‌Expanding R&D Certification of new environmental and Cases 2 8 7 • ‌Expanding technical tie-up construction method and facilities green technology Procedure Procedure & ITP in English applying them to project R&D specialist Persons 63 64 59 with the POSCO Family ▶ Procedure ▶ ITP (Inspection & Test Plan) sites Classification Quality Safety & Health Environment Total Kinds 112 36 15 163 Future Plans Key Activities and Performances ITP POSCO E&C’s R&D center will secure core technologies for future Securing Core Technology for Future Growth Businesses growth business through developing 17 core product technologies and Classification Common Machinery Electricity Civil ArchitecTotal ture To secure core technology for future growth businesses, we have promoting technical collaboration with the POSCO Family. Other plans Kinds 6 8 12 4 1 31 been increasingly participating in government-led R&D projects. We include practically applying R&D results to project sites and establishing are developing new ferroalloy manufacturing technology in the steel a global technical assistance system for profitability enhancement. business and offshore wind turbine technology and CO2 capture Technical tie-up and joint research with leading global companies will be facilities in the energy business. We also aim to own design technology also promoted to expand our global network. for skyscrapers of more than a hundred stories for the purpose of strengthening proprietary engineering capacities. In addition, the company plans to reinforce activities for the POSCO Family Technology Strategy Conference System at the group level. Creating Future Value and Promoting 34 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 35 R&D Performances Embedded Rail Track System for Wireless Low-floor Trams Improved Discharge Structure Reducing Sticky Bubble at Coal-fired Power Plant Railway Coal-fired POSCO E&C developed the embedded rail track system which was designated as new innovative technology in the Power Plant Sticky Bubbles are created inside the discharge system at power plant which uses seawater as coolant. These phenomena transportation sector for the first time in the construction industry, and is in the middle of developing eco-friendly railway may cause to lessen discharge efficiency and increase Operating and Maintenance cost. To solve this problem, POSCO E&C infrastructure engineering technology. As embedded rail tracks are constructed mainly in urbanized areas, this system developed two types of discharge system, which are standard flat type and high elevation type according to apply to local requires stricter standards for noise and vibration as well as high insulation technology. To this end, we developed the terrain. The standard flat type features sluice gate and drainage pipe at the bottom those easily control the water level system that fixes rail on cast-in-place slabs with synthetic resins. The materials for the upper track can be varied and flexibly inside and protect bubbles to leak out to the sea. The high elevation type that intend to used for coping with elevation used depending on the purpose. This system can also be applied to busy roads that need reduction in noise, vibration and making bubble problem worse can simplify the discharge system by decreasing high energy head. This type that might maintenance cost. Currently, a one kilometer-long rail track has been successfully completed as a pilot project to verify the be rarely applied but developed to overcome handicaps of terrain is designed which is chosen for construction. By using performance of the wireless low-floor trams and the embedded rail track system. these technologies, PO-HANG byproduct-gas CCPP-combined cycle power plant, site can reduce not only capital cost, but * ‌Tram: an eco-friendly transportation system that is useful for handicapped users, which can be one of the alternatives to light railway which causes O&M cost and get a high efficiency on their discharge system. low-emissions Submerged weir (Breaker) Rising head water wall Pipe for underwater discharge Flatland type drainage structure Drop type drainage structure Embedded rail track system for wireless low-floor trams Sea-water Desalination Process Brand Technology Concrete Manufacturing Technology Utilizing Slag Water Architecture Nearly KRW 4 billion has been invested to secure We succeeded in developing eco-friendly concrete sea-water desalination process technology and we manufacturing technology that recycles industrial currently operate five technology testing facilities waste created from steel-making processes. This with a total capacity of 1,100 tons a day (as of reverse technology reduces the amount of cement used, osmosis method) in testing centers located in Udo, leading to carbon emission cut. Using the blast Jeju, and in Gwangyang steel plant complex. The furnace slag from steel plants, we could maintain our technology is optimized for sea-water desalination product quality, while cutting CO₂ emission by 30 %. process management. It is also eco-friendly and We applied it to plant and civil engineering project energy-saving technology to efficiently control core site in Gwangyang such as SNG (Synthetic Natural Gas) equipment including MF filter, RO filter, pressure project, high strength steel project and seven natural pump, and energy recovery device. It can reduce Sea-water desalination project site in Gwangysng coke raw material dock project. Using the blast furnace Project site to apply slag concrete approximately 50 % of membrane pollution and slag, we could increase the initial strength of concrete, power consumption by lengthening the filtering cycle. Moreover, this technology extends the lifespan of filters through which shortened the construction period and led to cost reduction. our patented maintenance cleaning technique and reduces the amount of chemicals used, reducing the overall operating expenses. Creating Future Value and Promoting 36 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 37 Innovation and Financial Soundness POSCO E&C has been active in strengthening corporate competitiveness by pursuing management innovation and a stable financial structure. We will Major Innovation Tool for the Enhancement of Establishing and Improving Global Leading Work Process Our Fundamental Competitiveness continue to enhance our fundamental capabilities through innovation and focus on winning profitable projects based on in-depth market analysis and As the process has been complicated and management scope has Onsite feasibility study. Financial soundness will be also improved by strictly managing debt-to-equity ratio. Tasks to achieve strategic goals expanded due to increasing number of new business and overseas innovation (D+ & Mega-Y) (cQSS) branches, the necessity of preemptive risk management also has Strategy/ increased, and therefore we promoted improving business process. Major Stakeholders Sales/Orders Engineering Procurement Construction Planning In 2013, through quarterly management diagnosis, we conducted Society Management diagnosis and process improvement (PO) Mega-Y 37 process improvement procedures in four areas of strengthening Credit Rating EnvironBusiness Development of new growth engines (BI) Major Performances Innovation Task Cost Reduction ment Partners overseas business execution capabilities, upgrading the utilization Baa3 Stable in 2013 85tasks KRW 387.1billion (Moody’s, March 2014) Employees Investors Innovation Activities to Achieve Strategic Goals system of global engineering centers, increasing profitability of the civil and environment business and securing new growth engines, and raising Customers Innovative activities to achieve mid-term strategy and future goals are actual utilization of R&D. These activities have significantly contributed categorized into strategy execution activities and Mega-Y activities. In to the enhancement of profitability. In 2014, we plan to conduct business 2013, we drew a total of 187 innovation activities by breaking down middiagnosis on company-wide strategies such as expanding overseas Key Issues for Innovation and Currently, every company including POSCO E&C is looking to divert risks into opportunities to overcome uncertain Financial Soundness term strategies of each business division. Process and performance of orders, reinforcing execution compentency for PLC (Project Life Cycle), business environments at home and abroad. Along with business innovation with constant changes, financial these innovation activities are managed and monitored through the and securing financial soundness, and apply them into practical business soundness for stable operation of business is vital in the crisis. Enhancement of corporate ‘i-sharp’ system to improve the execution capability. We also divided the performance. competitiveness through innovation company-wide Mega-Y activities of 2013 into PLC (Project Life Cycle), Development of new growth engines Enhancement of Corporate Competitiveness E&C, and procurement sectors to implement more efficiently. As a result, Ownership Combining based on through Innovation we accomplished KRW 387.1 billion worth of cost reduction through 85 Ownership Spirit Financial structure management activities for improving profitability. for stable growth POSCO E&C provide all employees with institutional supports and trainings to encourage them to promote innovation with ownership Direction and System Cost Reduction Results (Unit: KRW in billions) spirit, and eliminate waste in day-to-day works. In 2013, POSCO E&C announced ‘innovative management’ to preemptively respond to risks and prepare a new 2011 314.6 leap, and reestablished three strategic directions for innovation; Together, Ownership and Performing. These are 2012 365.7 Enhancement of infrastructure capabilities for innovation comprised of detailed innovation tasks such as improving fundamental competitiveness, proactively reducing 2013 387.1 For more efficient innovation activities, we classify innovation workforces waste, raising ownership spirit and activating process innovation. Specialists in innovation who have been into three categories; innovation master, innovation leader, and task nurtured since 2010 are at the front of implementing various innovation activities throughout the company. leader. We continuously provide opportunities for creative thinking Onsite Innovation Activities and promote innovation activities, so that they can enhance their core The cQSS to manage the 5 KPIs (cost, safety, environment, quality, capabilities and problem solving abilities. These internal activities and process) at project sites is POSCO E&C’s unique onsite innovation Improving Combining reinforce the infrastructure needed for continuously implementing Operating Strict brand and the standardized cQSS has been applied to all domestic and Fundamental based on Practice System innovation activities throughout our business areas. Competitiveness Ownership Spirit Performing overseas project sites. Through field technical support, one of cQSS Together Ownership activities, we identified 95 items for cost-saving and prevented 150 risk Fostering Innovation Experts (Unit: persons) • ‌Strategy achievements and • E‌ nhancement of • E‌ stablishment of a world-class PLC factors for construction, thereby reducing expense worth about KRW 78 performance-oriented tasks infrastructure capabilities for platform billion. We plan to apply the cQSS to all construction risk management Task Leader Innovation Leader Innovation Master • ‌Establishment of world-class advanced innovation •C ‌ reation of a smart workplace processes • E‌ xtreme efforts to reduce processes to deliver practical support at each project site. 651 532 • ‌Prevention of construction risks waste 81 46 Developing New Growth Engines 54 8 POSCO E&C is executing BI (Breakthrough Innovation) activities to Together – Improving Fundamental Competitiveness develop future growth businesses by capitalizing on innovative POSCO E&C is implementing innovation in every aspect of our business operation and management, which ideas embracing product, technology, and process. Every employee 2013 Total 2013 Total 2013 Total contributes to reducing costs, cultivating new growth engines, managing risks, and consequently enhancing participates in developing innovative ideas for profit creation and * ‌Task Leader: Conducting tasks, Innovation Leader: Responsible for innovation of the fundamental competitiveness of our company. completing marketability assessment and business model development Group and project sites, Innovation Master: Responsible for innovation of each division through advices from diverse experts, which contribute to creating new and department corporate value. In 2013, a total of 66 BI ideas were developed, and two of them are in preparation for real business. Creating Future Value and Promoting 38 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 39 Extreme Efforts to Reduce Waste SWP (Smart Workplace) Workflow PI (Process Innovation) Implementation Secure Financial Soundness and POSCO E&C inspires all employees to reduce waste during their dayTo establish a world-class PLC (Project Life Cycle) management platform, to-day works while improving their productivity and maximizing TMS Area POSCO E&C drew up an action plan in July 2011. It started the operation Raise Corporate Value (Work Management) Enrollment performance. In 2013, we defined 3 waste elements that were frequent in July 2013 after going through all stages of basic and detailed system in office works and conducted a total of 251 improvement activities to Performance Beginning of design, construction and testing, and stabilization. System construction Key Activities and Performances evaluation work eliminate them, which saved around 7,800 working hours. was intended to support the five core areas of PLC: order marketing, Increasing High-quality New Orders “CMS Area business management, management support (finance, capital, operation, Risk management in the construction industry has been mainly centered Performing – Operating Strict Practice System Creativity (Collaboration Tool)” Execution of and HR), overseas subsidiaries and decision making by the management. on projects. Currently, the LSTK (Lump Sum Turn Key) base project has and Joint Documentation, innovation Video Conference, and work Over the two years, we restructured company-wide core processes to The execution ability is essential for embedding innovation activities in become mainstream, in which the contractor is responsible for a range Messenger maximize work efficiency, concentration and performance. At POSCO our business. We are making efforts to internalize innovation activities in of activities including engineering, procurement, and construction. In E&C, we focus on performance oriented working environment rather the daily work schedule of our employees by establishing the innovation Search and Completion this situation, the contract price is decided in advance. Thus, this can learning of work than extensive working hours in the office and thus, provide a flexible execution system. result in high profit or big loss depending on the market situation or the Sharing of working environment. knowledge capabilities of the contractor. POSCO E&C manages profit ratio through IMS Area KSI Area (Knowledge Creation of a Smart Workplace (Creativity Activity) Management) strict risk management considering the scale, profitability, guarantee A global-level work support infrastructure was established by on project financing, and local business conditions. In addition, we Global introducing the SWP (Smart Workplace) system that can ensure creative • TMS (Task Management System): Help conduct fact-oriented coaching and feedback implement risk evaluation prior to starting a project and at each project productivity and stronger power of execution as well as remove waste by checking and managing each employee’s tasks on the basis of data stage. We will continue to strive to win high-quality orders by operating a • CMS (Collaboration Management System): Support productivity improvement by flexible risk management process. elements through integration, communication, and collaboration. encouraging collaborative works such as video conference and joint documentation 3 Directions to among employees Promote PI • KSI (Knowledge Sharing & Insight): Encourage employees to share and converge their Integration & Enhancing Balance Sheet Management Smart knowledge acquired through work and learning activities Connectivity For long-term corporate management, creating financial soundness • IMS (Idea Management System): Assist in making employees’ ideas more is more important than managing revenue and net profit of the fiscal sophisticated through expert networking to create additional value for the company year. Therefore, POSCO E&C has been reinforcing non-resource financing Case Study 1. E‌ nhancing business activities to win new orders in the by selling real-estates and non-business purpose land and also has global market been reducing project financing (PF). As a result, we outperformed TESAL Methodology for Successful Implementation of BI (Breakthrough Innovation) 2. C‌ onsolidating risk response and project management leading competitors in the industry in terms of debt-to-equity ratio and abilities through the entire PLC operating margin as of the end of 2013. POSCO E&C introduced the TESAL (Target, Explore, Spark, Accelerate and Launch) methodology to develop new growth engines. It provides 3. S‌ trengthening estimate and budget management new approaches and adds new value beyond existing methods depending on individual insight. When we find new business opportunities, capabilities to secure cost competitiveness we build concrete business plans including business models, target markets, and profitability in accordance with the TESAL methodology with 9 Big 4. Upgrading ECP-based global business capabilities Upgrade in Global Credit Rating Pictures of PI 5. ‌Securing world’s top procurement competitiveness the support of experts from POSRI (POSCO Research Institute). In 2013, two ideas including the ‘Commercialization of Smart Water FO-RO, SeaAs we are expanding business in the global market, credit rating 6. R‌ einforcing responsible management in each division from global credit rating agencies has critical influences on sales and water Desalination Process Technology’ have been commercialized by using the TESAL methodology. Based on best practices of the TESAL and project methodology, we will continue to develop new businesses, markets, and products. marketing activities to win new orders. POSCO E&C has been rated by 7. ‌Promoting the globalization of financial and HR services 8. ‌Internalizing innovation and improving the way we work Moody’s, the global credit rating agency, and our credit rating has been BI Methodology Roadmap for the 5-Step TESAL Methodology 9. ‌Innovating IT platforms to support global business adjusted from Baa3 negative to Baa3 stable as of April 2014. This proves the soundness of our financial structure and increased corporate value Repetition Target Selecting subject areas to consistently creating innovative Repetition despite global recession. performances via choice and concentration Future plans Developing customer value enough for Diffusion Convergence Diffusion Convergence Diffusion Convergence Explore commercialization We will redefine four main issues of innovation activities considering internal and external business environment changes. We will strengthen Building creative and differentiated action plans through idea Spark fundamental competitiveness for developing sustainable future growth development methods Minimizing execution risk and maximizing business value by engines and open up new overseas markets targeting neighboring • ‌Implementing a repetitive process of ‘Diffusion’ that is for accepting various Accelerate systematically reviewing business feasibility and establishing countries where we already do business. Other focuses will be on points of view such as searching for new opportunities, groundbreaking ideas, strict action plans and ‘Convergence’ that is to classify, combine, select and embody them. innovating fundamental financial structure through profitability Establishing responsible organizations, setting goals at each • ‌Minimize risks of BI issues, at the same time, raising success factors by continuously Launch enhancement and improving management infrastructure to secure global stage of execution, and monitoring performances reviewing uncertainties through break down of processes into stages. leading project execution capabilities. Through these innovation activities, we will establish a substantial profit-oriented management system. Creating Future Value and Promoting 40 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 41 Special Story Enhancing Risk Management for Overseas Projects Health Checklist Overseas projects encounter various risks in terms of economic, social and environmental aspects by country and region. We focus on managing risks Sector Category Risk Factors (Example) that can occur at all levels of the PLC (Project Life Cycle) including quality, HSE, schedule, and financial administration. Risk factors in each stage of the PLC • ‌Country • ‌Were the licensing requirements, project schedule, and customs procedure for the construction examined? are defined, and these classified risks are managed through a system that we have established. In addition, we cultivated professionals who can look over • ‌Project site • ‌Was local infrastructure such as roads, electricity, and water supply reviewed? Common these risks in overseas project sites and established the PMO (Project Management Office) group/Oversea Project Support Team to manage overseas • ‌Project management • ‌Were performance risks such as low-priced facilities and plans for removal of workforce and equipment after completion considered? projects. In this way, we enhanced the system, organization, and human resources to control risks from overseas projects. • Local ‌ regulations • ‌Are the revisions of local HSE regulations updated and reviewed regularly? • Owner ‌ risk • ‌Were the matters to be approved by the owner for project execution reviewed? HSE • Project ‌ site • ‌Are safety and environment facilities meeting local regulations and owner’s requirements installed and operated? • Local ‌ condition • ‌Was the general price level of safety supplies for the establishment of safety control budget reviewed? • ‌Time management • ‌Were owner’s criteria (e.g. delay of 5% and above) and documents to be submitted in case of project delay, reviewed? Schedule • ‌Time plan • ‌Was local labor productivity (e.g. 50% level compared to the domestic technicians) considered? • ‌Time operation • ‌Were the kind of documents and the number of copies for submitting progress reports, reviewed? • ‌HR/Labor • ‌Was an emergency communication network with labor-related institutes (Ministry of Labor, Information Bureau, and PLC (Project Life Cycle) Risk Management • ‌Accounting/Tax Immigration Office) built? FA • ‌Materials and equipment, etc. • ‌Was document management, necessary for local tax investigation, conducted? We developed a manual checklist for all stages of the PLC including common issues, HSE, schedule, financial administration and quality, to proactively • ‌Were customs for local purchasing and relevant standards identified? respond to potential risks that may happen in a project. This checklist allows us to find potential risks, monitor these risks and take measures accordingly. • ‌Local regulations • ‌Was the staff engaging in quality inspection and services certified? Quality • ‌Project site management • ‌Were mandatory training implementation plans that can affect project execution drawn up? • ‌Owner risk • ‌Were the construction process and ITP (Inspection & Test Plan) for additional requirement tests, drawn? Risk Management Process Sales Contract Starting Construction Execution ~ Completion Building a Database for Risk Factors Risk management meeting Exclusive supports for a project Monitoring of Q-HSE and Integrated diagnosis on Q-HSE Risks factors identified in various overseas projects are gathered to build a database and it is updated on a regular basis. The database is categorized • ‌Reviewing ITB and RFP • ‌Reviewing whether to reflect initial process and proposing • ‌Integrated management of • ‌Identifying risks and build the identified risks in the countermeasures project issues and Q-HSE into project types and countries, which makes it easy and efficient to search for relevant risks when implementing a project. This database allows us to response plans contract issues manage risks from the beginning of any new project. Risk identification Estimate and reflection Proposing Additional risk in the contract countermeasures identification Major Activities and Performances * ‌ITB : Invitation to Bid RFP : Request for Proposal Health Checklist [Q-HSE] Country Report* Enrollment of Project Information Risk management process starts with identifying risks. At contract stage, we research potential risks that can happen in a particular country and also Identifying 591Risk Factors Completing Reports about 14 Countries Completing 3,155 Items in 2013 assess profitability of a project through intense risk management meetings. The PLC checklist for each stage allows us to analyze the possibility of • ‌Building the health checklist DB in the HSE 1,544 items field of Q-HSE Poland Uzbekistan certain risks happening, how serious these risks are and how they should be managed. These risks are analyzed to see how they should be managed Quality 1,069 items • ‌Enhancing capabilities to identify risks Israel and monitored during the project period. Selected key risks are discussed more intensively in meetings for each specific risk. After the completion China FA 483 items and preemptively respond to them Laos Mexico of each project, we share information on how we managed various risks and this information is kept as a database for use. In the case of the Nam Lik Vietnam Schedule 59 items Hydroelectric Power Plant project in Laos, we found 18 key potential risks through the PLC checklist. To respond to these risks, we took various kinds India Cambodia of action such as implementing the “Permit to Work” policy to prevent any delay in project schedule, purchasing local materials and examining local Indonesia Peru Brazil regulations considering certain country risks. To prevent any risks related to human resource, we provided one-on-one training and training materials on Australia Chile risk management to project site managers. * ‌Country information and local issue such as local regulations and labor environment in the field of Q-HSE which have to be reflected in initial execution of overseas projects Identification of Risk Factors POSCO E&C has identified risk factors that need to be commonly managed at overseas project sites to enhance the efficiency of risk management. A total Q-HSE Expert Program to Fostering Risk Management for Overseas Projects of 591 risk factors in 5 sectors were selected from overall project processes of common issue, HSE, construction, FA, and quality, as well as potential risk We cultivate experts for each area of Q-HSE as more advanced project management capabilities are needed due to enlargement and diversification factors in project support businesses including HR, labor, accounting and tax. of overseas projects. To provide employees with overseas management experiences, we are conducting diverse training courses with regard to best practices in overseas projects, global standards, and OJT at overseas project sites. Our employees are also able to experience various global working environments through job rotation system between the domestic and overseas project sites. Creating Future Value and Promoting 42 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 43 Promoting EHS Enhancement EHS: Environment, Health and Safety Eco-friendly Management 44 Response to Climate Change 50 Safety and Health at Project Sites 52 Songdo POSCO Green Building Creating Future Value and Promoting 44 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 45 Eco-friendly Management POSCO E&C is enthusiastically implementing eco-friendly management at all project sites. Together with employees and business partners, we are Key Activities and Performances promoting and applying appropriate systems, policies and culture to actively respond to diverse environmental regulations. We will continue to enhance our corporate value by growing eco-friendly businesses. Green Culture Eco-friendly Management Policy of the POSCO Family Major Stakeholders The POSCO Family has complied with its collective eco-friendly Society management policy established in 2010 to form a foundation for Environmental Autonomous The President’s EnvironBusiness sustainable growth. The policy reflects POSCO Family’s will to achieve Accident Environmental Prize at the 0 cases Major Performances Improvement Activities ment Partners sustainability management by solidifying environmental soundness in 2013 National Environment Award (Penalty above prosecution) 3,426 cases Employees Investors through constant environmental improvement, pollution prevention, law POEMS (POSCO E&C Environment Management System) Customers abidance, resource circulation society, and environmental technology development and application. System to Resolve Environmental Complaints At POSCO E&C, a system to resolve environmental complaints started Key Issues for Eco-friendly Environmental regulations are reinforced in line with increasing stakeholders’ interest in environmental issues. And Environmental Education for Employees and Business Partners Management in 2013 to support pleasant living and minimize harm from scattering eco-friendly management is now a part of the core elements in operating businesses. Eco-friendly technology also POSCO E&C educates employees at every project site to comply with dust within communities. We held meetings to deal with complaints provides a gateway to new value creation as well as competitiveness in cost control, quality, and project schedule environmental regulations. We provide not only competency training Development of eco-friendly with the Central Environmental Dispute Mediation Committee under the technologies (methods and materials) to the construction industry. annually, but also environmental education customized to different Ministry of Environment and share the need for systematic management managers. Employees appointed to overseas projects are provided Active response to of environmental complaints. We also strive to minimize environmental with education about local environmental risks and countermeasures environmental regulations Environmental Management and Performance Creation to support our overseas business to implement systematic eco-friendly impacts during construction and offer appropriate compensations for those that have occurred. External experts are involved in this system to management. We also provide educational videos to business partners Direction and System and receive their pledges towards eco-friendly management. boost the confidence of the public. Vision and Goals for Environmental Management Expanding GREENWALK Campaign Violation of Environmental Regulations Vision and Goals for Environmental Management POSCO E&C has set its eco-friendly management goal as The GREENWALK Campaign (walk, turn off, reduce, and collect) of Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 “promoting eco-friendly construction culture” under the vision of “Build the Green.” Based on the goal and the POSCO Family is contributing to promoting eco-friendly culture Non-monetary restriction Cases 14 10 8 vision, the company raises employees’ awareness of the environment and leads them to practice eco-friendly and raising employees’ awareness of the environment. On June 5, the management at all project sites by creating a “green culture.” We have also established the “green process” Environment Day, we extended the campaign to our business partners structure to upgrade the eco-friendly management system and propagate it throughout the entire supply chain. Developing Equipment to Control Environment and identified over 150% increase in visits to our GREENWALK website In addition, we are continuously striving to foster “green business” such as eco-friendly buildings and new and POSCO E&C conducts various activities to improve the environment of after the event, which showed a huge interest in the campaign and renewable energy in order to proactively respond to climate change and take the initiative in protecting the project sites. We developed cleaning equipment to effectively reduce environmental protection. global environment. scattering dust within project sites. We also held demonstrations for environment managers and related departments to introduce the Green Process equipment and demonstrate how to use it. Build the Green Construction that contributes to preserving global environment and reducing GHG emissions POEMS (POSCO E&C Environment Management System) We operate an eco-friendly management system optimized for the construction industry. Through the system, we set goals, understand regulations, establish plans and manage performance with regard to Establishing Green Culture Establishing of the Green Process Activation of Green Business eco-friendly management. This system also enables us to automatically • E‌ nvironmental education for employ• ‌Operation of eco-friendly management • ‌Enhancement of eco-friendly building collect and analyze environmental data for waste and greenhouse gases. ees and their pledge system and new and renewable energy busiWe will strive to minimize negative influences on local communities and •G ‌ REENWALK campaign of the POSCO • ‌Autonomous environmental improvenesses Family ment activities and support for resolv• ‌Enhancement of capabilities for lead effective use and recycling of energy and resources through precise • E‌ nvironment Day event and volunteer ing environmental complaints eco-friendly engineering and R&D analysis on environmental impact. activities for the local environment • ‌Supporting Business Partners’ Environ• ‌Retention of eco-friendly certifications mental Management and patent technologies Development of equipment to reduce scattering dust Creating Future Value and Promoting 46 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 47 Noise Management Green Business reducing over 20% of construction costs. It also ensures the same heat LEED Certification Status POSCO E&C is running parallel with equipment placement and workload insulation property with less material thickness and can be produced in Classification Project Certification Year Eco-friendly Design adjustment to minimize noise through a noise prediction simulation various colors, adding values to design and eco friendliness aspects. Songdo Convensia LEED Certified 2010 POSCO E&C encourages eco-friendly construction to cut down program at the initial phase of construction projects. Moreover, we Chadwick International School LEED Certified 2011 maintenance costs, create energy efficient housing and eco-friendly The Sharp Central Park I LEED Certified 2012 use movable air wall for soundproofing to create high quality sound space for the community. We reduce power consumption by a maximum Constructed by The Sharp Central Park II LEED Certified 2012 insulation and reduce noise source around the area. POSCO E&C of 10 % through standby power interception equipment. We also apply The Sharp Harborview I LEED Certified 2012 (8 projects) the HEMS (Home Energy Monitoring System) to setting energy goals and The Sharp Harborview II LEED Certified 2012 check real-time energy usage. In addition, we build eco-friendly spaces to The Sharp Green Avenue LEED Silver 2013 reduce temperature in urban areas. Songdo POSCO green building was POSCO Energy Future Energy Campus LEED Platinum 2012 Sheraton Incheon Hotel LEED Certified 2011 designed to secure the green area ratio of over 25% and Biotope*. This Developed by Songdo IBS Tower LEED Gold 2012 building is recognized as a futuristic building which is eco-friendly in all POSCO E&C Songdo Prugio Harborview LEED Certified 2012 construction processes from design to construction, maintenance, and (4 projects) Songdo Xi Harborview LEED Certified 2012 disposal. It also produces 35% of energy needed within the building and Development of rubber foam insulating material generates electricity of 280kw per hour. * ‌Biotope: ecosystem space for land and aquatic ecosystem with artificial and natural aids Korean Green Building Certification Status Eco-friendly Material – Poscrete for animals Project Certification Year Air wall for soundproofing We developed ‘Poscrete,’ carbon reduced super high strength concrete Cheonwang 2nd Construction Level Certification on Korean Green Building 2014 to minimize the amount of carbon emission and harmful substances Application of the CFT Methods to Structural Steel District Complex I Construction Level Certification on Energy Efficient Rating 2014 Autonomous Environmental Improvement Activities produced in construction processes. It was applied to ‘Seoul Forest The 3rd Esiapolis POSCO E&C developed CFT (Concrete Filled Tube) method, which is a Clean & Healthy Building Construction Standard 2011 We implement autonomous activities for environmental improvement, Sharp’, which reduced CO₂ emission by 12,000 tons. We are currently (Daegu, Korea) combination of high strength steel and super high strength concrete. to raise awareness of environmental policies and regulations and prevent expanding the application of this material to various projects including Construction Level Certification on Korean Green Building 2013 This method was applied to ‘The Sharp City Avenue’ located in Busan, Cheongna The Sharp Construction Level Certification on Energy Efficient Rating 2013 any environmental accident. We have selected ten environmental issues the POSCO Green Building, Park City in Yeonsan-dong, Busan, The Sharp Lake Park which reduced the consumption of steel by 70 % compared to existing Housing Performance Grading 2008 that can be easily violated at project sites and issued instructions to Master View and The Sharp GREENWALK 3 projects in Songdo. TOPDOWN method using H-steel, contributing to dramatically reducing Songdo POSCO take autonomous action to improve them. In 2013, a total of 3,426 items Construction Level Certification on Green Building 2013 the amount of carbon emission. This method was also applied to U Tower Green Building were improved, which exceeded the annual goal of 3,000 items. In 2014, Certification on Eco-friendly Materials in Suji and Wangsimni Redevelopment Project Site 3 in Seoul, which led we aim to attain 4,000 improvements to further raise the awareness of To create pleasant living spaces and raise the value of buildings, we are to cost reduction through shortening of the construction period. environment and prevent environmental accidents at project sites. putting in efforts to attain related green building certifications at home Future Plans and abroad. The Songdo POSCO Green Building received the highest class of green building certification for its energy and resource reduction POSCO E&C will strive to conduct autonomous environmental Performance and Target in Autonomous (Unit: cases) Environmental Improvement Activities techniques, eco-friendly material utilization, eco-friendly construction improvement activities to build a culture of eco-friendly construction. management without destroying the local ecosystem and for its We will reinforce environmental education and management 2013 3,426 application of renewable energy. POSCO E&C and Gale International are improvement and conduct eco-friendly R&D in order to increase product 2014 4,000 taking steps to acquire LEED certification for the projects developed in competitiveness. Constantly acquiring eco-friendly certifications will also Songdo. We use water saving technique that can cut water use by 20% contribute to environmentally-friendly business. Allocation of Environmental Managers for Overseas Projects and try to design and create more green and open spaces. Furthermore, To prevent environmental accidents in overseas projects, we established we create green and insulated rooftops for selected projects. As of the task system for effective environmental management by identifying each end of 2013, we acquired 12 LEED certifications in Songdo and plan to country’s environmental regulation and demands, from the process of Application of the CFT methods to structural steel attain 7 more including LEED-ND for Songdo complex. signing order to implementation. We appoint and place environmental Eco-friendly Material Rubber Foam Adiabatic Material managers at all overseas project sites and also educate employees to newly start works in overseas project sites about various environmental In July 2013, POSCO E&C developed rubber foam insulating material for risks such as violation of local regulations, waste treatment and extra a fire pump. We attained green technology certification (GT-13-0014) for costs in advance. this material, jointly with the SMEs that contributed to the development. We applied this material in constructing the POSCO Green Building and Legal Research Institute. The material has high resistance to heat and fire, Creating Future Value and Promoting 48 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 49 Eco-friendly Design and Technology Applied to the POSCO Green Building Strengthening Waste Waste and Wastewater Management System Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Wastewater discharge 365,854 292,683 276,897 Tons Waste generation 946,035 610,312 688,740 The POSCO Green Building is our experimental complex building in which 106 eco-friendly technologies have been applied. This building was a Direction and System Waste recycling rate % 53 76 73 preemptive response to the government policy to promote green buildings and create eco-friendly spaces, as a resolution to creating new demands and POSCO E&C strictly separates and manages wastes based on types Waste treatment expenses KRW in millions 16,201 81,916 11,841 businesses in our economy. The POSCO Green Building uses 52.5% less energy compared to other buildings constructed with general materials. of resources to be recycled. As a part of these efforts, we manage • Wastewater is entirely treated through wastewater treatment facilities. • 503,958 ‌ tons of waste out of 688,740 tons in 2013 was recycled and the remaining 9,974 waste through the resource circulation pilot project with the Ministry tons and 174,808 tons were incinerated and buried in landfill sites, respectively. There was of Environment. We are now developing various technologies for no recycling of waste to be buried in landfill sites. Integrated Design Process Design upcycling beyond just reuse of waste. In addition, during the process • ‌688,740 tons of waste in 2013 can be broken down to 240 tons of designated waste, 33,832 tons of onsite waste, and remaining construction waste, respectively. Concept The POSCO Green Building represents today’s cutting-edge eco-friendly building with innovative materials and of waste discharge, transportation and disposal at all domestic project technologies based on the integrated design process. This is a process encompassing the proposition of integrated sites, we register the amount of waste produced and disposed on the performance improvement plans and goals considering problems that can occur throughout the life cycle of a building Water and Recycled Water government’s ‘Allbaro System’ in real time. Based on data credibility and and continuous research and analysis of engineering plans to achieve them. relevant regulations, we also periodically analyze waste type and volume. Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Watersupply 725,943 617,051 675,248 We will thrive to be one of the leaders in waste recycling by restraining General Design Process Integrated Design Process Water Underground water 299,161 269,244 186,554 waste discharge and elevate recycling rate at all project sites. Tons consumption Recycled water 17,122 19,222 25,154 Project definition Operation strategy Monitoring Total consumption 1,042,226 905,517 886,956 Program review: Key Activities and Performances Percentage of recycled water use % 1.60 2.10 2.80 Planning design Construction strategy target and strategy Enhancing Waste Recycling Management Construction document, Schematic design Organizing a design team contract document Our waste management pursues the cycle of resources by focusing on Achievement Future Plans Design Selection of materials of design and Workshop for design recycling wastes from our project sites. We do not incinerate recyclable development performance targets wastes, but instead recycle them into usable materials. To this end, we are We plan to promote the upcycling of wastes beyond just recycling them Construction Mechanical Considering land document system design development issues strengthening the system that monitors waste separation at project sites. to utilize as fuel. We will strictly separate waste woods at project sites and Bidding/ Electricity and Finding and managing specialized companies in waste recycle is also utilize them for producing recycled wood board such as MDF* and PB* Conceptual design Negotiation lighting design instead of heat sources. promoted to support new project sites. Construction/ Surface design Structural design * MDF (Medium Density Fiberboard) Supervision Feed back ** ‌PB (Particle Board): Engineered wood product manufactured from wood chips, shavings, Waste Management in Overseas Project Sites or sawdust which are compressed and extruded at a high temperature and high In overseas project sites, we strictly manage storage, transportation pressure Eco-friendly Elements and Technologies Green and disposal of waste in compliance with local laws and regulations. In Building To improve the thermal insulation performance function of the building, we have applied various passive elements such case of the CSP integrated steel plant project site in Brazil, wastes are Case Study Technology as high insulation steel curtain wall, prefab outer wall system, and all-in-one external insulation panel. As a result, this has divided based on type and color for precise selection and separation. We reduced overall energy costs and GHG emissions of the building. We are increasing our positioning as an eco-friendly increased the efficiency of our waste management that can be visually company in the market by enhancing the utilization of new and renewable energy such as geothermal heat, photovoltaic, Agreement on Waste Resource Recycling Pilot Project checked. solar-heat and wind energy. We are at the forefront in recycling of various resources through using eco-friendly concrete In December 2013, POSCO E&C signed an agreement with the ‘poscrete’ made of blast-furnace slag, byproduct of steel. Ministry of Environment and Korea Wood Recycling Association Raw Materials to participate in a pilot project to prevent waste wood from Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 project sites to increase recycling practice and cut waste disposal Steel reinforcement 163,091 219,508 203,518 costs. According to this, we not only offer information on the Cement Tons 170,051 114,966 197,175 generation and recycling of waste wood at project sites, but Nonrenewable Ascon 100,832 187,722 166,600 also jointly promote the improvement of waste wood recycling raw materials Ready-mixed concrete 1,581,160 1,711,000 1,739,909 policies with the Ministry of Environment. Those policies include consumption Sand m 3 2,189,467 115,552 70,798 expanding free disposal areas of waste wood, activating recycling Gravel 6,574,584 138,077 70,151 of waste wood, and recognizing efforts to reduce carbon emission in case of recycling waste wood. POSCO Green Building Green wall Photovoltaic power generation Creating Future Value and Promoting 50 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 51 Response to Climate Change POSCO E&C was one of the eight construction companies to participate in a pilot project for the government’s GHG and Energy Target Management Key Activities and Performances Greenhouse Gas Emissions in 2013 System which was prepared to introduce the guideline of GHG calculation criteria and identify the system’s propriety and improvements before it Annual GHG Emissions (tCO2e) was officially conducted. During this period, we were able to enhance the internal data processing system for an efficient and completed verification Energy Saving of Construction Equipment Direct Indirect Other Indirect Workplace process of GHG emission quantity and calculation standard. We are currently putting in efforts to raise the awareness of response to climate change Emissions Emissions Emissions Total To enhance the management of construction equipment representing (Scope1) (Scope2) (Scope3) companywide by sharing best practices of energy saving and energy use reduction for construction equipment. the largest part of energy use in construction, we established a GHG and Major Stakeholders Songdo Office Building 860.164 4,902.770 5,762.929 energy management data processing system and revised guidelines Pohang Headquarters 325.533 353.511 679.044 Society for business partners. We investigate energy usage in construction Participating in Pohang ENG Center 246.513 526.471 772.984 Greenhouse Gas Energy the Pilot Project for EnvironBusiness equipment of business partners every month, and also plan to encourage Pohang Dormitory Major Performances Emissions Consumption Greenhouse Gas ment Partners 40.075 209.101 249.176 (Yanghak Town) in 2013 and Energy Target them to replace deteriorated equipment by comparing and analyzing 31,746 tCO 2 617TJ Management Employees Investors types and years and distribute manuals for energy reduction control to Pohang Steel Structure Plant Gwangyang Office 0.000 32.007 98.149 50.950 98.149 82.957 System Customers each project site. R&D Center 0.000 52.901 52.901 Domestic Project Sites 1 24,048.463 4,523.046 19,525.417 (76,370.244) Response to GHG Regulations of the Construction Industry (121 sites) 1 (100,418.707) Key Issues for Response to EU countries set goals to reduce GHG emission and energy use by 20 % and increase renewable energy use by Climate Change For more accurate GHG calculation and reduction, POSCO E&C 31,746.603 20 % until 2020 in the architecture business. The US also plans to develop and commercialize buildings that Total 6,027.338 25,719.265 76,370.244 1 (108,116.847) continuously updates computer systems for GHG management by can internally generate energy by 2025. In Korea, as the GHG and Energy Target Management System for the Air pollutant management establishing GHG inventory. In addition, we participated in pilot project ¹ Including Scope3 construction industry will take effect from 2014, climate change response which requires submitting GHG receipt * Total GHG emission intensity was 0.4988 tCO2e based on Scope 1 & 2 and domestic sales. Energy consumption management for GHG-Energy Target Management and secured credibility of our and plan, along with negotiating and implementing goals, is a growing issue. data through emission record and a third-party assurance. Our research Greenhouse Gas Emission Intensity in 2013 analysis on GHG missions will enable us to proactively respond to the Response to the GHG and Energy Target Management System system with the best applicable approach. Workplace Intensity (tCO2e/person) Scope1 Scope2 Pohang Headquarters 1.12 1.22 Direction and System Pohang ENG Center 0.62 1.32 According to the enforcement of the GHG and Energy Target Management System from 2014, construction Pohang Dormitory (Yanghak Town) 0.15 0.77 companies with annual GHG emissions of 50,000 tons or more need to set up reduction goals and implement Gwangyang Office 0.91 1.46 them from 2015. POSCO E&C decided to reduce GHG emissions by 1 % annually compared to 2012 and a total of 8 % by 2020. We have set and implemented an aggressive GHG emission reduction target to take the lead in Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 3 Years responding to climate change in the industry. Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 8,421 7,725 6,027 Responses to Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System Scope 2 26,757 27,281 25,719 tCO₂ Agreement on the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management pilot project for the 8,947¹ Scope 3 76,370 Application of the Target construction industry 107,364² Management System to the Implementation of the ¹ ‌This figure represents the amount of other indirect emissions for a month in December Construction Industry in 2014 Target Management System 2012 when the calculation system started. Energy Consumption and Intensity in 2013 ² ‌This figure represents the amount of annual other indirect emissions estimated by verified Basic Act on Low Release of the Greenhouse Implementation Annual Energy Consumption (TJ) Intensity emissions for a month in December 2012. (Annual emissions = verified emissions for a Workplace month *12) Carbon Green Gas Calculation Standard for of the Emission Fuel Electricity Steam Total (TJ/person) Growth the Construction Industry Trading Scheme 8% Reduction based Songdo Office Building 13.608 81.488 15.777 110.874 on BAU by 2020 Pohang Headquarters 5.475 7.279 12.753 0.044 Pohang ENG Center 4.858 10.840 15.698 0.039 Future Plans Pohang Dormitory 0.790 4.305 5.095 0.019 (Yanghak Town) As the target sites and managers are frequently changed in construction Pohang Steel 0 2.021 2.021 2010 2012 Oct. 2012 2014 2015 Structure Plant industry, continuous training and management on GHG reduction are Gwangyang Office 0.622 1.049 1.671 0.048 essential. POSCO E&C provides onsite managers with regular training * POSCO E&C established a plan to reduce GHG emissions by 1% every year from 2012 (8% reduction until 2020) to meet the government’s R&D Center 0 0.630 0.372 1.002 target of 7.1% for the construction industry. We set 2012 as the basic year for calculating GHG emissions but it is subject to availability in Domestic Project Sites 66.061 402.024 468.085 on GHG management and evaluates the level of GHG reporting. 1 1 1 accordance with relevant regulations in the future. (121 sites) (945.634) (200.275) (1,145.909) At POSCO E&C, we aim to expand energy reduction activities and * BAU: Business As Usual 91.414 509.636 617.199 Total 16.149 1 (1,037.048) 1 (709.911) 1 (1,763.108) increase awareness at all project sites and encourage our employees to ¹ Including Scope3 proactively participate in this movement by giving incentives to the best * Total energy consumption intensity was 0.0097TJ/KRW 100 million based on domestic sales. project sites. Creating Future Value and Promoting 52 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 53 Safety and Health at Project Sites POSCO E&C set a vision for safety and health as “Global E&C Company That Leads the Advanced Safety Culture to Respect Human Life.” We strive to Key Activities and Performances Autonomous Safety Measures of Business Partners improve behavior and consciousness under the goal of accomplishing zero accident in all project sites. Behavior improvement refers to eliminating We hold regular meetings to review onsite safety and health issues of unsafe behavior at project sites and consciousness improvement signifies reinforcing awareness of safety and health by the Keeping Project Sites Clean Eliminating Unsafe Behavior at Project Sites our business partners and discuss approaches to raise their awareness of and Safe. POSCO E&C strives to achieve zero accident in all project sites through enhancing behavior and awareness. these issues. The executives of business partners need to participate in Prompt Improvement System Major Stakeholders these meetings once a month and 97 % participation rate was achieved All our project sites enforce the Prompt Improvement System to ensure in 2013. Business partners with contract amount exceeding KRW 5 Society the effectiveness of safety plans and rapid elimination of risk factors. Converted Improvement Keeping Project billion are enforced to assign exclusive safety managers to enhance EnvironBusiness We provide safety training when employees do not comply with safety Major Performances Accident Rate of Unsafe Behaviors Sites Clean and Safe ment Partners autonomous safety execution capabilities. standards with immediate stoppage of work. In addition, the approval of 0.09 % 157,049cases 100 % in 2013 Employees Investors safety plans is mandatory before starting dangerous work. Customers Executives’ Initiative for Safety Activities Our executives are the vanguards of safety management. In practice, Key Issues for Safety and Each year, fatal accidents in most industries are decreasing, while those in the construction industry are increasing. the CEO visits project sites once a month, checking whether the safety Health at Project Sites In 2013, the top 50 construction companies reported 99 fatal accidents, an increase of 24 cases compared to 75 programs are well integrated and the safety facilities are working well. in 2012, which showed the requirement of stricter measures and approaches to secure occupational safety. The The CEO also strives to raise site workers’ awareness of safety through Enhancement of onsite safety and health management system government took action to suspend projects when fatal accidents occurred at project sites and enforced sanctions trainings and meetings. We also operate the Safety Responsibility in the case of a large number of accidents. Along with stricter legal regulation, economic regulations are limiting Executive System which provides field inspection and training by an orders from construction companies with poor safety management. Now, social responsibility is a crucial factor executive in charge of construction once every two months. The Q-HSE Safety and health consultative group meetings with business partners during the bidding process along with the price and construction techniques. Executive Meeting is also held to discuss management policy and key issues on quality, health, safety, and environment. Keeping Project Sites Clean and Safe Pursuing Zero Accident through Safety and Health Reinforcement Clean, Comfortable and Healthy Workplaces Without autonomous safety management of employees, it is difficult Direction and System to create a safe workplace. POSCO E&C is carrying out the “Keeping Project Sites Clean and Safe” campaign to encourage employees to POSCO E&C pursues zero accident at all project sites through human-focused operation which considers the correct wrong habits. This campaign pursues clean workplace by regular health and safety of employees as priority. To this end, we focus on improving site employees’ behaviors and arrangement, pleasant workplace to ensure relaxation and emotional consciousness by involving them in various activities such as creating pleasant project sites, managing them stability, and healthy workplace to support medical consultation and with respect, and integrating risk predictions as part of the regular work process. Business partners as well as training. our employees are requested to do their best in this matter by implementing safety and health management Q-HSE Executive Meeting regulations. In all cases, they also need to evaluate risks and establish solutions before implementing any project. Global E&C Company That Leads the Advanced Safety Autonomous Safety Program Culture to Respect Human Life Every employee working on project sites is provided with safety Zero Accident Rate at All Project Sites ownership program by area, facility, and time to prevent unsafe behavior that can occur unexpectedly. We prohibit behaviors that give potential All Employees’ Participation causes for accident such as not wearing protective gear or dismantling Increasing Improvement of Behavior consciousness safety facilities, and violators are expelled from the site. Other violations Keeping Project Improvement of Sites Clean are regulated by the One Out, Three Out System. Unsafe Behaviors and Safe Keeping Project Sites Clean and Safe – convenient and comfortable rest area Major Contents Focused Management Major Contents Focused Management • All ‌ employees’ participation in safety • Entire ‌ participation in the Area • ‌Clean workplace • ‌Entire division between sidewalk activities Ownership Program • ‌Convenient workplace and roadway at the project site • Elimination ‌ of unsafe behavior • Strictly ‌ applying the One Out, Three • ‌Healthy workplace • ‌Comfortable environment (lounge, • Business ‌ partner-led safety activities Out System washroom, and cafeteria) • Mandatory ‌ participation of business • Blood-pressure ‌ check of all employess: partners with over KRW 5 billion once every alternate week contracts Creating Future Value and Promoting 54 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 55 Special Story Certification on Safety and Health Management System Future Plans Grounded on the CEO’s safety and health management policy, we are POSCO E&C has maintained a stable accident rate for many years. We Expanding Business Partners’ Environmental Management repeating a series of process for safety management. We are reinforcing will strive to build a culture of safety and health based on the principle the safety management system by using the website to plan, implement, and standard of accomplishing zero accident rate at all project sites. We Introduction evaluate and take action towards safety. As a result, we attained the will also implement safety and health at a practical level by enhancing When it comes to small and medium sized business partners, it is not easy to promote OHSAS18001 and KOSHA18001 safety and health management system Supporting Project Period capabilities for safety and health and improve the infrastructure to environmental management due mainly to the lack of awareness on environment and small certifications in 2003, and were awarded the grand prize at the Safety From August 2010 to November 2013 inspire all site workers to voluntarily participate in safety and health scale business. At POSCO E&C, we intend to support our SME partners to activate environmental Management Awards hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor activities. pollution prevention, GHG reduction, cost reduction and encourage green business opportunities. in 2007 for the first time in the industry. Case Study The construction industry requires cooperation with various business partners in different sectors in the process of design, materials, equipment, transportation, construction and landscaping. Therefore, if we encourage business partners to practice environmental management, it is expected to Operation of an Integrated Safety Control Center create a ripple effect in other industries as well as the construction industry. Since 2010, we have made a concerted effort to expand environmental We opened the Integrated Safety Control Center in November 2012 to management to our business partners, contributing to the enhancement of eco-friendliness throughout the industry. take measures towards prevention of unsafe behavior and facilities. A total of 70 CCTVs were installed at 35 project sites and control tower Yearly Environmental Management Expansion Activities monitors from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. all year-round with the support of safety Supporting for the expansion of business partners’ environmental management has been promoted based on yearly action plans. In the first year, the controllers at the headquarters. When safety controllers find dangerous focus was to raise consciousness of environmental management. We analyzed the status of our business partners’ environmental management practices, project sites and status, alerts are passed on to onsite Managers and setting strategy plans for different companies and implementing environment campaigns. The second year activities included establishing environmental Safety Managers. At project sites, they report the results of proper action management related processes such as fostering responsible human resources, making standard documents, and building eco-friendly design systems. on violators, improvement of unsafe facilities and implementation of The plan in the third year was to activate eco-friendly businesses by helping them develop eco-friendly products and marketing activities. To this end, we safety training to the control tower. These actions are stored in the DB, which enables prediction of future safety and health risks, and tells us applied the eco-friendly handrail bar with LED which was developed by one of our business partners, to the CANALWALK project site, and eco-friendly Integrated Safety Control Center wall of our business partners, to the POSCO Green Building. Moreover, our support was extended to publishing their environmental reports, helping them how to operate and improve safety management. We prevented a total of 4,835 instances of unsafe behavior which included 1,402 executions activate PR and marketing activities based on environmental activities. of work at unsafe facilities, 967 non-compliance with wearing protective gear, and 435 disuses of safety passageway. A total of 2,409 cases 1st year 2nd year 3rd year of unsafe facilities such as inadequacy of sidewalks and insufficient equipment arrangement were also improved. Establishing Green Culture Activation of Green Business Establishment of the Green Process Performance in the area of Supporting Business Partners’ Roadmap for Spreading Business Partners’ Environmental Management Performance Environmental Management Our support for environmental management led to the reduction of costs, GHG 10 participating companies in emission, and waste. The compliance with our environmental standards and support for construction guidelines reduced rates of defects and reconstruction, saving a total of environmental management Strengthening KRW 2.57 billion. In addition, the establishment of standards for operating vehicles competitiveness 1,800 business partners through and equipment and a decrease in fuel use driven by dwindled reconstruction brought of POSCO E&C communication and reduction effects of approximately 2,341 tons of GHG emissions. Moreover, waste collaboration recycling rate increased by 3% by enhancing ready-mixed concrete dust collection Diffusion of environmental facilities and 2,720 tons of waste were reduced by decreasing waste wood and management to entire construction industry developing a guideline for waste scrap management. Creating Future Value and Promoting 56 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 57 Improving Social Value Customers 58 Employees 62 Local Communities 68 Supply Chain 72 Social Contribution Activities to support the marginalized in Laos Creating Future Value and Promoting 58 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 59 Customers POSCO E&C is committed to enhancing customer value by efficiently managing customer satisfaction, enhancing product safety and health, and Process to Reflect Customers’ Demands protecting personal information. With the system for customer satisfaction management, we also strive to preemptively respond to customer complaints Our management activities reflect customers’ needs in order to provide and deliver high quality products and services to secure the satisfaction of our current and potential customers. high-quality products and services. Opinions of customers are collected through either online VOC channel such as corporate website and CCM Major Stakeholders system, or offline VOC channel such as customer care center and movein support center. We conduct integrated analysis on detailed customer Society Korean Standardinformation through daily, weekly, and monthly analysis, and discuss Quality Excellence Quality Improvement Leakage of EnvironBusiness Major Performances Index Activities for Customers Personal Information ment Partners the use of gathered VOC in CCM Autonomy Committee, VOC Feedback in 2013 No. 1 2,468 cases 0 cases Employees Investors Meeting, and CCM Working-level Meeting. Our efforts lead to discussing prevention measures in relevant departments and finding immediate Online education on CCM for five years in a row Customers solutions to customers’ complaints, so that we do not receive the same CCM Mobile System complaints again in the future. As an extended part of the Integrated Customer Support System, we introduced the CCM mobile system. This system made it possible to Key Issues for Customers Customers expect companies to reflect their demands on the products and services for their convenience, and Process to Collect and Adopt Customer Opinions promptly inspect and give feedback on status at the time of complete this is a vital factor in customer selection. We acknowledge that not only such requirements but also safety and survey by housewives, occupants’ pre-inspection, and confirmation Customer satisfaction and health aspects have critical effects on customers’ behavior in selecting a brand or a company. As a result of this, VOC Analysis Application of VOCs and Feedback relation improvement On-line check before service stage. We also established an IT system to allow our we are proactive and preemptive in customer satisfaction management beyond just dealing with complaints at Enhancement of customer • Website Marketemployees and business partners to check and correct any defect in real safety and health later stages. • CCM System ing time in the after service stage. • ‌Online Reporting Sale CCM Engineering Bulletin Autonomy Committee Strengthening Infrastructure for Customer Satisfaction Off-line VOC Collection VOC CCM WorkRecertification on the CCM CS Feedback ing-level Design Meeting Meeting We strive to identify customer complaints in advance and systematically Direction and System • Customer Center • ‌Move-in Support manage VOCs via regular meetings to review design and blueprints. Center Project Feedback to ReleEstimate Such efforts have led to receiving recertification of the CCM in December Site POSCO E&C implements various activities for customer satisfaction core values that contain “Best Efforts, Warm • Regional CS Center vant Department 2013, which proved our commitment to expanding customer-oriented Heart, and Always On”. We are continuously strengthening the Customer Centered Management (CCM) and Support Techmanagement culture and enhancing customer value once again. Customer for Construction nology received the recertification on the CCM in 2013. Through the CCM, we prevent customer complaints in advance Satisfaction Survey and reflect customers’ opinions in our management activities. The infrastructure for customer satisfaction CCM Autonomy Guidebook for Serving Customers • ‌Happy Call Committee management was further enhanced by trainings about the CCM and the establishment of IT system. (Customer Center) In-company VOC Feedback POSCO E&C published a guidebook for serving customers in accordance • KS-QEI Consultative Meeting Group with opinions that a manual is needed for practical customer services Review CCM WorkingKey Activities and Performances Others and Confirm level Meeting which were raised by employees during the CCM education in 2012. This Analysis * Hosted by Customer-centered Guidebook includes six categories of CCM Mind, Onmaum Service, Phone Prevention Activities and Process to Reflect Customers’ Requests • Sharpist Subjects Management Group Response Manual, manual for Visiting Tenants, and Customer Response Prevention Activities Integrated Analysis and Diverse VOC Sharing and Technique. It can be found in an e-book format on the company intranet Management of Collection Channels Management Activities POSCO E&C is proactive in enhancing customer satisfaction by preemptively managing their complaints in four Customer Information for sharing and active utilization. stages of our business process as shown below. Strengthening Infrastructure Winning Selling and Completing, Online Education on CCM Orders and Preparing for Constructing Moving in, and At POSCO E&C, we provide regular online and offline CCM education to Licensing Construction Maintaining our employees and request their active participation in order to prevent customer complaints, infuse customer-focused mindset, and ensure Providing customers with Precisely notifying details Providing the best product by Minimizing the gap between accurate information through on catalogues and contract optimal project execution and customer expectations and rapid feedback. This education is also offered to business partners in bid proposals, catalogues, documents to preemptively strict quality management to product quality, and offering construction and after service, Customer Centers, and CCM members PR films, joint conferences, prevent customer complaints preemptively prevent customer the best maintenance service who have direct communication and regular contacts with customers. and licensing materials, and caused by exaggerated ads complaints Guidebook for serving customers preventing exaggerated ads Creating Future Value and Promoting 60 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 61 Key Performance in Customer Satisfaction Management Supplying Products Considering Reinforcement of Personal trying in advance to analyze the patterns of cyber-attacks on hacking We are continuously managing performance in customer satisfaction personal information to prevent these attacks from happening. We are since implementing the CCM. After the introduction of the CCM in Customer Safety and Health Information Security System also checking whether we have flaw routes on our company website that 2011, customer complaint management indices have improved and the provides access to our intranet system. number of complaints has also decreased. In addition, we ranked the Key Activities and Performances Direction and System first in Quality Management diagnosis for the POSCO Family and won Improving Floor Insulation to Reduce Noise POSCO E&C is doing its best to protect customers’ personal information. Enhancing Personal Information Management the best prize at the “Greatest Livable Apartment Awards” hosted by the We developed “composite insulation materials” to reduce floor impact We established an organization to ensure customers’ personal For safe management of personal information, we introduced the Maeil Newspaper group. noise which is usually the main issue in apartment building. We utilized information security and classified security management areas into i-PIN identification which can replace coding of Personal Identification an elastic material with low dynamic elastic modulus (a coefficient three; managerial, technical, and physical security. We have also allocated Number when joining the website. We first induce the use of the i-PIN Future Plans that measures how much energy the product absorbs when weight is responsible and managerial teams for each classified security area to identification and, as the second phase, require the creation of Personal given, viewed from its elasticity) and structured polyethylene pole in a enhance the practical level of protecting personal information. Identification Number instead of using registration number. We have We will enhance customer satisfaction through diversifying customer also set a personal information validity period to minimize the storage of ripple shape, so that the upper floor impact reduces the floor vibration. services and preparing specialized plans for customer satisfaction from useless information. Applying this method in the POSCO Green Building and the Sharp Green General Security Planning the initial stage of moving into the buildings. We will provide residents Walk, it was found that the heavy-weighted floor impact was second with timely information and services by introducing the “Concierge Establishment General Personal Information Destruction Process grade and the noise level lower than the common floors by 5dB. of Security Security System Service” and appoint Managers responsible for each apartment zone. Any Plans Management default raised by residents will be responded to within 24 hours through Subject of Requesting correction, deletion, and instant check services. If the default requires specialized equipment Floor-coverings IT Group Information treatment cessation of personal information that is no longer available, we will connect residents with appropriate Mortar specialized business partners to resolve the problem. Identifying the subject of request Lightweight and the scope aerated concrete Managerial Security Technical Security Physical Security Diagnosis Case Study Composite insulation materials Security Change Operation of Security and Analysis Operation of Facilities and Document POSCO E&C Identifying limitations on requests Inspection Management of New Security System Equipment Technologies Ranked 1st in KS-QEI for Five Years in a Row Concrete slab Notifying limitations on requests for Administrative Support Notifying the results of correction, IT Group, HR Group correction, deletion, and treatment IT Group, POSCO ICT Group, General Affairs deletion, and treatment cessation of The KS-QEI had been a product-focused quality evaluation (Human Assets) Composite insulation materials to reduce floor impact noise Group cessation of personal information personal information system to award companies with excellent customer satisfaction (relevant regulations, etc.) level, but it has expanded its target to not only products but also services since 2013. For five consecutive years, we have Improving Interior Air Quality Key Activities and Performances ranked first in the KS-QEI as a result of evaluation by the Korean POSCO E&C applies eco-friendly materials to eliminate “Sick House Future Plans Syndrome” and improve the interior air quality. A health-oriented housing Reinforcing Personal Information Protection Standards Association and The Korean Society for Quality construction standard was applied to the 3rd Esiapolis (Daegu, Korea) to Check and Raising Awareness To advance the credibility of our Information Protection Management Management, reconfirmed our excellence in quality. prevent the sick house syndrome and for the residents to enjoy a healthy POSCO E&C is eliminating the possible risk factors through monitoring system, we plan to obtain the ISO 27001 certification for the International life. In the design phase, we considered eco-friendly materials and built-in the status of personal information protection. Indicating the importance Information Protection management System. To this end, we will furniture and, in the construction phase, we applied pollution reduction of this issue to the responsible departments, sub contracted parties, and conduct advanced preparation, risk evaluation, information security, construction methods such as adhesive usage management. sales offices, we required to take actions for coding personal information and inspection on the certification, and consequently establish a system and collecting personal information access records. In addition, grounded on an international standard. The PC scan tool will also be Improving Heat Insulation Property responsible departments and the IT group check the management introduced to prevent the leakage of personal information. In addition, POSCO E&C adopts higher standards in designing doors and windows, status of sub contracted parties regularly to minimize risks. To raise the POSCO E&C will identify the status of each department’s personal than those for eco-friendly housing construction to help customers awareness of personal information protection, we distributed a guideline information possession and delete data if not used for a long period. reduce energy use. We intensified the insulation level of the top ceiling on how to respond to and recover from personal information attacks and bottom floors to reduce any disparity of energy use among the and we are providing regular training on the accident reporting process, KS-QEI Certification Ceremony housing units. We also apply reinforced insulation material to prevent prevention of additional leakage and other related information needed. condensation. Inspecting and Improving Faults on the Website We are operating a pilot hacking test on our 19 websites to manage personal information on sales, employment, and the Sharp brand. We are Creating Future Value and Promoting 62 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 63 Employees POSCO E&C operates a systematic HR management process ranging from recruitment to capability development and performance evaluation. Our Regular Performance Management System Future Plans recruitment and performance evaluation are fairly conducted and diverse benefit programs ensure the harmonization between work and life. Customized We operate a Regular Performance Management System to ensure training sessions are also provided to employees based on their positions and duties, to make the most of their abilities. We will continue to enhance our fairness and transparency of evaluation. This system has a six-month Based on the belief that employees are a company’s future assets, we will employee value through performance-oriented HRD system. performance management cycle for an objective evaluation on the focus on securing talent. We will also initiate a field training program to performance of each employee and requires receiving feedback from provide graduate applicants with practical knowledge and guide them Major Stakeholders supervisors every quarter to jointly check their goals and achievements. to choose an appropriate career path. Society The evaluation results are used as the basis for consistently improving Certification Major Performances Educational Expenditure per Employee on Best Family Rate of Return to Work after Parental Leave Environment Business Partners performance beyond just determining promotion or compensation, Cultivation of Global Talent in 2013 1,000thousand 100 % Friendly contributing to maximizing the capability of our organization and each KRW Employees Investors Management employee. This system is recognized for its credibility, as we are seeing Direction and System Customers a rise in the propriety index of HR management and the number of promoted persons among employees. POSCO E&C is cultivating global construction leaders who can lead future changes and create values to accomplish our vision to be the Global Top Key Issues for Employees A company’s competitiveness is hugely affected by securing and retaining talent. Frequent talent drain leads to 10 E&C Company by 2020. We will systematically develop and cultivate Fairness Evaluation Index System loss of corporate resources and may decrease market value in the long term. In particular, it is a key success factor employees’ capabilities by focusing on three areas of Leadership, Duty The Fairness Evaluation Index System is used to support the Regular Recruitment and retention of talents for the construction industry to secure and cultivate talent considering business complexity and the importance and Global Competence. Performance Management System. The index has items to monitor of management. Fair evaluation and compensation compliance with fair process, faithfulness of content, and evaluators’ capabilities. The analysis, monitoring and survey results of each item are “Cultivating Global Construction Leaders to Achieve VISION 2020” HR development Fair Recruitment and Evaluation System made into indices and these help upgrade evaluators’ capabilities and Development of multiple guarantee fair evaluation. Leadership Job Skill Global Common Family communication channel for employees Direction and System Saturday Learning Top ManageExecutive Composition of the Workforce Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Harmonization between ment Course English and the 2nd Foreign Language work and life POSCO E&C recruits employees using the concept of SMART (Specialty, Morality, Activeness, Revolution, Top Classification Unit 2013 Roadmap Training of Employees to be Dispatched Leader’s Insight Forum performance) those who desire positive thinking, promising attitude, change and innovation. We are fostering Director for Each Innovation Training Total employees 4,262 Position Ethical Training Business English Course talents to achieve the SMART concept through a fair and transparent HRM system. Employment type Full-time 3,679 Global PM Sr. Cultivation Entry-level Training Contract 583 Manager Course Gender Male 4,023 Entry-level Human Top Specialty Morality Activeness Revolution Female 239 Manager Leadership Construction Training Resource Performance for New Academy Management Aspects That Age Under 30 677 and Career We Pursue Being professional Possessing sound Having an Being open to change Aiming for high Persons Academy 30 to 50 2,978 Associate Employees of (SMART) business ethics enterprising spirit and innovation performance POSCO Family Over 50 607 Executives 78 Key Activities and Performances Total workforce 4,340 Key Activities and Performances New employees 281 Recruitment Process Retirees 78 Leadership Capability Enhancement We recruit new and experienced employees through fair and transparent processes. Rate of new employees 6.6 We support employees to improve their leadership ability necessary for % Turnover rate 2.1 senior positions, so that they play leading roles when they get there. In • ‌New and Experienced Employees: We hire fresh college graduates once a year through an open and public particular, we encourage key promising employees like Group Leaders recruitment event. The process includes document screening and two rounds of interviews. The first round is a Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance Review to undergo diverse education through e-learning system, leadership working-level blind interview which verifies the applicant’s genuine capacity and potential, regardless of sex and Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 certification examination, and strategic tasks based on action learning age. We also hire a certain ratio of graduates from the rural areas. For experienced recruitment, 3R (Right Time, Male employees 81.1 79.8 method in order to be equipped with necessary capabilities in advance. Female employees 79.3 82.8 Right Position, Right People) method is applied to the process and we hire when certain positions are vacant. % Full-time job 91.0 96.7 92.6 • ‌Challenge Internship Program: This program began in 2013. The program has two tracks to assess passion and Contract job 61.1 60.0 69.1 creativity of applicants. For the passion track, we ask the applicants to provide personal background information. However, for the creativity track, we screen the applicants only through their self-introduction letters to assess their challenging spirit, creativity, value, and logical power. Through this program, a total of 116 talented persons were recruited. Creating Future Value and Promoting 64 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 65 Fostering Job Experts Training Hours and Expenditure Respect for Human Rights and It is important to strengthen job skills in order to respond to rapidly changing business environment. POSCO E&C has developed diverse Classification Average training hours per employee Unit Hours 2011 76 2012 85 2013 43 Labor-Management Relations training programs for employees, through which they can acquire Average training expenditure per KRW in 1.2 1.4 1.0 knowledge and know-how needed for their jobs and positions in employee millions Direction and System accordance with their growth stage. We also foster global leaders by POSCO E&C has established and maintained a stable labor-management supporting superior talent to study or receive professional training Future Plans relationship under the themes of “Care (Pre-inspection), Communication, abroad to learn advanced technology. Competency (Labor-management capabilities), and Contingency (Crisis POSCO E&C aims to advance its personnel training system with the Management).” We have active and frequent channels to communicate Training Global Business Experts The Labor-Management Council purpose of strengthening execution capabilities of global projects. As with employees in addition to legal processes such as the LaborOur global expansion requires more employees with global perspective construction projects have the nature of being large and complicated, Management Council and grievance treatment. and excellent language skills. We offer not only English and Second Collective Bargaining Application Rate the role of Project Managers who can control all parts of EPC processes Language conversation classes, but also specialized skills training is getting ever more important. To this end, we will strive to foster Project Communication Contingency Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 programs for global business. In addition, we arrange for intense training Managers who can successfully manage and operate global EPC projects. Open minded and smooth Building database of issues between the Collective bargaining application rate % 100 100 100 for employees to be sent to overseas project sites, so that they settle communication to strengthen trust labor and management, sharing case POSCO E&C will continue to invest in training programs to cultivate * Executives are not the subject of collective bargaining. among employees studies, and enhancing the networking down quickly in the new environment. talent in persons who can achieve the company vision, in future. of interested parties Sexual Harassment Prohibition POSCO E&C has strict rules and regulations regarding sexual harassment Case Study 4C within the company, and this is clearly indicated in our Ethics Act. When any sexual harassment incident is reported in our workplace, the Audit Training Employees to be Dispatched to Overseas Project Sites Training New Employees to Enhance Practical Skills Group reviews the incident and delivers the name of the assaulter to Care Competency the Human Resource Council. Within the last three years, there have Successful localization is essential for a global E&C company which New employees receive intense training for six months to develop Preliminarily inspecting laborTraining sessions to improve management risk factors in terms of capabilities of site managers and been three sexual harassment incidents, where heavy punishments conducts projects in various countries to achieve business success their capabilities to quickly adapt to the new working environment legal and social issues administrators were imposed on all of the assaulters, from dismissal to suspension from in the global market. Thus, resident employees are required to and be independent in proceeding with their work. We train the company for a period of time, depending on the degree of their fully understand global standards and local business environment. them on POSCO E&C’s core values and cultivate the corporate’s misconduct. The victim’s identity is fully protected and we help them to We train employees to be sent to overseas project sites to acquire unique perspective. In addition, we advance their practical skills Key Activities and Performances settle down to the working environment again, and if necessary, we allow business process and etiquette for collaborating with foreign by providing a learning experience based on PBL (Project Based Collecting Employee Opinions victims to change to other department or teams. business partners based on global standards as well as basic Learning). Through this approach, new employees get familiar with Regarding corporate management, we explain the details of the information and working environment of the client country. We also project site practices, theories, and challenges associated with provide them with training on business ethics and FCPA (Foreign construction projects. issues to the employee representatives in the Labor-Management Education on Sexual Harassment Prevention and Number of Incidents Corrupt Practices Act) to raise awareness on the importance of Council meetings. For issues that closely relate to employees’ working Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 performing ethical business overseas. environment, we discuss them with the Labor-Management Council Participants Persons 5,154 5,327 5,070 and the Labor Union. We gather employee opinions through employee Education hours Hours 5,887 9,643 9,176 representatives every month, which is more than the legal requirement. Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 • ‌Joint visits to project sites: The labor and management jointly visit Number of Sexual Harassment Incidents Cases 1 2 employees particularly those who work in difficult and remote project sites as well as places where employees cannot afford holidays, to listen to their opinions. Future Plans • ‌JJoint events: For years, we have launched various events to bring an We will continue to promote an energetic culture and enhance our policy energetic and open communication environment to our employees. to maintain healthy and stable Labor-Management relations. We hope to (Table Tennis in 2010, Foot Volleyball and Dance Festival in 2012, and maintain open and proactive communication, for example through the Open Flea Market in 2013) CEO letter, so that we engage passionately with our employees. Training of employees to be dispatched to overseas project sites Training of new employees to enhance their onsite job capabilities • ‌JInternal pseudonym bulletin board: To hear various opinions and thoughts from our employees, we operate an internal bulletin board which we regularly monitor to give quick responses. Creating Future Value and Promoting 66 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 67 Harmonization between Work and Life Details of Flexible Working Hours System Flexible Work Environment No. System Details We established the mobile web system that allows employees to use the Selection one set of working hours among five different intranet through their mobile devices anytime anywhere. We also provide Direction and System 1 Flexible working hours time zones senior employees with smartphones so that they utilize the mobile web • ‌Deduction of half day from annual vacations when using POSCO E&C provides employees with various welfare benefits to ensure 2 Half day off the half day leave system conveniently, and built smart working centers in key regions for stable lives. We support them through payment of children’s tuition • ‌Two time zones (8:30 ~ 12:00 and 13:00~17:30) all employees working outside the office to enhance their work efficiency fees, medical expenses and other expenditure for family events. Other • ‌Implementing the core working hour system by each and convenience. 3 Core working hours division or office to raise work efficiency * Smart Working Center: Office equipped with IT infrastructure for remote working benefit programs include: a flexible working system, family care leave, incompany Nursery facility, recreational facilities and Fitness Centers, which contribute to increasing employee satisfaction. Supports for Flexible Working Environment Best Family Friendly Management No. System Details In December 2013, we were selected as the “Best Family Friendly 1 Mobile web Setup of a mobile-version intranet Providing Employees with World-class Welfare Benefits to Ensure Their Valuable and Stable Life Management” by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family’s Best 2 Offering Providing employees in high positions with smartphones for Family Friendly Management Certification Scheme. This scheme grants smartphone convenient use of mobile web We are operating diverse programs to help employees develop themselves, meet needs for childcare, and pursue harmonization between work and life 3 Smart working Working environment for employees with a certification to companies with respectable family-friendly programs center lot of outside work and policies for employees. Since 2013, we have expanded the system to Welfare Benefit Programs Work System Other Support enable family members to accompany employees on overseas project • ‌Educational expenses for • ‌Working hour reduction • ‌Support for medical checks Other Support children during parenting period sites as well as overseas subsidiaries, branches and offices. • ‌Leisure facilities/Fitness For POSCO E&C Kidsvill • ‌Optional benefits • ‌Flexible working Centers • ‌Living assistance • ‌Half day leave • ‌Discount on railroad fee Health Care Rate of Return to Work after Childcare Leave and Retention (Female) • ‌Medical expenses • ‌Family events, funeral • ‌Core working hours • ‌Family care leave • ‌Workplace Nursery/Infant Nursing/Breast-feeding We provide a Nursing and Infant-feeding room within the office and Future Plans Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 invite Medical Specialists to the office for regular Medical Checkups of expenses • ‌Survey of Happiness Index room No. of employees with parental leave rights 25 34 47 We aim to focus on bringing in a happy working environment and • ‌Compensation during leave • ‌Events for families of over• ‌In-company Wedding Hall/ employees. We also run Counseling Programs for employees with stress of absence due to injury or Theater No. of employees who used parental leave 11 15 12 seas employees and depression, supporting them to be resilient again. Other programs leveling up employees’ satisfaction by introducing individual and disease • ‌Social contribution activities No. of employees who returned to work • ‌Compensation for • ‌Birthday present for spouses 5 14 13 include Annual Comprehensive Medical Checkup, the Non-Smoking family care welfare system. As part of this system, it is planned to run after parental leave non-business accidents Persons No. of employees to return to work after Campaign, operation of a Fitness Center, and free vaccinations for all a Counselling Program and introduce support for literary activity and 6 14 13 parental leave employees. maternity. In addition, we will arrange events for employees and their No. of employees with 1 year plus retention families working overseas and support children’s graduation and Key Activities and Performances after return to work 4 5 13 Onsite Health Care Program enrollment in schools. From 2014, we plan to provide medical checkups Rate of use 44 44 25 Employee Welfare Benefit Program POSCO E&C provides health care service to employees at project sites for employees’ spouses once every two years, with no age limit, as Rate of return % 83 100 100 Rate of retention 100 100 92 through visits by medical specialists. The project sites are selected requested by the Labor-Management Council. Support for Family Events considering their location, distances from the city and project periods. In We provide financial support to our employees when various family * ‌Rate of return in 2011 is different from that of the previous year’s report due to the recalculation of the number of employees to return to work. 2013, this service was offered to employees working at 10 project sites events and bereavements occur. This is one way of our showing including the National Road 77 project site of Sihwa Stage 2, Yeongdeokrespect and gratitude to our employees. We present monetary gifts on Family Care Leave Program Osan Road extension and Yeosu Thermal Power Plant unit 1 construction employees’ weddings as well as sister or brother’s and on parents’ 60th Any employee can apply for the Family Care Leave Program when he or project sites. Important medical check-ups including blood pressure, birthdays, and condolence money in case of death. she has to take care of family members due to their illness, accident, or blood sugar level, cholesterol level were performed for the employees old age. The program gives employees a maximum of 90 days that can and health care consulting and training was also provided. We conducted Working Hour Policy a survey of the satisfaction level of employees to improve the efficiency be used in divided units of more than 30 days to support their parents, Flexible Working Hours spouse, children and spouses’ parents. of this service. We operate a flexible working hour system and provide half day off system, so that employees can choose from five working hour options to For POSCO E&C Kidsvill ease the burden of child care of working parents. For parents with a child We operate the “For POSCO E&C Kidsvill” in the office building in Songdo under six, we provide an option to work reduced hours instead of the for parents with 1-5 year old children this facility operates till 8 p.m. and parental leave. high quality professional Nursery teachers take care of the children. This significantly reduces the burden of working parents who are always concerned with child care on weekdays. Creating Future Value and Promoting 68 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 69 Local Communities We have been systematically conducting various Social Contribution Programs through the POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps, in which employees from POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps Improving Living Environment project sites, subsidiaries and branch offices at home and abroad as well as university students participate. By performing strategic social contribution Since 2009, POSCO E&C has aided in papering walls and ceilings, program through leveraging the characteristics of the construction industry, we particularly support the local areas near project sites, and strive to create Starting the operation of the Incheon Volunteer Corps of the POSCO Family and and repairing floors by taking the advantage of the characteristics shared values with people in need through Public-Private Partnerships programs with major institutions. conducting joint volunteer services by region of construction business. Particularly, in 2013, we founded the Major Stakeholders “Hope House Community Service Team” together with the National Incheon Pohang Gwangyang Busan Emergency Agency in order to protect underprivileged people from Society Average Hours of fire risk and provide a safe living environment. This effort led to our Volunteer Work per Employees’ The 1% EnvironBusiness Autonomous Donations winning the Minister Award from the Ministry of Security and Public Major Performances Employee Sharing Campaign ment Partners in 2013 Administration in December 2013. throughout the POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps 29.5 hours KRW 499 million Company Employees Investors 234Teams, 4,285Employees Customers University Student Domestic Project Sites Overseas Regions Volunteers Key Issues for Local The corporate role and responsibility requested by local communities have been changing in conjunction with • ‌One-site, One-neighbor Volunteer services by 1st through Communities different stages of economic development. Recently, Corporate Social Responsibility beyond just economic • ‌Cooperation with local overseas subsidiary, branch, 4th Happy Builders responsibility is becoming one of the key expectations that businesses need to address and carry out. Companies communities and sisterand project site • ‌Overseas volunteer services Contribution to the development of hood villages • ‌PR through SNS local communities that have lost the trust of the community are facing criticism and their impact on business is ever more evident. Therefore, most companies strive to run managementsharing policy and believe in strengthening the relationship with local communities. Flagship Social Contribution Activities Fire prevention and living environment improvement activities Social Contribution Focused on Sharing and Communicating Supporting Local Children’s Centers (One & One) We support 50 local Children's Centers in Incheon to help children dream Supporting Educational Facilities in Poor Regions Abroad for their future and thrive for a better world. In October 2010, we signed Direction and System We are helping the underprivileged children and teenagers in the a MOU with Incheon Metropolitan City and Child Fund Korea Incheon regions near our overseas project sites by constructing Kindergartens, POSCO E&C has been promoting Social Contribution Activities in all project sites and offices to go beyond thriving and then forged one-to-one sisterhood relations between 50 local supporting educational facilities and renovating schools. In 2013, for economic benefit but to fulfil Corporate Social Responsibility of the establishment. The POSCO E&C Volunteer Children’s Centers and 50 departments of POSCO E&C. Our employees we improved the facilities of the schools in poor regions of Laos, Corps, founded in December 2004, implements social contribution activities every month on a regular basis, in visit the centers 2 or 3 times every month for five years to teach academic Kazakhstan, and Ecuador, and provided various educational and which a total of 234 teams from all departments, project sites, branches, and overseas subsidiaries are participating. curriculum and share cultural experiences with the children. As part of cultural programs for children. In 2010, we established the Social Contribution Team (changed to CSR Group in 2012) to form a social contribution our efforts, we also hold a Choir Competition for children to help them system. Taking advantage of the characteristics of the construction business, we will develop and conduct social build memories during their childhood. Key Activities and Performances contribution activities to create a better living environment for people in need, in Korea and abroad. Spreading Korean Culture Abroad through Supporting Sustainable Lives of Marginalized People and Pursuing a Company Loved by the Public through Public-Private Partnerships “Creating a Better Living Environment” Founded in 2011, POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps “Happy Builder,” signed a MOU with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in 2012 to promote Korean culture as well as improve educational environments. In 2013, we Conducting Social Contribution built multimedia spaces in schools in Laos, Ecuador and Kazakhstan and Increasing synergy through Developing and providing Activities for local communities held events to introduce Korean culture such as Nanta performance and Private-Public Partnership Volunteer Programs neighboring our project sites K-POP dance to the local people. We plan to further strengthen social • ‌Establishing cordial relations with local • ‌Spreading Korean culture in cooperation •C ‌ arrying out seasonal theme-based contribution activities in the world through the MOU with the Ministry of communities neighboring our project with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and volunteer activities sites at home and abroad Tourism • P‌ OSCO Family’s Global Volunteer Week Supporting local Children’s Centers (One & One) Foreign Affairs in 2014. • ‌Supporting marginalized people in coun• ‌Preventing fire and improving living envitries where we are operating business ronment in cooperation with the National Emergency Management Agency • ‌Establishing and operating welding training centers in cooperation with the KOICA Creating Future Value and Promoting 70 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 71 ❶ ❸ Donating Necessities to Marginalized people in Abroad Future Plans In 2012, POSCO E&C signed a MOU with the Korea Disaster Relief Association to provide help to local underprivileged people We plan to further expand our global social contribution activities surrounding our overseas project sites. Since 2011, we have delivered centered on countries where we are conducting projects. To this end, daily necessities to local communities in Vietnam, Peru, and Chile. In cooperation with various governmental organizations such as the 2013, we provided 6,500 relief goods such as blankets, shoes and others Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be consistently promoted, which will help to needy people in Laos. us enhance professionalism and synergy and implement creative global social contribution activities. We intend to focus on activities through POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps Incheon by collaborating with subsidiaries Major Social Contribution Activities of the POSCO Family including POSCO Engineering and Daewoo Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 International which will relocate head offices to Incheon. In addition, Volunteer service hours per employee hours 32.6 33.6 29.5 ❷ we will proactively participate in the campaign to share 1% of salary by Investment in social contribution KRW in 2,275 2,866 9,931 Employees’ autonomous donations millions 209 343 499 the POSCO Family to support the underprivileged at home and abroad. Improvement of living environment Households 74 63 52 POSCO E&C intends to contribute in solving current and future problems No. of MOUs for better social contribution Cases 1 4 2 of local communities and strive to implement CSV (Creating Shared ※Investment in social contribution in 2013 sharply increased compared to the previous Value) activity to pursue co-prosperity with them. year due to donations of goods. Interview “I hope POSCO E&C’s Social Contribution Activities for children will take ① ‌Supporting education facilities and ② ‌Opening ceremony of Welder ③ Building a multimedia room in Ecuador root at home and abroad.” cultural exchange event in Kazakhstan Training Center in Vietnam Team Manager of the Child Fund Korea Incheon, Welder Training Center in Vietnam funds raised by employees to create a matching grant fund. Foundation Tae-Won Kang In December 2012, we were selected by the KOICA to participate in its of the campaign to share 1% of salary by the POSCO Family was global CSR program and formed a partnership in January 2013. POSCO established for efficient fund operation and a subcommittee collects E&C and KOICA together built the Welder Training Center for Youth in employees’ opinions on the usage of this fund. This fund is mainly used I believe that Social Contribution Activities have to be carried out consistently on the basis of sincerity beyond just a short-term event. In this way, DongNai Province of Vietnam. POSCO E&C Vietnam signed a MOU with for helping multicultural families, building social welfare facilities and POSCO E&C’s One & One Support activity, jointly started with us in 2010, has well represented your sincerity to support local children to grow the local government to effectively operate the school, and the school supporting marginalized people at home and abroad. healthily. Protection of children after school is an important social issue these days, thus your effort to offer better benefits and services to children was officially opened in November 2013. This project contributes to at local welfare centers has set an example for social contribution for local communities. I hope POSCO E&C’s One & One Support will take root at regional economic development through training young professionals Supporting Multicultural Family home and abroad and stand as a flagship global social contribution activity to benefit many children around the world. and leading them to become a part of an excellent workforce after POSCO E&C has been supporting multicultural families in Incheon through graduation. various social contribution activities. In 2013, we developed business to reinforce job capabilities for helping multicultural families settled down Expanding the campaign to share 1% of in Korea and secure economic independence. In practice, we provided salary by the POSCO Family better learning facilities and ran training courses such as nail art, hotel POSCO E&C practices various autonomous social contribution activities. room attendant, and school qualification exam, so that members of the Each year, we distribute a saving box to all of our employees to collect multicultural families can get meaningful jobs in Korea without too much coins and money to be delivered to local communities. Other donation difficulty. In addition, our website to support them to get driver’s license programs include ethical funds raised from parts of outside lectures and which had been launched in 2011, was upgraded to offer multilingual rewards and the campaign to share 1% of salary by the POSCO Family. services and the mobile web was also opened. In May 2013, the “Café OASIA” In particular, the 1% Sharing Campaign started in 2011 to fulfill social a social cooperatives sponsored by POSCO group, was opened in head responsibility at the group level, in which all executives participated. office building of POSCO E&C. As part of social contribution activities, POSCO However, since 2013, all of our employees have voluntarily participated E&C helps to operate this café without receiving operating and rental costs in this activity. POSCO E&C also donates the same amount of annual and hires multicultural family members as employees of this café. Creating Future Value and Promoting 72 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 73 Supply Chain POSCO E&C recognizes that the growth of business partners leads to enhancing its competitive edge. Therefore, we are making continuous efforts to “Excellent” Grade in Win-win Growth Index for 3 Consecutive Years Sustainability Management of help business partners acquire technological competitiveness and to maintain long-term partnership with them. We also plan to enhance value of shared POSCO E&C has won the “Excellent” grade in win-win growth index growth in entire supply chain by pursuing mutual collaboration with SMEs with a win-win growth program. announced by the National Commission for Corporate Partnership for 3 Supply Chain consecutive years. The Fair Trade Commission assesses contract contents Status of Business Partners Major Stakeholders for fair trade and win-win growth and execution level, while The National As of 2013, we have 1,851 business partners, which consist of 682 in Commission for Corporate Partnership evaluates satisfaction level of Society construction, 734 in equipment, and 435 in materials. About 260 partners partners in the field business, and they comprehensively calculate the Percentage of Cash Educational Support for Operation of the Win-win EnvironBusiness are newly included through an evaluation process including CSR aspects. Major Performances Payment to SMEs Business Partners Growth Fund ment Partners overall research. in 2013 In the domestic construction site, 65 % of site workers are employees of 100 % 6,626 hours KRW 52 billion Employees Investors Benefit-sharing Network Information System business partners. Customers We introduced the Benefit-sharing System in 2010, and distributes Distribution Map of Partners outcome created by joint operation, based on the contract. Considering About 56 % of our business partners are located in metropolitan the features of our business, it is mainly promoted in the field of Key Issues for Supply Chain The paradigm of world economy is shifting from competition between individual company to competition areas (Seoul, Incheon, and Gyeonggi Province) and 18% are located in improving construction methods. When we achieve cost reduction between supply chains due to the trends of industrial convergence and integration. Thus, share growth activities Pohang and Gwangyang where POSCO Steelworks are located. In 2013, backed by improvement of design and methods, we share the amount Enhancement of co-prosperity our business purchase in regions other than the metropolitan area to strengthen competitiveness of supply chain became essential business strategy for global corporations. and communication with with our business partners depending on the contract. In case of success business partners recorded 42% of overall purchase, and the local purchase in Pohang and in jointly developing new materials, we allow our business partners to Gwangyang was 19%, which is the second largest amount. Win-win Growth and Virtuous Cycle Partnership use them in our project sites. Performance Management System Win-win Growth Supporters Direction and System POSCO E&C runs the Performance Management System for business The Win-win Growth Supporters provide management consulting partners to reinforce the competitiveness of the supply chain, through We are focusing on supporting our business partners to secure long-term competitiveness beyond just temporary services to our business partners and help to solve problems in diversely quarterly and integrated assessments. Quarterly assessment evaluates and short-term aids. Giving priority for temporary contract to partners might be helpful, but does not guarantee difficult situations. We listen to their opinions in the planning stage on the items of outcome, cooperation, quality, and safety in on-going or long-term growth. POSCO E&C is operating a Win-Win Growth Program to ensure long-term and fundamental to offer practical support. Our executives visit SMEs once a month completed projects, while integrated assessment evaluates on capability, support such as joint development of source technology, technology transfer, and manufacturing innovation. At to provide consulting about improving organizational culture and credibility, quality, and financial soundness with the results of quarterly POSCO E&C, win-win growth is promoted under the following four directions: “Fair Trade” to create a culture of fair technology development. It makes SMEs enhance their capabilities. assessment. We further select ‘outstanding’ companies in different fields and transparent trade, “Financial Support” to ensure financial soundness, “Technical Support” to secure long-term (facility, construction, and materials) according to overall result. competitiveness, and “Managerial Support” to help stable management. Future Plans POSCO E&C will continue to improve technology and management Regular Monitoring System for Social Responsibility Strategic Direction Detailed Plans POSCO E&C frequently monitors business partners’ social responsibility support programs to strengthen business partners’ competitiveness. Fair Trade 100% electronic bidding / standard subcontract agreement / 4 guidelines for fair trade We will also reinforce supporting partners’ innovation activities which issues such as overdue wages, unethical behavior, quality and safety. We Financial Support 100% cash payment to SMEs / Win-win Growth Fund (KRW 52 billion) / exemption of surety commission include task support of project level and QSS innovation consulting. enforce them to publish payment bonds to prevent future possibilities Technical Support Joint entrance into overseas markets / promotion of performance sharing / new product development with conditional purchase option / joint application to patent and technical support of over dues in wages, facilities and material costs. For companies with Managerial Support Operation of the Win-win Growth Supporters / education on SME consortium / business ethics and safety overdue wages, we label them with a warning sign and limit their Top Priority Programs in 2014 training / Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 participation the bidding process. To lower accident rates and promote safety, we fortify sanctions on business partners that have accidents BenefitWin-win Industrial while adding extra points to those with excellence in safety. Key Activities and Performances Growth Innovation sharing Network Information Supporters Movement 3.0 System Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 The Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 is a support program for SMEs under the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Encouraging Helping partners Providing partners Energy to share performance through innovation of partners’ management, environment, and process. POSCO participation of generate substantive with consulting on QSS business partners E&C agreed to invest a total of KRW 1.6 billion, KRW 320 million annually for 5 years, and provides customized performance by innovation to support and relevant divisions consulting for SMEs in innovating manufacturing sites and others. We supported 10 business partners in 2013, and supporting their system their innovation to ensure proactive improvement activities plan to extend number of targets to more than 11 by 2017. In particular, our unique QSS Innovation Consulting compensation will create SMEs great place to work and also improve their competitiveness. Creating Future Value and Promoting 74 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix Special Story Human Rights Specified in Contracts Background & Objective As human rights are globally issued, POSCO E&C also underlines the importance of human rights in all business operations. We fully understand that human rights policies and regulations are essential for our business, as we employ a large number of external Appendix workforces at project sites around the world. POSCO E&C, therefore, includes articles regarding human rights protection in contracts with its business partners. Target Companies POSCO E&C has established the human rights protection articles with reference to various global standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Guideline for Business and Human Rights, ILO, and ISO 26000. With thorough review on the effectiveness and appropriateness of human rights contents, we decided to apply articles of human rights in all contracts with business partners in domestic and overseas projects including equipment, construction, service, and materials. This has evenly put in action since August 2013 in all overseas subsidiaries, branches, and offices of POSCO E&C. Human Rights Related Articles Article 00. Protection of Human Rights Except as otherwise required or prohibited by law, the subcontractor shall comply with sub-clauses for protection of human rights as follows : 1. ‌Unfair discrimination shall be prohibited in terms of any kind such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status Financial Information 76 2. ‌Any child labor causing either physical or emotional impairment to the development of child shall not be exploited, without fail under any given circumstances that any tasks shall be in a reasonable way carried out by child labor. Awards & Association Membership 77 3. ‌Forced or compulsory labor, including all work or service which might be executed by any persons under the menace of any penalties and in Statement of Third-Party Assurance 78 which the said person has not offered himself voluntarily, shall be prohibited. Statement of Assurance Report of 80 4. Everyone has the right of freedom with regard to expressing opinion freely. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 5. Every employee shall be paid at least the minimum wage and can ask for the prevailing wage in the industry. UN Global Compact 81 6. No corporal punishment, mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse, cruel or abusive disciplinary practices will be allowed in the workplace. GRI G4 Index 82 Expected Effect Number and Percentage of Important Investment Contracts Containing Human Rights Articles or Conducting Human Rights Inspection We look forward to creating a culture of human rights management by Classification Unit 2013 including articles for human rights in contracts with business partners. No. of agreements or contracts with significance in the aspects Furthermore, we will prevent any potential risk that could violate human of volume and strategy 3,241 Cases rights, and engage in global efforts for preserving human rights. No. of contracts conducting human rights inspection or 1,096 containing human rights articles Percentage % 33.8 * Agreements and contracts concluded since August 2013 POSCO E&C Songdo Office, Incheon Creating Future Value and Promoting 76 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 77 Financial Information Awards & Association Membership Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Awards in 2013 (Unit: KRW) (Unit: KRW) Date Award Title/Description Awarded by Item 2013 2012 Item 2013 2012 Grand Prize in Quality Management Sector, POSCO Family POSCO Current assets 6,709,778,205,609 7,431,661,572,870 Sales 10,155,225,408,692 8,637,326,947,677 Red-dot design award 2013 winner (General Electric Product) Reddot design award March Cash and cash equivalents 1,021,637,150,821 954,069,813,437 Cost of sales -9,273,663,928,571 -7,881,269,967,883 Grand Prize in Overseas Construction Competition (Pioneer Sector) Money Today Account receivables 1,834,813,198,062 1,868,336,452,908 Gross profit 881,561,480,121 756,056,979,794 2012 Respectable Company of the Year Award (Social and Construction Safety Sector) Korea NGO Association Other financial assets 529,600,229,206 555,632,254,290 Selling and administrative expenses -433,180,061,531 -430,500,633,607 July Grand Prize in Environmentally Friendly Sector, 1H 2013 Hankyung Housing Culture Competition (The Sharp Lake Park in Sejong) The Korea Economic Daily Unclaimed construction property 1,300,544,788,799 1,892,632,960,196 Administrative expenses -388,861,725,422 -370,997,584,252 August Grand Prize, 2013 Luxury Housing Competition of Korea Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Inventories 1,124,817,872,500 1,260,848,092,450 Selling and logistics expenses -44,318,336,109 -59,503,049,355 Ranked 1st in KS-QEI for 5 Consecutive Years Korean Standards Association Current income tax assets 13,923,523,918 6,260,207,822 Operating profit 448,381,418,590 325,556,346,187 Grand Prize in the New and Renewable Energy Sector, 2013 Korea Environmental Friendliness Awards (7 Consecutive Years) Korea Environmental Award Committee Other current assets 884,441,442,303 893,881,791,767 Gain (loss) on investments in associates, net -11,376,675,031 -33,340,149,910 September Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy Grand Prize, 2013 Good Design Competition (Exterior prototype design of The Sharp model house) Korea Institute of Design Promotion Non-current assets 1,931,843,181,998 1,769,101,788,882 Financial income (loss), net -71,051,377,753 77,739,782,679 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy Grand Prize, 2013 Good Design Competition (Building exterior design of The Sharp Lake Park in Sejong) Investments in associates 117,876,566,517 113,714,140,312 Financial income 286,002,575,115 349,142,533,238 Korea Institute of Design Promotion Non-current Account receivables 3,287,389,213 1,419,986,358 Financial costs -357,053,952,868 -271,402,750,559 October Presidential Citation, National Environmental Award (Highest Award for Corporation) Ministry of Security and Public Administration Other non-current financial assets 454,162,477,047 441,633,530,096 Other non-operating income (loss), net -123,921,291,313 14,053,297,723 Excellent Award, BMI Construction Award 2014 (BIM application case for the Legal Research and Training Institute) Building Smart Korea Tangible assets 439,046,779,354 400,014,289,351 Other non-operating income 48,045,715,199 62,999,672,770 Excellent Award in BIM Implementation Sector, BIM Conference 2013 (Development of cloud computing for vitalization of construction site BIM) Building Smart Korea Investments in real estate 265,186,808,866 272,281,713,952 Other non-operating costs -171,967,006,512 -48,946,375,047 November Grand Prize, 2013 Korea’s Flagship Apartment Awards (Minister’s Prize of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport in Ecofriendly Sector) The Korea Economic TV Intangible assets 310,540,415,687 306,145,086,192 Profit before income tax 242,032,074,493 384,009,276,679 Korea Institiute of Building Information Technology Award, 2013 BIM Symposium (Development of BIM based building environment performance analyzing integrated module) Deferred income tax assets 302,469,191,939 223,388,521,482 Income tax expense -94,865,078,741 -104,476,476,303 Modeling Grand Prize in Outstanding Innovation Group, POSCO Family POSCO Other non-current assets 39,273,553,375 10,504,521,139 Net income for the year 147,166,995,752 279,532,800,376 Korea Construction Value Engineering Total assets 8,641,621,387,607 9,200,763,361,752 December Certification of Merit, VE Conference 2013 Research Institute Current liabilities 4,735,004,281,122 4,969,750,155,983 Other comprehensive income (loss), net -2,816,715,735 -37,671,110,705 Minister’s Citation of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, 2013 Fire Prevention and Housing Environment Improvement for Socially Ministry of Security and Public Administration Disadvantage Group Account payables 1,047,492,876,800 1,502,717,886,352 1. Items that will not be reclassified to -289,650,910 -9,222,852,636 Borrowings 776,137,902,605 547,986,048,104 profit or loss Actuarial gains(losses) on post defined -289,650,910 -9,222,852,636 Association Membership Other financial liabilities 709,883,828,175 542,438,364,463 benefit pension plans Prepaid construction property 811,189,530,794 372,479,969,414 Stake at Concern Organization Reason for Joining 2. Items that will be reclassified to -2,527,064,825 -28,448,258,069 Current income tax liabilities 98,930,254,577 82,583,178,959 Korea Construction Quality Research Center To exchange information with fellow E&C companies. profit or loss Other current liabilities 1,246,607,809,746 1,895,725,651,777 Customer Korea Management Association To collect information and consult on quality management area Net gain (loss) on available-for-sale -4,112,709,377 -5,559,366,545 Provisions 44,762,078,425 25,819,056,914 Korea Standards Association To obtain information on standards applicable to the construction industry (standardization and quality assurance). financial investments Non-current liabilities 960,138,162,532 1,402,228,592,030 Korean Professional Engineer Association To promote HR related research and trade information with head of HR department in construction companies Net income reclassification adjustment 21,020,741,139 551,534,969 Labor Relations East Local of Kyongbuk Employer's Association To exchange information on labor unions and relations in the construction industry. Non-current account payables 558,676,585 Equity adjustments in equity method -80,751,177 -3,618,817,374 Construction Safety Managers Association To promote exchange among safety managers at the 100 largest construction companies. Non-current borrowings 542,811,665,744 914,712,373,583 Exchange differences on translation of -19,354,345,410 -19,821,609,119 Construction Safety Management Council To promote exchange among the heads of safety departments at the 100 largest construction companies. Other non-current financial liabilities 29,770,976,405 54,708,041,242 foreign operations Safety and Health KOSHA 18001 Council To promote exchange of information among the KOSHA18001-certified construction companies. Net defined benefit liabilities 67,864,942,364 45,047,660,616 Total comprehensive income for the year 144,350,280,017 241,861,689,671 Construction Safety Officer Council To promote exchange of information and policy suggestions among large construction companies regarding safety issues. Other non-current liabilities 201,432,067,200 312,668,425,952 Maekyung Safety & Environment Institute To obtain information on safety, environmental policies and other Provisions 101,133,905,334 61,160,580,973 Net income attributable to: 147,166,995,752 279,532,800,376 Ethics Management The Institute of Internal Auditors To understand trends in internal auditing and promote networking among auditors. Deferred income tax liabilities 16,565,928,900 13,931,509,664 The owner of the parent 143,416,083,317 289,260,849,854 Gwangyang Police Administration Advancement Committee To obtain information on local society and maintain cooperation with the police stations within the jurisdiction. Total liabilities 5,695,142,443,654 6,371,978,748,013 Non-controlling interests 3,750,912,435 -9,728,049,478 Gwangyang Self-Administration Forum To contribute to local development and promote mutual understanding. Equity attributable to the owner of the parent 2,894,059,135,717 2,786,432,584,408 Nakdong Industry Economy Forum To obtain business order information and promote economic development of Gaegu and Gyeongbuk region Issued capital 183,615,000,000 183,615,000,000 Total comprehensive income attributable to: 144,350,280,017 241,861,689,671 Local Community Saeul Foundation of Culture To maintain relations with opinion leaders of Incheon. Capital surplus 757,934,439,797 761,864,652,020 The owner of the parent 140,574,269,148 253,741,712,852 Pohang Penitentiary Correctional Conference To strengthen relation with Pohang Supreme Prosecutors’ Office and collect information on various social class Reserves -48,307,688,274 -45,724,310,781 Non-controlling interests 3,776,010,869 -11,880,023,181 Pohang Local Development Council To maintain relations and information infrastructure with leaders of Pohang. Retained earnings 2,000,817,384,194 1,886,677,243,169 South Pohang Police Administration Advancement To enhance corporate image and lead local teenagers Non-current interests 52,419,808,236 42,352,029,331 Earnings per share of the owner of the parent Committee Partnering Total equity 2,946,478,943,953 2,828,784,613,739 Basic and diluted earnings per share 3,905 7,877 Construction Outsourcing Association To enhance mutual cooperation, trade information, and solidarity cooperation with outsourcing manager Companies Construction Environment Association To exchange information on environmental technologies and regulations. Korean GEO-Environmental Society To secure geo-environment engineering technology and strengthen order obtainment capability Environment Korean Society on Water Environment To exchange information on water quality control, waterworks, sewage, etc. Korean Society of Environmental Engineers To exchange information on the latest environmental engineering technology and environmental preservation measures. Korea New & Renewable Energy Association To exchange information and relations on new and renewable energy projects. Creating Future Value and Promoting 78 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 79 Statement of Third-Party Assurance LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to POSCO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd.’s Sustainability Report for reviewing documents and associated records. the calendar year 2013 • Reviewing ‌ POSCO E&C’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did This Assurance Statement has been prepared for POSCO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. in accordance with our contract but is intended for this by benchmarking reports written by POSCO E&C and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the readers of this Report. the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether POSCO E&C makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. Terms of Engagement • ‌Auditing POSCO E&C’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by POSCO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (POSCO E&C) to provide independent this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with assurance on its Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2013 (“the Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance using those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. LRQA’s verification procedure. LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practise and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) Inclusivity, •R‌ eviewing additional evidence made available by POSCO E&C at their head office in Song-do dong, Incheon. Materiality, Responsiveness and Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. • Interviewing ‌ relevant personnel at two construction sites to confirm that POSCO E&C’s CSR processes are implemented at site level located at 17-3 and 18-6, Song-do dong, Incheon. Our assurance engagement covered POSCO E&C’s operations and activities in Korea and specifically the following requirements: • Confirming that the Report is in accordance with: Observations GRI G4’s Reporting Guidelines and core option Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: GRI G4’s Sector Disclosure Construction and Real Estate Sector Stakeholder Inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from POSCO E&C’s stakeholder engagement process. POSCO E&C emphasized • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below: the importance of the stakeholder engagement in the Report through addressing the stakeholder interviews. Economic : economic performance (EC1) and market presence (EC5) Materiality: ‌Environmental : energy (EN3, EN5, EN6, EN7), emissions (EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19), effluents and waste (EN23), products and services (EN27), We are not aware of any material issues concerning POSCO E&C’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the Report. It should be compliance (EN29) noted that POSCO E&C has established extensive criteria for determining material issues/aspects and that these criteria are not biased to POSCO E&C’s ‌Social : employment (LA1, LA2), occupational health and safety (LA6), training and education (LA9, LA10, LA11), local communities (SO1), antimanagement. corruption (SO3, SO4, SO5), customer health and safety (PR1), product and service labelling (PR5) Responsiveness: ‌Sector Disclosure : building energy intensity (CRE1), greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings (CRE3), percentage of the organization We are not aware that POSCO E&C has not provided a detailed respond to its relevant stakeholders. However, POSCO E&C should consider establishing operating in verified compliance with an internationally recognised health and safety management system (CRE6), type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment (CRE8). sustainability targets, monitoring their performance against them and reporting the progress in future Reports. Reliability: Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of POSCO E&C’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We are not aware that data management systems are not considered to be well defined and the implementation of the systems is not robust at site level LRQA’s responsibility is only to POSCO E&C. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. POSCO E&C’s by using POSCO Environmental Management System. responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of POSCO E&C. LRQA’s Competence and Independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and LRQA’s Opinion certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that POSCO E&C has not: LRQA is POSCO E&C’s certification body for ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001. We also provide POSCO E&C with a range of training services related to Management Systems. The verification and certification assessments, together with the training, are the only work undertaken by LRQA for POSCO E&C • Met the requirements above and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. • Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as no errors or omissions were detected • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. 09 July 2014 On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea LRQA Lead Verifier Hee-Jeong Yim LRQA Reference: SEO6020386 * ‌Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, LRQA’s Approach referred to in this clause as ‘Lloyd’s Register’. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. • ‌Assessing POSCO E&C’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. Creating Future Value and Promoting 80 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 81 Statement of Assurance Report of UN Global Compact Greenhouse Gas Emissions POSCO E&C has made public its commitment and resolution to observing 10 principles of social responsibilities by joining UN Global Compact. We will Introduction make our best effort to reveal whether we abide by principles of Global Compact through our yearly sustainable report. Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter ‘KFQ’) has been engaged by POSCO E&C (hereinafter the ‘Company’) to independently verify its 2013 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas from places of business nationwide (hereinafter ‘Inventory Report’). It is the Classification Principle POSCO E&C’s major activities GRI G4 responsibility of the Company’s management to compile the Inventory Report and the emission quantity report by “Greenhouse Gas and • ‌Observance of 10 principles of Energy Target Management Scheme” run by the government of Korea and KFQ’s responsibility is provision of opinions on the Inventory 1. ‌We support and respect internationally declared UN Global Compact human rights. Report after verification according to ISO 14064-3 and national scheme. • ‌Observance of ILO rules Human Rights • ‌New clause of protection of human rights in HR1~6, 10 Verification Scope the contract KFQ’s verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources (direct emission and indirect emission) controlled by the 2. We do not engage in infringement of human rights. • ‌Implementation of educations on the Company’s places of business nationwide. prevention of sexual harassment and ethical management Conclusion/Opinion • ‌Observance of Labor Standard Act Based on verification process according to the ISO 14064-3, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to express the following conclusion on the 3. ‌We acknowledge rights to freedom of association and • ‌Operation of labor union HR4, G4-11, LA4 greenhouse gas emission data in the Inventory Report. collective bargaining. • ‌Operation of labor-management council 1) ‌The Company’s 2013 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with “Greenhouse Gas and Energy • ‌Observance of Labor Standard Act and Target Management Scheme” run by the government. In case of Scope 3, it was verified Company’s “Construction Site GHG Management 4. We abolish all kinds of forced labors. HR6 ILO rules Guideline(Ver. 01) and it includes the construction site emissions from the usage of construction equipments, electricity and city gas by Labor cooperative enterprises. 5. We effectively abolish children’s labor. • ‌Observance of collective agreements HR5 2) ‌According to materiality assessment on quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company’s places of business nationwide in 2013, material discrepancy is less than the criteria of 5.0% for an organization that emits under 500,000 tCO2_eq in accordance with • ‌Operating a regular performance “Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme” 6. ‌We abolish discrimination both on employment and management system HR3, LA1, 9, 12, 13 3) ‌According to the information and data regarding greenhouse gas emission in the Inventory Report, no unreliable significant error, at work. • ‌Recruiting more people from regional areas omission, or impropriety were found. Therefore, KFQ conclude and confirm its verification with total material discrepancy of less than 5.0%. [Unit: ton CO2_eq] • Observance of environmental laws 7. We support preventative approach to environmental issues. • Environmental petition support system G4-14 Report Year SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SUB TOTAL SCOPE 3 TOTAL • Self-environment enhancement activity 2013.1.1.~2013.12.31 6,027 25,719 31,746 77,718 109,464 ※ ‌Note: SCOPE 3 was verified by Company’s Construction Site GHG Management Guideline (Ver 01). SCOPE 3 includes the construction site emissions from the usage of • Check reliability of greenhouse gas data construction equipments, electricity and city gas by cooperative enterprises. • ‌Energy saving management on construction equipment 8. ‌We take the lead in taking bigger environmental EN12, 13, 19, 22, June 25th, 2014 • ‌Responding to greenhouse gas regulation on Environment responsibilities. 23, 27, 31 construction industry • ‌Excavating and reporting excellent energy saving cases CEO Dae-Hyun Nam • Ecofriendly engineering Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 9. ‌We support environmentally-friendly technology • Ecofriendly material development EN6~7, 10~19, 27 development and its diffusion. • ‌Support business to expand environmental management into business partners • ‌Spread of ethical management to business partner companies 10. ‌We strive to eradicate all kinds of corruption including Anti-corruption • ‌Employee ethics education SO3~5 unjust enrichment and bribe • ‌Evaluation of level of ethics practice on each department Creating Future Value and Promoting 82 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 83 GRI G4 Index This report has been written under core option of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 guideline. General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures ● Complete ◐ Partially ○ Non-disclosure ● Complete ◐ Partially ○ Non-disclosure Category Index Description Page Reporting External Category Sub-category Aspect Index Description Page Reporting Omissions External Status Assurance Status Assurance Strategy and G4-1 CEO Message 4~5 ● 78~79 Economic Economic Economic Generic DMA 30, 36 ● 78~79 Analysis Performance Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 2 ● 78~79 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 76 ● 78~79 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6~7 ● 78~79 Market Generic DMA 18 ● 78~79 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 7 ● 78~79 Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations 24, 26 ● 78~79 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability 18~19 ● 78~79 of operation topics covered in the report ● EnvironEnvironmental Energy Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 50 ● 78~79 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 9 78~79 mental G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 51 ● 78~79 6~7, 18~19 ● 78~79 customers and beneficiaries) EN5 Energy intensity 51 ● 78~79 G4-9 Scale of the organization 7, 63 ● 78~79 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy usage reduction G4-10 Status of employment type, contract, and region 7, 63, 73 ● 78~79 50~51 ◐ 78~79 quantity G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 65 ● 78~79 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Product energy G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 73 ● 78~79 50~51 ◐ 78~79 and services reduction quantity G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, 7~9, 18~19 ● 78~79 ● ownership, or its supply chain CRE1 Building energy intensity 51 78~79 G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 12 ● 78~79 Emissions Generic DMA 50 ● 78~79 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 81 ● 78~79 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 50~51 ● 78~79 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 50~51 ● 78~79 77 ● 78~79 advocacy organizations GHG emission quantity Identified Material G4-17 List of all entities including the organization’s consolidated financial statements or EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) 50~51 ◐ for each subsection 78~79 19 ● 78~79 (Scope 3) Aspects and equivalent documents Boundaries G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 14~17 ● 78~79 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 50~51 ● 78~79 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 17 ● 78~79 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 47, 50~51 ● 78~79 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 17 ● 78~79 CRE3 Building greenhouse gas emission intensity 50~51 ● 78~79 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 17 ● 78~79 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for Effluents and Generic DMA 44, 49 ● 78~79 66 ● 78~79 such restatements Waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 49 ● 78~79 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 ● 78~79 Products and Generic DMA 44, 50 ● 78~79 Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 14~15 ● 78~79 Services Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 14~15 ● 78~79 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of EN27 44~51 ● 78~79 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement products and services by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 14~15 ● 78~79 Compliance Generic DMA 44, 45 ● 78~79 undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Monetary value of significant fines and total number G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how 16~17 ● 78~79 EN29 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 45 ● 78~79 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns environmental laws and regulations Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 2 ● 78~79 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 ● 78~79 Social Labor Employment Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 62 ● 78~79 Practices and G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 ● 78~79 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Data on retirement rate Decent Work LA1 63 ◐ 78~79 employee turnover by age group, gender and region per age group G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● 78~79 G4-32 GRI G4 INDEX 82~85 ● 78~79 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 66~67 ● 78~79 78~79 ● 78~79 for the report significant locations of operation Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 9 ● 78~79 Occupational Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Internally arranged mission, core value, code of conduct, and principles regarding economic, Health and 52 ● 78~79 10~11 ● 78~79 environmental, and social performance and activities Safety Creating Future Value and Promoting 84 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 OVERVIEW Global Posco E&C Pursuing Profitability EHS Enhancement Improving Social Value Appendix 85 GRI G4 Index Specific Standard Disclosures In Accordance' Criteria with the G4 Guidelines ● Complete ◐ Partially ○ Non-disclosure Category Sub-category Aspect Index Description Page Reporting Omissions External G4 Core G4 Comprehensive Status Assurance General Standard Strategy and Analysis G4-1 G4-1, G4-2 Social Labor Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Disclosures Practices and Health and LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work52 ● 78~79 Organizational Profile G4-3 ~ G4-16 G4-3 ~ G4-16 Decent Work Safety related fatalities, by region and by gender Identified Material Aspects and G4-17 ~ G4-23 G4-17 ~ G4-23 Percentage of the organization operating in verified Boundaries CRE6 compliance with an internationally recognized health and 54 ● 78~79 safety management system Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 ~ G4-27 G4-24 ~ G4-27 Training and Generic DMA 62, 63 ● 78~79 Report Profile G4-28 ~ G4-33 G4-28 ~ G4-33 Education Average hours of training per year per employee by Training hours by LA9 64 ◐ 78~79 G4-34 gender, and by employee category gender Governance G4-34 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-35 ~ G4-55(*) LA10 support the continued employability of employees and 63~64 ● 78~79 G4-56 assist them in managing career endings Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4-57 ~ G4-58(*) LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by 63 ● 78~79 Specific Standard General Standard Disclosures Required, if available for the organization’s sector(*) Required, if available for the organization’s sector(*) employee category Disclosures for Sectors Society Local Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 68 ● 78~79 Communities Generic Disclosures on For material Aspects only(*) For material Aspects only(*) Percentage of operations with implemented local Management Approach SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and 68 ● 78~79 development programs Indicators At least one Indicator related to All Indicators related to each identified material Aspect(*) each identified material Aspect(*) AntiGeneric DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 10 ● 78~79 corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Specific Standard Disclosures Required, if available for the organization’s sector and Required, if available for the organization’s sector SO3 risks related to corruption and the significant 10~11 ● 78~79 for Sectors if material(*) and if material(*) risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Education hours by * For Standard Disclosures with (*), reasons for omission may apply in exceptional cases. SO4 10~11 ◐ 78~79 and procedures position Number of employees SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 10~11 ◐ dismissed of 78~79 disciplined Product Customer Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 58 ● 78~79 Responsibility Health and Percentage of significant product and service categories Safety PR1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed 60 ● 78~79 for improvement Product Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 58 ● 78~79 and Service PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 58 ● 78~79 Labeling POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2013 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and CRE8 labeling schemes for new construction, management, 47 ● 78~79 occupation and redevelopment For more detailed information on our sustainability report, please visit our web site, where you can download a PDF version. * ‌Environmental data for the GRI guideline were partially reported as some indices have not been managed. We plan to manage them from the next year. Labor and social indices were also partially reported due to confidential treatment in the aspect of corporate policy. Date of publication July 2014 Publisher Tae-Hyun Hwang Publisher location CSR Group, General Administration Division, POSCO E&C POSCO E&C Tower 1, 241 Incheon Tower-daero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea E-mail csr@poscoenc.com TEL +82-32-748-3737 Web site www.poscoenc.com * We would like to thank all people who have participated in publishing this report 86 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2013 C110010 This report was printed on environment-friendly paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC™) with soy ink at the printing house certified by the FSC™. www.poscoenc.com Headquarter 180, Daesong-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Tel +82-54-223-6114 Songdo Office POSCO E&C Tower 1, 241 Incheon Tower-daero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea Tel +82-32-748-2114
