SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EKORNES ASA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 CONTENTS This is Ekornes 3 UN Global Compact 4 Sustainability Policy 5 CoC for the Ekornes Group 6 Human rights 8 Labour 10 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 20 Ekornes and the local community 21 The Ekornes ASA sustainability report 2013 is the communication of progress for 2013 to the UN Global Compact. Information on market, finance, governance, etc. is found in the Ekornes ASA Annual Report 2013. See: www.ekornes.com SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORTREPORT EKORNES EKORNES 2013 2013 THIS IS EKORNES The Ekornes story began in 1934 when company founder, Jens E. Ekornes, started manufacturing furniture springs at the J.E. Ekornes Fjærfabrikk in Sykkylven. The first Stressless® recliners were launched in the Norwegian market in 1971. Today Ekornes ASA is the largest furniture manufacturer in Norway and owns such brand names as Ekornes®, Stressless® and Svane®. Stressless® is one of the world’s most well-known furniture brands, while Ekornes®, Stressless® and Svane® are the best known brands in the Norwegian furniture market. Manufacturing is handled by the Group’s three production companies at seven factories, six of which are located in Norway. Ekornes also has a sofa assembly plant, located in Morganton, North Carolina, USA. The Group’s products are sold in large parts of the world through its own sales companies or importers in selected markets. Ekornes’s business concept is to offer products that in terms of both price and design appeal to a broad audience. In addition, the Group aims to develop and manufacture products offering excellent comfort and functionality. Ekornes sells its products through specially selected distributors in markets all over the world, and to parts of the contract market in the Nordic region (maritime and hotel). Ekornes ASA is the parent company of the Ekornes Group. The Group’s production facilities are organized according to product area: Stressless®, Ekornes® Collection (sofas) and Svane® (mattresses). Ekornes ASA provides all shared services, including group management, marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, as well as product development for the Stressless® and Ekornes® Collection segments. The picture on the top of the page display Ekornes ASA’s head office located alongside the Group’s main Stressless® manufacturing facility at Ikornnes in Sykkylven, on the west coast of Norway. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – communication of progress Ekornes participate in the UN's Global Compact initiative. This is a voluntary scheme in which members commit to implementing ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, forming the backbone on Ekornes’ sustainability efforts. As a member of Global Compact, we submit an annual report on what we have done in our day-to-day operations to make progress within the ten principles. The Ekornes Sustainability Report 2013 serves as the annual report / communication of progress to the UN Global Compact for efforts made in 2013. The statement from the CEO manifests Ekornes’ commitment to the Compact for the entire corporation. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 SUSTAINABILITY POLICY The strategies, goals and values that apply to the company’s business are set in our handbook “Objectives and Values for the Ekornes Group”, being the leading star for all of Ekornes’ activities. Regarding sustainability, “Objectives and Values for the Ekornes Group” states: THE ENVIRONMENT The objective of Ekornes is to accept environmental responsibility related to manufacturing, distribution and use of the company’s products. We will continue to implement initiatives in our factories that improve the internal and external environment, at the same time as we continue to select environmentally-friendly raw materials. A sustainable manufacture of durable products will also in future be an objective in the development of our company. The following core items shall be complied with in all parts of our activity:  Ekornes shall appear as an environmentally-friendly enterprise. Our products shall cause the least possible impact on the environment.  Ekornes has as its objective to keep the health risk at the workplaces at a minimum.  Ekornes invests to avoid damage to the environment and injuries to health.  Environmental information shall be generally available, for example through environmental Product declarations (EPD).  Ekornes shall give objective and open information about how the company handles its environmental responsibility. Ekornes has as its long-term objective to develop environmental issues to a competitive advantage through being ahead of our competitors also in this field. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Ekornes shall act as a responsible enterprise and operate within all relevant laws, regulations and to strict ethical standards. We subscribe to and endeavor to comply with UN’s Global compact. This means that in all parts of our business activity we shall maintain high standards of: 1. Respecting and complying with UN’s human rights. 2. Respecting the rights and needs of our employees. 3. Environmental responsibility. 4. Combating corruption in Norway and abroad. Ekornes depends on the availability of labour. through financial contributions to voluntary clubs and various local arrangements, we therefore help to create good communities in areas where we have factories. 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 CODE CODE OFOF CONDUCT CONDUCT FOR FOR T THE EKORNES GROUP Ekornes will conduct its business activities responsibly, and will operate in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations and strict ethical norms. In December 2013, Ekornes published an updated version of its Code of Conduct and anti-corruption policy. The code of conduct is based on openness, both with respect the company’s dealings with all stakeholders and the challenges Ekornes meets at the local and global level. The document, “Ethical Values and Anti-corruption Policy”, as well as “Objectives and Values”, have been distributed to all employees. These regulations have also been distributed to external relations and have been published on the company’s website www.ekornes.com. Everyone within the company has a duty to follow up and comply with these regulations. Managers in all parts of the company have a special responsibility for their follow-up. 1. Objectives and Values’, company regulations, employment contracts and job descriptions also contain ethical rules with which the Ekornes Group complies. The rules contained in this overview should therefore not be considered exhaustive with respect to the Group’s ethical standards. 2. A duty of confidentiality contained in company regulations, employment contracts or job descriptions does not prevent you from informing a superior should you become aware of breaches of regulations, legislation or rules laid down by the authorities. This also applies to internal guidelines, provisions or issues that might harm Ekornes’ reputation or other parties’ trust in Ekornes. 3. Ekornes shall comply with the laws, rules and regulations in the countries in which Ekornes companies have been established or in which business connections have been established. 4. In all contact with suppliers of raw materials, machinery, subsidiary materials and services of any kind, and contact with customers and other business connections, we shall aspire to honesty, integrity, openness, as well as correct and responsible business conduct. The objective is to arrive at the best offer for Ekornes. 5. Ekornes or employees of Ekornes shall not be party to “bribery” or its equivalent in order to achieve special advantages or access to such. 6. Business connections such as those mentioned above shall not be provided with more information about Ekornes than they need to provide a satisfactory offer with respect to price, level of service, delivery times, technology and specifications, or what they need to exercise their business relationship with Ekornes. 7. Suppliers and business connections shall under no circumstances receive information about other suppliers and business connections via Ekornes. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 8. Employees of Ekornes shall participate in trips, dinners and events arranged by suppliers and business connections only when there is a professional reason for the event/trip or it provides business-related opportunities. In cases of such participation the travel, entertainment and accommodation of employees of Ekornes shall always be paid by Ekornes. 9. Employees of Ekornes are not permitted to receive improper benefits or gifts (in the form of products, services or trips, etc.) from business connections other than small promotional items of limited value. The same applies to private purchases of goods at discounts from suppliers to Ekornes without the approval of a superior. Individuals must also avoid becoming in any way beholden to customers or suppliers. 10. Suppliers and business connections shall be made aware of the contents of this document and also be made aware that an attempt to contravene these ethical rules could result in exclusion. ACCOUNTING AND INTERNAL CONTROL REQUIREMENTS Ekornes requires transparency in all operations. All Ekornes entities shall therefore ensure that transactions are correctly registered and supported by proper documentation in accordance with local and international accounting principles. Anti-corruption law requires that Ekornes has in place effective internal accounting controls and maintains books and records that accurately reflect the companies’ transactions. All entities within the Group must correctly account for income and expenditures, and must ensure that payments are not recorded falsely in company books. All expenses shall be approved under standard company procedures, documented and recorded in accordance with appropriate accounting standards. ORGANISATION AND FOLLOW-UP This document, “Ethical Values and Anti-corruption Policy”, as well as “Objectives and Values”, have been distributed to all employees. These regulations have also been distributed to external relations and have been published on the company’s website www.ekornes.com. Everyone within the company has a duty to follow up and comply with these regulations. Managers in all parts of the company have a special responsibility for their dissemination and followup. 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. According to the Group’s policy, Ekornes shall act as a responsible enterprise and operate within all relevant laws, regulations and to strict ethical standards. Ekornes clearly states, both internally and externally, that the company endeavor to comply with the UN’s Global Compact’s ten principles. This policy is presented in the “Objectives and Values for the Ekornes Group”, which is available for all stakeholders. Apart from our factory in USA – all Ekornes’ production facilities are located in Norway, but the company’s operations rely on suppliers of raw material and distributors all over the world. This means that the company has to face different cultures and legislations for business operations in different regions, which can be challenging. Towards internal and external business partners, Ekornes makes clear that the company expects and requires compliance with local legislations and the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Increased purchasing activities in Far East markets may have increased the risk associated with suppliers that do not follow the principles on Human Rights. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Ekornes continuously focus on Human Rights policies through leadership training programs, new employee training, language courses, annual distribution of information in the personnel handbook and requirements to suppliers. Ekornes endeavors to continuously maintain and further develop an open corporate culture. Employees are encouraged to alert about critical issues on all levels. Ekornes collaborates with Ebbesvik Personalomsorg as an external partner for employee’s welfare. All suppliers to Ekornes have to confirm that they acknowledge the UN Global Compact’s ten principles through signing the “Suppliers declarations on Social and Environmental Performance”. Signing the declaration is a statement from the suppliers that they will work towards progress within the areas covered by the principles. In 2013 the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” was made effective by the board of directors at Ekornes. This is a further concretization of what is expected from suppliers to Ekornes. Regarding human rights – the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 touches upon human rights issues as discrimination, abuse, sexual harassment and the protection of children’s’ rights. In order to manage risk and do due diligence in areas with higher possibility for the occurrence of human rights abuse, Ekornes collaborates with DNV-GL for CR advisory and assessments. In the last couple of years Ekornes and DNV have been working on the development of an audit scheme for third party audits on suppliers based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Regarding human rights The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a central piece in the audit scheme with focus on abuse, inhumane treatment and discrimination. A pilot audit was made in China during fall 2012. Experience from the audit gave important input to further developing the scheme which was executed at a larger scale in 2013. Experience of the purchasing department and risk evaluations regarding country, industry and amount of goods purchased were criteria for making the selection. Methodology of audit includes inspection of records, on-site inspection and interview with workers and management. Audits were conducted by locally based DNV-GL consultants. Audits by local representatives who are native language speakers is deemed as an important factor to get correct information from both management and workers at the suppliers audited. Based on risk analysis, Ekornes will continue to perform third party audits in different markets and collaborate with suppliers on improvement programs. As stated in the Ekornes Ethical Standards suppliers who contravene the ethical rules and do not wish to cooperate on improving could result in exclusion. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Ekornes made nine supplier audits in 2013 on resource and component suppliers in Asia. Audits that unveiled non conformities to the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” are currently followed up through individual corrective action plans. The focus in corrective action plans is to give suppliers the opportunity to improve practices through continuous improvement. Ekornes experiences that the suppliers have an increasing understanding of why Ekornes needs to ensure suppliers compliance to the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” and promote UN Global Compact’s ten principles through declarations on social and environmental performance. It also seems like the policy of more and more suppliers is already to comply accordingly. Experience from the work on supplier audits made in 2012 and 2013 show that more work should be done on the risk assessment of suppliers to better aim the focus and resources available for unveiling non conformities and to improve practices in our supply chain regarding human rights. Ekornes Goal for 2014 on this matter is to follow up on suppliers from previous audits, audit more suppliers and to further improve risk management regarding human rights as well as keep implementing the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” in our value chain. 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 LABOUR UN Global Compact Principles: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The majority of Ekornes employees live in Norway where labour rights are strongly regulated by law. There is a long tradition in Ekornes to maintain good dialogue between management and labour unions. Ekornes strongly believe that respecting labour rights is an important factor in the work to reduce sickness absence, and increase effectiveness and profitability. The majority of Ekornes’ employees are organized in various labour unions. The Ekornes management team has over years experienced constructive cooperation with all of the unions through continuous dialogue and regular meetings. Negotiation committees are established to represent the employees in yearly local wage negotiations. Employees are represented in the board of all Ekornes’ production companies and also in the parent company. These representatives hold the same rights as members chosen by the shareholders. The Ekornes personnel handbook includes policies that clearly state the employee rights, responsibilities, compensations and benefits. As mentioned in the previous section, increased sourcing activity in areas with higher risk of deviation from internationally proclaimed labour rights and local legislation makes it imperative for Ekornes to manage this risk in order to aspire to compliance of the principles in the supply chain. This is well established in both the “Objectives and Values for the Ekornes Group” and the “Ethical Standards”. Regarding labour the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” launched in 2013 is based upon the ILO Core Conventions as well as the promotion of living wage if national legal standards are not considered to meet basic needs and to provide some discretionary income. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Ekornes labour policies are available through the personnel handbook. A revised edition of this handbook is distributed to all employees each year. All new employees must during the first two years in the company participate in new employee training where labour rights are one of the main topics. All employees have a detailed job description and contract which clearly states the employee’s duties and rights. A significant part of the yearly investments (about 100 million NOK) is allocated to activities which improve health and safety of the employees. Several straining work stations have been re-designed through investment in technology to ease the work of the operators. Day-to-day responsibility for Health, Environment and Safety lies with managers at the local units. J.E. Ekornes AS (the Stressless® factory) has a chief safety representative and has also appointed a permanent HSE manager, who is responsible for coordinating HSE activities in the plants in northwest Norway. A corresponding position has also been established at Ekornes Beds AS (the mattress factory) in Akershus County. Ekornes is part of the Inclusive Working Life (IA) agreement with the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration’s Working Life Centre in Møre og Romsdal. Initially the agreement covers the Hareid, Sykkylven and Grodås plants. The IA scheme derives from an agreement to promote a more inclusive working life which was entered into by organizations representing Norwegian employers, employees and the government. The objective is to make it possible for everyone, who is willing and able, to work. Companies who enter into an agreement with the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV) become IA companies, with access to special services and provisions. Companies are given a dedicated contact at NAV, who provides advice and guidance on IA issues, and gain access to services and provisions that are exclusive to IA companies. Ekornes has over time had an increasing amount of employees from non-Norwegian speaking nations. Non-Norwegian speaking employees who start working in Ekornes are offered Norwegian classes arranged by Ekornes. Learning Norwegian is perceived by Ekornes to be important both regarding the possibility for the employees to thrive and develop at work as well as integrating immigrants to the Norwegian society. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Regarding implementation in the supply chain Ekornes requires that suppliers acknowledge the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and adhere to the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” through signing the “Suppliers declarations on Social and Environmental Performance”. The audit scheme mentioned earlier together with DNV-GL has a strong emphasis on labour rights and HSE. The outcome of the work done on auditing and developing suppliers will be easier to quantify when more experience and data from the programme is attained. The short term goal for supply chain management with regards to CSR is to improve the methodology in order to provide a measuring baseline enabling the possibility to set definite goals for improvement. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. EKORNES PRODUCTION PLANTS One of the indicators which evaluate performance on labour rights is the company’s sickness absence rate. The Group had a sickness absence rate of 6.5 per cent in 2013. This is a decrease of 0.8 percentage points compared with 2012. Approx. 3.6 per cent of the total number of hours worked in the Group was lost due to long-term sickness absence. This is a decrease of 1.6 percentage points. Short-term sickness absence (less than 16 days) came to around 1.8 per cent, a decrease of 0.3 percentage points. Ekornes wish to follow the positive trend in 2014. The active work of management at each plant to reduce the level of sickness absence through individual follow-up and other measures together with the IA arrangement is starting to have a positive effect. Ekornes has a goal to have total sickness absence below 5%. 7,3 7,7 6,8 7 6,5 Total sickness absence [%] – Ekornes ASA 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 The amount of lost-time injuries has decreased as well. Ekornes has a goal to reduce the amount of loss-time injuries to zero. 31 23 25 23 19 Lost-time injuries [#] – Ekornes ASA 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Regarding gender equality in Ekornes there is a discrepancy between gender mix in the company and female managers. Ekornes will keep working to develop managers based on the needs of each individual unit, and is intended to qualify individual managers to lead large units with a decentralised decision-making structure. Ekornes has a long tradition of recruiting managers at most levels internally. 67 Female managers / 50 directors [%] – Different 34 companies 20 8 Ekornes ASA J.E. Ekornes AS Ekornes Beds Ekornes' sales Ekornes Board AS companies of directors SUPPLY CHAIN As mentioned in the chapter about human rights; 9 audits were made in 2013. Audits that unveiled non conformities to the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct” are currently followed up through individual corrective action plans. The focus in corrective action plans is to give suppliers the opportunity to improve practices through continuous improvement. Some non-conformities appear to be a national and/or industry trend and will require long-term focused efforts. One example is the use of personal protection equipment (PPE). Ekornes requires in the supplier code of conduct that appropriate PPE shall be used, but where non-conformities have been unveiled just providing more PPE might not necessarily the be action needed. What is equally important for Ekornes is to make management in suppliers to give information and training in order to ensure effective use of PPE to employees. Ekornes believes in sharing good practice and giving suppliers the possibility to learn and improve. Focusing on improvements in all areas will be beneficial for both the supplier, its employees, Ekornes and the consumer. This processes will benefit all parties involved as the focus lies in developing production sites and give valuable learning through continuous improvement. ISO 9001 certification will further induce the demand for this collaboration and follow up on suppliers. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact Principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection Policy and governance Environmental practice is a part of the Ekornes culture which is built on a strong Scandinavian heritage and tradition to protect the beautiful nature that surrounds us. Ekornes encourage through the whole value chain to create more value with less use of resources. The sustainability policy is stated in page 5 and grounded in Ekornes Objectives and Values, being available for all stakeholders. The environmental policy is governed by a corporate social responsibility manager and the Environmental steering group. The group consists of people with different backgrounds and from different departments. Product development, marketing, chemistry, purchasing, Health and safety are represented today. In short, the Environmental Steering Group works to bridge the gaps between the different markets and departments, and function as a central hub for environmental issues and expertise. The Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct encourage suppliers to take a precautionary approach on the environment and to reduce the emission of green-house gases. To document the products’ impact on the environment Ekornes has developed environmental product declarations (EPD). The goal is to have EPDs for the entire Stressless® collection in accordance with ISO 14025. Assessment Ekornes has implemented a lot of green practices at the company’s manufacturing facilities. One of the most important is reduction of the company’s carbon footprint by continuously investing in ecofriendly technology. Based on life-cycle considerations, Ekornes considers that extraction and transportation of raw materials for production of components and transportation of chairs to customers represent the largest impact on the environment. Since Ekornes only has indirect influence on these processes, we take responsibility by continuously improving the efficiency on inhouse processes with means to reduce use of raw materials and other resources. One example is that Ekornes develops new products using platform components. Use of platform components gives Ekornes the opportunity to use advanced technology and robots for mass 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 production – which again leads to a rational use of raw materials and a minimization of waste. This gives better profitability both for the environment and the company, and will be the main focus also in the future. Use of platform components gives Ekornes the advantage of good and stable quality by focusing on fewer components. This contributes to the long lifespan of our products which Ekornes perceives as one of the key efforts towards reducing the environmental impact associated with the consumer demand for comfortable recliner-chair seating. Another example is the wide use of bio-energy and heat pump technology that Ekornes has implemented at its manufacturing facilities over the last twenty years. Ekornes continuously strives to sort out further potential to increase the use of bio-energy. Goals Continuing to develop Ekornes by investing in sustainable shared value projects will strengthen our profitability and flexibility by allowing more efficient use of resources. Continuous dialogue with our stakeholders will enable us to meet stronger requirements in legislations and regulations and be in the forefront of customer demands and contribute to develop sustainable business throughout the value chain. We consider that Ekornes is well positioned for future regulation in comparison to selected competitors, especially from Asia. Our environmental strategy ensures that we maintain our position as the preferred choice for both our customers, suppliers and employees. Ekornes is about certify its management systems to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. A short term goal is to build up a set of measurements and KPIs in order to set quantified goals. Before this is established – Ekornes have intermediate environmental goals: Maximize resource efficiency Avoid emissions to water from production Avoid non-conformities regarding environmental issues in third-party inspections Actively reduce and replace use of chemicals Comply to environmental regulations in all markets Ekornes products are available Reduce input of fossil energy and electric power, waste and GHG emissions per produced unit of furniture or mattress Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents Management, labeling and reporting Ekornes have invested to comply with the environment and quality standards of mobelfakta.no, providing guidelines for public procurement for furniture. Ekornes also believes that mobelfakta.no will be setting the standard in the private sector and home Norwegian furniture market for environment and quality as well. The requirements are that the producer has an ISO 14001 management system and environmental labeling of products either through and EPD (Environmental Product Declaration according to ISO 14025) or the Nordic Swan Label. Due to this Ekornes is participating in an industry-wide effort to develop a uniform EPD tool. When this tool has been established, the company’s EPDs will be thirdparty verified by EPD-Norge. This will provide a valuable understanding of how Ekornes can make the products of the future more environmentally friendly. Throughout 2013 Ekornes have worked with R&D to provide experience and input to 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 the project. Ekornes is also in the steering group for the project. Estimated time of completing is Q3 2014. Ekornes board of directors have approved to initiate a process to certify the quality and environmental management systems according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Since the decision was made Ekornes has throughout 2013 reviewed the current internal control system and implementation of the changes due to ISO certification. A project group is settled and the appropriate ICT infrastructure is chosen. The certification is planned to be in place in Q1 2015. The essence of ISO 14001 is continuous improvement. ISO 14001 requires that the environmental policy is rooted in and reviewed by top management. Health and chemicals In recent years, efforts have been intensified to reduce the amount of chemicals and heavy metals in products, in recognition of the health hazards such substances represent. In the furniture industry this is largely linked to the production of polyurethane foam, surface coatings and adhesives. Ekornes meets requirements of the European REACH directive, and wishes to make sure that the company’s products do not expose users to chemicals that pose a hazard to health. Ekornes has therefore commissioned Eurofins to test typical product models for emissions of harmful substances, and introduced purchasing specifications requiring the company’s suppliers to balance quality, the environment and sustainability. The emissions test made in 2013 proved within safe harbor levels of California proposition 65. Where necessary, Ekornes has made use of independent expertise. BLC Leather Technology Centre, for example, assisted in the specification of maximum levels of chemicals and heavy metals in furniture leather. Ekornes strives continuously to reduce its use of chemicals and promote environment-friendly solutions. Among other things, Ekornes has contributed to the development of a new environment-friendly adhesive for the production of laminated wood. These laminates now contain no more formaldehyde than natural wood. All Ekornes’s surface coatings facilities now use water-based products. In 2013 a big environmental milestone for Ekornes was achieved when the R&D team at the polyurethane foam department managed to make polyurethane block foam which is both compliant to British fire regulations and the new US California TB 117. The practical results in the US market for the new TB 117 is to avoid the use of flame-retardants in furniture. Heat and energy Ekornes uses mainly bioenergy to heat its manufacturing facilities. Wood chips from its own waste are the main energy source for heating Ekornes’s Tynes, Grodås, Vestlandske and Ikornnes plants. The Ikornnes, Tynes and Hareid plants also use heat pumps for heating. The five plants located in northwest Norway consider oil an alternative energy source, which is used only in exceptional cases. The Fetsund plant uses mostly electricity and oil for heating. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Waste and emissions Ekornes sorts all its waste at source in accordance with applicable regulations and in such a way that the bulk of the waste is recycled or used for energy recovery. Some of the waste is sorted by the waste recipient. Ekornes wishes to use as much as possible of its waste for heat production or as raw materials for its own production (recycling). Direct emissions to air from the manufacturing process are primarily generated by oil and solid fuel boilers, as well as organic solvents from sealers/stains. In recent years, these emissions have been significantly reduced at the Ikornnes plant. Each year Ekornes reports the Group’s greenhouse gas emission figures to CDP. The greenhouse gas breakdown is based on the guidelines set out in the ISO 14064-3 standard and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and covers Scope 1, 2 and 3. Scope 1 includes greenhouse gas emissions directly to air as a result of production processes and vehicle transport, while Scope 2 includes greenhouse gas emissions deriving from electricity consumption. Scope 3 also includes greenhouse gas emissions from air travel and waste. There are also some emissions of diisocyanate gas from the production of polyurethane foam at the Fetsund and Ikornnes facilities. Discharges to water are normally channeled through our own and local authority waste treatment facilities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance Energy and waste Wood chips, off cuts and other wood-based waste from its own manufacturing processes represent an important energy source for Ekornes. Together with externally sourced wood pellets, this generated 17.8 GWh of bioenergy for heating Ekornes’s plants in 2013. In addition to using woodbased waste for energy recovery, Ekornes also recycles other materials. Hides are an extremely valuable raw material, which Ekornes works hard to make maximum use of. Any leather off cuts which cannot be used for furniture production are sold. Another important raw material is waste from foam plastic production, which is recycled in-house. 1.9 per cent of the waste is classified as hazardous, and 1.6 per cent was sent to landfills. Energy consumption [MWh] – Ekornes ASA 30000 25000 20000 2011 15000 2012 10000 2013 5000 0 Oil & Gas Bio Energy Electricity 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Waste disposal [tonnes] – Ekornes ASA Ekornes Morganton Ikornnes Tynes Vestlandske Grodås Hareid Group % Beds AS USA Landfilled 36,1 6,9 2,4 5,6 6,2 0,0 53,0 110,2 1,6 Mixed residual waste to 368,5 92,5 27,0 50,1 55,6 167,8 0,0 762,3 11,0 energy recovery bioenergy for incineration in975,3 1572,7 9,7 1649,6 0,0 73,8 0,0 4281,2 61,6 house/externally Recycled material 1188,8 26,9 19,8 8,6 11,3 389,4 22,3 1667,1 24,0 Special hazardous /electrical 91,8 24,3 0,6 1,7 1,7 13,2 0,0 133,2 1,9 waste Total quantity waste 2660,5 1723,3 59,5 1715,6 74,8 644,2 75,3 6954,0 100,0 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 Emissions The Group’s overall carbon footprint for 2013 totalled 5,270 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. The increase in emissions under Scope 2 is mostly due to a measurement error for prior years. Due to this Ekornes’s actual electricity consumption increased substantially. The scope was also broadened to include Ekornes’ showroom in Ålesund. Broadening the scope of the reporting gained praise from CDP awarding Ekornes in a spot in the CDLI for the 2013 reporting. Ekornes plan to continue reporting improvements to include scope 3 emissions from materials for the next reporting cycle. This calls for a new baseline to be set for the coming reporting period. Carbon footprint [tonnes CO2 equivalents] – Ekornes ASA 6000 5000 4000 Scope 3 3000 Scope 2 2000 Scope 1 1000 0 2011 2012 2013 Carbon footprint – Scope 1 & 2 [tonnes CO2 equivalents per million NOK revenue] – Ekornes ASA 1,65 1,54 1,48 1,41 1,32 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Further detail on greenhouse gas accounting for the Ekornes group is found in the report to CDP for 2013. A link to the report and other environmental information is found at the Ekornes web page: http://www.ekornes.com/us/about-ekornes/environmental-and-social-responsibilities Ekornes is doing improvements in measuring and metrics for GHG emissions as a part of the work on ISO 14001 certification. It is believed that better measurements and metrics will increase focus on GHG emissions and thereby do more to mitigate them. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 ANTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact Principles: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Ekornes has zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion. The anti-corruption policy is clearly stated in Ekornes Ethical Standards and made known to all employees and business partners. These standards were updated in 2013 to better mitigation of corruption risk. Ekornes’ main operations (manufacturing, head office, purchasing) are mostly located in Norway. The transparency in daily operations and the Norwegian business culture both contribute to a relatively low exposure to risk of corruption. However, Ekornes does business through sales and sourcing channels in parts of the world where the risk of corruption and bribery is more present. The top management team has continuous focus on risk of corruption. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. The Ekornes Ethical Standard is provided to all employees all over the world and available in the personnel handbook for the Scandinavian employees. The Ekornes Ethical Standard contains an overview of ethical rules related to corruption. Other documents like “Ekornes Objectives and Values”, company regulations, employment contracts and job descriptions also contain ethical rules. This also includes procedures for eg. whistle-blowing and gift registry. Suppliers are made aware of Ekornes Ethical Standards through the “Ekornes Supplier Code of Conduct”. A duty of confidentiality contained in the company regulations, employment contracts or job descriptions does not prevent employees from informing about breaches of regulations, legislation or rules laid down by the authorities. This also applies to internal guidelines, provisions or issues that might harm Ekornes’ reputation or other parties’ trust in Ekornes. The top management team is responsible for anti-corruption. Ekornes also gain valuable knowledge in order to work against Corruption through the UN Global Compact Nordic Network and a national compliance network. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. Ekornes scored above average in the Transparency International Norway assessment of large companies on the Oslo stock exchange in 2013, ending up as #8 of 50 companies. The results from the study also gave important input to areas of improvement. Regarding supply chain audits, no nonconformities were unveiled. The corruption risk management in the supply chain will however also be subjected to improvements for the coming reporting period. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 CREATING SHARED VALUE Ekornes has a long tradition of contributing to the local communities in which it has established operations. Ekornes depends on having a qualified labour force at all its manufacturing plants, and the company’s involvement in the local community contributes to an enjoyable working environment for the staff – creating shared value. The company has therefore elected to make financial provisions for measures benefiting children and young people in the local communities in which it is represented. Efforts are made to allocate the funds such that a variety of interests are supported. A fair share of this goes to sport activities for children like the Ekornes Cup, gathering about 500 young football enthusiasts every year. In 2013 Ekornes employees waived the traditional Christmas gift, granting it to the local volunteer centres in the local communities of the factories. Ekornes is also contributing and supporting local initiatives working on different development activities in the Philippines, Kenya and Zimbabwe among other. In 2013 Ekornes granted extra contributions for the project in the Philippines in the wake of the devastating Haiyan typhoon. Ekornes places a high priority on vocational training, which is well entrenched in all parts of the company. Collaboration with lower and upper secondary schools as well as institutions for higher education and various training offices provides positive benefits to both local communities and the company. Ekornes has around 25 apprentices within 7 – 8 different special fields every year and a number of students do their Bacheloror Master thesis with Ekornes as case company. Ekornes also takes part in numerous collaborative initiatives in the local industry – sharing knowledge and experience. A viable and innovative industry in our local community is key for Ekornes to maintain the access to highly qualified workers. Ekornes engage ASVO Produkt AS in Stranda to make the textile sample books that Ekornes uses in furniture stores and at exhibitions. ASVO Produkt AS is a social enterprise that employs people who, permanently or temporarily, are in need of special support in the workplace. Users have the opportunity to practice skills and develop their resources. For some, the objective is to have a permanent job to go to, for others to gain work experience before getting a job elsewhere or starting a course of study. Whatever their reasons for being there, they all share a desire for meaningful employment. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 SUSTAINABILITY – INNOVATION TEHCNOLOGY Generations of focus on technology and innovation is accumulated in the Ekornes product range. The ideas and abilities of dedicated workers have given Ekornes an edge, being in the frontline of technology in the furniture industry. This also reflects the environmental aspects of Ekornes chairs, sofas and beds. Customers can be assured that the products are safe to use and in compliance with the most ambitious environmental regulations and standards for furniture. The figure below lists up some of the good ideas embedded in our products regarding sustainability: Ecological footprint quantified with LCA Comfort Zones to – communicated reduce use of No halogenated with EPD materials and flame-retarders on increase comfort leather and textiles Organic, closedloop degreasing Oeko-tex® certified of steel textiles available Genuine leather in No halogenated order to flame-retardants in specifications by polyurethane foam BLC Leather Tech No harmful AZOdyes Residue foam is recycled on-site Laminate binder with No PVC in free-formaldehyde upholstery levels equal to natural wood Compliant with IMO regulations for Water-based offshore and varnish and stains shipping Residue wood used FSC or PEFC certified to heat factories wood from European forests « A sustainable manufacture of durable products will also in » the future be an objective in the development of Ekornes 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013 EKORNES ASA Industrivegen 1 6222 Ikornnes Norway www.ekornes.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKORNES 2013
