00 INDEX 01 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO P. 05 02 COMPANY PROFILE P. 09 2.1 Business Activities 2.2 Company History 2.3 Shareholder Structure 2.4 Organisational Structure 2.5 Operating and Financial Data 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during 2013 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes 03 REPORT PARAMETERS P. 19 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE P. 23 4.1 Shareholders’ Rights and Duties of the Board of Directors 4.2 Duties of the Corporate Governance Committees Audit Committee Nominations and Compensations Committee Operations Committee Acquisitions and Contracts Committee 4.3 Composition of Corporate Governance Bodies and Remuneration 4.4 Frequency of Sessions and Attendance Rate 05 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY P. 31 5.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy 5.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion Energy Efficiency Water Management Waste Management Fuel Consumption 5.3 Environmental Management System 5.4 Environmental Certification 06 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES P. 46 6.1 Description of Workforce 6.2 Safety in the Workplace 07 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT P. 54 AND SUPPORT 7.1 Direct Economic Benefits 7.2 Community Involvement 7.3 Anticorruption Measures 08 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS P. 61 09 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT P. 65 10 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND P. 69 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS A APPENDICES A, B P. 76 01 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO The aim of this report is to provide an overview of SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL-RESPONSIBILITY ISSUES 6 01 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 It is with great pleasure that we present ASUR’s 2013 Annual Sustainability Report. For a number of years, one of the strategic goals of our company has been to ensure that in all our operations we act as a responsible corporate citizen. We believe that this is the only way to safeguard our company against future risks, to the benefit not only of our employees and shareholders, but also that of the communities in the locations where we have activities. The key environmental risks for our operations continue to be climate change and the degradation of natural habitats. Many of the predicted effects of global warming, from rising sea levels to more frequent extreme-weather events, have the potential to affect our business, as an airport company that depends largely on beach tourism for its passengers. In order to keep our destinations attractive for the people who visit them, it is also in our best interest to preserve the natural beauty of the areas where we operate. In terms of the social risks that our company is exposed to, we 7 01 recognise that there may be potential for both human-rights abuses and ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 instances of violations of business ethics in our operations or those of our business partners. Among the most significant potential impacts that our company has on the environment are the modification or destruction of natural habitats involved in any major infrastructure expansion project, and the potential for contamination of water sources. The various measures taken to mitigate these risks are described in more detail in the relevant sections of this report. We believe that the company’s most significant social impacts are mostly positive: we strive to provide stable employment to our workers in decent, safe working conditions, we are involved in efforts on several fronts to promote respect for human rights, and we adhere to a strict set of regulations with regard to business ethics. The year 2013 produced several positive results in ASUR’s operations. Overall, from 2012 to 2013 passenger figures increased by 9.5%, our total revenues increased by 6.4% and the company’s profits rose by 10.7%. During 2013, our programmes to increase the efficiency of our facilities continued to build on previous achievements: in 2013 total electricity consumption in the nine airports in the Group fell by 1% compared to the previous year, which represented a 9.4% decrease on a per-passenger basis, and our per-passenger water consumption also decreased by 6.4%. Our key challenges in the short term continue to be to reduce our consumption of water, to reduce and recycle more of the refuse generated in our airports, to keep our electricity consumption within appropriate levels, 8 01 and to achieve closer, more cooperative relations with our stakeholders in ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 local communities. In the medium-to-long term, we will need to look for new ways to take further steps toward carbon neutrality in our operations, to promote the protection of natural habitats and biodiversity, and to reduce or mitigate other environmental impacts. The aim of this report is to provide an overview of the sustainability and social-responsibility issues that we are currently tackling within the company. Our goal is to increase the transparency of the programmes that we undertake in these areas, and for this report to serve as a tool for dialogue with all our stakeholders. We welcome any comments or observations about additional matters that our readers would like to see included, or suggestions as to how we can improve our reporting process. Adolfo Castro Rivas, Chief Executive Officer of ASUR 02 COMPANY PROFILE Asur’s core activity is to ADMINISTER AND MAINTAIN THE INFRASTRUCTURE of its airports 10 02 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. In February 2013, the concession for the operation of Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, was granted to Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, a company in which Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. holds a 50% stake. These are the only operations outside of Mexico in which ASUR currently has an interest. 11 02 2.1 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The company’s core activity is to administer and maintain the infrastructure of its airports to ensure sufficient capacity for safe, efficient operations and a high standard of service. Basic infrastructure includes that required for aircraft takeoff and landing operations and for arriving and departing passenger flows, as well as facilities for the authorities involved in airport operations (air traffic controllers, customs, immigration, etc.). In addition to the above, the company enters into agreements with external providers for a range of additional services, including complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and ramp services) and commercial services for passengers (such as restaurants, shops and car rental, among other business lines). The company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent its three revenue streams. 2.2 COMPANY HISTORY ASUR’s nine airports are operated under 50-year concessions that were granted to the company in 1998, as part of the Mexican government’s plan to open up the country’s state-owned airport sector to private investment. 12 02 Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake of 15% in the compaASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 ny’s capital stock (the BB series shares) was sold to a strategic partner, Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de C.V. (ITA), with expertise in Mexican business operations and in the international airport industry. The remaining 85% of the company’s shares (the B series) began trading on the stock exchanges of Mexico City and New York in two public offers in September 2000 and March 2005. 2.3 SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE In June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced its shareholding in the company from 15% to 7.65%. As of the 31st of December 2013, ITA is owned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican investor, who has a 51% stake in the company; and by Remer Soluciones a la Inversión, S.A. de C.V. (previously Corporativo Galajafe, S.A. de C.V.), a subsidiary of the Mexican bus transport company Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V., which has a stake of 49%. The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held by ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa (BMV: ASUR). On the 4th of January 2012, Fernando Chico Pardo completed the sale to Corporativo Galajafe of 37,746,290 shares in ASUR. As of the 31st of December 2013, Fernando Chico Pardo directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.48% in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA); and Corporativo Galajafe, S.A. de C.V. directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.05% in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA). 13 02 2.4 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 As of the 31st of December 2013, ASUR employs a total of 981 people. Our organisational structure may be summarised as follows: each of the nine airports of ASUR is a subsidiary of the holding company, Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In addition, there are two subsidiary service companies, one that directly employs the Group’s unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) and another that directly employs all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V.). Figure 1 Structure, Holding Company and Subsidiaries Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. 11 subsidiaries Aeropuerto de Cancún, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Cozumel, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Huatulco, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Mérida, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Minatitlán, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Oaxaca, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Tapachula, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Veracruz, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Villahermosa, S.A. de C.V. RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V. Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. 14 02 2.5 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL DATA ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 In 2013, a total of 21,079,656 passengers passed through ASUR’s terminals (not including private aviation or transit passengers), of which 11,704,522 (56%) were international and 9,375,134 (44%) were domestic passengers. The total passenger figure for 2013 increased by 1,833,012 (9.5%) compared to the year 2012. The company’s largest airport is the one located at Cancún, which accounted for 76% of total passenger traffic in 2013 (up from 75% in 2012). 20 Figure 2 Breakdown of International and Domestic Passenger Traffic, 2012 vs. 2013 15 (Not including general aviation Passengers (millions) 7.5 9.4 and transit passengers) 10 5 10.1 10.6 11.7 Domestic International 2011 2012 2013 15 02 Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve passengers arriving from every ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 continent, although a considerable majority of passengers arrive from North American destinations: in 2013, passengers from the United States of America and Canada accounted for 73% of international passengers. In 2013, the net income of the company was 2.3 billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approximately 174 million US dollars). The company ended the year with total assets worth 21.4 billion pesos (approximately 1.6 billion US dollars), total liabilities of 5.1 billion pesos (approximately 390 million US dollars) and total equity of 16.3 billion pesos (approximately 1.2 billion US dollars).* * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 12.77 Mexican pesos per dollar (2013 average). 2013 2012 Figure 3 Summary of P&L and Balance Sheet Assets 21,416 19,109 Liabilities 5,132 2,638 (Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos) Equity 16,284 16,471 Revenues 5,446 5,120 Operating costs 2,575 2,590 Net income 2,297 2,075 16 02 2.6 SIGNIFICANT ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 CHANGES IN OPERATIONS DURING 2013 During 2013, the concession for the operation of Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, was granted to Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, a company in which Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. holds a 50% stake. This is the first time that ASUR has been directly or indirectly involved in operations in an airport outside of Mexican territory. Several infrastructure expansion projects were undertaken in the year 2013. In the case of Cancún, these did not involve major extensions to the built-up surface areas or “footprint” of the airport; the necessary capacity increases were mostly achieved by remodelling and optimising existing buildings and facilities. In the airports of Huatulco, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa, the built-up areas of the airports were increased to varying degrees. For a more detailed discussions of mitigations measures for infrastructure expansion, please refer to section 5.2.1 of this report. 17 02 2.7 SOCIAL ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 RESPONSIBILITY AWARDS AND EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES During 2013, ASUR maintained its status as an active signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by complying with the UNGC’s reporting requirements. The Global Compact is an initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. Additionally, for the sixth year running, we were awarded recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments of internal practices and programmes carried out by the companies themselves, which are required to submit adequate documentation of the corresponding activities. The assessments monitor performance in four key areas: quality of life for company employees; business ethics and anti-corruption practices; community support and relations; and environmental protection. In the reporting period, ASUR received Environmental Quality Assurance certificates for four of its airports from the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency, Profepa. The certification in question represents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. The airports certified were Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz. Certificates are valid for a period of two years; the remaining airports in the Group – Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa – are due for recertification in 2014. 18 02 As of the 31st of December 2013, the environmental management sysASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 tems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified in 2013, and those at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca are due for recertification in 2014. Finally, with regard to ASUR’s passenger service standards, in 2013 Cancún Airport was ranked in second place in terms of service quality in Latin America and the Caribbean, after winning first place for the previous four years in a row. These rankings were assigned under the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey programme, organised by Airports Council International, in which passengers are asked to rate their degree of overall satisfaction with airports’ service levels, as well as performance in a wide range of specific areas, from efficiency and the standard of facilities to cleanliness and staff courtesy. 03 REPORT PARAMETERS Providing information of interest on the company’s response to STAKEHOLDERS’ SPECIFIC CONCERNS 20 03 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2013, and follows on from ASUR’s 2012 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. 3.1 STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS AND REPORT CONTENT Based on internal analysis and management assessments, we have determined the main stakeholders of the company and the aspects of our business that are of particular interest to them. In general terms, ASUR’s stakeholders can be divided into internal and external stakeholders. The former include the company’s employees, shareholders and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance 21 03 committees. ASUR’s external stakeholders can be further subdivided into ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 two main categories: those that have a relation with the region where the company’s airports are located, including local residents, local authorities and the local business communities; and those that are involved in the company’s aeronautical activities, including airlines, passengers and national and international aviation authorities. This report is conceived primarily as a tool for the stakeholders of ASUR; it has the aim of creating a greater degree of transparency concerning the company’s operations and providing information of interest on the company’s response to stakeholders’ specific concerns. Priority has been given to those topics considered of greatest interest to our stakeholders and in which our operations are assessed to have the most material impacts. We believe that the working conditions we provide for our employees, the benefits we bring to local communities and wider issues such as ASUR’s record with regard to respect for human rights and the measures we have implemented to prevent corruption, are of particular interest to our most important stakeholders. However, it is our firm belief that the environment, and specifically what ASUR is doing to reduce its environmental impacts, is one of the primary concerns of all our internal and external stakeholders. Consequently, in addition to social and economic considerations, we place particular emphasis in this report on the most important environmental issues that affect and are affected by the company’s activities. In selecting the information to be included in this report, ASUR has applied the four principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness established by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining report content. The data that serve as input for the key performance indicators mentioned in this report were collected and calculated based on the various methodologies described in the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 22 03 3.2 SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS OF REPORT ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 This report is intended to complement ASUR’s Annual Financial Statements for 2013, which contain in-depth information on the financial performance of ASUR during the period in question. It will therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters without including detailed financial data, except insofar as they relate to the standard disclosures contained in the company profile (Section 2) and to economic performance indicators (Section 7). The environmental performance indicators mentioned in Section 5 include data from the nine airports directly operated by Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. DE C.V. only. All other indicators refer to the nine airports, the company’s head offices in Mexico City and other company subsidiaries, as described in Section 2.4. The scope of this report does not include the activities of Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, holder of the concession to operate Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in which ASUR holds a 50% stake. The report covers operations performed directly by the companies that form part of the ASUR business group. At this time, mechanisms are not in place to include the activities of clients, suppliers or subcontractors within the parameters of this report, unless otherwise stated. This report has been prepared on a consistent basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for 2012 in terms of scope, boundary and measurement methods, and contains no restatements or reinterpretations of data contained in that report. At this time, it is not company policy to seek external assurance of our Annual Sustainability Report. Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie, Tel. +52 55 5284 0488 E-mail: amccreadie@asur.com.mx 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASUR’s shareholders represent the HIGHEST AUTHORITY in the company 24 04 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets of both Mexico City and New York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporate governance practices. Our Board of Directors is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corporate governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. 25 Figure 4 04 Overview of Corporate Governance COMPANY SHAREHOLDERS ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Structure of ASUR Ultimate authority at the company Responsible for: decision-making at the highest level Due representation of minority shareholders BOARD OF DIRECTORS Responsible for: strategic decision-making Number of members: 9 Independent members: 5 NOMINATIONS AND AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE Responsible for: oversight of operations to Responsible for: proposals for appointment ensure appropriate standard of business of board members; approval of executive ethics pay Number of members: 3 Number of members: 3 Independent members: 3 Independent members: 1 ACQUISITIONS AND OPERATIONS COMMITTEE CONTRACTS COMMITTEE Responsible for: compliance with Responsible for: oversight of acquisitions investment commitments; proposals to ensure appropriate ethical standards to Board for dividends, budget, business Number of members: 3 plan, etc. Independent members: 1 Number of members: 4 Independent members: 2 26 04 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 4.1 SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s shareholders represent the highest authority in the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held on at least an annual basis, in order to vote on the most important issues such as dividend payments and other matters that require shareholder approval by law. In addition, according to the company’s bylaws, any shareholder or group of shareholders representing at least 10% of the company’s capital stock has the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting at any time. The Board of Directors reports to the company’s shareholders, and is in turn reported to by four different committees: the Audit Committee, the Nominations and Compensations Committee, the Operations Committee and the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee. The Board of Directors is responsible for making strategic decisions regarding the company’s business operations. To do so, it receives reports from the company’s top management and corporate governance committees regarding such matters as the company’s financial performance, passenger figures, operations, compliance with investment commitments, and other important matters. On a yearly basis, the Board submits a report regarding its own activities and performance for the evaluation of the company shareholders. 27 04 4.2 DUTIES ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES 4.2.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE Among the most important duties of the company’s Audit Committee is the approval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is developed internally, is applicable to all activities in all areas of all of the company’s subsidiaries, and is communicated to all staff members on a regular basis. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR has an internal reporting system that may be used by anyone within the company to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to report grievances relating to workplace matters. The system’s users have the option to submit reports anonymously or to confirm their identity. All such reports are completely confidential and are received directly by the Internal Auditing Department, which has the duty to investigate them and to report to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee ultimately reports to the Board of Directors and the company shareholders regarding the reports received and how the matters raised were resolved. The Audit Committee is also responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting and for supervising its risk management activities. On a regular basis risk mapping activities are carried out, covering aspects such as risks relating to financial information, areas of the company that may be vulnerable to fraud or other acts of corruption, information technology, and environmental and social issues. Once the company’s risks have been mapped in detail, courses of action are determined for them to be managed and the information is presented to the Audit Committee for discussion. Specifically in relation to infrastructure expansion projects in the company’s airports, environmental impact assessments are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Mexican environmental protection authorities, and the appropriate mitigation measures are determined when necessary. 28 04 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 4.2.2 NOMINATIONS AND The Nominations and Compensations Committee is mainly responsible COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE for issuing proposals for the appointment of new Board and Committee members, as well as new executive officers in the top level of management in the company. It also determines the level of compensation to be paid at these levels, based on performance assessments and market rates, and approves the performance parameters that will be used as the basis for assessment in the subsequent twelve-month period. 4.2.3 OPERATIONS COMMITTEE The Operations Committee oversees key aspects of ASUR’s day-to-day business activities, including compliance with the investments that the company is required to make by the Mexican federal government. It also issues proposals and recommendations to the Board of Directors in relation to such matters as the company’s budget, business plan, and dividends, among others. 4.2.4 ACQUISITIONS AND CONTRACTS The Acquisitions and Contracts Committee is responsible for ensuring COMMITTEE that appropriate standards are adhered to in the process of acquiring the goods and services that the company needs to carry out its operations successfully. Specifically, approval is required from the Committee for any acquisition or contract with a total value in excess of 400,000 US dollars, in one or more years; for extensions to existing contracts that represent an increase of more than 25% of the originally agreed timeframe or value; when a contract is put up for tender and a single bid is received, or when a contract is assigned directly and without tender to a given supplier, regardless of the contract value; and in cases when a contract is renewed with the same supplier on expiry. 29 04 4.3 COMPOSITION ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES AND REMUNERATION Board and Committee members are appointed in accordance with proposals presented by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, whose job it is to identify potential candidates, analyse their qualifications and expertise in the relevant strategic areas, and verify that they do not have any conflicts of interest with the company. Once a possible candidate has been identified for each vacant position, and this person has expressed his or her agreement to be appointed, the proposal is submitted for approval by either the company shareholders or the Board of Directors, as applicable. All Board and Committee members are paid a fixed fee for each session they attend, which is proposed each year by the Nominations and Compensations Committee in line with market standards and is submitted for the approval of the company shareholders. Compensation payable to the company’s executive officers is also analysed and approved by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, subject to ratification by the independent Audit Committee. This includes both base salary and the annual performance bonus, which is linked to a series of performance indicators, also determined annually by the Nominations and Compensations Committee in accordance with the process described in section 4.2.2 above. At this time, there are no female members on either the company’s Board of Directors or any of the corporate governance committees that report to it. 30 04 4.4 FREQUENCY ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF SESSIONS AND ATTENDANCE RATE During 2013, ASUR’s Board of Directors held a total of five sessions; the Audit Committee also held five sessions; the Operations Committee held four sessions; the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee held four sessions; and the Nominations and Compensations Committee held two sessions. The overall attendance rate at these meetings was 95%. 05 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ASUR is committed to TAKING POSITIVE ACTION in relation to the environment 32 05 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 5.1 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Among the most significant environmental issues identified by the company with the potential to impact our operations negatively are climate change, and the loss of natural habitats and biodiversity. ASUR is a company whose business depends largely on the tourism industry: our airports at Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primarily tourist markets, and significant numbers of tourists also travel through our airports at Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa. Together, these airports accounted for over 98% of our passenger traffic in 2012. Therefore, it is clearly in the interests of the company to contribute to the preservation of the natural beauty of these areas, in order for them to continue to be attractive to visitors. Any combination of the effects of climate change widely predicted by the scientific community, including rises in sea levels with the corresponding loss of beaches, an increased risk of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and flooding, and the disappearance of land and marine habitats such as mangroves and coral reefs, has the potential to significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group located in beach destinations (Can33 05 cún, Cozumel and Huatulco), as well as those serving low-lying or floodASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 prone areas (Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa). In the interests of lowering its carbon footprint and reducing its operations’ other environmental impacts, the company has instituted programmes with the following general aims: to limit the amount of electricity consumed in the airports, thereby reducing indirect emissions of greenhouse gases; to ensure that the airports’ water consumption does not put excessive pressure on the water supplies for local habitats and populations; to protect and promote plant and animal biodiversity in the undeveloped areas surrounding the airports; and to ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water. Since ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture or creation of any kind of physical product, the company’s consumption of materials is relatively insignificant. The principal consumable required on a consistent basis for our airports’ day-to-day operations is fuel, which is discussed in greater detail in section 5.2.5 of this report. Similarly, due to the nature of ASUR’s operations, the environmental aspects relating to products and transport logistics are considered immaterial for the purposes of this report. Within the company’s overall strategic approach to environmental matters, each of the nine airports in the Group establishes its own specific goals in accordance with local conditions. ASUR has a written policy that expressly and formally sets forth the commitment of the company and its subsidiaries to take positive action in relation to the environment. This policy contains the stated goals of reducing the negative environmental effects of the company’s operations and promoting environmental protection and the economical use of natural resources. Responsibility for environmental issues within the organisation ultimately lies with our Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer, one of the six 34 05 executive officers at the top level of management in the company. This ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 position has responsibility for the oversight of infrastructure management (including infrastructure expansion), as well as all matters relating to the company’s compliance with the various regulations it is subject to. ASUR’s Operational and Safety Compliance Manager works below the Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer and coordinates a team of environmental coordinators, with members based in each of the airports in the Group. All of ASUR’s airports have Environmental Management Systems that establish detailed guidelines and procedures for aspects such as training, monitoring, emergency response, and the environmental requirements for projects and contractors. Each airport’s Environmental Management System is currently certified under the ISO 14001 programme. In addition to ISO 14001 certification, ASUR’s airports have consistently been awarded Environmental Quality Assurance certification, which represents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. For additional information relating to key environmental issues, such as performance against environmental objectives, specific risks and systems, and targeted strategies and procedures, please see the information contained in section 5.2 of this report. 35 05 5.2 OVERVIEW ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF PRINCIPAL MITIGATION MEASURES 5.2.1 MITIGATION OF Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of ASUR’s airports, which INFRASTRUCTURE EXPANSION tend to be surrounded by undeveloped land, often necessitates the modification or destruction of natural habitats. For this reason, projects of this type are only undertaken following careful consideration and analysis of the mitigation measures that can be applied, and when it is determined that there is ample justification, usually to eliminate operational hazards or serious capacity constraints, which in turn may have negative consequences for both local economies and the environment. In 2013, expansion projects were ongoing in four of ASUR’s airports. At Huatulco International Airport, the terminal building is being expanded by 4,468 square metres; at Oaxaca International Airport, the terminal building and other facilities are being expanded by 4,530 square metres; at Veracruz International Airport, the terminal building is being expanded by 9,518 square metres; and in Villahermosa International Airport, the terminal building and other facilities are being expanded by 1,800 square metres. In all cases, the required environmental impact assessments have been carried out. Where possible, the expansion projects are being carried out in such a way that they do not expand the footprint of the airports’ infrastructure, for example by repurposing areas that had previously been built on; where this is not possible, the environmental impact mitigation measures established by the Mexican authorities will be adhered to. 36 05 5.2.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY For the last several years, the most important front that we have been ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume. Beginning in 2008, the company has achieved notable success in its energy efficiency programme: from 2008 to 2009, total electricity consumption in the nine airports of the Group was reduced by 28.9%, and from 2009 to 2010 another reduction of 3.7% in overall consumption was achieved. Our focus in more recent years has been to maintain the progress made on reducing electricity consumption previously. Between 2012 and 2013, despite increases in traffic at our airports and therefore a more intensive use of our facilities, total annual electricity consumption across all the airports in the group decreased by 1.0%. When measured on a per-passenger basis to provide a more comparable parameter from year to year, there was a reduction in electricity consumption of 9.4% in 2013. 1 The figure below shows total electricity consumption in the nine airports of ASUR from 2007 to 2013, compared to increase in passenger traffic. 1 FSource: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 37 Figure 5 Total Electricity Consumption vs. Passenger Growth 05 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 100 25 21 90 19 18 18 20 80 17 17 Electricity consumption (gWh) Passengers (millions) 16 15 70 60 10 50 81 89 63 61 62 68 68 5 40 Passengers Total electricity 30 0 consumption 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy from primary sources consumed in order to produce this electricity. ASUR does not produce any of the electricity it consumes; one hundred percent of the company’s electricity requirements are covered by purchasing from the Federal Electricity Commission. According to figures published by the International Energy Agency, in 2011 (the most recent data available), 84% of the electricity generated in Mexico was produced from non-renewable sources (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) and 16% was produced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and wind power). 2 2 Source: International Energy Agency website, at: http://www.iea.org/statistics/statisticssearch/report/?&country=MEXICO&year=2011&product=ElectricityandHeat 38 05 5.2.3 WATER MANAGEMENT In addition to reducing the company’s carbon footprint through energy ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 efficiency, ASUR has also been working hard to improve its systems for managing both our water consumption and waste water and other effluents produced in the airports. A major issue in many airports is the potential for pollution of local water sources caused by the de-icing and anti-icing fluids sprayed onto aircraft to make them safe to fly. Average temperatures year-round in all nine locations where ASUR has airports are approximately 25° C (77° F), so anti-icing and de-icing measures are not used by the company. However, we do have equipment in place in all of our airports to ensure that any spills of liquids such as fuels or oil are appropriately eliminated before they can be flushed into local water sources by storm water runoff. Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with treatment plants that receive all waste water from terminals and administrative buildings. In the case of Cozumel Airport, waste water is sent to the municipal drainage system and is treated at the municipal plant. The airports’ plants use biological, mechanical and chemical treatment processes to purify waste water to a standard where it is clean enough to be either reused or discharged without presenting a risk to other water sources. The water that is recycled is mainly used for watering green areas, which helps to reduce the demands placed by the airports on local resources. Any water that cannot be stored and used for this purpose is released into either the subsoil or into local wetlands, in accordance with the permits issued by Mexico’s National Water Commission (CONAGUA). Overall, in 2013 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports increased by 2.3% from 701,660 to 717,969 cubic metres (m3). Water consumption on a per-passenger basis (measured in litres per passenger) decreased by 6.4%. 3 The amount of metered discharge increased by 10.2% in absolute terms (from 209,486 to 230,958 m3), and by 0.9% in litres per passenger. 4 The figure below shows total water consumption in the nine airports of ASUR from 2009 to 2013, compared to increase in passenger traffic. 3 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 4 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. Figure 6 Total Water Consumption 39 vs. Passenger Growth 05 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 800,030 25 700,030 21 20 19 600,030 18 17 16 Passengers (millions) 500,030 15 Water consumption (m3) 400,030 10 300,030 200,030 569,1245 555,639 96,1977 01,660 717,969 5 100,030 Passengers Total water 30 0 consumption 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 17 18 399,6284 23,190 2007 2008 5.2.4 WASTE MANAGEMENT An important aspect in ensuring that our operations do not represent a risk for local environments and ecosystems is to make sure that all the waste materials generated in our airports are appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each airport has waste management facilities for hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The waste materials that are classified as hazardous under Mexican legislation include a series of toxic, inflammable and corrosive substances, as well as items of equipment that have come into contact and are contaminated with these materials. In our airports, all substances and 40 05 articles of this kind are safely stored, appropriately labelled and eventually ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 handed over to specialist waste disposal companies, in strict adherence to the applicable regulations. The waste disposal companies, which are required to be licenced by the Mexican authorities, eliminate the hazardous waste using methods that avoid pollution and provide ASUR with waste disposal certificates stating the methods used. Non-hazardous waste is handled in separate facilities at ASUR’s airports. It is sorted into organic waste (used for compost) and non-organic waste (materials such as glass, paper, cardboard and aluminium) before being collected by the local municipal refuse disposal service. As well as attempting to reduce the amount of waste produced, at several of our airports we have set ourselves the goal of reusing or recycling some or all of the non-hazardous, non-organic waste produced, to keep it from being disposed of in local landfills (see Appendices A and B for more information). In 2013 the total amount of non-hazardous waste produced increased by 19.0% from 4,352 to 5,179 tonnes (an increase of 8.9% measured on a per-passenger basis), while the total amount of hazardous waste rose by 12.7% from 20.8 to 23.4 tonnes (an increase of 3.1% measured on a per-passenger basis). 5 5.2.5 FUEL CONSUMPTION Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed to operate a wide range of support vehicles, including shuttle buses for transporting passengers to various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, and so on. Natural gas (liquefied petroleum gas) is used mainly in the airport’s kitchens, which supply staff restaurants and food and beverage outlets for passengers. The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased from 2012 to 2013 by 4.7%, from 451,429 to 472,521 litres. However, due to the rise in passenger numbers over the same period, on a per-passenger basis this represented a decrease of 4.2%. 6 5 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 6 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 41 05 The measurements of fuel consumption in ASUR’s airports include only ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 the fuel used in the facilities and the vehicles that are the property of the airport company. They do not take into account fuel consumed by the airports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by aircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. While ASUR recognises that this information may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this time no systems are in place for us to obtain these data. 5.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in all nine of the airports the company operates. The purpose of the system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, as well as a framework for the achievement of those objectives. The system creates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess each airport’s performance in relation to the environmental objectives established, providing the company management with valuable information for the decision-making process. Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into consideration in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The full details of the environmental objectives established in 2013 for the nine airports in the Group, as well as performance against those objectives, can be consulted in Appendix A. The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001. The following tables provide an overview of the performance in all nine of ASUR’s airports with regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: Figure 7 Summary of Environmental Performance 42 Indicators for All Airports TOTAL FIGURES 05 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 596,197 701,660 717,969 2.3% Total water m3 318,093 209,486 230,958 10.2% discharged Total electricity kWh 62,167,261 68,402,388 67,695,265 -1.0% consumption GJ 223,802 246,249 243,703 -1.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 17,778 20,730 23,355 12.7% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 4,311.5 4,351.5 5,179.1 19.0% Total fuel l 459,837 451,429 472,521 4.7% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 33.6 36.1 33.8 -6.4% Water discharged l/pax 17.9 10.8 10.9 0.9% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.5 3.5 3.2 -9.4% per passenger MJ/pax 12.6 12.7 11.5 -9.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.0 1.1 1.1 3.1% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.24 0.22 0.24 8.9% Fuel consumption ml/pax 25.9 23.2 22.2 -4.2% per passenger 43 05 For a breakdown of these performance indicators for each of the nine ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 airports operated by ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. The parameters measured are described in more detail below: 1 WATER CONSUMPTION This parameter refers to the total amount of water consumed by the airports during the year, whether taken from the municipal water supply or extracted from underground aquifers. Water recycled from treatment plants is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in cubic metres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 2 WATER DISCHARGED This parameter refers to the total amount of waste water discharged by the airports during the year, in accordance with the permits obtained from the local authorities, following the required treatment processes. Data are provided on total discharge (stated in cubic metres), as well as discharge on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 3 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION: This parameter refers to the total amount of electricity consumed by the airports from the national grid during the year. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in kilowatt hours and the equivalent in gigajoules), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (kilowatt hours and megajoules per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy consumed in order to produce the electricity. 44 05 4 HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as hazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and appropriately disposed of during the year. Data are provided on total production (stated in kilograms), as well as production on a per-passenger basis (milligrams per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 5 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as non-hazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and disposed of in municipal landfills during the year. Recycled waste is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total production (stated in tonnes), as well as production on a per-passenger basis (kilograms per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 6 FUEL CONSUMPTION: This parameter refers to the total amount of petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed by the airports during the year, for example in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to transport passengers for boarding. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in litres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (millilitres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 45 05 5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 As of the 31st of December 2013, the environmental management systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa are due for recertification in 2014, and those at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca are due for recertification in 2015. Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) also performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental legislation. Following the inspection procedure, provided that no violations of environmental legislation are identified, the individual airports are issued certificates confirming their compliance with the law. All nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental compliance certification: the airports at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz were recertified during 2013, and those at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa are due to be audited during 2014. To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, including fines or non-monetary penalties, have been imposed on the company for failure to comply with national, international or local environmental laws or regulations. 06 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES Asur’s airports constitute a RELIABLE SOURCE OF SAFE EMPLOYMENT 47 06 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s most fundamental goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations. Between 2012 and 2013, the number of full-time employees in our organisation increased by 10.7%, and we have achieved both a low level of staff turnover and an excellent occupational health and safety record. Further information on these aspects is available in sections 6.1 and 6.2 of this report. Positive relations between the company’s employees and management are also a priority for ASUR. Four in ten of the company’s employees are unionised, and the company enjoys a good working relationship with the union. The company has a written “open-doors” communication policy, according to which all staff members are free to approach any member of management with consultations or complaints at any time. Employees are also 48 06 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 given the option of submitting any grievances they have via the company’s internal reporting system; these reports are investigated confidentially by the Internal Auditing Department to identify any instances of inappropriate behaviour on the part of those involved and to reach amicable solutions whenever possible. The company has a permanent training programme for employees in all ten locations where we have operations (the head offices in Mexico City and the nine airports). During 2013, training was provided to staff members in a wide range of areas, covering topics such as technical systems training, aviation security, fire safety and first aid. A total of 142,282 hours of training was provided for the company’s 981 employees during the year.1 We also provide support to employees and their families for the completion of their basic education: for the 2012-2013 academic year the company distributed a total of 230 scholarships among its staff of 981 workers, with a value of $676,740 pesos. In addition to the professional development of staff members, the company plans a series of activities, to provide an opportunity for employees to socialise and to support local cultural traditions. Among the events organised in 2013 were sporting events, as well as celebrations of Children’s Day, Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, Christmas and the traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos). 1 Calculated on the basis of the total duration of training courses, multiplied by the number of trainees. 49 06 The company has a series of written policies covering different aspects ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 that relate to its human resources, such as recruitment practices, holiday entitlements, work-life balance and occupational health and safety. Additionally, company policy mandates the protection of employees’ human rights, such as the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, the right to personal and physical integrity and the right to exercise fundamental liberties, including freedom of association. Regular internal campaigns are carried out to ensure that all company employees are aware of these policies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which include information on the internal reporting system for grievances. On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within the organisation are the responsibility of the company’s Human Resources Manager, who is based at the company’s headquarters in Mexico City and oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain labour relations issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the Chief Executive Officer. 50 06 6.1 DESCRIPTION OF WORKFORCE ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 As of the 31st of December 2013, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of 1,155 people, 981 (85%) had indefinite, written labour contracts for full-time employment. Among full-time employees, a staff rotation rate of 9.5% was achieved during the year; this is calculated on the basis of the number of people who left the company for whatever reason, including retirements, resignations and dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. The following table shows a breakdown of the 981 permanent employees of the company according to the location where they work: Figure 8 No. of Breakdown of ASUR Workforce City State employees Unionised % Non-unionised % (Permanent Employees) on Geographic Basis Cancún Quintana Roo 467 128 27% 339 73% Mérida Yucatán 101 47 47% 54 53% Cozumel Quintana Roo 64 36 56% 28 44% Veracruz Veracruz 63 28 44% 35 56% Villahermosa Tabasco 61 30 49% 31 51% Tapachula Chiapas 49 24 49% 25 51% C. de México D.F. 47 0 0% 47 100% Oaxaca Oaxaca 47 22 47% 25 53% Huatulco Oaxaca 43 20 47% 23 53% Minitlán Veracruz 39 16 41% 23 59% TOTAL 981 351 36% 630 64% 51 06 The remaining 174 workers (15% of total workforce) were employed on ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 a temporary basis via an employment agency, to cover non-permanent absences such as maternity leave or for interim positions. These temporary workers are distributed among the airports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of December 2013, the geographic distribution of ASUR’s 174 temporary workers was as follows: 141 at Cancún Airport; 9 at Veracruz Airport; 7 at Villahermosa Airport; 6 at Mérida Airport; 4 at Cozumel Airport; 3 at Huatulco Airport; 2 at Oaxaca Airport; and 2 at Tapachula Airport. ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos de la República Mexicana). Once every two years, the company management and the union undertake a collective bargaining procedure to determine employment conditions for unionised employees and the benefits that they are entitled to. The agreements reached in this negotiation are formalised in a written collective labour agreement that is signed by the representatives of the company and the union. The renegotiation process was undertaken during 2012, and the current collective bargaining agreement will be valid until 2014. The company’s non-unionised workers are offered a series of employment benefits, such as health and life insurance, holiday entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matching-funds savings accounts and, in some cases, performance bonuses, that are in excess of the minimum benefits required under Mexican labour legislation. In addition to those employees mentioned above, there are significant numbers of workers based at each of the company’s airports who are not directly employed by the company. They may be broken down into a number of different categories, including: government employees, such as those working for the air-traffic-control, immigration and customs services; the employees of ASUR’s commercial concession holders, such as food and beverage or retail outlets and car rental offices; the employees of other businesses with a permanent base at the airport, such as ramp 52 06 service providers and the airlines; and the employees of those companies ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 subcontracted by ASUR to provide specific services in the airports. In the latter case, the most significant services subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airports are cleaning services for terminal buildings, administrative offices, and so on; and security services, including general surveillance staff and the personnel manning security filters and passenger inspection points. At this time, data are not available in relation to employment types, contract types or collective bargaining agreements for the aforementioned workers. 6.2 SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE The right to physical integrity, and therefore a safe workplace that does not expose employees to unnecessary risks, is included in the company’s written policies. During 2013, the 981 permanent employees of ASUR worked a total of 2,594,792 hours, equivalent to 324,349 days (eighthour shifts). In the period in question, there were in total thirteen cases of accidents in the workplace, affecting 1.49% of staff members, with no cases of occupational disease and no fatalities. During the year, the total number of lost days resulting from these accidents was 460, equivalent to 0.14% of total days worked. In accordance with the system used by the Mexican Social Security Institute, accidents in the workplace are defined as incidents leading to an injury that requires the staff member in question to miss one or more days of work. The total number of lost days includes all calendar days 53 06 between the initial accident and the date on which the employee returns ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 to work, even when these days are not working days. The date on which the accident occurs is counted as day one for this purpose. Minor accidents requiring first-aid treatment only are not included in the number of accidents in the workplace. In the same period, the absentee rate (defined as the total number of days that employees were absent from work due to general, non-workrelated illness or when no justification was presented for the absence) corresponded to a total of 1,075 days, or 0.33% of total days worked. These data refer exclusively to the 981 direct, full-time employees of ASUR as of the 31st of December 2013. At this time, there are no systems in place that require subcontractors, service providers or other parties with employees working at the airport to provide ASUR with accident, injury and absenteeism data. 07 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT ASUR contributes to creating DECENT LIVING STANDARDS for its employees and their families 55 07 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly seeking ways in which we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are also aware that the airports we operate play a significant role in facilitating business for other companies and individuals in the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the promotion of regional economic development. As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series of activities intended to raise the profile of the destinations where we operate. We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it is to promote our destinations with 56 07 the world’s airlines. The goal of this is to bring in more flights to our destiASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 nations, and more visitors mean increased revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We also participate in networking conventions and congresses around the world relating to the airport and tourism industries, often in coordination with the Mexican federal and state tourism authorities and local business groups. In addition to any direct or indirect economic impacts created by our operations, however, we recognise that the success of our business also depends on establishing good relations with our local communities, and on ensuring that our operations are of mutual benefit to both the company and all its stakeholders. To this end, each of our airports provides support at the local level for a range of community projects. Our corporate policies also include stated commitments to run our business ethically and to avoid practices that promote corruption or are harmful to fair trade. Sections 7.2 and 7.3 of this report contain more detailed information on ASUR’s community involvement and anti-corruption measures. 7.1 DIRECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS The table below provides a breakdown of the economic value generated, distributed and retained by ASUR in 2013. Figure 9 57 Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained 07 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 (Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos) ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED Operating costs 2,347.5 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 5,446.1 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED -970.1 Employee wages & benefits 221.7 Payments to providers of capital 2,595.9 Payments to governments 1,245.3 Community investments 5.8 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 6,416.2 As per the methodology established in the Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines, the figures in this table are based on ASUR’s audited financial statements for the year 2013, which are prepared in accordance with Mexican financial reporting standards. The item “Total economic value generated” corresponds to the company’s revenues. Under “Economic value distributed”, the item of “Payments to providers of capital” includes interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments to governments” correspond to taxes, and the figure for community investments includes all cash donations, as well as the estimated values of donations in kind and man hours used for volunteer projects. During the year 2013, ASUR did not receive any financial assistance from the Mexican government. 58 07 7.2 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The nine airports of ASUR are involved in various community projects at the local level. These projects are selected and administered by each airport individually, to respond to local needs and to promote a sense of ownership and greater commitment. Support is provided monetarily and in the form of donations of goods and services, as well as volunteering. The total value of cash donations, donations in kind and man hours in 2013 is estimated at approximately $5.8 million pesos. During the period, the projects supported fell under four main categories: public health services, care for people with disabilities, education and culture, and the environment. The organisations that received support from ASUR in the healthcare sector included the Mexican Red Cross. For the fifth year running, a fundraising marathon was organised at Cancún Airport, and the proceeds were donated to a local charity that raises awareness and provides support for sufferers of breast cancer. In the field of assistance for people with disabilities, a programme remains in place at Veracruz Airport whereby lost objects or articles confiscated at the airport’s security filters (i.e., items that are prohibited in hand luggage) are donated to an organisation that provides support for the blind, provided the items remain unclaimed by their owners for a certain period. In relation to education and culture, the proceeds of a recycling programme at Villahermosa Airport were donated to a local school and several airports organised art exhibitions in terminal buildings during the course of the year. The various airports in the group continued to organise guided tours of their facilities for local educational establishments. 59 07 Finally, several of ASUR’s airports participated in different ways to ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 support environmental initiatives in their local communities. Among the projects were donations and volunteering for local beach-cleaning campaigns, several donations to a range of local initiatives, and a programme to rehabilitate mangrove forests, which are valuable habits with high levels of biodiversity. 7.3 ANTICORRUPTION MEASURES ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical standards the company expects its employees, executives and corporate governance officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics is provided to each new employee as part of the company’s induction procedures. On an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees are required to certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. The company also has an internal reporting system through which reports or complaints may be submitted directly to the Internal Auditing Department for investigation, by email or voicemail. Employees are encouraged to use this system to report instances of corruption or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports anonymously or not. In the event that they do confirm their identity, it is guaranteed that they will not be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. The Internal Auditing Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is composed entirely of independent members (that is, people who are not shareholders or executive officers in the company, or their related 60 07 parties). As well as investigating all reports received via the company’s ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 internal system, the Internal Auditing Department establishes a quarterly programme of audits to be carried out in different business units. The Audit Committee approves the work programme of the Internal Auditing Department and is informed of the results of the audits performed. During 2013, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to the Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing Department carried out audits in all nine airports in the Group, as well as several of the commercial concession holders operating at the airports. These audits resulted in a total of 12 relevant observations. A total of 25 reports were submitted via the internal reporting system during the year, of which 4 were considered to be of critical importance, 1 was of medium importance and 20 were of minor importance. Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. In those cases where the investigations carried out by the Internal Auditors detected unethical behaviour by company employees, disciplinary or dismissal proceedings were initiated. 08 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS ASUR sets forth its commitment to UPHOLDING AND PROMOTING human rights 62 08 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations, and that in those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps should be taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. The Internal Auditing Department is entrusted with investigating any potential human rights abuses. The head of this Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is ultimately responsible for enforcement of the company’s policies on human rights. Internal campaigns are carried out on at least an annual basis, in which employees are encouraged to use the company’s reporting system to notify the Internal Auditing Department of any rights abuses. ASUR has a written policy in which the company formally sets forth its commitment to upholding and promoting human rights. This policy expressly 63 08 states that the company will guarantee its employees the right to personASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 al integrity, which means that workers may not be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also contains a non-discrimination clause that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. There were no complaints filed during 2013 in relation to human-rights abuses. The company has also assumed the obligation to protect its employees’ right to freedom of association. As mentioned in section 6.1 of this report, the company management and the airport workers’ union adhere to a regular collective bargaining procedure to establish employment conditions and benefits for unionised employees. During 2013, no threats were identified to the freedom of association or collective bargaining rights of the company’s employees. According to the company’s policy on human rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from forced labour or child labour of any kind. All working agreements are governed by consensual, written employment contracts, and the company’s policy is not to employ anyone who is under 15 years of age. Currently, no one under the age of 18 is employed by ASUR and no situations involving forced labour have been identified. 64 08 Finally, the company has the obligation to avoid any situations in which it ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 might be complicit in human rights abuses; in practical terms this means that no investments should be made in, or products and services procured from, other companies that incur human-rights violations. During the period, no instances of human rights violations have been identified in the company’s supply chain. 09 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The global compact promotes SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND RESPECT for human rights in businesses 66 09 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 “At ASUR, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to finding new ways to improve our implementation of the 10 Principles. We believe that the Global Compact is a tool that helps us to improve our standards of ethical business practice, in the long run contributing to the success and sustainability of our company.” Fernando Chico Pardo, Chairman of the Board of Directors The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando Chico Pardo, held a position on the UNGC’s Board of Directors between 2009 and 2012. 67 09 ASUR currently has a representative on the Steering Committee of the loASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 cal network of the UNGC in Mexico. The company provides funding for the activities of the UNGC at both national and international levels. The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. Below is a table that states what the Ten Principles are and where they are addressed in the text of this report. 68 Figure 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles 09 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Principle Refer to I Businesses should support and respect the protection of Section 8.0 internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment to Human Rights II Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Section 8.0 in human rights abuses Commitment to Human Rights III Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Section 6.1 and the effective recognition of the right to collective Description of Workforce bargaining Section 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights IV Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Section 8.0 forced and compulsory labour Commitment to Human Rights V Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Section 8.0 labour Commitment to Human Rights VI Businesses should uphold the elimination of Section 8.0 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment to Human Rights VII Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Section 5.0 environmental challenges Environmental Responsibility VIII Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Section 5.0 greater environmental responsibility Environmental Responsibility IX Businesses should encourage the development and Section 5.0 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental Responsibility X Businesses should work against corruption in all its Section 7.3 forms, including extortion and bribery Anticorruption Measures 10.0 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Global Reporting Initiative promotes the use of a STANDARDISED FRAMEWORK for sustainability reporting 70 10 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and is intended as a Level B report under that system. The Global Reporting Initiative is a network based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. Figure 11 71 Index of GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 10 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Standard Disclosures 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Section 1.0 organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Message from our C.E.O. organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Section 1.0 Message from our C.E.O. 2.1 Name of the organization Section 2.0 Company Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Section 2.1 Business Activities 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Section 2.4 Organisational Structure 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Section 2.0 Company Profile 2.5 Number and names of countries where the Section 2.0 organization operates Company Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Section 2.3 Shareholder Structure 2.7 Markets served Section 2.5 Operating and Financial Data 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Section 2.4 Organisational Structure Section 2.5 Operating and Financial Data 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Section 2.6 size, structure, or ownership Significant Changes in Operations during 2013 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Section 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes GRI Reporting Parameter Description Refer to 72 Standard Disclosures 10 3.1 Reporting period Section 3.0 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Section 3.0 Report Parameters 3.3 Reporting cycle Section 3.0 Report Parameters 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Section 3.2 or its contents Scope and Limitations of Report 3.5 Process for defining report content Section 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 3.6 Boundary of the report Section 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Section 3.2 the report Scope and Limitations of Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Section 3.2 facilities, outsourced operations Scope and Limitations of Report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Section 3.1 calculations Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Section 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Section 3.2 scope, boundary or measurement methods Scope and Limitations of Report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Section 10.0 in the report GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Section 3.2 external assurance for the report Scope and Limitations of Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Section 4.0 Corporate Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Section 4.0 body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance GRI Reporting Parameter Description Refer to 73 Standard Disclosures 10 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body Section 4.0 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 that are independent and/or non-executive members Corporate Governance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Section 4.0 recommendations or direction to the highest governance Corporate Governance body 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and the Section 4.0 organization’s performance Corporate Governance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Section 4.0 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Section 4.0 of the members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Section 4.0 codes of conduct, and principles Corporate Governance 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Section 4.0 overseeing the identification and management of Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Section 4.0 own performance Corporate Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Section 4.0 approach or principle is addressed by the organization Corporate Governance 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Section 9.0 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to United Nations Global Compact which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Section 9.0 associations) and/or national/international advocacy United Nations Global Compact organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Section 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Section 3.1 whom to engage Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content GRI Reporting Parameter Description Refer to 74 Standard Disclosures 10 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including freSection 3.1 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 quency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Section 3.1 engagement, and how the organization has responded Stakeholder Analysis and Report to them Content Disclosures on Management Approach DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Environment Section 5.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Labour Section 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Economic Section 7.0 Community Involvement and Support DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Society Section 7.0 Community Involvement and Support DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Human Rights Section 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Section 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Section 5.2.5 materials Fuel Consumption EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Section 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Section 5.2.2 Energy Efficiency EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Section 5.2.3 Water Efficiency EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Section 5.2.4 Waste Management EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Section 2.6 and services, and extent of impact mitigation Significant Changes in Operations during 2013 Section 5.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion GRI Reporting Parameter Description Refer to 75 Performance Indicators 10 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Section 5.4 ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Environmental Certification environmental laws and regulations LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Section 6.1 contract, and region Description of Workforce LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Section 6.1 bargaining agreements Description of Workforce LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Section 6.2 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Safety in the Workplace region EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Section 7.1 Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Section 7.1 government Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Section 7.3 for risks related to corruption Anticorruption Measures SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Section 7.3 anti-corruption policies and procedures Anticorruption Measures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Section 7.3 Anticorruption Measures HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Section 8.0 taken Commitment to Human Rights HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freeSection8.0 dom of association and collective bargaining may be at Commitment to Human Rights significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for Section 8.0 HR6 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Commitment to Human Rights contribute to the elimination of child labour Operations identified as having significant risk for inciSection 8.0 HR7 dents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to Commitment to Human Rights contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour APPENDICES APPENDIX A ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE, 2013 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Parameter Progress/ Result Cancún Reduce consumption of electricity Installation of 100% LED-based lighting in new privatePercent compliance with goal 100% aviation facility Cancún Reduce amount of non-hazardous Reuse or recycle 20% of all non-hazardous, solid waste Compliance with reduction 60% 77 waste disposed of in landfill sites produced by the Airport percentage goal Cozumel Reduce consumption of electricity by Analysis of monthly consumption levels to identify months Percent compliance with goal 100% A 10% compared to 2012 with highest consumption and proposal of optimisation plan ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Cozumel Contribute to reforestation projects Cultivate 25 trees (palms, citrus trees, etc.) for donation Percent compliance as of December 50% on Cozumel Island prior to December 2014 2013 Cozumel Improve procedures for handling Acquisition and installation of refuse container for Percentage of containers installed 87.5% hazardous waste non-hazardous, solid waste Huatulco Reduce consumption of wood and Installation of shade structure that uses recycled PET Percent conclusion of installation 100% palm leaves products Huatulco Reduce amount waste disposed of in Recycle 60% of all PET and cardboard refuse produced by Percent compliance with goal 100% landfill sites the Airport Huatulco Reduce amount of hazardous waste Replacement of 63 mechanisms for automatic toilet flushes Percent compliance with goal 100% produced that use alkaline batteries with mechanisms connected to mains electricity Huatulco Reduce amount of hazardous waste Replacement of 30 mechanisms for automatic hand-basin Percent compliance with goal 100% produced taps that use alkaline batteries with mechanisms connected to mains electricity Huatulco Reduce amount of hazardous waste Recycle 82% of ink and toner cartidges used in the AirPercent compliance with goal 100% produced port Huatulco Reduce use of potential contaminants Replacement of 27 air-conditioning units that use R-22 gas Percent compliance with goal 100% with units that use harmless R-417 gas Huatulco Strengthen community relations Participate in one activity per year that is organised by an Percent compliance with goal 100% association of group of people dedictaed to sustainable community development Mérida Maintain total consumption of electriImplementation of programme of replacement and mainChange in consumption compared 0% city within range of ± 25% compared tenance of equipment and lighting, and a series of other to 2012 to 2012 energy saving measures in different areas of the airport Mérida Reduce electricity consumption Installation of solar-energy-generation system for lighting Percent conclusion of installation 100% in hazardous-waste-storage area Mérida Maintain total consumption of water Implementation of series of water saving measures relating Change in consumption compared -1.4% within range of ± 35% compared to to airport remodelling project to 2012 2012 Mérida Improve hazardous waste handling Acquisition and installation of 8 refuse container for Percentage of containers installed 100% procedures non-hazardous, solid waste Mérida Improve hazardous waste handling Categorisation of 100% of non-hazardous, solid waste Percentage of refuse categorised 100% procedures produced by the Airport, by type and final disposal Mérida Prevent soil pollution due to spills Application of sealant to 100% of contact surfaces inside Percent compliance with goal 100% of toxic substances in temporary temporary hazardous-waste-storage facility hazardous-waste-storage facility Mérida Upgrade treatment system for waste Installation of septic tank that uses biodigestive processes Percent conclusion of installation 100% waters produced in rescue-and-fireto treat waste waters produced by rescue-and-fire-fighting fighting unit unit Minatitlán Reduce extraction from water Implementation of series of water conservation measures Change in consumption compared -5.4% sources by 1%, compared to 2012 in different areas of the airport to 2012 Minatitlán Reduce total electricity consumption Implementation of series of energy saving measures Change in consumption compared 1.3% by 1%, compared to 2012 in different areas of the airport to 2012 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Parameter Progress/ Result Minatitlán Reduce amount of non-hazardous Recycling of 2.8 tonnes of non-hazardous waste Compliance with recycling goal 92% waste disposed of in landfill sites produced at the airport Minatitlán Reduce risk of pollution of water sourTest waste water discharged to ensure compliance with Percent of tests in compliance with 100% ces due to waste water discharged established parameters (pH, temperature, total coliforms, parameters oil content, etc.) 78 Minatitlán Prevent soil pollution due to spills of Training for airport apron workers on procedure and Number of apron workers receiving 100% toxic substances practice to prevent / mitigate soil pollution from spills training of fuels, oils, hydraulic liquids, hypochlorites, etc. A Minatitlán Ensure appropriate hazardousVerification of hazardous waste storage procedures at Percentage of checks confirming 100% ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 waste-handling procedures handling facility compliance with parameters Oaxaca Improve use of byproduct from Construction of drying bed to produce solid, dehydrated Percent conclusion of construction 100% waste-water-treatment plant of fertiliser fertiliser Oaxaca Improve hazardous waste handling Aqcuisition of tanker trailer to safely transport diesel fuels Percent conclusion of acquisition 50% procedures in the Airport process Oaxaca Reduce electricity consumption Replacement of lighting fixtures with LED-based equipment Percent conclusion of works 100% on taxiways and in car parks, installation of movement sensores in all Airport toilets, and awareness programme Oaxaca Reforestation and maintenance of Reduction of invasive mistletoe species affecting trees Infected trees treated 100% green areas inside Airport on Airport premises Oaxaca Reforestation and maintenance of Planting of 50 additional trees within the Airport grounds Percent compliance with goal 100% green areas inside Airport Oaxaca Reduce / contain vehicle emissions Ensure vehicles used by airport community have Percentage of vehicles checked 100% complied with mandatory emissions testing; require emissions testing certificate for free access to airport car park Tapachula Reduce total electricity consumption Optimisation of air-conditioning systems in terminal Change in consumption compared -8.5% by 2%, compared to 2012 building to 2012 Tapachula Upgrade treatment system for waste Optimisation project for equipment and monitoring systems Percent conclusion of project 100% waters produced in Airport Tapachula Reduce water consumption Project for replacement and optimisation of various items Percent conclusion of project 100% of equipment Veracruz Limit total annual water consumption Implementation of series of water saving measures in Actual consumption during the year 27,117 to maximum amount of 24,700 m3 different areas of the airport (m3) Veracruz Recycle 22% of non-hazardous waste Reuse or recycling of materials, including plastics, paper, Percentage of total waste recycled 22% produced in the airport glass, aluminium, etc. Veracruz Limit total annual electricity conImplementation of series of energy saving measures in Actual consumption during the year 2,344,900 sumption to maximum amount of different areas of the airport (kWh) 2,169,090 kWh Veracruz Verify compliance with operational Carry out 24 inspections in the year Percent compliance with number of 100% control measures inspections Veracruz Improve training on environmental Increase number of hours of training on environmental Percent compliance with training 100% matters matters by 10% during the year increase Villahermosa Reduce amount of paper / cardboard Separation of paper/ cardboard waste; disposal with Percentage of total waste recycled 100% waste disposed of in landfill sites recycling facility Villahermosa Reduce amount of plastic waste Separation of PET plastic waste; disposal with recycling Percentage of total waste recycled 100% disposed of in landfill sites facility Villahermosa Improve hazardous waste handling Collect and separate batteries containing mercury, zinc, Percentage of batteries appropriately 100% procedures silver oxide, nickel, cadmium, for appropriate disposal disposed of APPENDIX B ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASUR: ALL AIRPORTS 79 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 596,197 701,660 717,969 2.3% Total water m3 318,093 209,486 230,958 10.2% discharged Total electricity kWh 62,167,261 68,402,388 67,695,265 -1.0% consumption GJ 223,802 246,249 243,703 -1.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 17,788 20,730 23,355 12.7% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 4,311.5 4,351.5 5,179.1 19.0% Total fuel l 459,837 451,429 472,521 4.7% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 33.6 36.1 33.8 -6.4% Water discharged l/pax 17.9 10.8 10.9 0.9% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.5 3.5 3.2 -9.4% per passenger MJ/pax 12.6 12.7 11.5 -9.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.0 1.1 1.1 3.1% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.24 0.22 0.24 8.9% Fuel consumption ml/pax 25.9 23.2 22.2 -4.2% per passenger CANCÚN AIRPORT 80 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 330,336 423,600 435,900 2.9% Total water m3 185,000 144,356 158,300 9.7% discharged Total electricity kWh 43,036,277 47,884,758 47,735,424 -0.3% consumption GJ 154,931 172,386 171,848 -0.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 4,456 7,191 8,600 19.6% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 3,794.4 3,828.3 4,594.7 20.0% Total fuel l 208,650 232,303 258,780 11.4% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 25.2 29.1 27.2 -6.6% Water discharged l/pax 14.1 9.9 9.9 -0.5% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.3 3.3 3.0 -9.5% per passenger MJ/pax 11.8 11.8 10.7 -9.5% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.3 0.5 0.5 8.5% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.29 0.26 0.29 8.9% Fuel consumption ml/pax 15.9 16.0 16.1 1.1% per passenger COZUMEL AIRPORT 81 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 19,738 22,915 20,208 -11.8% Total water m3 11,850 17,197 19,767 14.9% discharged Total electricity kWh 2,340,202 2,444,582 2,486,311 1.7% consumption GJ 8,425 8,800 8,951 1.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 3,814 2,497 4,770 91.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 34.1 35.5 40.3 13.5% Total fuel l 48,407 30,294 26,018 -14.1% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 43.6 49.2 43.9 -10.8% Water discharged l/pax 26.2 36.9 43.0 16.3% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 5.2 5.3 5.4 2.9% per passenger MJ/pax 18.6 18.9 19.5 2.9% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 8.4 5.4 10.4 93.3% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.08 0.08 0.09 14.9% Fuel consumption ml/pax 107.0 65.1 56.6 13.1% per passenger HUATULCO AIRPORT 82 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 15,997 14,329 14,408 0.6% Total water m3 6,114 8,240 8,477 2.9% discharged Total electricity kWh 821,857 845,900 1,045,574 23.6% consumption GJ 2,959 3,045 3,764 23.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,876 1,996 1,538 -22.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 54.5 45.8 56.6 23.6% Total fuel l 15,025 19,129 16,451 -14.0% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 34.6 30.2 29.6 -1.7% Water discharged l/pax 13.2 17.3 17.4 0.5% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 1.8 1.8 2.2 20.8% per passenger MJ/pax 6.4 6.4 7.7 20.8% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 4.1 4.2 3.2 -24.7% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.12 0.10 0.12 20.7% Fuel consumption ml/pax 32.5 40.3 33.8 -16.0% per passenger MÉRIDA AIRPORT 83 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 123,285 137,771 135,834 -1.4% Total water m3 87,502 7,503 6,585 12.2% discharged Total electricity kWh 7,307,080 8,269,539 8,273,653 0.0% consumption GJ 26,305 29,770 29,785 0.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,403 4,632 92.8% 2,190 Total non-hazardous waste produced t 92.7 91.5 84.3 -7.9% Total fuel l 49,734 35,590 43,328 21.7% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 98.3 109.6 101.7 -7.2% Water discharged l/pax 69.8 6.0 4.9 -17.4% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 5.8 6.6 6.2 -5.8% per passenger MJ/pax 21.0 23.7 22.3 -5.8% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.7 1.9 3.5 81.4% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.07 0.07 0.06 -13.3% Fuel consumption ml/pax 39.7 28.3 32.5 14.6% per passenger MINTATITLÁN AIRPORT 84 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 16,444 13,562 12,828 -5.4% Total water m3 4,906 6,888 7,556 9.8% discharged Total electricity kWh 760,698 797,593 808,340 1.3% consumption GJ 2,739 2,871 2,910 1.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,785 1,475 724 -50.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 3.6 3.2 8.0 150.3% Total fuel l 14,100 15,778 15,913 0.9% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 145.8 98.8 72.2 -26.9% Water discharged l/pax 43.5 50.2 42.6 -15.1% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 6.7 5.8 4.5 -21.7% per passenger MJ/pax 24.3 20.9 16.4 -21.7% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 15.8 10.7 4.1 -62.0% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.03 0.02 0.05 93.4% Fuel consumption ml/pax 125.0 114.9 89.6 -22.1% per passenger OAXACA AIRPORT 85 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mtt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 15,270 17,704 21,564 21.8% Total water m3 5,590 8,492 8,067 -5.0% discharged Total electricity kWh 933,268 974,540 1,080,058 10.8% consumption GJ 3,360 3,508 3,888 10.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,605 1,235 1,206 -2.3% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 94.9 104.1 103.1 -1.0% Total fuel l 26,262 29,924 22,327 -25.4% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 37.1 36.6 41.3 12.9% Water discharged l/pax 13.6 17.6 15.5 -12.0% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.3 2.0 2.1 2.7% per passenger MJ/pax 8.2 7.3 7.4 2.7% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 3.9 2.6 2.3 -9.5% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.23 0.22 0.20 -8.2% Fuel consumption ml/pax 63.8 61.9 42.8 -30.9% per passenger TAPACHULA AIRPORT 86 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 22,570 20,887 19,237 -7.9% Total water m3 9,590 5,952 5,047 -15.2% discharged Total electricity kWh 1,518,370 1,579,830 1,445,220 -8.5% consumption GJ 5,466 5,687 5,203 -8.5% Total hazardous waste produced kg 794 2,840 245 -91.4% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 31.8 28.8 24.2 -15.9% Total fuel l 43,530 29,641 28,694 -3.2% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mm3 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 133.6 127.4 118.6 -6.9% Water discharged l/pax 56.8 36.3 31.1 -14.3% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 9.0 9.6 8.9 -7.5% per passenger MJ/pax 32.4 34.7 32.1 -7.5% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 4.7 17.3 1.5 91.3% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.19 0.18 0.15 -15.0% Fuel consumption ml/pax 257.6 180.8 176.9 -2.2% per passenger VERACRUZ AIRPORT 87 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 25,093 22,455 27,117 20.8% Total water m3 2,308 4,268 4,487 5.1% discharged Total electricity kWh 2,030,760 2,065,800 2,344,900 13.5% consumption GJ 7,311 7,437 8,442 13.5% Total hazardous waste produced kg 834 685 1,020 48.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 91.9 88.9 129.2 45.3% Total fuel l 24,739 29,804 31,471 5.6% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 28.1 24.4 26.3 7.6% Water discharged l/pax 2.6 4.6 4.3 -6.4% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.3 2.2 2.3 1.1% per passenger MJ/pax 8.2 8.1 8.2 1.1% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.9 0.7 1.0 32.6% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.10 0.10 0.13 29.4% Fuel consumption ml/pax 27.8 32.4 30.5 -5.9% per passenger VILLAHERMOSA AIRPORT 88 A ASUR · Annual Sustainability Report 2013 TOTAL FIGURES % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Total water consumption m3 27,464 28,537 30,873 8.2% Total water m3 5,233 6,590 12,663 92.2% discharged Total electricity kWh 3,418,749 3,539,846 3,775,785 6.7% consumption GJ 12,307 12,743 13,593 6.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 434 408 620 51.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 113.7 125.4 138.7 10.7% Total fuel l 29,390 28,966 29,539 2.0% consumption PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Unit mmt 2011 2012 2013 ( ‘13 vs ‘12 ) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 31.3 28.9 29.8 3.1% Water discharged l/pax 6.0 6.7 12.2 83.1% per passenger Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.9 3.6 3.6 1.6% per passenger MJ/pax 14.0 12.9 13.1 1.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.5 0.4 0.6 44.7% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.13 0.13 5.5% Fuel consumption ml/pax 33.5 29.4 28.5 -2.8% per passenger
