R1 0.1.5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Alfagates became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2010 and we are pleased to submit our third Communication on Progress. Much of the content of this year’s COP remains extant from our previous COP. I would like to quote from last year’s submission to emphasise why: “[similarities in this and our previous COP are] indicative of the harmonious way in which the Alfagates’ principles and the UNGC dovetail. We have been championing all relevant components of the ten principles on a purely common sense basis since the group’s inception in 2004 in Iraq. Our business remains privately controlled but with the checks of a genuinely ethical public corporation. We use the advantages of both to maximise the benefits we give to society.” We are specifically delighted that the ten principles and our modus operandi fit together symbiotically and naturally. Above all, the UN Global Compact is a platform which we can use to achieve common standards and empathy with, and therefore a mutual understanding between, all stakeholders and ourselves. We either trade profitably and ethically, or we do not trade at all. During the year we have run a programme to increase the responsibilities given to our most valuable resource, our local staff. Further changes are planned which are both beneficial to the profitability, and to our sustainability. I wish to highlight their contribution to our goals, and to thank them all. We hereby renew our support for, and commitment to, the Ten Principles and the Compact. Mark Berger Chief Executive, Alfagates Group May 2014 Page 1 of 5 R1 0.1.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Our assessment is that all people are to be treated as you yourself would like to be treated. This applies especially within the complex and broad ethnic environments in which we work. Our policy remains to disseminate information and educate whilst remaining as far as possible independent, apolitical, and disinterested. Our goal in the year 2014-2015 is to demonstrate improvements in our measurable activities. Implementation We continue to apply the “two report” principle concerning any potential violations or complaints. One report from each of a local and a non-local wlll be sent to the line manager and the Human Resources Manager. In a case when we deem that the line manager does not have sufficient experience to handle this situation, the report is passed directly to the CEO for resolution. We encourage staff, and third parties unconnected with Alfagates, to try to obtain cross border access whether it is for holiday or work. Also we have identified former staff who have made their new lives in the US, Europe, Asia and Australia. We keep in contact with former members of staff, and will act as a sounding board to assist them develop their careers. Our current staff receive help for family needs outside their contracts of employment. We show empathy with all local cultures, for example granting time off for family gatherings, offering financial assistance for overseas medical trips, and pastoral care especially in international matters such as immigration, and international career opportunities outside Alfagates. We include part time and home workers amongst our team, which broadens the work pool. We encourage skills such as IT and language and will make cash or equipment available for educational purposes. Measurement We have neither had reports of Human Rights violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. We uncover information through extensive discussion within our staff at all levels. The CEO and senior managers talk one-to-one with all branch management staff face to face in the relevant branch. All senior management visit our staffed branches on a frequent basis and any problems are resolved on the spot. Page 2 of 5 R1 0.1.5 LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals We assess the greatest values accrue to us by employing based on merit, and as far as possible on locality, introducing non-locals only where necessary. Our policy is that at least one member of staff may step into a colleague’s job at short notice and perform his role on a temporary basis from day 1 at 65% efficiency. This encourages diversity, skill transfer, and fosters a society of merit-based leadership. Our goal for 2014-2015 is to demonstrate improvements in our measurable activities. Implementation We have employed and will continue to employ, disabled people, women (including during and after pregnancy, granting maternal leave beyond the statutory minimum), and all persons whose skills and locality merit employment fitting our requirements. Local general managers at each branch recommend solutions to such issues as discipline, pay review, bonus, benefits, and time off other than pre-arranged holidays. The CEO takes great heed of these recommendations, mainly because his managers visit and get to know all branch staff, try to understand the local customs and requirements, and are thereby more easily able to infuse international ideas and standards into the local labour market. All staff are expected to be curious and to learn skills from other staff. All staff are expected to train other staff in their own skills. Productivity per person by almost any measure, is increasing. We expect a leap during the next year. Measurement We have neither had reports of Labour violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. Page 3 of 5 R1 0.1.5 ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals This year has seen a mixed bag of measures taken by our host Governments. Taking one government as an example, its Ministry of Environment was demoted to a Board, yet in parallel the most potentially polluting ministry (Oil) has increased its sovereignty of environmental matters by way of executive orders. The rationale behind the demoting of the Ministry could easily be very sound, for example if corruption were endemic and there weren’t the human resources or finance available to rescue the Ministry. The increased sovereignty by the Oil ministry may appear sound, yet the reality is that it is not enforced. For waste disposal, our clients – generally international commercial companies remain unable to reconcile international best practice with commercial sense. The local infrastructure services do not exist. Exemptions to their international policies continue to be the only way forward. Our policy is to ensure that we contribute the most within our resources to improve the situation. Our goal for 2014–2015 is to demonstrate improvements in our measurable activities. Implementation We focus on servicing our clients’ needs in order to retain them, but we comply with all local laws and we work together with all our responsible clients to ensure that their international standards are met as closely as possible within their practical commercial constraints. Measurement We have neither had reports of Environment violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. We make daily walk-through inspections and discussions to minimise waste, minimise accidents and spillages, which may cause an environmental problem. These inspections include interacting with our field staff, our facilities, our clients and our suppliers. Incident report forms log errors and omissions, and track the rectifying action to compliance with at least the local legal standard. Our larger clients provide a constant source of external audit. Page 4 of 5 R1 0.1.5 ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals All our senior managers know all of our staff with an ability to make procurement and client service decisions, so this acts as a simple, effective control. Our policy is that we do not permit corrupt practices. This is an immediate termination offence for staff; if we discovered that our suppliers were engaged in such practices we would seek to remove them; and we reject all offers of business which we suspect or know would support corruption. Our goal for 2014–2015 is to demonstrate improvements in our measurable activities. Implementation All our managers with a procurement ability watch over each other at all levels. The Chief Executive has direct oversight and is involved in constant discussions, education and oversight at head office and branch level. This is a core platform of his leadership. Our staff are bonded to Alfagates in the knowledge that the business, and therefore their jobs, exist through Alfagates’ reputation for undoubted probity. This is proving a most effective method of ensuring that corruption does not even become a temptation and is demonstrating that we can self-regulate from within the organisation. To this we are adding a bonus incentive scheme. The qualifications for payout include the prerequisite that an un-reported breach by one is a disqualifying event for all. We offer unsolicited advice and guidance to our clients and expect the same in return in our attempts to create a virtuous circle of improvement. Measurement We have neither had reports of Corruption-related violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. We conduct a monthly audit of cash expended at branch and head office level. The Chief Finance Officer regularly visits the branch offices. We continue to handle less cash proportionally to electronic money. In the close community society in which we generally operate, staff actively monitor each other’s behaviour and spending habits to identify personal expenditure beyond the expected norm for that person. Page 5 of 5
