D A N O N E 2 0 1 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT STRATEGY _04 _14 _46 _50 _62 _152 EDITORIAL 2013 STRATEGY HISTORICAL APPROACH CSR MONITORING CSR PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS FRANCK RIBOUD HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY DATES 1972-2013 51 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS ASSESSMENT AND VALIDATION 15 THE COMMITMENT 52 IMPACTS AND 63 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT 153 REPORT PARAMETERS _06 TO BRING HEALTH RESPONSIBILITIES IN BY NON-FINANCIAL 160 VALIDATION OF THE A GLOBAL APPROACH THROUGH FOOD BUSINESS, FROM END RATING AGENCIES REPORT BY AN EXTERNAL OF KEY ISSUES 22 BE ACCESSIBLE TO TO END 68 INTERNAL ASSESSMENT THIRD PARTY THE GREATEST NUMBER 54 DANONE WAY WITH GRI GUIDELINES 07 NUTRITION AND OF PEOPLE 70 GOVERNANCE, _162 HEALTH ISSUES 59 RESPECT 10 SOCIAL ISSUES 27 EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: COMMITMENTS AND GRI INDEX A TRANSFORMATION LEVER DIALOGUE DIMENSION Self-evaluation of the application of GRI according to version 3.0 guidelines for the 12 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES FOR THE BUSINESS GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. 76 ECONOMIC DIMENSION 36 NATURE 2020: 86 ENVIRONMENTAL NATURE AT THE HEART DIMENSION OF THE FOOD CHAIN _170 114 SOCIAL DIMENSION CONTACTS 130 HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION 136 SOCIETY DIMENSION 142 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _STRATEGY EDITORIAL FRANCK RIBOUD “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS NOT A VIRTUE IN BUSINESS, BUT RATHER A BUSINESS WISDOM” The events that occured in 2013, convinced Regarding environmental issues, 2013 was a year Relating directly to the company’s businesses, i.e. me, more than ever before, of two things. of review. Following six years of efforts in which milk supply from small-scale farmers, packaging Firstly, that sustainable development is not a the group exceeded its targets and achieved a recycling and local distribution, these projects virtue in business, but rather a business wisdom. 37% reduction in global carbon emissions per allowed the group to develop models delivering To mention just a few examples, soaring raw metric ton produced, Danone’s ultimate goal both business and social impacts. Some of them materials prices and the complexity of processes is to cut emissions by more than 50% by 2020. will be expanded on a large scale in the years across the supply chain, for which we paid the In 2013, we also meticulously examined our ahead. The Livelihoods carbon investment fund price in 2013, call for global reflection with agricultural supply to define and test a sustainable created by Danone and which now involves nine regard to issues that are well beyond the scope agriculture approach in a dozen countries, major French and European corporations is of the company’s strict legal responsibility. incorporating economic, ecological and social another example. Agroforestry investments already aspects as well as impact on nutrition and health. made by Livelihoods in Africa, Asia and Latin And secondly, that nothing can be taken for America will enable eight million tons of carbon granted. Danone has long been committed to We still firmly believe that for a food group like to be stored while creating value for rural an approach that puts sustainable development Danone, reducing our carbon footprint, securing communities. at the heart of its strategies and business processes. sustainable farming supplies, managing water Yet, the progress we make is never consistent resources and innovating in recyclable packaging These innovation programs are rooted in Danone’s or permanent. In 2013, for instance, Danone will increasingly contribute to build competitive culture and its dual economic and social project. ranked world number one in the ATNI (Access advantages. They will be the cornerstones of the They are crucial to continue building Danone to Nutrition Index) which positions food and group’s Nature platform and goals for 2020. for the future. beverage companies based on consumer access to healthy nutrition. This achievement confirms the The funds we dedicate to social innovation with Franck Riboud group’s strengths in this area but also highlights our shareholders’ agreement also continued their Chairman and Chief Executive Officer certain points that demand our attention. development in 2013: the Danone Ecosystem Fund, for instance, supported 47 projects carried Another example in a different field: workplace out by Danone subsidiaries in partnership with safety. After improving consistently over ten years local organizations. thanks to a very proactive policy, results took a downturn in 2013. We must revise our approach and make further progress. 4 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES _STRATEGY NUTRITION AND HEALTH ISSUES A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES At the start of the 21st century, major health issues loom worldwide. Firstly, 7 NUTRITION AND UNDERNUTRITION the global population is aging, inducing a significant problem in terms of health HEALTH ISSUES cost funding. Secondly, the most recent statistics published by the World Health AND OVERWEIGHT: Organization (WHO) testify to a double burden, namely undernutrition and 10 SOCIAL ISSUES PUBLIC HEALTH overweight, with some countries facing both evils. The entire food industry is directly affected by this twofold problem and must make every effort to find the 12 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ISSUES best possible solutions. Undernutrition and overweight: a global blight The prevalence of growth retardation (“stunting”) in children under five is a pertinent measurement indicator for undernutrition which currently stands at 25.7% worldwide. Although a decline has been seen in recent years, the rate in some countries still exceeds 40%, which is the average prevalence in Africa. The most widespread deficiencies are in iron and vitamin D, which are well substantiated in Asia and Africa, and agencies like EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) are now also reporting these deficiencies in Europe among otherwise healthy population groups. Obesity continues to rise, including in midor low-income countries, particularly in Africa and in the Americas. Worldwide, one adult in three is overweight and almost one in ten is obese. A total of 2.8 million people die each year from being overweight or obese. Obesity among children is still one of the major issues identified by WHO. Prevalence of overweight in children under age of five is rising: the rate has reached 6.6% worldwide (i.e. more than 40 million children) and up to 12.5% in Europe. Furthermore, 9.8% of the global population suffers from diabetes. One billion people worldwide suffer from hypertension and nine million die as a result each year. Public health initiatives have helped lower the rate in many high-income countries, but it still remains high, especially in certain low-income countries of Africa. These Non-Communicable Diseases are indeed not contagious, but they are passed down from one generation to the next. Recent data, collected in Asia show, for example, that children born to mothers who suffer from gestational diabetes have a higher risk of developing diabetes from the age of five. Maternal obesity also generates a higher risk of prematurity, in turn creating risks for the child’s health and higher costs for the healthcare system. The question of nutrition before and immediately after birth is therefore one of considerable importance. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 7 _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES NUTRITION AND NUTRITION AND HEALTH ISSUES HEALTH ISSUES Among the multiple causes of Non-Communicable Diseases, many The food industry has a role to play stakeholders today point to excessive consumption of sugar as being of major Faced with these expectations, responsible food companies must prove concern. The World Health Organization (WHO) just initiated a consultation that they are acting in the public interest and can contribute to the solution, to review the recommended limits on intake; the current maximum limit both in combating overweight and undernutrition, and in reducing health costs. (10% of daily energy intake in the form of added sugar) could be cut by half. Regarding research, companies will invest more in research on “basic” nutrition. Growing expectations towards the food industry To improve their understanding of eating patterns, they will leverage their In this context, solutions are urgently expected from the food industry, relationship with consumers and work with scientific organizations to guarantee as certain recent signals illustrate. In a series of articles published in the Lancet objective research and quality results. The aim is to bring about real, beneficial in February 2013, “ultra-processed” food and drinks are classified among the changes to these dietary practices. threats for people’s health, in the same way as tobacco. Companies will also share their non-competitive information to help further The opening address by the WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan at shared knowledge. In some cases, like the gradual reduction in added sugar the 8th Global Conference on Health Promotion held in Finland in June 2013, for example, a joint sector-wide commitment will no doubt be necessary. stated it clearly: “Efforts to prevent Non-Communicable Diseases go against the business interests of powerful economic operators […] it is not just Big Tobacco Lastly, out of concern for transparency, companies will report on their anymore. Public health must also contend with Big Food, Big Soda, and Big entire product portfolios, rather than just their “nutrition and health” activities. Alcohol. […] They include arguments that place the responsibility for harm to Along the same lines, they will aim for transparency on their lobbying and health on individuals.” advocacy practices. In September 2013, at the International Congress of Nutrition, was published In conclusion to this overview, it must be added that product quality a statement resulting from a meeting of experts on the prevention of obesity increasingly includes the concept of sustainable diets. This means, to quote in countries with low and middle income, which was held in June in Bellagio the FAO’s definition: “those diets with low environmental impacts which (Italy). This statement is a call for governments to maintain stringent public contribute to food and nutrition security and to healthy life for present and health policies “despite lobbying strategies of the large so called Big Food and future generations. Sustainable diets are protective and respectful of biodiversity Big Soda companies”. and ecosystems, culturally acceptable, accessible, economically fair and affordable; nutritionally adequate, safe and healthy; while optimizing natural In January 2014, a group of 18 international experts launched “Action on and human resources.” Sugar”, an initiative aiming to pressure the food industry into reducing added sugar in products to reduce consumption to less than 5% of total energy. Similarly, the message conveyed by the film Fed Up, released in January 2014, denounced the addictive nature of sugar, drawing a parallel between the food and tobacco industries. Regulatory pressure will undoubtedly heighten. As a report by the Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies on the role of regulation in the prevention of non-communicable diseases states, “the question is not so much whether there will be restrictive regulations on the food industry for the prevention of non-communicable diseases, but which regulations”. 8 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 9 _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES SOCIAL ISSUES SOCIAL ISSUES Danone must cope with the coexistence of two very different macroeconomic Developing in a challenging economic environment environments in the countries where it does business mature countries on the The economic environment in Europe has deteriorated for the long term. one hand, and emerging countries on the other. This dual context represents a Unemployment is expected to remain high in OECD countries in 2014, real challenge as regards social issues. particularly among young people and low-skilled workers, with a forecast 7.8% at end 2014, representing some 48 million unemployed in the 34 OECD Mature and emerging countries: contrasting issues member countries. In the “mature” countries, demographic change is resulting in an aging population and a shrinking labor force (which has dropped to 68% of the total population in Europe according to INSEE data), but also in the cohabitation DEVELOP Only Germany should see a slight drop in its unemployment rate. In addition, only five countries can boast unemployment rates below 5%: Austria, Korea, of two or even three generations at work for the first time ever. TALENTS Japan, Norway and Switzerland. Forecast global growth has also been revised downwards due to the slowdown in emerging countries. In emerging countries, the need for skills development, in particular in IN A COMPLEX countries where the education system is not able to produce the necessary talents, and competition between Western companies to attract potentials, ECONOMIC The employment situation is leading to growing socio-economic inequality: for over five years, income inequality has been on the rise in two-thirds of requires policies to both attract and develop skills. CONTEXT OECD countries. This correlates largely to changes in wages, which account for 75% of working households’ income. Recruitment, transmission and training: getting the best out Beyond their immediate impact on households’ available income, rising of each individual inequalities can have serious consequences on living conditions, in particular Large international companies must therefore address challenges in three areas. in a context where government intervention in social protection (access to healthcare, welfare, pensions, etc.) and wealth redistribution are subject to First, ensure a properly functioning working community in which several considerable budgetary constraints. generations work side by side: they must therefore leverage senior employees’ skills and design an organization that fosters interaction and cooperation. This raises the question of companies’ role in providing social welfare insurance for their employees and, more generally, redistributing created Secondly, attract and develop talents in high growth countries, by partnering wealth. These issues must be addressed from an international angle, at a time with local players (universities, training institutions), acquiring appropriate when demands in the area of labor law and working conditions are on the rise internal systems and affirming the intention to develop recruitment. in certain emerging countries (such as China). Various countries, like Mexico, have initiated ambitious reforms seeking to narrow the gaps in job protection Lastly, foster continuous development for all in an evolving environment: one between temporary and permanent workers. study referenced by the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) for example, indicates a shortage of some 1.5 million managers in For companies, these changes are all challenges that require them to redefine the United States who are able to seize investment opportunities related to certain facets of their relationships with their employees and their ecosystem digital data. Thinking about new ways to learn and share knowledge and (including skills development and transfer, relations between generations at information is a key issue. work, redistribution of wealth, and protection from life’s uncertainties). 10 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 11 _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES _STRATEGY A GLOBAL APPROACH OF KEY ISSUES ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES By 2050 the world’s population is expected to reach nine billion people. Toward a new sustainable strategy Food needs and increasing pressure on natural resources will therefore increase. Food companies are therefore facing a double challenge: how to meet the This trend has multiple effects: pollution and loss of land, pollution of needs of an ever greater number of consumers, on the one hand, and limit watercourses and groundwater, greenhouse gas emissions, deforestation, the environmental impact of their activities on the other. Their stakeholders’ rising waste production and loss of biodiversity. expectations, meanwhile, are mainly focused on reducing the impact of industrial production and precisely measuring these reductions (carbon Agriculture in need of reinvention footprint, reduced water and energy consumption, waste disposal, etc.). While agriculture is a vital necessity for people, it is responsible for nearly Managing the impacts arising from packaging requires reduced use of materials 25% of greenhouse gases, 70% of water consumption and 40% of groundwater upstream, improved collection and recycling, and transitioning to packaging pollution. Loss of biodiversity could itself lead to reduced agricultural made of renewable biomass which is not in competition with food. production (estimated 25% impact by 2050), threatening the planet’s food PRESERVE security. Agriculture thus needs to reinvent itself to rise to these challenges. Pressure on supplies of agricultural raw materials is strong (increased price More must be produced with fewer inputs on a smaller cultivated area, while RESOURCES volatility, new competitors for land such as biofuels, climate impact, loss of also significantly improving the impacts of agricultural practices on water and soil. AND SATISFY biodiversity). This situation is prompting companies to integrate these aspects into their strategy much further upstream. The global economy is transitioning Livestock farming is particularly criticized as being responsible for 18% CONSUMERS from a period of abundance to a period of resource scarcity, which will ultimately drive up costs. of greenhouse gas emissions and 37% of soil degradation alone. This creates two risks: a risk of increased tax pressure, and a risk of reduced demand for For their part, consumers are voicing higher expectations of agriculture that animal-based product categories. combines security, nutrition and health along with environmental protection and respect for natural cycles, and this will become a factor of business Ecosystems under threat competitiveness in the future. To meet these expectations, regulatory changes The climate change affecting the planet is also an indicator of serious and progress in research are pushing towards better awareness of the interference with the ecosystems. The climate has already gained one degree environment and health concerns (precision agriculture, pesticides effective at Celsius over the past century. It could warm further by between two and five low doses, alternative methods for fighting off pests and disease, more efficient degrees during the 21st century, causing major disturbance of natural cycles use of water and soil, etc.). (water, soil, biodiversity, etc.) and weakening the ecosystems on which we depend. These major environmental and food security challenges are core concerns for Danone. Preserving the resources and sustainably managing strategic Forests are a vital link in the food chain. They help regulate the climate as raw materials (in particular water and milk) are the foundation of the group’s well as the water cycle and are home to the richest ecosystems in the world. sustainable model within its ecosystem. Deforestation is responsible for 20% of greenhouse gas emissions. Forest protection and restoration are critical issues. In addition, growing demand for water as a result of global population growth accentuates the current water shortage, despite UN recognition of access to clean healthy drinking water as a fundamental right in 2010. Pollution of water resources is speeding up the disappearance of natural water-based ecosystems, particularly in wetlands and forests. The involvement of local populations around water resources and wetlands is vital for their sustainable conservation. 12 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 13 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY THE COMMITMENT TO BRING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD 2013 STRATEGY HIGHLIGHTS 15 THE COMMITMENT TO BRING HEALTH BRING HEALTH “Bringing health through food to as many people as possible”: Danone’s teams THROUGH FOOD around the world implement concrete initiatives every day in pursuit of this THROUGH FOOD TO mission defined in 2006. Danone Research plays a central role in implementing 22 BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE AS MANY PEOPLE will this strategy, with the conviction that diet and an understanding of its impacts be key to addressing health issues in the future. AS POSSIBLE Danone teams rely on comprehensive understanding of nutrition-related issues 27 EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: (1), unique research approaches (2) and purposeful governance choices (3) to A TRANSFORMATION LEVER ensure product quality and food safety (4). FOR THE BUSINESS 36 NATURE 2020: 1. A UNIQUE NUTRITION STRATEGY NATURE AT THE HEART The nutrition strategy defined in the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter is OF THE FOOD CHAIN 89% OF DANONE SALES based above all on a good understanding of local situations. It also seeks to promote products that are positioned as “healthier alternatives” and measure the impacts of diet on consumer health. Connect to local cultures BELONG By developing a complete understanding of the context in each country, Danone is able to contribute to good eating habits by offering products that TO WHOLESOME are appropriate and adapted to local cultures and attitudes. The group therefore CATEGORIES seeks to learn in detail about local public health issues and nutrition needs, as well as dietary and hydration habits and the related cultural aspects. Offer wholesome categories and healthier alternatives Over the course of its history, Danone has redesigned the contours of its product portfolio to center on wholesome categories: dairy products (which provide good nutrient density and are present in most food pyramids around the world), water (a nutrient that is necessary for life), sugar-free beverages, and products that meet specific needs and are strictly regulated : child nutrition and medical nutrition. In 2013, these wholesome categories represented 89% of Danone’s total sales. The remainder of the portfolio is positioned as “healthier alternatives,” products that are healthier than those they replace in the diet (for example, beverages with reduced sugar content compared with the benchmark beverages in the market). The entire portfolio is therefore dedicated to healthier eating, which gives Danone an outstanding position among the major food industry players, and supports the promotion of these categories of products in general, beyond the group’s own brands. In addition, 67% of Danone’s 2013 sales met strict nutritional targets (dairy products and child nutrition products in compliance with corporate nutrition standards, water and sugar-free beverages, medical nutrition), further supporting the group’s choices. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 15 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS THE COMMITMENT TO BRING THE COMMITMENT TO BRING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD HEALTH THROUGH FOOD Measure dietary impact In 2013, Danone Nutricia Research reconfirmed its priority areas of innovation: Danone seeks to understand the impacts of its products and initiatives on dietary balance. A large part of the group’s nutrition research is devoted to Ensure nutritional quality and preserve natural resources developing innovative tools for measuring the impact of products or categories Danone’s research teams commit to always seeking to optimize the nutritional on diet. value of the group’s products based on WHO recommendations, while also developing products that serve as alternatives with superior nutritional and In 2013, Danone Nutricia Research organized a seminar on nutrition organoleptic qualities. At the same time, they commit to working to protect the modeling as part of the 20th International Congress of Nutrition in Spain, environment via cutting edge packaging technology – in particular by limiting where 120 participants examined applications in both developed and emerging its impacts, reducing the volume of source materials and expanding the use of countries. Nutrition modeling is a powerful tool for quantifying the share of a recycled and renewable materials. given food category in a balanced diet, making it possible to offer dietary advice to a specific population(1). Danone has also developed, in collaboration with Apply science to food to develop products that enhance AgroParisTech (France), the dietary quality index “PANDiet” that combines all people’s health the two dimensions of a balanced diet : meeting nutritional needs and avoiding The aim is to discover every day how food is an endless source of health excess, in a single score(2). This type of tool supports the development of benefits at every stage in life. Danone works with scientific experts and research individualized dietary advice(3). institutes around the world to develop its knowledge of the key health role played by the digestive system and intestinal microbiota. Danone collects and creates bridges between areas of expertise including nutrition, identifying lactic 2. RESEARCH AND INNOVATION TO bacteria and their role in health, cognitive performance, epigenetics, hydration BRING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD science and understanding intestinal microbiota, with a view to developing or perfecting products based on scientific advances. Research and innovation are fundamental to being able to offer the best products around the world that are the most suited to each age group and Start from eating practices and include cultural differences tailored to different lifestyles. At Danone, this research involves both the “hard to better meet local health goals and challenges sciences and social sciences, with the goal of understanding foods themselves as Danone integrates an understanding that eating is part of everyone’s daily life well as eating habits. Science at Danone is entirely dedicated to food and diet. and culture. Danone works closely with healthcare actors in each country to better comprehend local situations in terms of public health issues, consumption Experts are interested in the simple pleasure of eating, for example. The group and issues of nutritional deficiencies and overeating. The group also examines is thus continuing its contribution to the ANCA corporate research chair food-related practices and representations, and how they evolve, from a (Alimentation Nutrition Comportement Alimentaire, or food, nutrition, eating sociological angle. Danone strengthened its research effort in 2013 by signing behavior). This chair, founded in 2011 with AgroParisTech school, has two a three-year cooperation agreement with the CIRAD (Agricultural Research for purposes: developing nutrition education programs based on innovative teaching Development) and Fondation Agropolis aimed at study eating styles in different methods, and research on the pleasure of eating. An international scientific countries via a network of socio-anthropologists. symposium was held in Paris in December 2013 on the topic: “How can the pleasure of eating foster good eating habits?” Danone’s local focus is also evidenced by the adaptation of products to consumer practices and wishes in terms of forms, flavors and textures. (1) Buttriss, J. L., Briend, A., Darmon, N., Ferguson, E. L., Maillot, M. and Lluch, A. (2014), Diet modelling: How it can inform the development of dietary recommendations and public health policy. Nutrition Bulletin, 39: 115–125 (2) Verger EO, Mariotti F, Holmes BA, Paineau D, Huneau JF. Evaluation of a diet quality index based on the probability of adequate nutrient intake (PANDiet)using national French and US dietary surveys. PLoS One. 2012;7(8) (3) Verger EO, Holmes BA, Huneau J-F, Mariotti F. Simple changes within dietary subgroups can rapidly improve the nutrient adequacy of the diet of French adults. J Nutr. 2014 (in press) 16 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 17 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS THE COMMITMENT TO BRING THE COMMITMENT TO BRING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD HEALTH THROUGH FOOD Promote product categories as daily sources of health and well-being for all 3. PURPOSEFUL GOVERNANCE This rapidly growing field of research seeks to evaluate the impact of the It is a question of attitude, it is a question of choice. Danone’s mission – bringing group’s products on consumer diet. It includes, inter alia, developing tools for health through food to as many people as possible – involves big responsibilities. quantitative measurement of dietary intake, defining dietary quality indices, This is why Danone has defined its commitments and governance mechanisms classifying consumers based on the nature of their diets and simulating the in a Food, Nutrition and Health Charter. The group also publicly disseminates impact of a change in diet on overall dietary quality. Danone is also developing information concerning its policies, the results of its scientific research and its a new branch of expertise in nutrition economics, with a view to ultimately ratings by independent agencies. converting measurements of impact on diet into economic impact on health costs. Reconﬁrm the group’s commitment Danone took a further step towards transparency and responsible Danone Nutricia Research celebrated in 2013 the fifth anniversary of the communication in 2013 with the publication of its Policy on the Marketing Hydration for Health Initiative, with 14 symposiums and 39 conferences of Foods for Infants and Young Children. This document defines Danone’s in nine countries, as well as the joint organization of two conferences with approach to marketing foods for infants and young children. It establishes the the EASO (European Association for the Study of Obesity) and one behaviors expected of Danone’s employees when carrying out their duties related symposium with the ISN (International Society of Nephrology) on hydration to promoting these products, and clarifies the company’s commitment to and renal health. support the goals and principles of the WHO Code. External audits of the LAUNCHED BY effective application of this policy were also extended to a greater number of In addition to its investing in research, Danone supports various initiatives subsidiaries in 2013. aiming at promoting wholesome food categories, as the initiatives of the Danone Institutes around the world. Among other actions, Danone Institutes Measure nutrition performance International has launched in 2013, in cooperation with the American Society In 2013, a pilot audit was completed by an external organization (leading up of Nutrition, the “Yogurt in Nutrition Initiative for a Balanced Diet,” with the objective to stimulate research on the effects of yogurt on health and IN COLLABORATION to a verification in 2014) covering the entire health-nutrition indicator reporting communicate available scientific information to healthcare professionals and WITH THE AMERICAN process (“Scorecard”). In this way, Danone is ensuring its ability to manage its nutrition performance and give stakeholders consolidated, robust and reliable the general public. A first international scientific event, the Global Summit on SOCIETY information about its results. Danone’s performance was recognized by two the Health Effects of Yogurt, was held during the 2013 Experimental Biology OF NUTRITION reference organizations in 2013. The group was ranked number one in the first congress in Boston. edition of the Access To Nutrition Index (ATNI), and rated “best in class” by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the nutrition-health criteria with a score of 100/100. This is a source of pride for the entire group, and motivation to continue its efforts and pursue this strategy in future. 18 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 19 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS THE COMMITMENT TO BRING THE COMMITMENT TO BRING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD HEALTH THROUGH FOOD Expertise in real time 4. QUALITY AS A GUARANTEE Quality expertise is now implemented throughout product’s life cycle. OF FOOD SAFETY At every stage from design to consumption, everywhere in the world and at all times, controls are carried out to guarantee products that are safe and Danone’s nutrition strategy, driven by innovation and purposeful governance, compliant, in accordance with the annually reviewed criteria defined in targets uncompromising food quality and a continuous effort to ensure food Danone’s specifications. safety. Food safety is a fundamental condition for public health and social stability in a country. It requires the cooperation of all the actors in the food Maintain consumer conﬁdence chain: not just companies, but also governments, oversight agencies, the media, Danone tracks information throughout its products’ life cycles, all the way NGOs and consumers. to sale to the end consumer, to ensure a rapid and satisfactory response to consumer expectations and continuously enhance their confidence. In this framework, Danone continues to be an active member of the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), the only organization that involves every food Two key projects have been developed to support this approach: sector player from the public and private sectors at the global level. It pursues the • in addition to existing programs for collecting consumer opinions, ongoing improvement of food safety and public health with a view to Danone wants to use social media to take into account the feedback from strengthening consumer confidence around the world. the consumers using these new communication channels. A pilot project is currently being tested in the Early life nutrition division in Indonesia. At Danone, this food safety objective relies on precise risk evaluation and The results will serve to improve the tool for broader deployment in 2014; expertise developed throughout the product life cycle. • to ensure that the product made available to consumers in points of sale truly meets its standards, Danone is continuing to implement a project Evaluate risks designed to analyze consumer experience at the precise moment of purchase. A good product is a product without risk for the consumer. Danone’s food Its development has accelerated with the installation of an information safety criteria are aligned with the FSSC 22 000, the international standard system that improves the process by making information available recognized by authorities and consumers to which is added a prerequisites immediately and supports more robust reporting. program, specific to Danone, formalized in 2012 (see page 19 of the 2012 Sustainable Development Report). Alignment to this standard began in 2012 Develop the Quality function with the introduction of pilot audits (with four external certification agencies) The role of the Quality function has been expanded in the framework in the Fresh dairy products, Early life nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions. of the reorganization of the European subsidiaries, with the aim of ensuring The pilot audits continued in 2013 in the Waters division, as well as deployment ever better product quality and food safety. Three priorities were defined for in the other divisions: more than 30 plants in 20 countries met the defined this reorganization: objectives. • preserve the function’s expertise and develop its key resources; • develop guidelines for all subsidiaries to support the Quality approach Danone also evaluates potential and actual risks via the Danone Food Safety throughout product life cycle and strengthen the function’s impact Center, with the aim of guaranteeing healthy and safe products for its by ensuring that every local management committee includes consumers. This involves active scientific control of products, with the assistance a Quality director; of international experts, to identify and define new risks as early as possible. • simplify working methods and manage expertise for better knowledge sharing among all the divisions. In terms of training, the “Food safety” e-learning platform was overhauled and a new leadership program for managers was created to enhance the impact of the Quality function on business. 20 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 21 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE ENABLE Enabling the greatest possible number of consumers to access Danone products is a major strategic priority for the group. This is both Danone’s core mission 2. DEVELOP NEW MARKETS THE GREATEST and a powerful growth factor in high-potential geographic regions. Danone has also chosen to invest massively to consolidate its presence POSSIBLE NUMBER To make its products available in ever more places, and in particular in emerging in emerging economies. Development has continued in the countries where the group already has operations. In Turkey, for example, the Waters division OF CONSUMERS countries, Danone has focused on three levers: innovation (1), investment in new markets (2) and social business (3). was expanded with an investment in the company Sirma. In the United States, the group entered the organic child nutrition market with the acquisition TO ACCESS of Happy Family. In India, Danone participated in the renovation of the DANONE 1. INNOVATE TO REACH MORE PEOPLE Wockhardt portfolio. PRODUCTS Danone products are more and more successful in the growing countries where the group is present: Mexico, Indonesia, China, Russia, the United States and In pursuit of its mission to bring health to as many people as possible, Danone has also developed strong positions in Africa, a continent with considerable Brazil. All these countries help to drive Danone’s growth, accounting for 54% potential (a quarter of the global population will be African in 2050, and in of the group revenues. Therefore, Russia generates 11% of revenues and 2100, five of the world’s ten most populous countries will be in Africa). represents the group’s largest market. In North Africa, for example, Danone took a controlling share in Centrale If consumption is rising, this is due to the group’s innovation strategy and will Laitière in Morocco (67%). In West Africa, where the group’s presence was to create new products adapted to local needs. For example in 2013, Danone negligible – except in Early life nutrition and in Senegal where it had developed launched in Brazil: an infant formula adapted to local nutrition needs under the an innovative experimental project – Danone invested in the Fan Milk group. Milnutri brand, the Danio range of Greek yogurts, and a range of aquadrinks With revenues of €120 million in 2012, this group is a major player in frozen under the Bonafont Levissé brand. In China and Indonesia, the Mizone brand dairy products and juices in the region, with a distribution channel of more has expanded in the aquadrinks segment. than 31,000 independent vendors. Lastly, in South Africa, Danone has launched several products in recent years with longer conservation and affordable pricing, External growth is another development factor. In the United States, for including Mayo, Ultra Mel and Yo-Jelly launched in 2013. These products offer example, Danone has entered new market segments through the acquisition the advantage of being able to reach points of sale that were previously of Yocrunch in the yogurts with toppings segment. inaccessible. Innovation also involves new distribution channels. Always with a view to 913 MILLIONS OF improving the products’ accessibility, the group has expanded its products’ physical presence into more distant regions and cities using innovative distribution models that take account of local particularities and limitations. Thus, the “Route to Market” approach has enabled subsidiaries to expand the distribution of certain products. For example, Danone has developed a “readyDANONE to-drink” distribution network in Indonesia that covers 25% of the total network, making Milkuat brand products, treating vitamin and mineral CONSUMERS deficiencies (zinc, calcium, iron) in children age six to twelve, available in points of sale. Most points of sale are local shops, and this innovative “Route to market” approach includes a growing number of vendors, often on two-wheeled vehicles, dedicated to the smallest points of sale, expanding the visibility of the offer and reaching 80% of the children impacted by this nutritional need. In this specific case, 36 million children between the ages of six and twelve are affected, out of 45 million in total. Partly, thanks to these innovations and new approaches, Danone estimates that it reached 913 million consumers in 2013, with an ultimate goal of one billion. 22 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 23 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE A new long shelf life product in Bangladesh A yogurt that supplies 30% of 3. SOCIAL BUSINESS: FOUNDATION daily needs of zinc, iodine, iron and vitamin A, with 80,000 yogurts sold daily FOR THE FUTURE at €0.08/unit, but climate conditions that make transport to the country’s isolated and humid villages difficult: the problem in Bangladesh was not an easy Because the group seeks to ensure development consistent with its mission, one. To provide a solution, Grameen Danone Foods developed a suitable social business is the watchword for Danone today. It is giving rise to product that was even less expensive and able to overcome cold chain constraints. increasingly robust projects. In six years, the group’s social business incubator It represented additional income opportunities for the micro-entrepreneur danone.communities has partnered with ten social entrepreneurs seeking to “ladies” targeted by the project. Today the production facility for this long shelf deliver solutions to malnutrition, lack of access to water and insecurity in seven countries (Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, France, India, Mexico and Senegal). 2013 SICAV DC = 73 M€ life product is ready. One million people have directly benefited from these initiatives. 8 PROJECTS FINANCED Support social business entrepreneurs SOCIAL IMPACT: 1 MILLION The consolidation of this approach also involves reinforcing the organizations DIRECT AND INDIRECT Three examples of social business BENEFICIARIES that ensure the projects’ autonomy. A sustainable project requires a stable Danone’s primary focus in 2013 was to consolidate existing social business activities. Here are three examples with real social and/or economic impacts: 2012 COMPLEMENTARY INVESTMENTS IN: GRAMEEN DANONE FOODS organization, so Danone has implemented a new support approach developed together with the social businesses. A new Social Innovation & Community Manager dedicated in part to this program is further evidence of this consolidation. 3 PROJECTS The JITA project in Bangladesh JITA, in Bangladesh, trains women, who LA LAITERIE DU BERGER NAANDI COMMUNITY Beyond the three priorities, nutrition, water and insecurity, cross-cutting COMMITTED TO live in insecure situations, in door-to-door sales. Joint efforts by JITA and WATER SERVICES NUTRIGO projects are taking shape in France today. The fields of cooperation are microSPIN-OFF EFFORTS private partners ensure that products sold support lifestyle improvement (health, distribution, marketing and pricing strategies, and spin-off efforts. These hygiene). The results are conclusive: today JITA has improved the autonomy of projects were launched at meetings attended by all the social businesses on 6,480 women. In addition, more than 2.5 million people in rural settings now 2011 JITA BANGLADESH the field (two meetings were held, in April 2013 in Paris and in November 2013 have access to staple products, and more than 500 jobs have been created. JITA in India). GRAMEEN DANONE FOODS precisely evaluates its social impact by regularly monitoring three indicators: BANGLADESH women’s participation in household decisions, their freedom to circulate within ECOALBERTO MEXICO Under this new approach, for example, 1001 Fontaines and Naandi the village and its environs, and their participation in socio-economic Community Water Services initiated skills sharing together with Accenture organizations that enable them to consume and/or produce. 2010 NAANDI INDIA and danone.communities, in order to support water filtering station operators with a view to bringing drinking water to more villages and raising awareness ISOMIR FRANCE Dolima yogurt in Senegal La Laiterie du Berger in Senegal produces of health issues. Dolima yogurt, the unique cow’s milk yogurt in the country. Its commercial success is clear: sales have multiplied by five in five years, with efficient 2009 LA LAITERIE DU BERGER Today three projects are already committed to spin-off efforts: distribution via more than 10,000 points of sale. This success is due to an SENEGAL innovative offer: a mixed milk and grain product in an affordable and practical • 1001 Fontaines, which has begun replicating its model developed for pouch format for ready-to-eat preparation of an extremely popular meal known as thiakry. It has above all provided a real market for the 800 families of Peul 2008 GRAMEEN DANONE FOODS Cambodia in India and Madagascar; • EcoAlberto, in Mexico, initially implanted in rural areas, which aims to test farmers who supply the milk. A key threshold in the project’s consolidation was BANGLADESH distribution in urban slums and is considering expansion to another state in achieving a positive EBITDA (gross operating profit) in 2013. 1001 FONTAINES CAMBODIA the country; • JITA, in Bangladesh, which is planning further workshops to foster the 2007 PARTNERSHIP DANONE/LCL/ expression of female leadership in new countries. AMUNDI TO CREATE THE SICAV WITH ASSETS 50M€ 2005 FIRST MEETING BETWEEN M.YUNUS AND F.RIBOUD 24 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 25 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS BE ACCESSIBLE TO THE EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: GREATEST NUMBER OF PEOPLE A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS Promote social business To promote its action and raise public awareness of the social business theme, CONSIDERATION Consideration for its employees, and the desire to ensure the best possible growth, are at the heart of Danone’s culture and of its dual economic and social danone.communities has expanded its mobilization activities: FOR ITS EMPLOYEES project. The group therefore introduced a plan for savings and adaptation designed to transform its organization in 2013 (1). Danone also focuses on • by supporting the SOS Group’s Up Conference cycle “Inspiring social AND THE DESIRE TO valuing diversity among its employees (2), skills development (3) and innovation” (30 events per year); • with informal “Yunus & You Cocktails” (YY) meetings between social ENSURE THE BEST strengthening safety, health and social dialogue programs (4). Finally, the group have also considerably expanded the Danone Ecosystem Fund initiatives (5). entrepreneurs, students and young professionals; • by organizing several panels and workshops at the Convergences Forum, in POSSIBLE GROWTH, particular asking for public input in seeking solutions for the “water” theme; ARE AT THE HEART 1. CHANGE IN SUPPORT OF GROWTH • by co-organizing a hackathon, “Hack the future now !” during the Social Good Week; OF DANONE’S A plan for savings and adaptation was implemented in Europe with the goal of simplifying and adapting the group’s organizations to improve competitiveness. • by supporting a social media with the MakeSense community for the first Global Social Business Summit in Asia (three million people reached). CULTURE In practice, this means, over two years, achieving €200 million in structural savings, 901 jobs’ suppressions, combining several subsidiaries in Europe (from a total of 67 to 33 in all) and broad-based efforts to simplify operations. Danone’s focus is to support change and implement a sustainable organizational model, in order to roll out this plan under the best possible conditions. Several approaches are underway: Fostering social dialogue Some 300 meetings were held with employee representatives in Europe (around two-thirds in France) between February and July 2013. Two conventions were signed: an operating method convention with the International Union of Food 90% OF DANONE EMPLOYEES workers at European level in March, and a joint convention on social support measures for all the French subsidiaries concerned in June. Promoting employee mobility ARE PROUD TO BELONG A program in support of internal and external employee mobility was implemented it has enabled a greater than 40% rate of transfers of employees TO THE GROUP within the group. Employees wishing to start their own business benefited from ACCORDING TO THE a specific program that is based on the “Danone for Entrepreneurs” network LAST PEOPLE SURVEY and included practical and financial support. More than 30 projects had been supported by the end of 2013, 75% of them in France. 26 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 27 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS Supporting the development of the new organizations As a result of this policy, 80% of employees answered “yes” to the “My In most cases the new organizations were built on the model of inter-country subsidiary offers equal opportunities regardless of gender” item in the subsidiaries, combining entities previously organized by country. Danone 2013 Danone People Survey. This figure has however decreased slightly created a support system to facilitate the implementation of these new since 2011 (83%). organizations. Thus, of the thirty-some European subsidiaries that will be in place at the start of 2014, two-thirds were supported with coaching sessions Mixing of generations for the new management teams. In the 2013 Danone People Survey, the “My subsidiary offers equal opportunities regardless of age” item obtained a positive response from 74% Simplifying ways of working of employees. This result could be improved and generational diversity should Discussions concerning the organizations’ ways of working started in 2013 be further supported. Several projects already promote this goal. and will continue in 2014. The goal is to simplify decision-making processes and make the organizations less complex. There are already several tangible results. Therefore, a program entitled “GenD” has been implemented for young For example: the number of references for Activia yogurt fruit preparations has managers. The idea is simple: bring together 100 managers below the age decreased from 260 to 72. of 30, from 28 different nationalities, for an event in Evian, with the goal of transmitting the Danone culture and its specificities, increasing their motivation and bringing them closer to the group’s executives. 2. VALUE DIVERSITY Another approach: Danone launched the Octave event as an extension of the Promoting more diversity within Danone was one of the priorities in which EVE seminar model, with a view to fostering intergenerational communication. the group continued its efforts in 2013. Whether the issue is gender equality, This seminar is based on the notion that when generations “rub shoulders” it or the diversity of generations, cultures or nationalities, Danone views the topic contributes to the overall performance of the company. The first Octave seminar as an asset for the company. It is, more importantly, a factor contributing to the took place in April 2012, and was attended by 120 people of all ages, from five group’s shared performance. companies. A second event was held in April 2013. Gender equality Wage equality between men and women is one of Danone’s priorities. Wage 3. DEVELOP AND SHARE SKILLS gaps are therefore closely monitored, in particular since 2011, via systematic analysis of annual salaries in every employment category. Today the average For Danone, developing the skills of all the group’s employees is a necessary difference between men and women across the group as a whole is only 3%. condition for its growth. The purpose is twofold: the group needs to transmit knowledge and skills, and foster a shared culture among all employees. The percentage of women working in the group has also continued to grow at every level. In 2013, women accounted for: Access to training has been rising for several years, and continues to grow. In • 48% of managers (+5 points compared with 2008); addition, between 2008 and 2013, the average number of training hours per • 33% of directors (+6 points): employee rose from 24 to 31 hours per year, an increase of more than 40%. • 19% of executive directors (+8 points). Lastly, in various countries Danone has chosen to train managers to run internal training sessions. In China for example, the 2011 creation of Danone China Work also continued in the area of individual representations. The EVE University enabled 814 people to be trained by 111 internal trainers. seminar launched by Danone in 2009 mobilizes a network of 1,000 people from 15 companies in efforts to work on male/female representations and the issue of female leadership. Lastly, since 2012 some subsidiaries have implemented measures in support of a better work-life balance, such as telecommuting, for all levels of responsibility. This also serves to promote greater gender equality at work by making it easier to blend work and family life. 28 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 29 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS The Danone Leadership College program, created in 2008 (see page 28 of the 2012 Sustainable Development Report) has focused on supporting 15 pilot 4. COMMIT TO SAFETY, HEALTH production sites (including three in Asia) to integrate the CODE leadership AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE attitudes into operators’ daily work situations. CODE attitudes are now an integral feature of human resources processes (recruiting, evaluation, In terms of fundamentals, initiatives continued in 2013 with sustained focus management training, etc.). The goal of this approach is to enable all Danone on safety within the group’s subsidiaries, the development of the Dan’Cares employees, at whatever level and whatever their work setting, to benefit from healthcare program and social dialogue. the same leadership framework. Safety culture Besides, Danone’s Learning policy, which was redefined in 2012, was structured The year 2014 is the tenth anniversary of the WISE program, whose goal is around four priorities in 2013: to strengthen safety attitudes in the company and integrate them into labour practices. Safety at work is a priority for Danone. For ten years, the WISE Virtual learning platform program has enabled a 15% reduction each year in the number of accidents, A virtual learning platform for training known as “Campus 2.0” was deployed thus preventing a total of 7,000 accidents since 2004. in 13 of the 15 largest countries in which Danone is present. With this platform, containing a rich and varied panel of training courses, people can easily and After eight years of continuous progress (the frequency rate of accidents quickly search for content online and thus develop additional learning generating work absence in particular decreased nearly with 60% from 2009 opportunities beyond classroom-based training. to 2011), improvement of this rate has been slowing down since 2012. In 2013, the frequency rate of accidents generating work absence was 2.3, representing Mining collective intelligence a 10% decrease. Developing skills is not enough – they must also be networked. This is why a “digital academy” was launched at the end of 2013 to help spread skills and The development of a safety culture must therefore continue. For this purpose, digital practices among the sales and marketing function teams. The launch of an “e-business” program for the sales function is also planned for 2014. Reverse mentoring programs have been developed to foster mutual learning – in particular between junior and senior employees in the digital field. Finally, 40, 0 00 EMPLOYEES Danone is increasing management's involvement by mobilizing the subsidiaries' General Managers around this issue, as well as integrating safety objectives into individual and collective objectives. The group is also highlighting the link between safety and operational excellence, by developing discipline around Danone initiated a company-wide network, the “Danone Social Network,” safety standards with the 2013 launch of a new standard integrating the specific in 2012. It is a clear success, with 40,000 employees connected (nearly 40%) INTERCONNECTED lessons learned from all the fatal accidents in the group over the past ten years at the end of 2013. The network hosts 1,250 communities and 620 blogs. VIA (“12 basics”), which helps to improve discipline in other areas too, such as quality, customer service, environment, etc. Transforming business models The goal: transform and develop leadership models that better address the Dan’Cares: universal healthcare coverage diversity of business issues. A pilot session for General Managers was introduced The Dan’Cares program is rooted in Danone’s dual economic and social in 2013 and will be rolled out in 2014. project. With this policy, every group employee can benefit from quality healthcare coverage, in particular for basic medical care: hospitalization, Bringing the group’s culture to new geographies maternity and outpatient care. Dan’Cares stands out as a flagship program To address the extensive need for new talents in the group’s new geographies, for the group in terms of its scope, its positive perception by the concerned Danone has introduced a broad skills development model, the “Learning employees, and its favorable economic impact for subsidiaries. Factory.” New corporate universities are under development in Latin America, Indonesia and Russia in this framework. The birth of a support program for new group hires should also be noted: “Dan Discovery” was designed in 2013 to familiarize new employees with the Danone culture, whatever their subsidiary of origin. 30 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 31 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS The program was launched in 2010, and at the end of 2013, in line with the Danone People Survey 2013: commitment remains high 67% group’s objectives, 67% of Danone employees (around 70,000 people) were The 9th Danone People Survey addressed 100% of Danone employees while covered by Dan’Cares or by an equivalent level of healthcare coverage. This including, for the first time, the 20,000 employees at Danone Russia and the proportion should reach 87% by the end of 2015, according to group forecasts Fresh dairy products business unit, Centrale Laitière, in Morocco. The survey (90,000 people), including 15,000 employees of the Russian subsidiaries who saw a record participation rate of 88%, with more than 85,000 respondents. will gradually be covered. OF EMPLOYEES The key learnings of this campaign are the following: • the long-term commitment of employees remains at very high level of 81%, Social dialogue as a lever for economic and social progress COVERED BY with 90% of employees proud to belong to the group and 86% of them that Social dialogue at Danone is organized around a worldwide labor relations body would recommend the company as a good employer; (Consultation and Information Committee, CIC), negotiation and monitoring • the commitment to the social and environmental plan is very strong, of international framework conventions with the IUF (International Union of with 91% of employees valuing the level of group involvement in Food workers), and dynamic relations with trade unions and employee environmental issues, and 75% of managers believing it has a positive representatives in the group’s subsidiaries. impact on business results; OR OTHER • progress and expectations for more collective efficiency: the perception In 2013, beyond the reorganization project, social dialogue took place at various EQUIVALENT of management's ability to support teams' development is improving. levels: HEALTHCARE Nevertheless, employees express the need to be better informed and • in France, the group central Human Resources Department together with supported by their local management, and want to see an improvement employee representatives initiated a program for careers and recognizing of COVERAGE in the organisations' efficiency. representatives’ skills via training in partnership with Sciences Po; • internationally, in the framework of the CIC, via discussion between management and employee representatives on the group’s innovation policy, the creation of a working group with the IUF on the topic of precariousness, and lastly via continued joint visits with the IUF, for example in subsidiaries in Indonesia or the new entities in Morocco. In terms of working conditions, the “human feasibility studies” method (to learn more, see the 2012 Sustainable Development Report, page 31) implemented from 2012 in accordance with the September 2011 convention on health, safety, working conditions and stress with the IUF, served to support many change projects in 2013. In France, action plans to address occupational stress risks introduced in all the group’s French subsidiaries were monitored at national level in 2013 by a joint commission with employee representatives. 32 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 33 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: EMPLOYEES’ COMMITMENT: A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS A TRANSFORMATION LEVER FOR THE BUSINESS Three priorities were defined in 2013: 5. A STRONG COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS: THE DANONE 1. Demonstrate the effectiveness of the inclusive models co-developed by the subsidiaries and their partners with the Fund’s support ECOSYSTEM FUND • by promoting new agricultural practices such as structuring small producers into cooperative models, farmer advisory networks, supporting To “bring health through food to as many people as possible,” Danone must family agriculture, and more broadly disseminating or strengthening continuously innovate and adapt its business models. The Danone Ecosystem sustainable agricultural practices; Fund, created in 2009, seeks to strengthen local actors in Danone’s ecosystem • by combining a nutrition offer with a service offer, via local distribution who contribute to this mission (small farmers, suppliers and sub-contractors, that supports interaction with the consumer on issues relating to nutrition transport operators, distributors, regions, etc.) by modifying some of the or additional services; 47 group activities across the entire value chain. Organized into five areas of • by contributing to packaging recycling by structuring informal waste action (sourcing, micro-distribution, recycling, personal services and local collection businesses that involve in particular waste pickers in the development), the fund contributed to 47 projects involving 38 subsidiaries emerging economies. in 2013, which represent one-third of the group’s subsidiaries. They have co-created projects with 38 non-profit organizations since 2010. These represent an investment of €47 million and aim to create or consolidate more than PROJECTS With these projects, Danone addresses issues of general interest while 50,000 jobs. INVOLVING strengthening its supply, distribution and recycling chains. 2. Measure the impacts of inclusive models These projects relate to three main components of Danone’s value chain: Seven social impact studies have now been launched with universities and • raw materials sourcing (primarily milk), by promoting sustainable research institutes, such as the William Davidson Institute at the University agricultural practices, including the protection of mineral springs 38 of Michigan in the United States, or the SROI (Social Return On and thus rainwater catchment areas; Investment) network in partnership with the French business school ESSEC. • product distribution, along with an offer of health and nutrition These studies seek to measure in detail the impact of the projects on the related services; well-being and professional autonomy of their beneficiaries. • waste management and recycling, via the transformation of the sector into a formal economy. SUBSIDIARIES WITH THE AIM TO Similarly, a business impact study was completed with HEC Paris business school to gain insight into the total economic value created in this new In these three key components, Danone Ecosystem Fund projects aim to create CREATE OR interaction with the ecosystem (benefits on reputation, brand value, quality a socio-economic footprint for Danone that generates as much value as possible CONSOLIDATE of supplier relations or driver for innovation). in economic and social as well as environmental terms. All these projects are included in a social and economic performance The goal is to stimulate the local economic fabric, create jobs and microreporting process via indicators defined with Ernst & Young with a view to companies, enhance professional skills and also generate long-lasting business possible certification. relationships between Danone and its stakeholders that target the stability of these initiatives over the long term. Danone is also transforming its procurement and sales practices via this new type of relationship with the players in its ecosystem. 50,000JOBS 3. Identify the transformation potential of the procurement, sales and human resources functions and the skills associated with managing social innovation projects Three vectors were activated to identify this transformation potential: • integrating sustainable supply issues into Danone’s new central procurement structure; • promoting a local distribution model integrating the creation of social value as a strategic aim; • Danone employees’ involvement in the Fund’s projects. 34 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 35 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS NATURE 2020: NATURE 2020: NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN FOR DANONE, For Danone, a healthy food begins with a healthy nature. Danone business is located at the heart of the food chain. The group’s activity extends from the Support nature Danone has joined together with eight other large companies in the Livelihoods A HEALTHY FOOD production of agricultural raw materials and the use of water all the way to product end-of-life, and includes industrial processing, packaging, transport Fund, the continuation of the Danone Nature Fund founded in 2008, whose mission is to invest in large projects to restore natural ecosystems. These projects BEGINS WITH A and sale. contribute to combating climate change by sequestering large volumes of carbon HEALTHY NATURE Danone adopted an Environmental Charter in 1996 and defined a ten-year and improving the well-being of local populations: the goal is to store 7 million metric tons of carbon over 20 years for a minimum investment of €30 million. market plan and objectives in 2000. The group boosted its efforts in 2008 by The Livelihoods Fund has already contributed to the planting of more than setting the goal of reducing the greenhouse gas emissions in its direct scope of 100 million trees in Africa, Asia and Latin America. responsibility by 30% in five years, a goal that was surpassed at the end of 2012. Consistent with its commitment, and after reducing its carbon footprint by Danone has today identified four key focus areas for a new plan looking ahead 40% over the 2008–2012 period, the Evian brand offset its remaining emissions to 2020: climate (1), water (2), packaging (3) and agriculture (4). Each of these in 2012 by supporting several quality projects. Starting in 2013, following areas will include ambitious initiatives, some of which the group is already consultation with its stakeholders, Evian decided to refocus its efforts on the engaged in pursuing. Others are seeking to open new frontiers and set new Livelihoods Fund, whose projects have been supported by the brand since 2008, targets, while still others involve commitments that Danone will be finalizing by strengthening its participation over the long term. The expansion of these over the next few months, converting them into operational targets. Solutions projects will progressively offset the Evian brand’s emissions, to achieve full will pass through innovation. emissions offset by 2020. Eliminate deforestation 1. FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE BY Conscious of the critical importance of preserving forests for the planet and the REDUCING DANONE’S FOOTPRINT need for concerted action with all parties involved, Danone committed to this cause with a dedicated policy to eliminate deforestation practices in its supply AND HELPING NATURE SEQUESTER chain. This goal applies to all Danone products and activities that could have MORE CARBON a negative impact on the forests. Learn more about Danone's Forest Footprint policy at www.danone.com. Carbon is a key indicator in combating climate change and more broadly helps Reduce energy intensity and promote renewable energies in evaluating Danone’s impact on natural ecosystems. The group therefore looks Danone has reduced its energy intensity by 50% since 2000. The goal for 2020 very closely at its carbon footprint. is a 60% reduction. The group is also promoting the use of renewable energies. After the Poços de Caldas plant in Brazil in 2011, the Early life nutrition site Measure completely 37. 4% CARBON INTENSITY Danone measures the carbon footprint of its entire product life cycle in every group subsidiary. In 2008, Danone began developing and deploying a single measurement tool in all its subsidiaries: Danprint. This tool is being integrated in Wexford, Ireland, was next to invest €3.8 million in a biomass burner, for an annual reduction of 9,500 metric tons of CO2. This project was supported by the Danone Ecosystem Fund. Another notable initiative: Danone has committed in the framework of the Consumer Goods Forum into existing information systems thanks to an innovative solution co-developed to buying only refrigerators with natural refrigerants for the sales points. REDUCTION with software editor SAP. FROM Reduce continuously 2007 TO 2013 After reducing its emissions by 37.4% since 2007 and successfully “uncoupling” its carbon emissions from volume growth (CO2 emissions nearly stable in absolute value since 2007), Danone’s current goal is to achieve a greater than 50% reduction by 2020, and to stabilize CO2 emissions while continuing sales growth, for a scope representing 6.6 million metric tons equivalent CO2 (on the Danone’s direct responsibility scope, excluding upstream agriculture). The group’s total emissions in 2013 are estimated at 17.1 million metric tons equivalent CO2. 36 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 37 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS NATURE 2020: NATURE 2020: NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN Monitor ecosystems 2. PROTECT WATER RESOURCES, The priority aim of water management is to control the risks arising from PARTICULARLY WHEN SCARCE, AND human activity, such as pollution, deforestation and urban development. Danone therefore seeks to protect and restore the ecosystems connected to water USE THEM IN HARMONY WITH LOCAL in the regions where the group operates, because protecting these ecosystems ECOSYSTEMS AND COMMUNITIES means protecting water, and vice versa. For example, forests reduce runoff and increase evapotranspiration and infiltration, while deforestation increases risks Water is a precious and sometimes scarce resource that must be used in of flooding and loss of fertile soil. Wetlands can help regulate and naturally harmony with local ecosystems and communities. Danone is therefore purify the water that passes through them, as well as being home to native committed to preserving the quality of this indispensable resource and to plants and animals. Their deterioration or even destruction – half of the world’s respecting its natural cycles by adopting responsible practices at the local wetlands have been destroyed since the start of the 20th century – worsen the level. To achieve this, the group has defined four priorities: food supply issues faced by the most vulnerable communities. Danone also protects highland drainage areas where the group operates and where Measure footprint in a “water cycle” approach agricultural activity often predominates. A new tool for measuring the group’s water footprint, developed with Quantis, was tested in a pilot subsidiary in 2013, and will be deployed in all For example, to preserve its natural source of mineral water, the Villavicencio the Waters division subsidiaries by 2020. The evaluation of “water” impacts brand protects a nature reserve of 72,000 hectares (178,000 acres) and its rich arising from agricultural practices has been integrated into the DanRISE biodiversity. It went on from this experience to pursue an innovative partnership tool (see Sustainable Agriculture). with the NGO Banco de Bosques and implement the “Dejá tu Huella” (“Leave your mark”) operation. This initiative allows consumers to participate in Protect creating a new nature reserve, where Villavicencio commits to protect 1 m² for Protecting water sources and respecting the cycles of nature are Danone’s every bottle sold. Actions are also taken to inform the public of the dangers of two priorities. Danone has always taken great care not to withdraw more deforestation and the importance of biodiversity in the local ecosystem. The water than nature is able to naturally renew, and systematically evaluates the results are conclusive, with nearly 2,200 hectares (5,400 acres) protected, active quality of water returned to circulation after use. Danone has also developed public participation in the project, and increased consumer preference for the a new method for overseeing local water management, known as “SPRING,” Villavicencio brand. in collaboration with the Ramsar convention and IUCN. It will be deployed at every site and also made available to other users. Reduce consumption and waste Danone seeks to set the example by continuously reducing water consumption and waste in its plants. Results are very positive, with the water consumption intensity related to the production process reduced by 5% in 2013, and down by 46% since 2000. The group is setting a new reduction goal of 60% by 2020, and also strains to ensure that used water returned to nature is of adequate quality for downstream ecosystems and users, by implementing strict corporate standards (defined in the Danone Clean Water Guidelines). 38 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 39 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS NATURE 2020: NATURE 2020: NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN Danone is also experimenting with plastics produced from biomass (sugar cane, 3. TRANSFORM WASTE INTO sugar cane waste and corn). These initiatives show that it is possible to develop A RESOURCE AND USE MATERIALS new materials from renewable resources. By implementing these pilot projects in selected regions, Danone contributes to research and development efforts needed MADE FROM SUSTAINABLE RESOURCES to promote the emergence of new generations of materials that do not compete with food production, for more efficient use of resources. Danone is a founding Packaging is essential to bringing healthy, safe products to consumers, but its member of the Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance (BFA) with the World Wildlife environmental impact must be reduced to a minimum. Danone has defined Fund (WWF) to encourage responsible development of bioplastics. BFA brings four priorities in pursuit of this goal: industry together with the best experts, research organizations and society as a whole to help guide the evaluation and sustainable development of these new Reduce packaging at the source materials. Learn more at www.bioplasticfeedstockalliance.org. This is a number-one priority wherever possible. Danone must optimize the weight of packaging across the board, while maintaining product quality and Engage consumers the service provided to consumers. Several technical innovations have been Packaging can help to change consumer behavior, for example with regard introduced with this in mind, such as removing the cardboard from yogurts to waste collection and sorting. Moreover, it’s a key element in combating sold in multi-packs and reducing the weight of bottles. food waste. Turn waste into a resource After consumption, packaging can be turned back into a useful resource. 4. PROMOTE AGRICULTURE THAT Danone is working on collection methods to prevent its packaging waste from ending up in landfills, and aims to develop a circular approach based on three PRODUCES A HEALTHY AND BALANCED priorities: FOOD SUPPLY, IS COMPETITIVE, CREATES • support innovation in packaging materials and design to make recycling easier; ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL VALUE AND • use more recycled materials: today, a quarter of Danone’s packaging RESPECTS NATURAL ECOSYSTEMS is produced from recycled materials. Despite the challenges involved in expanding PET bottle-to-bottle recycling industry, the goal is to achieve Upstream of industrial processing activities, agriculture has a significant a rate of 25% of recycled PET by 2020; impact on land use, greenhouse gas emissions, water resources and biodiversity. • develop collection systems around the world. Between now and 2020, Agricultural models based on intensive use of chemical inputs and natural Danone will support innovative and socially inclusive initiatives for resources (land, water, gasoline, etc.) cannot deliver sustainable solutions. transforming waste into resources in at least ten priority target countries. Natural resources are limited and becoming scarcer in many parts of the world. Preserving this natural capital requires the use of other agricultural models that Packaging materials made from sustainable resources are productive to meet food supply needs and sparing of natural resources. Paper and cardboard packaging production can have a negative impact on Danone is committed together with the other agricultural sector players to forests. The group’s goal is to achieve supply that is 100% sourced from recycled promoting and encouraging competitive agriculture that creates social and paper and cardboard or from responsibly managed forests by 2020 – and by the economic value, respects natural ecosystems and produces healthy food in end of 2015 in regions with a high deforestation risk. support of balanced nutrition. 40 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 41 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS NATURE 2020: NATURE 2020: NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN Practices that are more respectful of the environment While Danone honors the independence of agricultural suppliers and producers, GOVERNANCE ADAPTED TO GOALS and although its milk purchases for example represent less than 1% of total Danone’s environment strategy is rooted in governance in accordance with global milk supply, the group has long been committed to more sustainable the company’s decision-making processes. The Nature plan is managed at agricultural practices. As early as 2002, Danone founded SAI (Sustainable several different levels, beginning with a Nature Committee comprising some Agriculture Initiative) which today unites some 50 actors in the agrifood sector. of the company’s key decision-makers (Managing Directors, VPs for operations, In 2004 Danone integrated ten environmental criteria into its Quality charter research and development, procurement, etc.). Sponsorship of the Nature for milk producers. A methodology for assessing animal well-being was strategy is assured by the group’s CFO, member of the Executive Committee. designed in 2011 in collaboration with Compassion in World Farming. In 2012, In addition, every division has a Nature Committee and there are Nature in partnership with the University of Bern (Switzerland), Danone developed a managers in every subsidiary. tool for evaluating farm sustainability that was tested in six pilot countries in 2013 (in Europe, the Americas and Asia), covering very diverse agricultural Since 2010, Danone has involved a panel of experts and external stakeholders models from subsistence farming to large farming operations. The group is also to organize its strategic thinking and help define its long-term road map. working with other large companies to define a shared vision of sustainable milk This panel will continue its work as the plan is rolled out. production. A guide to adopting sustainable agriculture for the subsidiaries and their partners around the world has been published, in cooperation with more The group also designed a Nature training module in 2013 to raise awareness than 20 international experts in the field. The goal of this approach is to create of the strategy within Danone. This module will be expanded and made momentum with local stakeholders supporting a shift towards sustainable available to all staff in 2014. agricultural practices, to encourage the development of production models that satisfy food supply needs while also preserving the natural cycles of the land, Lastly, to strengthen the connection between nature and business, Danone climate, water and biodiversity. released a Guide to Environmental Claims in 2011 in collaboration with the Futerra agency, to encourage responsible communication by the different Biodiversity: protect ecosystems connected to agriculture subsidiaries and brands. This tool is now available to Danone’s teams via The impact of Danone’s activities on biodiversity is primarily related to upstream a new interactive website launched in 2013. agriculture. Agricultural practices have a strong impact on soil erosion, fertility, moisture and loss of organic matter, as well as on the habitats that play a key role in protection and reproduction. A pilot study was launched in Brazil, in particular addressing milk and strawberry production. Danone will publish the major principles of its approach in 2014, and then transpose these in 2015 into strategic objectives for its sustainable sourcing policy in respect of raw materials from agriculture. 42 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 43 _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS _STRATEGY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS NATURE 2020: NATURE 2020: NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE AT THE HEART OF THE FOOD CHAIN NATURE 2020: DASHBOARD Performance 2013 Milestones towards 2020 Target 2020 Fight climate change by reducing Danone’s footprint and helping nature sequester more carbon Reduction of CO2 footprint 37% reduction > 50% reduction Intensity (g eq. CO2/kg product) Baseline end 2007 Danone Direct Responsibility (DDR) Danone Direct Responsibility (DDR) Measure CO2 intensity across Danone's food 46% SAP carbon module coverage CO2 measure worldwide, SAP deployed 100% chain (full scope) where applicable Coverage calculated as a percentage of net sales Reduce energy consumption 50% energy consumption reduction 60% energy consumption reduction of factories Intensity (kWh/T product) Baseline 2000 Use only natural refrigerants BCool program 100% new purchases on Danone's own fleet by 2015 Point of sale fridges & coolers Eliminate deforestation impacts Forest Footprint policy Palm oil and paper & board specific policies since All commodities at risk (soy for animal feeding, sugar cane, from Danone's supply chain 2012 etc.) covered by a specific policy Relevant standards specific to each commodity Restore ecosystems and ﬁx 40% carbon intensity reduction of the Evian brand Offset 100% of the Evian remaining emissions carbon in soils and forests Livelihoods Fund Protect water resources, particularly when scarce, and use them in harmony with local ecosystems and communities Protect natural mineral water resources All current catchment areas SPRING developed in collaboration with the Ramsar 100% compliance on all Waters division sites (including convention in 2014 new ones) Danone Clean Water Guidelines Definition by 2015 100% sites compliant for waste water Reduce water consumption in factories 46% water consumption reduction Priority sites based on Water Scarcity Index 60% water consumption reduction Process water intensity (M3/T product) Baseline 2000 Measure water footprint Pilot SAP in one subsidiary Roll-out in Waters division 100% coverage in Waters division Transform waste into a resource and use materials made from sustainable resources Innovate to transform waste into resource Projects in 4 subsidiaries with Danone Ecosystem Fund 10 priority subsidiaries Develop the use of recycled materials 9% rPET Waters 25% rPET Waters 60% rPaper Fresh dairy products 75% rPaper Fresh dairy products 85% rPaper other divisions 90% rPaper other divisions Innovate with bio-sourced materials Activia, Actimel, Volvic, Stonyfield and Danonino Co-creation of Bioplastics Feedstock Alliance Water bottle made of 100% new generation in 7 countries Pilot projects launched bio-based plastic Source 100% recycled paper or virgin paper 73% 100% in high risk countries by 2015 100% from responsibly managed forests, with preference for FSC Promote agriculture that generates better nutritional balance, is competitive, creates economic and social value and respects natural ecosystems Promote sustainable agriculture DanRISE evaluation tool designed and tested in 6 pilot Sustainable Agriculture principles in 2014 countries Targets to be communicated in 2015 Source raw materials sustainably 100% certified palm oil by end 2014 (Physically segregated RSPO) 44 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 45 _STRATEGY HISTORICAL APPROACH & HIGHLIGHTS KEY DATES 2007 1972-2013 Creation of the danone.communities fund 2008 8th world convention signed between Danone and IUF and diversity Creation of the Danone Fund for Nature with the International Union Disposal of the biscuits and cereal-based for the Conservation of Nature products division and acquisition of Royal Commitment to reduce Danone’s Numico NV, specialized in Baby carbon footprint by 30% between nutrition and Medical nutrition 2012 2008 and 2012 Creation of the Social Danone listed No. 1 in the food Responsibility Committee 2013 sector in the ATNI Index, launched of the Board of Directors 70,000 employees insured in 2013 for the first time in 2012 with the Dan’Cares program, 67% 6 Livelihoods Fund of the group’s employees projects in 2012, involving 47 Ecosystem projects in 38 subsidiaries, with the aim to generate 50,000 jobs Publication of the Danone Policy for the Marketing of Foods for Infants and Young Children (“Green Book”) 67% OF EMPLOYEES 9 partner companies Reduction of Danone’s carbon footprint by 35,2% (target of -30% for the 2008-2012 period) Creation and publication of the 2006 Refocusing of Danone’s mission around health: “Bring health through food to as many people as possible” 2005 Food, Nutrition and Health Charter Comprehensive global policiy on protection of underground water 2003 Membership of the Global Compact of the United Nations Danone founding COVERED BY THE resources member of the Publication of the Danone Management Danone’s Forest Footprint policy Deployment of the sustainable Sustainable System Manual for the Marketing of Foods DAN’CARES Diff usion of the Public procurement initiative (RESPECT) in all subsidiaries Integration of the Fundamental Social Principles in a convention Agriculture Initiative for Infants and Young children (“Blue book”) PROGRAM Affairs Policy signed with the IUF Implementation of CODE for All in 13 factories First Octave Blédina Charter about commercialization Implementation of an adaptation seminar of Baby nutrition products and competitiveness project in Europe Redesign of the Nature’s engagements from 2020 Acquisition of the Centrale Laitière in Morroco, and stake in Fan’Milk International 47 ECOSYSTEM 2001 Launch of Danone Way Formalisation of the Principes 1999 Creation of the Managers’ barometer, an opinion survey measuring adherence 1998 Publication of the first annual social and environmental Sociaux Fondamentaux to the group’s strategy and values responsbility report PROJETS Support for the Ramsar Danone selected for the International Convention Dow Jones Sustainability Index on the protection of wetlands 1997 1996 1992 Refocusing on 3 businesses with high Appointment of Franck Creation of the health-nutrition positionning: Dairy Riboud as CEO of Danone 1st network for products, Beverages and Biscuits Environmental Charter collection and Business Conduct Policy recycling of packaging, Creation of Danone Eco-Emballages Formalisation of the group’s values: Conseils, consumer Openness, Enthusiasm, relations department Humanism and Proximity in France 2011 2009 9th Danone-IUF convention on health, safety, Creation of the Danone 1991 1989 1985 working condition and stress Ecosystem Fund nd Creation of the Danone Institute 2 world convention signed between First meeting at the European level Openning of the Danone Nature Fund to external partners: Revision of Food Nutrition Danone and IUF on gender equality with the IUF, inauguring an international creation of the Livelihoods Fund and Health Charter and of social dialogue within the group Publication of the Danone Charter for Breastfeeding Subsitutes the Business Conduct Policy Safety Charter signed by all General Managers CODE launching: formalisation of the 2010 leadership styles and attitudes 1977 1972 Launch of the Dan’Cares program Creation of employment offices Antoine Riboud’s speech in Marseille First EVE seminar in charge of supporting restructuring (economic and social dual project) 46 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 47 _PERFORMANCE _50 _152 CSR MONITORING REPORT PARAMETERS 51 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND VALIDATION 52 IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 153 REPORT PARAMETERS IN BUSINESS, FROM END TO END 160 VALIDATION OF THE REPORT 54 DANONE WAY BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD PARTY 59 RESPECT _162 _62 GRI INDEX Self-evaluation of the application of GRI CSR PERFORMANCE according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. ASSESSMENT 63 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY NON-FINANCIAL _170 RATING AGENCIES CONTACTS 68 INTERNAL ASSESSMENT WITH GRI GUIDELINES 70 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION 76 ECONOMIC DIMENSION 86 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION 114 SOCIAL DIMENSION 130 HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION 136 SOCIETY DIMENSION 142 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 49 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS CSR MONITORING Sustainable development issues cover a number of different areas and involve labour, environmental, social and economic dimensions. While all these issues are important, they do not all have equal impact for organizations on the one 51 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS hand, and for their stakeholders on the other. 52 IMPACTS AND D The Global Reporting Initiative, whose 3.0 version serves to structure this report, RESPONSIBILITIES IN BUSINESS, considers materiality to be the basis for establishing relevant sustainable FROM END TO END development reporting, which should thus focus in particular on those issues that are material to each company. These issues reflect the economic, 54 DANONE WAY environmental and social impacts specific to the organization that have a preponderant influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders with 59 RESPECT regard to the company. In this framework, in order to best define these material issues, Danone initiated a materiality analysis process in consultation with its stakeholders in 2013. This iterative approach involves multiple steps: • analyzing available documentation about Danone and its environment to identify a set of relevant issues for the group; • sharing these issues with stakeholders during individual meetings (about 12 in 2013) to obtain their input concerning its relative importance; • ranking the issues based on their potential impact on Danone’s business and their importance for the stakeholders interviewed. This impact is assessed in accordance with several criteria: regulatory and financial impacts, as well as consequences for the company’s reputation, investor confidence, customer’s loyalty and employee’s satisfaction. The group wishes to continue this process in 2014 by expanding it to include existing stakeholder consultation programs (see page 73 of the report), and via ongoing efforts carried out at various levels of the organization with regard to Danone’s evolving strategic priorities. The goal, in accordance with the principles of version 4 of the Global Reporting Initiative, is to continuously improve the relevance, transparency and quality of this sustainable development report. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 51 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN BUSINESS, FROM END TO END IN BUSINESS, FROM END TO END IMPACTSIMPACTSAND IMPACTS ET RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSABILITÉS AND RESPONSIBILITIES DE INL’AMONT BUSINESS, ÀINL’AVAL BUSINESS, FROM DES END ACTIVITÉS TO ENDEND TO END FROM RAWPRODUCTION MATERIALSRAW ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DES MATERIALS PRODUCTION MATIÈRES PREMIÈRES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SOCIAL/SOCIETAL PRODUCTION TRANSPORT IMPACT SOCIAL/SOCIETAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TRANSPORTTRANSPORT IMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENDFIN OF DELIFEVIE END OF LIFE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IMPACT ENVIRONNEMENTAL IMPACT SOCIÉTAL/SOCIAL IMPACT ENVIRONNEMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONNEMENTAL ≈ 30,000 30,000 30,000 ≈ 40% 69% 69% 40% ≈ 40% ≈ 30,000 milk producers milk producers 69% 30 000 the Danone of the of Danone of the the Danone of Danone thousand of thousand of tons tons thousand of thousand of tons tons of of packaging packaging of packaging of packaging Carbonde Carbon l’empreinte Footprint de l’empreinte Footprint carbone de Danone carbone de Danone ≈ Carbon Footprint Carbon 30 000 (direct producteurs sourcing) de lait Footprint issus de sourcing direct(direct sourcing) of of finished finishedMILLIERS products MILLIERS productsde tonnes de de produits finis de produits finis of tonnes finished products of finished products waste wastede déchets derecovered déchets recovered d'emballage valorisés d'emballage valorisés waste recovered waste recovered 24.524.5 millions m3 of water MILLIONS in the finished 24.5 RESPONSIBLE de m3 d’eau products millions m3 of water in thePOLITIQUES PROCUREMENT D'ACHATS finished products POLICY RESPONSIBLE 11% 11% PROCUREMENT POLICY of the Danone Carbon Footprint 11% 1.5% of the Danone Carbon Footprint of the Danone Carbon 1.5% Footprint of the Danone Carbon Footprint dans les produits finis RESPONSABLES de l’empreinte carbone de Danone 1.5% de l’empreinte carbone de Danone INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PRODUCTION INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIELLE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IMPACT SOCIAL/SOCIETAL IMPACT SOCIAL/SOCIETAL PRODUCTION SALESVENTES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ETSALES AND CONSUMPTION CONSOMMATION ENVIRONMENTAL AND CONSUMPTION SOCIAL/SOCIETAL IMPACT IMPACT SOCIAL/SOCIETAL IMPACT IMPACT ENVIRONNEMENTAL IMPACT SOCIÉTAL/SOCIAL IMPACT ENVIRONNEMENTAL IMPACT SOCIÉTAL/SOCIAL 12.5% 12.5% of the Danone de l’empreinte Carbon Footprint 12.5% carbone de Danone 104,000 104 000 of the Danone Carbon Footprint 104,000 employees employees salariés salariés employees employees 6% 6% of the Danone Carbon de l’empreinte Footprint 6% carbone de Danone 89%of the Danone to Carbon 84% 89% Footprint of Danone’s of dessales Danone’s des to wholesome wholesome des des lignes sales ventesbelong ventesbelong de de Danone categories categories produits produits Danone conformes conformes lignes directrices directrices du of to Danone’s Danone’s sales ofsont sont to wholesome wholesome aux aux du groupe groupe sales belong belong categories categories 4.1 4.1 4.12.3 2.3 2.3 21.2 21.2 21.2 millions of MWh millions of MWh rate for workplace lost Frequency time Frequency rate for workplace lost time sur la sur qualité nutritionelle la qualité nutritionelle billions euros of net sales billions euros of net sales of energyMILLIONS consumed de MWh accidents of energy Taux consumed accidents(FR1) de fréquence desaccidents (FR1) MILLIARDS d'euros de chiffre d'affaires d’énergie consommés du travail avec arrêt annuel (FR1) 191 191 production sites 191 sites de production production sites 70%70% 70% of the Danone sales covered by the Consumerdes ventes Services de DanoneConsumer Center of the Danone sales covered by the group’s group’s sont couvertes Services Center par le service consommateur du Groupe 52 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 53 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING DANONE WAY DANONE WAY To support the subsidiaries in managing the campaign, in addition to existing Danone Way: key practices in Danone systems, they were able to use a new «2.0» collaborative platform hosted by the subsidiaries for sustainable business group’s internal network, «Danone Social Network». The platform gives all subsidiaries easier and more entertaining access to information necessary for the development campaign, and features a question-and-answer application visible to all, links to videos of training sessions, a discussion group for sharing best practices and Launched in 2001, the Danone Way approach helps to expand the sustainable immediate access to documentation. development culture and fundamentals within the group by measuring subsidiaries’ social and environmental responsibility performance. Every year, External audits to certify the program the group’s subsidiaries assess the maturity of their policies and their To demonstrate the objectivity of the Danone Way guidelines and the reliability corresponding performance levels for sixteen «key practices» in five areas: of the approach results to all group stakeholders, the program has been audited human rights, human relations, environment, consumers and governance. by an independent firm since 2002 (KPMG since 2007). This approach meets stakeholders’ expectations in terms of measuring Danone’s Assessments of eight subsidiaries, representing 16.7% of the group’s net sales non-financial performance and is also a driver of ongoing improvement for all of entities participating in Danone Way, were audited by KPMG between the subsidiaries. Danone Way enables: November 2013 and January 2014. Taking these audits together with the review • to provide guidance to subsidiaries operating as start ups, particularly in of the consolidation method applied to all the subsidiaries’ results, KPMG emerging countries; certifies the Danone Way program’s 2013 results (limited assurance). • to integrate Danone’s sustainable development strategic priorities into newly The resulting opinion is published on pages 160 to 161 of this report. acquired subsidiaries; • each subsidiary to compare its performance to that of its fellows and seek for areas of improvement. 2013 Results Change in methods in 2013 Scope of evaluation Since the new version of Danone Way was introduced in 2007, the group has 147 subsidiaries took part in Danone Way in 2013 (vs. 146 in 2012), sought to define guidelines that meet two needs: representing 89% of the group’s net sales (stable compared with 2012), the • being sufficiently consistent guidelines to ensure a clear understanding of the subsidiaries not involved mainly correspond to ex-Unimilk group companies. subsidiaries’ ongoing progress over a period of several years; Out of the 147 subsidiaries involved in the program, 28 followed the “Danone • respond to stakeholders’ increasing requirements, changes to Danone’s Way Light” guidelines for small subsidiaries, with a fewer number of topics. strategy in these areas, and the specific features of the various subsidiaries It should also be noted that some subsidiaries do not conduct self-assessments (size, maturity and type of business). on all Danone Way approach key practices, as the group and/or the subsidiaries consider that certain assessment criteria do not apply to them. In 2013, the Danone Way guidelines remained stable after undergoing significant change in 2012 (see the 2012 Sustainable Development Report, Detailed results page 41). However, their content was simplified by removing: Methodology note: All of the results presented below show the trend from • certain assessment criteria duplicating other practices evaluated within the 2012 to 2013. They are calculated on a like-for-like basis for easier comparison more general framework of the internal control process (Dango), for example of results. relating to human resources management; • indicators considered as not relevant or lacking added value for the guidelines. 54 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 55 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING DANONE WAY DANONE WAY Overall scores Overall, the number of subsidiaries achieving a three-star score, i.e. the lowest In accordance with the Danone Way methodology, the subsidiaries are awarded performance threshold recommended by the group, rose significantly from 79% with a certain number of stars for their performance based on the scale below: in 2012 to 87% in 2013, a very satisfactory result. Like in 2012, the Early life nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions continued to adopt the program and 0 stars accounted for a good portion of this progress. The historically more mature Little or no awareness of sustainable development objectives no proactive program Waters and Fresh dairy products divisions stabilized their scores at levels that are 1 stars already high. The same trend could be seen in subsidiaries applying the “light” 2 stars Aware of certain sustainable development objectives version, with the proportion receiving three stars or more rising from 71% in occasional steps are taken 2012 to 82% in 2013. 3 stars Aware of sustainable development objectives the most important practices are implemented Best sustainable development practices are implemented, Average score by topic 4 stars in some cases using an innovative and/or distinctive approach 49 49 Innovative and/or distinctive practices are implemented 47 46 48 47 47 46 5 stars 43 43 for all sustainable development objectives The 2013 results are as follows, for all the subsidiaries: Breakdown of subsidiaries by number of stars obtained Human Human EnvironConGover2012 2013 Rights Relations ment sumers nance 7% 8% 37% 40% This chart illustrates the change in subsidiaries’ average score (total for policies and indicators) for each of the five Danone Way topics, between 2012 and 2013. 35% 39% 14% 10% 3% 2% Average score by key practice 2012 2013 No star 4% 1% 2012 2013 55 55 53 53 54 53 53 51 50 50 48 47 48 50 43 45 44 44 44 43 42 43 46 46 46 45 44 45 46 41 39 Distinguishing between subsidiaries applying the full Danone Way guidelines 31 and those applying the “light” version, the results are as follows: Breakdown of subsidiaries by number of stars obtained “Full” version “Light” version Diversity Safety Social Working Learning People EnvironEnvironSecure Packaging Quality Nutrition Standards Business Suppliers Local & health dialogue time & developmental mental raw impacts manageand health on nutrition ethics social commorganization ment footprint risks materials ment standards and health responsibility unities 7% 7% 8% 14% for marketing products & comm38% 40% 29% 36% unication Human Rights Human Relations Environment Consumers Governance 35% 41% 34% 32% 14% 9% 8% 11% This chart illustrates the change in subsidiaries’ average score (total for policies 3% 2% 8% 3,5% No star 3% 1% 13% 3,5% and indicators) for each of the 16 Danone Way key practices, between 2012 2012 2013 2012 2013 and 2013. 56 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 57 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING DANONE WAY RESPECT In 2013 results improved the most in the Human Rights and Governance topics, due to: The RESPECT program • progress made by subsidiaries in addressing working conditions issues, The RESPECT program launched in 2005 extends the “dual economic in accordance with the principles defined in the 2011 convention between and social project” to the group’s entire supply chain, except milk producers, Danone and the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress; following a specific process: • greater ownership by subsidiaries, particularly in the Early life and Medical • including the Sustainable Development Principles (social, environmental nutrition divisions, of the Social Responsibility principles with respect to and ethics) in supplier contracts and/or general terms of procurement; Danone’s suppliers, through the RESPECT program (see page 59 of this report). • sharing information through supplier self-declarations concerning their Corporate Social Responsibility performance, using the SEDEX platform Results also stagnated in the Human Relations topic, mainly due to difficulties shared by all consumer goods industry players, in the AIM-progress encountered by subsidiaries in achieving the ambitious levels set by the group “Non-compliant” association (see this link for more information: www.sedexglobal.com/); ACTION suppliers in terms of employee mobility between divisions and between functions. PLAN • external CSR audits using the SMETA benchmark for suppliers viewed as RESPECT control procedure “At risk” EXTERNAL AUDIT at-risk based on this information exchange, with a view to implementing an suppliers Lastly, in addition to ongoing progress particularly in packaging management, appropriate action plan (see diagram below and this link for more information RISK MAPPING via SEDEX the increase in the Environment topic’s results is impacted by a change in the shared with other SEDEX members on the framework www.sedexglobal.com/ethical-audits/smeta/). applicability of certain criteria to subsidiaries that do not own any factories, REGISTRATION ON SEDEX which mechanically improves the scores. 2013 results CONTRACTUAL CLAUSE (Sustainable Development Principles) Danone Way in 2014 In 2013, suppliers’ self-assessments of CSR performance at their sites continued 0% Suppliers covered 100% to rise, with 430 new sites recorded out of a total 3,501 sites. In total, this The Danone Way guidelines will change slightly in 2014 to include new represents 81% of the 4,300 supplier sites targeted by this policy around the training and Nutrition and Health policies. Some indicators no longer considered world, due to the scope of their relationship with the group and the nature of to be relevant will equally be removed. Danone will also begin addressing the their products and/or services: raw materials (except milk), packaging, logistics, integration into the program of Danone Russia, a large subsidiary acquired in promotional products and other services. 2010 totaling almost 15,000 people, to further disseminate the Danone culture. Early life and Fresh dairy Water Total Medical nutrition products Africa 3 30 33 Americas 165 73 733 971 Asia 249 278 340 867 Europe 208 608 814 1,630 Total 622 962 1,917 3,501 This table shows the breakdown by division of the number of suppliers' sites who completed the SEDEX self-assessment questionnaire during the 2010/2013 period, with enough detail to assign a risk level indicating the need for an audit or not. It should be noted that the 2012 Sustainable Development Report presented the number of suppliers and not the number of supplier sites (plants, warehouses, headquarters, etc.). For guidance, the average number of sites per supplier is 1.3. 58 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 59 _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING _PERFORMANCE CSR MONITORING RESPECT RESPECT Based on the self-assessments of these 3,501 sites, 62 new sites underwent SMETA audits administered by external auditors (in addition to the 260 sites RESPECT outlook audited since 2010 at Danone's request). These audits confirm or set aside the The aim and objectives set at the end of 2010 by the RESPECT Committee risks identified during the SEDEX pre-analysis, and lead to the introduction and Danone’s Executive Management remain current. of action plans where required. After focusing in 2012 on improving tools and processes for managing the Location of supplier sites Number of audits 2010/2013 RESPECT program, the 2013 campaign worked on harmonizing and formally Africa 36 defining practices between the divisions, particularly the Early life nutrition Americas 83 and Medical nutrition divisions. These improvements can be seen in the results Asia 156 of the 2013 Danone Way campaign (see page 54 of this report), in which the Europe 47 “Supplier Social Responsibility” key practice achieved one of the best Total 322 improvements of the 2013 campaign. The table below shows the breakdown of instances of non-compliance identified Danone had also set the goal in 2010 of recording CSR data for 100% of its in 272 audits of Danone suppliers carried out in 2013, the results of which were major suppliers and auditing 100% of the suppliers at risk. This goal turned made available on the SEDEX platform. out to be more ambitious and complex to achieve than expected. Health, safety and hygiene 47% In addition to introducing the necessary organization within Danone, the Working hours 13% need to involve suppliers in registering and communicating sometimes sensitive Management systems 10% information is a major challenge, particularly for members of the procurement Environment 10% function who are in charge of the policy on a daily basis. Drawing on experience Wages 9% gained in recent years, the RESPECT Committee has therefore decided to focus Work contract 3% training efforts on the procurement function, particularly to position responsible Ethical practices 3% procurement issues more clearly within the function’s broader context. Freedom of association 2% Child labor 1% Discrimination 1% Housing conditions <1% Complaints management <1% Forced labor <1% The item Health, Safety and Hygiene continues to represent almost half of the non-conformities. Meanwhile, the item Management System, which is the ability of the company to structure its CSR practices with dedicated information systems and procedures, is increasingly mentioned in audits. Items relating to child labor and forced labor, priorities for the group, remain at very low levels. It should be noted that any cause for concern regarding either of these two topics leads to an immediate demand by Danone for corrective action by the supplier as soon as it is flagged in the SEDEX self-assessment, independent of the subsequent audit. 60 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 61 _PERFORMANCE CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT _PERFORMANCE EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Dow Jones Sustainability Index Rating 63 EXTERNAL ASSESSMEN NT – September 2013 BY NON-FINANCIAL The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is a leading global index that rates RATING AGENCIES the sustainable development performance of the top 330 companies (selected from a peer group of 1,800 companies reviewed) based on social, environmental 68 INTERNAL ASSESSMENT T and economic performance. Over the years, the criteria have become more WITH GRI GUIDELINES S demanding and companies must continually make improvements to remain listed on the index. Danone has been included in the index since its creation in 1999 and achieved a score of 87 points in 2013 (83 points in 2012), confirming its position among the 13 top-ranking food companies worldwide. For the second year in a raw, Danone received the Silver class distinction awarded by SAM Robeco, the company that administers the DJSI. Economic area In 2013, Danone achieved satisfactory results in the Economic area (89 points) and, for the first time, ranked number one in the Health and Nutrition category (100 points) due to its relevant policies and measurement tools. The group also maintained its excellent position in Strategy for Emerging Markets (98 points in 2012 and 2013) and achieved a good score (95 points) in the Innovation Management category (3 points below the sector leader). Environmental area Danone achieved a score of 87 points in the Environmental area. The group maintained its top position in the Packaging category (100 points) and became the leader in Raw Materials Sourcing (90 points). Danone also maintained its positions in two categories : Environmental Reporting (90 points) and Water Related Risks (95 points). Danone DJSI rating 2013 97 Social area 89 91 87 87 88 84 84 Danone gained 11 points compared to 2012 in this area and achieved the best 75 74 70 score in the food sector (84 points). The group was also recognized for its efforts 59 in terms of Human Capital Development, ranking number one with 100 points. Danone also achieved this result by improving its rating in the Occupational Health and Safety category, with a score of 73 points (19 points higher than 2012 due to more detailed reporting), as well as an improvement in Labor Practice Indicators and Human Rights, with a score of 87 points (5 points below Economic EnvironSocial Overall the sector leader). area mental area area Minimum DJSI global rating Danone rating Maximum DJSI global rating 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 63 _PERFORMANCE CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT _PERFORMANCE CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES • the Environment area benefits from a strategy deployed worldwide, supported Vigeo rating February 2013 by quantitative objectives including the major challenges related to Danone’s Governance 100 Consumer 90 business. Moreover, the group’s performance on biodiversity is highlighted. Issues 80 Human As the leading European non-financial rating agency, Vigeo measures Implementing a group policy in order to reduce environmental impacts from 70 Rights 52 60 theperformance of Dow Jones Global 1800 Index companies in Europe, transportation still remains a challenge; 50 66 40 Americas and Asia with respect to social responsibility in six rating areas • Danone is also recognized for its Community Involvement, its ability 56 30 20 Labor (see table hereafter). to incorporate into its strategy the challenges related to access to water and Practices 10 nutritional solutions adapted to the most underprivileged populations, 52 In February 2013, Danone was therefore rated among a peer group of and its contribution to communities development notably via dedicated 61 Community Involvement 18 companies in the food sector and maintained its position as the leader in funds (danone.communities and the Danone Ecosystem Fund); and Development 56 the same sector with a stable general score of 60/100 and the confirmation • Danone still lagged behind the leaders in the area of Coporate Governance 72 of its leading position on all the rating areas except Corporate Governance. and shareholder rights, while good practices are highlighted (CSR review by Board members and integration of CSR criteria in remuneration). Human Environment Resources Assessment of Danone’s environmental, social and governance Score Danone performance in February 2013 for the six areas of assessment Company’s performance Lastly, the Vigeo report underscores that the information made available in comparison with its sector Score maximum and changes relative to July 2011 by Danone for these assessments covered 90% of the criteria used for the Score minimum methodology, or on average 38% more than the rest of the food sector. Domaine evaluated Scores Ratings Scores Ratings 0 25 50 75 100 This result demonstrates the true recognition of CSR issues by Danone across 07/2011 07/2011 02/2013 02/2013 its entire value chain and its commitment to transparency with stakeholders Human Rights 70 ++ 70 ++ Human Rights 70 for its sustainable development strategy. Environment 60 ++ 56 ++ Environment 56 Human Resources 69 ++ 72 ++ Business Behavior 55 ++ 60 ++ Human VIGEO rating based on the ISO 26000 72 Corporate Governance 53 = 52 = Resources standard – February 2013 Community Involvement 58 ++ 54 ++ Business Behaviour 60 52 Along with this assessment, Vigeo evaluated Danone with respect to the Corporate ++ the company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector. Governance ISO 26 000 standard published in late 2010 and representing a generic + the company is ranked as an active performer in its sector. Community framework for defining and managing a social responsibility program. 54 = the company is ranked as an average performer in its sector. Involvement The results are described below. This evaluation illustrates the consistency the company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector. of Danone’s performance across all seven areas of ISO 26 000. -the company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector. Danone is included in the Vigeo World 120 sustainable development index, In five of the six areas assessed by Vigeo, Danone’s scores remained stable and Vigeo Europe 120, Vigeo Eurozone 120, and Vigeo France 120, which were the best in the food sector: recognize listed companies receiving the best feedback on their social • the Human Rights remain a strength thanks to Danone’s ability to fully responsibility performance. integrate freedom of association, the negociation of collective agreements and anti-discrimination measures into its strategy; The group also appears in the Ethibel index, which provides potential investors • the Business Behavior is also earned favorable mention, given the with an overview of the companies with the best performance in sustainable improvements made on transparency on its influence strategies and the development and social responsibility. Danone is rated in the Ethibel Excellence integration of social and environmental factors in the upstream portion of Europe category. Danone business; • the Human Resources area is also a strength, particularly due to training and employability for all employees and management of career’s system, and to the cooperation between Danone and IUF notably in terms of health and safety. 64 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 65 _PERFORMANCE CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT _PERFORMANCE CSR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES Access to Nutrition Index Carbon Disclosure Project Access to Nutrition Index (ATNI) is a new international rating index created The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an international organization based in at the joint initiative of GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition), the Bill the United Kingdom, provides the opportunity for global companies to disclose & Melinda Gates Foundation and Welcome Trust. Every two years, the index key data on topics related to climate change, water and forest footprint. The will rate the largest food and beverage companies on their nutrition-related CDP invites companies to answer questionnaires on each of these three issues policies, practices and performance. This index aims to encourage those and then rates them and provides assessment tools for institutional investors companies to improve their products nutritional quality and accessibility, and to and/or other stakeholders. Danone participates in the following three categories: exercise their influence on consumers’ choices and behavior in a responsible way. Carbon Disclosure After the methodology spent three years in development, the world’s 25 largest In 2013, Danone entered the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index France, food and beverage companies were assessed in 2012 on the basis of their 2011 related to its participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2013, performances. the index included 25 companies selected for the quality of the data disclosed. Danone’s high rating (93/100) illustrates the high degree of transparency in its In the first ATNI rating published on March 12, 2013 Danone ranked responses linked the group’s good internal data management and its number one with a global rating of 6.3/10, within the group of top understanding of climate changes issues relevant to its activities. performers (Danone, Unilever and Nestlé). The group also achieved the highest ratings in the Accessibility, Marketing and Engagement categories. Forest Footprint Disclosure Strong points highlighted by the index correspond to Danone’s priority areas For the second time in 2013, Danone participated in the Forest Footprint for action: Disclosure (FFD), which primarily aims to mitigate the growing effects of • analyze local contexts and study local eating habits to offer appropriate deforestation. This global rating, created by the CDP, assesses the impact that products; very large companies have on forests, based on their use of five raw materials: • contribute to fighting under-nutrition by means of enriched products; soy, palm oil, wood and paper pulp, animal feed and biofuels. Danone was • strive to make products affordable for low-income consumers; able to report the data necessary for this evaluation based on the its Forest • implement responsible marketing practices, particularly with respect Policy published in 2012, illustrating the group’s concern for its impact on to children. the upstream part of the value chain (see link: www.danone.com/uploads/tx_ bidanonepublications/danone_forest_footprint_policy_en_01.pdf). The ATNI also expresses reservations with regard to the issue of breast-milk substitutes. On this topic, and in addition to supporting WHO guidelines, Water Disclosure Danone recognizes the need for overall improvement in industry practices Danone has participated in the CDP Water Disclosure since it was created and spearheads action in this area. in 2010. This program seeks to gather critical data from the world’s largest companies on water shortages and related issues. This global database facilitates access to vital information on the sustainable use of water. 66 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 67 _PERFORMANCE INTERNAL ASSESSMENT WITH GRI GUIDELINES _PERFORMANCE COMPANY PROFILE INTERNAL ASSESSMENT WITH GRI GUIDELINES The first information relative to this section of the report The previous report covering the period from January 1st 69 COMPANY PROFILE (company profile) is available in the group’s Registration to December 31st, 2012 was published for the Shareholders’ Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated General Meeting on April 25, 2013. 70 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS in the GRI index published on pages 163 to 169 of this report. AND DIALOGUE DIM MENSION The figures and data published in the present report are This report covers Danone’s economic, social and communicated, unless otherwise specified, for a worldwide 76 ECON NOMIC DIMENSION environmental performance for the period from body of companies controlled by Danone (list of January 1 to December 31, 2013. consolidated companies in the Registration Document); 86 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION the Registration Document and Economic and Social The indicators and management Report are complementary and available for download 114 SOCIAL DIMENSION systems described in this report on the website www.danone.com. were prepared in compliance with the 130 HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.0). These provide a 136 SOCIETY DIMENSION balanced and reasonable presentation of the group’s economic, environmental and social 142 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance. The indicators are presented using the GRI 3 references (e.g. EC2. Financial implications and other risks DIMENSION and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change). In compliance with the GRI criteria, Danone gave itself a B+ rating (in accordance with version 3.0 guidelines). KPMG Audit reviewed and approved the Danone group’s self-evaluation of its GRI application level. The indicators also meet the information requirements of Articles R225-104 and R225-105 of the Code of Commerce and take into account the “annual social indicators” jointly agreed upon by the IUF (International Union of Food workers) and Danone in September 2004. A part of the social, environmental and societal data contained in this document was published in section 5.2 of the group’s 2013 Registration Document and verified as such by PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young. This data is addressed by a report expressing limited assurance published in section 5.2 of the group’s Registration Document. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 69 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT COMMITMENTS TO GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL INITIATIVES GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE Mandatory information about the company’s governance 4.11 according to GRI guidelines (indicators 4.1 to 4.10) is Explanation of whether and how the available in Danone’s Registration Document. References 71 GOVERNANC CE to the relevant pages are indicated in the GRI index precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization published on pages 163 and 169 of this report. 71 COMMIT TMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Protecting the consumer means applying the principle 4.8 of “Due Diligence” which, at Danone, relies on a team 73 STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT Internally developed statements of mission of in-house scientific experts and an external network or values, codes of conduct, and principles of international experts. relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their The company’s Food Safety Management Systems, based implementation on international standard ISO 22 000, ensure the implementation of measures for managing risks in this area The Danone Way approach has been in place since across all businesses. 2001 to address the goal of managing the group’s relations and impacts with regard to its stakeholders, both up and A periodic review of risks involved in the key processes of downstream including policies and criteria pertaining to most subsidiaries also ensures that proper precautions are environmental and social performance, governance, health taken to reduce the impact and/or the probability of risks and nutrition policy, etc. This approach makes it possible to identified. This issue is also addressed in the framework of measure the implementation of policies and performance indicator PR1 pertaining to consumer health and safety. criteria in all group subsidiaries every year (see pages 54 to 58 of the current report, Danone Way results). Following a statement by the New Zealand government and Fonterra on 2013, August the 2nd, warning that batches Many other initiatives and processes have been of ingredients supplied by Fonterra to four Danone plants implemented in the areas of environmental and social in Asia-Pacific might be contaminated with Clostridium policy and suppliers' relations. botulinum bacteria, the group recalled selected infant formula products from sale in eight markets of this region To learn more about these initiatives, see the chapters on as a precautionary measure. The warning was lifted on the performance indicators relative to the environment August 28th when New Zealand’s Ministry for Primary (page 86), social policy (page 114), human rights and Industries (MPI) concluded after several weeks of tests that supplier management (page 130). there was no Clostridium botulinum in any of the batches concerned. Danone has been formally defining its missions, values and internal codes of conduct for a number None of the many tests conducted by the group, both of years in various documents. For more details, before and after this critical period, showed any see the chapter titled historical approach and key dates contamination whatsoever of its products with Clostridium on page 46 of the current report. botulinum. Danone’s food safety management system is among the most demanding and effective in the world and includes rigorous testing of all of its products. But because Danone makes consumer safety an absolute priority, its teams nonetheless quickly and efficiently deployed recall procedures. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 71 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION COMMITMENTS TO STAKEHOLDERS EXTERNAL INITIATIVES ENGAGEMENT 4.12 4.13 4.14 4.15 Externally developed economic, environmental, Memberships in associations (such as industry List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders and social charters, principles, or other initiatives associations) and/or national/international organization; examples of stakeholders groups with which to dialogue to which the organization subscribes or endorses advocacy organizations are: communities, civil society, customers, shareholders and providers of capital, suppliers, Danone has been developing specific dialogue tools for Danone’s commitments, as defined in its Business Danone’s policy is of membership in all legally constituted and employees, other workers and their trade several years to support subsidiaries in their interactions Conduct Policy, are based on certain principles referenced and recognized, sector-specific or national professional unions with the various stakeholders at the local level: the in the following international texts: associations representing the food industry. The group “stakeholders mapping” tool allows to identify the • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; encourages its managers to actively take part in the work The Danone Way approach launched in 2001 was company’s stakeholders, to analyze the issues and • the international agreements of the International of these associations at both local and central level. Danone implemented to respond to the goal of dialogue and stakeholder expectations, and to define communication Labor Organization; or its subsidiaries are members of all national food industry recognition of impacts with the company’s stakeholders, priorities. It also describes best practices in place in other • the guiding principles defined by the Organization associations in European Union countries where the group which were defined at the start of the approach: consumers, countries where the group does business. All subsidiaries for Economic Cooperation and Development for has operations, as well as of Food & Drink Europe which suppliers, environment protection associations, employees, are invited to carry out a “stakeholders mapping” every multinational companies; represents the industry at EU level. Danone is a member shareholders, local communities (scientific, neighborhood, year; this is part of the Danone Way assessment (Shared • the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor rights, of more than 100 associations of this type. representatives of public authorities and non-governmental value creation through community involvement). environmental protection and anti-corruption. organizations). The annual evaluation carried out by each subsidiary on the Danone Way themes allows the group to In addition, a Public Affairs kit was distributed to Danone joined the United Nations Global Compact in ensure that stakeholders are truly integrated into the various correspondents in the subsidiaries in January 2012. 2003 and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009. In addition, issues (nutrition-health, employees, environment, local This tool presents an explanatory overview of the field of the Seven Fundamental Social Principles defined by the communities, etc.). action of a Danone Public Affairs correspondent. It defines agreements of the International Labor Organization (ILO) the expected practices in communicating with stakeholders were integrated into the Danone – IUF worldwide In addition, for several years, Danone has been committed (elected officials, public authorities, opinion leaders, etc.) conventions in 2005. to dialoguing with organizations of civil society. The goal and provides practical guidelines for supporting is not only to develop active listening with regard to the correspondents in their day-to-day activity. Danone wished to extend these Fundamental Social changing situations and expectations of various Principles beyond its subsidiaries to all its suppliers through stakeholders, but also to commit the company to The kit can thus be used to make an inventory of local implementation of its RESPECT program. Since 2009, partnership or co-development processes with these players, issues, and to qualify those issues with a view to prioritizing this policy has been expanded to include Environmental as illustrated by numerous initiatives and projects developed them, identifying the players involved and mapping them and Ethical Principles to which all suppliers must commit. in partnership with NGOs, with the support of funds based on their position and influence, and finally established by Danone (the Danone Ecosystem Fund, determining the best watch mode for monitoring changes These commitments are anchored in Danone’s values and the danone.communities fund and the Livelihoods Fund). to these issues and the players’ positions. in the foundations of the Danone Way approach. They apply to all employees of every company controlled by The implementation of this tool has been supported by Danone throughout the world. Danone is committed to training sessions dedicated to Public Affairs managers promoting these principles in all the companies in which it (“PROUD” seminar). holds shares. 72 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 73 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE DIMENSION STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT Danone also has the goal of encouraging all subsidiaries to integrate stakeholders into their own strategic thinking. To 4.16 4.17 Approaches to stakeholders engagement, Key topics and concerns that have been raised achieve this, methodological tools for strategic thinking including frequency of engagement by type through stakeholder engagement, and how the have been developed since to firmly include stakeholders’ and by stakeholder group organization has responded to those key topics expectations in subsidiaries’ medium-term strategic and concerns, including through its reporting planning at local level. These methodological materials are The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with integrated into the group’s training programs for the stakeholders at subsidiary level to remain close to Listening to stakeholders is a key component of Danone’s Executive Committees and expert working teams: local issues. sustainable development strategy, in order to understand Sustainability Land and Credibility Land, which aim to the expectations of its customers, consumers, employees, define a nutrition and health strategy for the subsidiaries This dialogue may take various forms in each subsidiary suppliers, scientists, the populations living near its sites, based on in-depth analysis of its stakeholders (consumers, (regular “Advisory board” meetings on nutrition-health representatives of public authorities and non-governmental public agencies, NGOs, employees, etc.). topics, for example), and the frequency depend on local organizations. Taking into account stakeholders’ situations. The group does not centrally consolidate all expectations is a foundation of the Danone Way approach the actions carried out by its subsidiaries in this area. initiated in 2001, and is firmly anchored in Danone’s culture and social policy approach. Meanwhile, at group level, regular meetings (five times a year) are held with certain organizations such as The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with representatives of the IUF (International Union of Food stakeholders at subsidiary level; the group does not centrally workers) on social issues or with an “Advisory board” consolidate all the actions carried out by its subsidiaries in consisting of experts on environmental issues, meeting this area. However, at corporate level, listening to twice a year. stakeholders’ expectations also allows the company to progress in understanding key shared concerns and to launch initiatives in response. • in 2011, for example, Danone signed a convention with the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress (see page 31 of the current report); along these same lines, Danone also implements the Dan’Cares program that aims to improve healthcare cover (see page 32 of the current report); • since 2010, Danone organized its Nature strategic thinking with an external expert panel, opinion leaders and NGOs (Nature Stakeholders Board) to set a long time course. Organizations such as WWF, IUCN, Ramsar convention, Rainforest Alliance, UNEP, Greenpeace, Forum for the Future, Ethicity, etc., are associated to those consultations, at subsidiaries or group level. For example in 2012, the group paper/carboard packaging policy was co-developped with the benchmark NGO Rainforest Alliance. Also, in 2013, a consultation dedicated to the update of Danone’s Ground Water Policy was performed. 74 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 75 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC DIMENSION The group’s economic objectives and published 77 ECO ONOMIC PERFOR RMANCE EC1 market data: Direct economic value generated and distributed, • Net sales, Operating Income/Net sales, Operating 79 MA ARKET PRESE ENCE including revenues, operating costs, employee Free Cash Flow (OFCF) for the manager’s scope compensation, donations and other community of responsibility; 80 INDIRECT ECON NOMIC IMPACT investments, retained earnings, and payments to • Free Cash Flow (FCF) for the Danone scope. capital providers and governments Danone’s social objectives, which are divided For data pertaining to directly created economic value, into two areas: distributed economic value and non-distributed economic The Social Fundamentals: value, see the 2013 Registration Document, chapter 4. • safety at work including accident frequency rate and implementation of specific action plans for the Regarding economic value created and distributed for subsidiaries identified by the group’s Safety Committee; employee compensation specifically, Danone adopted a • implementation of the Dan’Cares project aiming to bonus system that integrates social performance in 2008. improve welfare protection for Danone employees; • or employability development projects with “Workers The social dimension is a powerful element to bring Academy”, or projects to develop proximity management meaning and commitment to Danone’s employees. For through the “Danone Leadership College” and CODE performance management, the criteria used to evaluate the initiatives; performance of the company’s 1,500 managing executives • evaluation and introduction of actions in connection since 2008 are based on a three-part bonus system: with the group’s ecosystem. The New Danone strategic priorities, for the • one part for economic objectives; People priority: • one part for social and environmental objectives; • talents development plans with “Country Talent Deal”, • one part for individual performance objectives. specific development plan for high-growth areas such as “Fuel The Growth”; More precisely, in 2013, executive manager’s short-term • leadership development plan or Diversity projects variable compensation was determined based on specific providing openings for different socio-cultural profiles performance with regard to ten economic, social and in recruitment processes. management objectives and calculated using objective, measurable criteria and completed with the supervisor’s Specific individual objectives within the scope of assessment, in the three following areas. each manager and consistent with the group’s strategy: Danone’s specific approach in this area is based on the short-term variable compensation structure, which is reviewed every year to achieve optimal management of the group’s economic and social strategy. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 77 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION ECONOMIC MARKET PERFORMANCE PRESENCE EC2 EC3 ADD EC5 EC6 Financial implications and other risks and Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁts Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Policy, practices and proportion of spending opportunities for the organization’s activities plan obligation compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations due to climate change locations of operation of operation The group contributes to employee retirement benefit plans As of December 31, 2013, 70% of the group’s production in accordance with the laws and usual practices of countries Minimum salary / Minimum legal salary ratio This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. sites had been subjected to an external GREEN audit, or where its subsidiaries operate. As a result of contributions 113 sites in all. Of these 113 sites, 43 underwent a followpaid under such plans to private or state sponsored pension up audit in 2013 and two-thirds of those improved their funds, the group has no actuarial liability in that respect. 2012 (like-for-like 2013 EC7 basis with 2012) Procedures for local hiring and proportion score compared to their previous audit. Number Total % Total % of senior management hired from the local The group also has contractual obligations for of of Number of subsidiemployof subemploycommunity at signiﬁcant locations of operation Environmental investments and expenditures supplementary retirement plans as well as severance, sidiaries aries ees ees In 2013, group investments targeting environmental retirement indemnities and personal protection. Subsidiaries with a Danone is a local employer above all with 95% of its protection amounted to €33.6 million, around 3% “subsidiary minimum 144 94% 141 94% wage”/“legal minimum 16,577 managers and directors hired locally. This part has of the group’s total capital industrial expenditures. The related actuarial commitments are taken into account wage”greater than 1 increased since 2012. either through the payment of contributions to Subsidiaries with a “subsidiary minimum The primary categories of these investments in 2013 independently-managed funds responsible for their service wage”/”legal minimum 8 3% 14 4% Danone’s aim is to achieve 80% of local managers in all included: and the fund administration, or through provisions. wage” ratio equal to 1 Subsidiaries with a Executive Committees. At end 2013, 70% of directors had • environmental compliance: waste processing, wastewater “subsidiary minimum 0 0% 0 0% been hired locally, representing a slight decrease compared processing, treatment facilities, noise measurement, air The amount provisioned for these obligations in the group’s wage”/”legal minimum wage” ratio below 1 with 2012. quality, etc. On a like-for-like basis, these investments consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2013 Subsidiaries to which increased by 60% compared to 2012; and the expenses for the year are presented in Note 28 of no legal minimum 11 3% 12 2% wage applies At 31/12 2011 2012 2013 • investments targeting carbon emissions reductions the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Total reported 163 95% 167 97% Total Workforce (energy savings, renewable energy use, logistics and 15,552 16,452 16 577 (Directors and Managers) Total non-reported 16 5% 12 3% eco-design of packaging). These investments dropped by 67% from 2012. EC4 Total Danone 179 100% 179 100% of which international staff % international 739 4.8% 850 5.2% 910 5.4% Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from % local 95.2% 94.8% 95.6% government Operating expenditures related to the environment The basic starting salary is higher than the local minimum Management Committee Members 1,058 1,254 1,058 amounted to €108.2 million in 2013. They included salary for the large majority of subsidiaries (141), covering (excluding Executives) This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. €50.8 million dedicated to manage waste as well as water over 94% of the group’s employees. It is equal to the legal of which international staff 254 353 316 and air quality and €50.9 million for environmental taxes minimum for 14 subsidiaries, i.e. less than 4% of % international 24.0% 28.1% 29.9% other than taxes on packaging in 2013. employees. There is no legal minimum defined for % local 76.0% 71.9% 70.1% 12 subsidiaries (3% of employees). Compared with 2012, there has been a stability of the number of employees with a basic starting salary above the legal minimum, an increase in the number of employees with salary equal to the legal minimum, and a decrease of the number of employees with no legal minimum salary. 78 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 79 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION INDIRECT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT ECONOMIC IMPACT Food banks bonds In addition to this global achievement, here are several This 2013 is the fourth year that Danone Spain has EC8 In Argentina, Danone has developed, in almost key results: donated to the Food Banks 10 million units of Danone Development and impact of infrastructure 10 years of actions, a strategic partnership with the food • 21 workshops and nutritional talks for parents, teachers product distributed from 11 logistic bases all over Spain. investments and services provided primarily banks network and particularly with the Buenos Aires and social reference at schools, Danone Nations Cup and for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, Food bank, the biggest of the country, willing to give a community centers; In addition, one highlight of 2013 is the Danone support or pro bono engagement breakthrough from product donation towards the food • 1,200 educational kits delivered; to two massive campaigns to collect food organized by the access wide concept. • 48 actions for 2,500 children at schools; Food Banks: “La Gran Recogida de Alimentos” (the big food Danone is involved into many actions to support common • 30 000 kids reached by the Musical “Super healthy collection campaign) and “La fam no fa vacances” (Hunger interest initiatives in the scope of its mission, “bringing In 2013: in the Wonderful World of Food”; does not go on vacation). health through food to as many people as possible”. • the food banks delivered 887 tones of food; • over 19,000 fans on Facebook, special videos produced • 675 social organizations benefited from the delivery; for the YouTube channel; “La Gran Recogida de Alimentos” has been a national In 2013, sustainable partnerships and initiatives have been • the effort reached 96,000 people. • 20,352 visits per month to the blog; collect campaign which took place November 29th and maintained, delivering stronger results compared to 2012. • formal alliances with the top nine nutrition references 30th. Danone, in collaboration with a supplier called The specificity of these initiatives is the high level of More info and key figures are available at: (Argentinean Society of Nutrition, Federation of Smurfit Kappa, has donated 20,000 cardboard containers cooperation between Danone subsidiaries and local actors, http://redbancosdealimentos.org/ Nutrition, etc.), Ministry of Education official support, to collect food from citizens outside 5,000 point of sales. either non-profit or institutional partners. http://www.bancodealimentos.org.ar/ Ministry of Health co-manager in activations and in http://www.facebook.com/Fundaciondanone the development of a Physical Manual, member of the Moreover Danone Spain has mobilized: In Argentina, focus on water access, food banks National initiative “Nutrición 10 Hambre Cero”. • citizens through a video in the social media that bonds and the (Nutrition)² program (Nutrition)² The healthy habit program deployed encouraged people to participate in the campaign; Water access by Fundación Danone Further information is available: • its consumers who donated 4 million Danone products In Argentina, almost 8 million people face daily problems One of every four kids and adolescents is overweight www.fundaciondanone.org.ar through Danone website “Alimenta Sonrisas;” to get drinkable water. Rural women allocate six hours per or obese in Argentina. It has been now five years that www.nutricionalcuadrado.com.ar • its suppliers organizing employees collection campaings day to bring water to their homes, which represents three Fundación Danone works through the (Nutrition)² which achieved more than 4,300 kilograms of food; month per year just for access to water that not always program the healthy habits program that aims to be Juntos Ayudamos el Doble – Danone Spain • its employees with more than 60 Danone volunteers. guarantees good quality. part of the solution with an unbranded platform supported partnership with the Spanish Food Banks by CBUs. Danone Spain is one of the main partners of the Spanish The result is that the initiative allowed to collect more In 2013, Fundación Danone in Argentina officially Federation of Food Banks (FESBAL) not only by helping than 14,000 Tons of food for people and families who supported a tri-national program (involving Argentina, (Nutrition) ² is a program that innovates in the way them on a regular basis through product donation but also need it most. Bolivia and Paraguay) call Sed Cero –“Thirst Zero” to promote and create awareness on healthy lifestyles by supporting them in their main collection campaigns. which aims to bring safe water to 100,000 families by according to its mission: “Educating about health through “Eat Like a Champ” in the United Kingdom 2016. Sed Cero articulates local initiatives in the Gran food to as many people as possible”, building the local Since the establishment of the Food Banks in Spain more “Eat Like A Champ” (ELAC) is a nutrition education Chaco Americano, a region where the lack of safe and reference and frame on healthy habits, while integrating than 25 years ago, Danone Spain has been collaborating programme for primary schools aimed at helping tackle drinkable water is critical. strategic actors. with them. In 2010, Danone Spain increased its the growing issue of poor nutrition and sedentary lifestyle commitment through the co-creation program “Juntos amongst children. Children’s poor nutrition and obesity Fundación Danone in Argentina financed the creation The result and impact of the program is validated by the Ayudamos el Doble” which aim is to work as efficiently as in the UK is a hot topic with one child out of three children of a fund that allows families from Morillo, in the Center of Studies for Child Nutrition and developed by a possible, doubling the product donation and helping this being overweight and one child out of six being obese. Salta province, to access loans in order to build wells. social return on investment consultant. During 2013 the NGO in any type of collaboration or need. Danone Spain This initiative brought around the table local NGOs, program successfully reached more than 80,000 children has been awarded several times by the Food Banks for all the local government, the National Institute of Farming and adults. these years of partnership. Technology and National Institute of Industrial Technology (INTA and INTI) in charge of the water and land analysis. In this first stage, 13 wells have been built; more are expected in 2014 thanks to the money that families will return from the loans. 80 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 81 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION INDIRECT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT ECONOMIC IMPACT The program was piloted in a few London schools in ELAC won the “Business in The Community” Big Tick In the framework defined by the Danone Ecosystem 2010, then optimised and rolled out in an increasing (awarded by HRH Prince Charles) in 2012 and 2013, and SUPP EC9 Fund, endowed with €100 million in 2009, 38 subsidiaries Understanding and description number of classes all over the UK each year. It has three was recognised as a best practice by the European Health are committed alongside 38 partners primarily NGOs of economic impacts main objectives: Platform. The programme also supports the Ministry of in the co-creation of one or more projects, both in • make nutrition exciting for kids by inspiring them Health campaign Change 4 Life to tackle obesity issues in “mature” countries (France, Spain, Ireland, USA, Japan, Danone is aware of its impacts and contributes to to adopt the healthy choices of famous champions the country. etc.) and “emerging” countries (Brazil, India, Indonesia, initiatives that support the development of the regions they admire; Mexico, etc.). where the group has operations, in line with its business • maintain high employee engagement in Danone Ltd. The ambition in the longer term is to roll-out Eat Like A and mission. Aiming to strike the right balance between through a large volunteering scheme; Champ in one third of UK primary schools and maximise In 2013, 47 projects represent an investment of €47 million social commitment and Danone’s economic performance • build Danone’s corporate reputation on health and the amount of children both participating in Eat Like A and aim to create or consolidate over 50,000 jobs for the is part of its dual economic and social project and involves: nutrition in the UK. Champ and playing in the Danone Nations Cup, to really people working with Danone across its entire value chain. • knowing the local players and developing sustainable inspire children to eat well and stay active. Women’s access to work is one such priority objective. relationships with them through joint projects; In 2012, the program partnered with the Children’s Food • participating in the economic and social development of Trust to carry out extensive independent research to find The Danone Ecosystem Fund supports highly diverse labor markets, particularly through business relationships; out the impact ELAC has on children’s eating habits. projects relating to three main components of Danone’s • addressing health issues through eating habits. The research involved over 1,000 London school children value chain: filling in food diaries. The full report was published in • raw materials sourcing (primarily milk), by promoting Danone has always taken considerable action through 2013, the Children’s Food Trust research noted children sustainable agricultural practices, including the protection its subsidiaries to support the economic, social and taking part in the ELAC program shifted their behaviour of mineral springs and thus of rainwater catchment areas; environmental development of the regions where the group towards healthier eating habits. • products distribution, along with an offer of health and has operations. For four years now, the group has been nutrition related services; involved in an ambitious, innovative approach based on In 2013, the program extended to over 800 classes all • waste management and recycling, via the transformation local projects which help to maximize its social impact over the UK including England, Scotland, Wales and of the sector into a formal economy. through inclusive economy partnerships. Northern Ireland, engaging 30,000 children. A selection of London teachers are trained on nutrition each year, and In these three key components, Danone Ecosystem receive volunteers in their classroom to help with activities. Fund projects aim to create a socio-economic footprint for Danone that generates as much value as possible in The overall program, as well as its implementation, is built economic and social as well as environmental terms, while around key partnerships with: consolidating Danone’s activities through lasting business • the British Nutrition Foundation, which helped to design relationships. six fun, engaging and interactive lessons that are linked to the primary school curriculum; • Danone employees: in 2013, 60% of Danone’s employees volunteered in London classes to help teachers deliver Eat Like A Champ activities; • with inspiring role models for the children, in this case street dance sensation Diversity, who are the ambassadors of the campaign and were the winners of the TV show “Britain’s Got Talent” in 2009. 82 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 83 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ECONOMIC DIMENSION INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT Here are three examples that represent these three The Pepenadores (gleaners) handle almost 90% of the components: collection of recycled volumes: this population of over • the Danone Egypt subsidiary has worked in partnership 800,000 marginalized people works in the informal sector, with NGO CARE Egypt to set up the Milk Collection exploited by intermediaries that control access to dumps Communities project. The aim is to develop milk or urban collection zones. Today, 287 Pepenadores working collection centers that foster management of this activity in a dump in the desert where temperatures often exceed by the very small farmers making up the local agricultural 40°C are involved in the construction and organization community. Through the project, milk can now be of a sorting center with guarantees of decent working collected in villages where the milk trade was under the conditions and pay. monopoly of unscrupulous intermediaries, thus creating real economic opportunities for these farmers. This new Bonafont, Ashoka – international network of social supply chain delivers an extra 500 metric tons of milk to entrepreneurs and Mundo Sustentable – a Mexican Danone Egypt and involves nearly 1,600 farmers. The association working in the field of recycling – jointly project also contributes to the emancipation of the developed this distinctive model. The aim is to convince community’s women who are actively involved in the the Pepenadores that a new model and a new organization collection centers; are possible, to create value for them and for the company. They take part in a technical and human training program • the Kiteiras project in northeastern Brazil, in the favelas which addresses topics such as savings, health and fight of Salvador de Bahia, has led to the creation of a direct against drug. sales network to consumers run by women, the Kiteiras, in this region where they are particularly affected by In addition to these projects, the Danone Ecosystem poverty. The project provides welfare protection, a Fund contributes to programs in cross-cutting areas such minimum wage and support in improving their living as sustainable agriculture or the preparation of new conditions. The big innovation is the network of distribution models based on micro-entrepreneurship Madrinhas (meaning “godmother” in Portuguese), who (direct selling to consumers). Funds currently committed are responsible for training and hiring the Kiteiras. With also include the company’s social impact assessment their entrepreneurial spirit, they are a source of inspiration initiative launched in 2012. for the entire community. Co-created by the Danone Brazil subsidiary and Brazilian NGO Aliança Empreendedora, this project has generated 200 jobs; • in Mexico, only 20% of recyclable waste are recovered, the rest going to landfill with serious consequences for the environment. Bonafont, Danone’s Mexican subsidiary in the Waters division, faces a sizeable challenge in securing volumes of recycled plastic for bottle production. Today however, the local supply is insufficient as recycling is still considerably unstructured. 84 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 85 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Environmental indicator coverage rate GREEN program 88 MATERIALS (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) The table below provides information relative to Danone 89 ENERGY sites' environmental data coverage rate at December 31, The group defined environmental production standards 2012 and 2013 (marked “Production sites environment for its factories (“Green Plants Program”) in 1995, and 92 WATER scope” for concerned indicators): began using internal audits to check compliance with these standards in 1997. 95 BIODIVERSITY At 31/12 2012 2013 Total number of sites 194 191 In 2006, the group began worldwide deployment of 100 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS Total number of sites reporting data 164 161 its GREEN (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) AND WASTE Coverage (% of sites) 85% 84% project, a tool for monitoring the main environmental risks relating to the production sites (accident risks, image risks 107 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES For 2013 data, the coverage rate represents around 90% and risks of non-compliance with environmental regulations). of the group’s net sales. 109 COMPLIANCE At December 31, 2013, 70% of the group’s production sites WITH LEGISLATION In the following tables, variations compared with 2012 (Production sites environment scope) had undergone an are calculated on a like-for-like basis, i.e. the scope of external GREEN audit. Of these 113 sites, 43 underwent a 109 TRANSPORT production sites present during both financial years follow-up audit in 2013, and two-thirds of these improved (excluding the production sites acquired or launched in their score compared to their previous audit. 112 GENERAL 2013 and production sites sold or shut down in 2013). 113 GOVERNANCE Number of ISO 14 001 certiﬁed sites Danone bases its environmental management policy on the international ISO 14 001 standard. ISO 14 001 certification is a prerequisite set by the group for achieving the highest performance level in GREEN environmental risk assessment audits (see following paragraph). The following table provides data relative to Danone sites’ ISO 14 001 certification at December 31, 2012 and 2013 (Production sites environment scope): At 31/12 2012 2013 Total number of sites reporting data 164 √ 161 Total number of ISO 14001-certified sites 91 √ 96 Percentage of ISO 14001-certified sites 55% √ 60% √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 87 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION MATERIALS ENERGY A number of measures are therefore taken to use them At the same time, the share of renewable thermal energy EN1 more efficiently: EN3 is rising, representing 4.3% of total thermal energy in 2013, Materials used by weight or volume Direct energy consumption by primary energy • liquid milk, sugar, fruit: raw material losses in the compared with 3.7% in 2012. For example, the biomass source Fresh dairy products division are monitored daily at the boiler at the Poços de Caldas plant in Brazil has now been The table below presents data relative to Danone sites’ production sites, with results consolidated monthly at in operation for two years; in 2013, it generated more than production at December 31, 2012 and 2013 (Production The table below presents data relative to Danone sites’ subsidiary and division level for comparison with the 70,000 MWh of thermal energy. At the Wexford site in sites environment scope): thermal energy consumption at December 31, 2012 monthly minimization goals defined in the budget Ireland, a biomass boiler began operating in early 2013 to and 2013 (Production sites environment scope): process. The main actions aimed at reducing these losses reduce the site’s fossil energy requirements (see indicator 2012-2013 Thousands change on a are optimization of raw materials inventories or of EN6). 2012 2013 MWh 2012 2013 of metric tons like-for-like production scheduling and production line calibration basis Natural gas 1,617,411 1,683,280 Total production 28,214 √ 30,000 4.7% to reduce online material losses at production startup The graph below shows changes to the intensity of thermal Fuel oil 114,025 83,575 and end; energy consumption at the production sites since 2000, for √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document Heating oil 129,008 137,444 • packaging materials: Danone’s packaging development the reporting scope of each of the years concerned. Thermal Butane/propane 97,462 108,622 complies with the eco-design principles that were energy consumption intensity dropped by more than 54% Total production (in thousands of metric tons) Coal 160,528 82,030 30,000 defined in the guidelines established by the group in over the 2000-2013 period. 30000 Other sources 9,704 6 28,214 2002. Danone aims to strengthen these guidelines and Direct energy consumption 2,128,138 2,094,957 implement them in every division. Intensity of thermal energy consumption at Renewable thermal energy 85,748 98,365 the production sites (in kWh/metric ton of product) (produced on site) 20000 EN2 Purchased steam Purchased cold 123,046 0 118,510 0 200 169.3 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Thermal energy consumption √ 2,311,832 150 132.5 input materials (with steam) 2,336,932 108.6 Intensity of thermal energy 93.7 90.0 100 84.4 82.8 10000 consumption (in kWh/metric 82.8 77.1 77.1 2012 2013 In 2013, a quarter of the group’s primary and secondary ton of product) packaging is made of recycled materials, including 73% √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document 50 of boxes. Total production in metric tons increased by 4.7% on a 0 Total thermal energy consumption decreased by 1.1% 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 like-for-like basis in 2012/2013 due in particular to Regarding plastic packaging specifically, the group aims whereas the group’s total production increased by 6.3%. increased production by the Waters and Early life nutrition to increase the proportion of recycled PET (polyethylene This results in a reduction in thermal energy intensity from divisions. terephthalate) (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in 82.8 kWh/metric ton of product in 2012 to 77.1 kWh/ the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian and Bonafont metric ton of product in 2013. The main materials used in Danone products are: are already using rPET. At end-2013, the portion of rPET • water; was 9% across the whole division. • liquid milk and milk powder; • packaging materials (plastic, cardboard, etc.); Waters division 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 • sugar; % rPET (g 8% 10% 10% 9% 9% rPET/g PET) • fruit. The amount of raw materials consumed per metric ton of finished product is one of the primary criteria for industrial performance, as raw materials represent a large share of the group product cost structure. 88 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 89 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION ENERGY ENERGY The graph below presents changes in energy intensity EN4 between 2012 and 2013 at the production sites: ADD EN5 ADD EN6 Indirect energy consumption by primary Energy saved due to conservation Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or energy source and efficiency improvements renewable energy based products and services, Total energy intensity (in kWh/metric ton of product) and reductions in energy requirements as a result The table below presents the energy consumption of the 147.1 -0.2% Two main approaches have enabled the group to improve of these initiatives 148 -4.2% group’s production sites at December 31, 2012 and 2013 146 energy management: (Production sites environment scope): 144 • optimizing energy production at the plants: Cogeneration 142 -2.0% for example, several sites in the Fresh dairy products Several sites chose to install cogeneration facilities in order 2012-2013 140 137.7 division have cogeneration facilities in order to produce to produce electricity and heat from a single energy source, change on 138 MWh 2012 2013 a like-forelectricity and heat from a single energy source and thus improving the plants’ energy performance. Up to 90% 136 like basis improve plant energy performance. Up to 90% of of energy can be recovered with cogeneration, compared 134 Thermal energy energy can be recovered with cogeneration, compared with 40% to 55% for traditional systems. At the Bierun consumption 2,336,932 √ 2,311,832 132 (with steam) Intensity of total energy Mix effect on a Productivity on a Change of reporting Intensity of total energy with 40% to 55% for traditional systems; plant in Poland (Fresh dairy products division), this consumption like-for-like like-for-like scope consumption Electricity 1,814,245 √ 1,817,815 in 2012 basis basis in 2013 • optimizing energy use: practice prevents emission of some 5,400 metric tons of including electricity in 2013, for example, the Early life nutrition division CO2 each year. The Ochsenfurt plant in Germany (Fresh specifically generated from 100% 72,249 52,174 closed the old production workshops at the Istra site in dairy products division) reduced its annual CO2 emissions renewable sources The graph below presents the variation in total energy Russia and commissioned new workshops using more by 7% with this technology. Total energy 4,151,177 √ 4,129,647 0.1% consumption intensity at the production sites since 2000, efficient technology and production processes. The site Intensity of for the reporting scope of each of the years concerned. energy consumption was thus able to reduce its energy consumption per Thermal energy from renewable sources 147.1 137.7 -4.4% The intensity of total energy consumption was reduced by (in kWh/metric ton metric ton of finished product by half. Danone is experimenting with projects for the production of product) 49.9% over the 2000-2013 period. and use of renewable energies, in particular: √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document Sharing best practices and fostering emulation between • in Indonesia, 80% of electricity at the Brastagi plant Intensity of total energy consumption at the plants strengthened this improvement process in 2013. (Waters division) is derived from natural geothermal production sites (in kWh/metric ton of product) In the Waters division, the WattWatcher tool deployed at energy available locally; On a like-for-like basis, the intensity of energy 300 275.0 all the sites helps to define performance objectives adapted • in Brazil at the Poços de Caldas plant in the Fresh dairy consumption (energy consumption per metric ton of 250 to each plant. Between 2012 and 2013, thanks to Danone products division, a biomass boiler was launched in product) was reduced by 4.4% between 2012 and 2013. 218.2 186.2 Waters China’s efforts to improve energy performance, the August 2011 to replace the fuel oil used in heat This improvement is primarily due to the deployment 200 163.3 158.9 151.6 147.1 137.7 Mizone brand managed to reduce its thermal energy production. Thanks to this use of biomass, the thermal of energy management best practices in all the divisions 150 consumption by 15% per produced bottle (on the 600 mL energy used by the plant is now generated almost (see the ADD EN5 indicator for more details) resulting 100 format). entirely from renewable sources; in productivity gains for 4.2%, and a positive mix effect 50 • since 2012, in Ireland, the Wexford Early life nutrition for 0.2%. 0 In the Fresh dairy products division, energy training division site uses a wood-burning boiler that saves 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 courses known as “Energy Campuses” continue to bring 23,500 metric tons of greenhouse gases annually and energy experts into play to support implementation of best helps reduce fossil fuel costs. practices at all production sites. Two sessions were organized in 2013, in North America and Central Europe. In addition, thirty of the group’s production experts and twelve suppliers participated in a two-day seminar aiming to identify innovative energy reduction solutions which will be tested at pilot sites before possible deployment in the next few years. In the Early life nutrition division, the Energy network has one expert per plant; this network liaises on a monthly basis with the goal of reducing energy and water consumption. 90 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 91 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION ENERGY WATER WATER A similar project was begun with external stakeholders On a like-for-like basis, water consumption intensity related Best practices in the Fresh dairy products division, in 2013. Together with the Association for the protection EN8 to the production processes decreased by 4% between 2012 in particular the use of water in cleaning cycles, are Total water withdrawal by source of rainwater catchment for Evian mineral waters and 2013. This change is the result of a favorable mix effect consolidated in the NEPTUNE tool and rolled out (APIEME), the Danone Eaux France subsidiary launched for 1% (increased production at Waters division sites) and to all plants. The table below presents the water consumption of the the “Terragr’Eau methanization” project in the Evian of efforts to improve productivity in all divisions for 3%. group’s production sites at December 31, 2012 and 2013 natural spring catchment area, with the support of the Within the Waters division, the WaterWatcher tool allows (Production sites environment scope): Danone Ecosystem Fund. The purpose of this project, The graph below shows the variation in intensity of total monitoring of water use in the bottling sites and helps which will include the construction of a methanization water consumption related to the production processes identify areas for improvement. This tool has been rolled Thousands of cubic meters 2012 2013 unit, is to manage soil fertilization by recovering between 2012 and 2013: out to every division site. Total water withdrawn from √ 60,628 agricultural waste from within the region. The project’s 58,707 the surrounding area success is ensured locally by the participation of 48 of the well water 43,589 43,934 Water consumption intensity related to the The sites measure all water consumed for every use 54 farmers on the Gavot plateau, who occupy 86% of the municipal water 11,862 12,759 production processes (in m3/ton of product) (production, cleaning, etc.) to identify the items generating catchment area’s farmland. The methanizer will produce river water 3,256 3,935 1,28 losses and define appropriate action plans for reducing these 1.27 -1.0% 1,485,000 cubic meters of biogas for injection into the √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document -3.0% losses. The sites also have annual water loss reduction goals, 1,26 natural gas distribution grid, or 7.5 MWh; this will be the with their performance published quarterly by the division. first French site to practice biogas injection into the public 1,24 More than 15 billion liters have been saved in this way since Of the 60,628 thousand of cubic meters of water -1.0% grid. This project will thus contribute to reducing 1.20 2008 (equivalent to 15,000 thousand metric tons). Danone withdrawn, Danone uses: 1,20 greenhouse gas emissions by more than 2,000 metric tons continued its water footprint research in 2013, notably with • 24,573 thousand of cubic meters of water in the equivalent CO2 per year. The “Terragr’eau methanization” 1,18 its partner Quantis, as well as by contributing to the composition of its finished products, primarily at its project comprises multiple social aspects, including support development of international (ISO) and European bottling sites (compared with 22,996 thousand cubic 1,16 for the continuity of farming operations in the region, the Intensity of water Mix effect on a Productivity on a Change of reporting Intensity of water (ENVIFOOD protocol) standards. meters in 2012); consumption like-for-like like-for-like scope consumption development of a training pole and the creation of around in 2012 basis basis in 2013 • 36,055 thousand of cubic meters of water for production ten related jobs. This approach has served to establish a water footprint processes (compared with 35,711 thousand cubic meters The graph below indicates the variation in total water evaluation methodology that takes into account: in 2012). Purchase of electricity speciﬁcally generated consumption intensity related to the group’s production • the inventory of consumption at each product lifecycle from 100% renewable sources processes since 2000, for the reporting scope of each of the stage: product manufacture (ingredients, packaging, The group’s water consumption increased by 3.3% between Every subsidiary is responsible for choosing its energy mix. years concerned. The intensity of total water consumption production, packing), transport, consumer use and 2012 and 2013, which breaks down to +2.7% from rising In 2013, six production sites purchased electricity from related to production processes was reduced by 45.9% over end of life; quantities of water used for the composition of products, 100% renewable sources (wind power, hydropower, etc.). the 2000-2013 period. • local water stress factors (water stress is defined as a and +0.6% linked to greater quantities of water used in This represents 3% of the group’s total electricity purchases. deficit of water of satisfactory quality to meet human production processes. and environmental needs); Intensity of water consumption related to production processes (in m3/ton of product) • compensatory measures directly related to product ADD EN7 The table below presents water consumption related 2.5 formulation (protection policy or CSR program), Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption to production processes at the group’s production sites 2.22 which are evaluated in the form of water volume credits. and reductions achieved at December 31, 2012 and 2013 (Production sites 2.0 1.84 1.67 environment scope): 1.48 1.5 1.32 1.31 1.27 This methodology will be used to identify sensitive See indicator EN6. 1.20 zones and methods for reducing impacts across the entire 2012-2013 1.0 Thousands change on lifecycle of the group’s products, in the Waters division 2012 2013 of cubic meters a like-for0.5 in a first phase. like basis Water consumption in √ 36,055 0 35,711 0.5% the production processes 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water consumption intensity related to the production 1.27 1.20 -4.0% processes (in cubic meters/ metric ton of product) √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document 92 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 93 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION WATER BIODIVERSITY In addition, the Fresh dairy products division worked with (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Chamber of Agriculture, ARDAB (Association of organic Quantis and the Livestock Institute in 2012 to test a water and Danone launched a recognition process EN11 farmers of the Rhône and Loire) and the Loire Bretagne Location and size of land owned, leased, footprint evaluation methodology for upstream agriculture to give this tool benchmark status. water agency, will now support La Bulle Verte in managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas in four group subsidiaries in various regions around the developing an action program to roll out agricultural and areas of high biodiversity value outside world. In 2013, the Danone Eaux France subsidiary In 2011, a new scientific tool (Hydre) was implemented methods that are respectful of water quality. For greater protected areas (Waters division) developed a pilot Water Footprint at the Danone Eaux France and Health (Danone Waters impact, the association has joined forces with the Bird measurement tool with Quantis to complement the group’s China) sites. This tool helps to monitor and plan for Protection League (LPO) in a wildlife inventory program The group’s sites are located in very diverse ecosystems carbon footprint measurement system (Danprint). changes in water quantity and quality throughout a covering the 40 square kilometers of the catchment area. and climates. Among these sites, several benefit from an drainage basin by analyzing geological and hydrogeological exceptional environment and specific protection. In the data. In 2012, it was deployed at the sites in Poland and The “PEPS’S” association was also founded in 2012 ADD EN9 Argentina. New functionalities were added to this tool in Fresh dairy products division, for example, the Molay plant to protect the catchment area of La Salvetat Mineral Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal in France was designated a Natura 2000 zone in 2009. 2013, in particular a module for graphic and statistical Water, covering the plant and the five towns in the area. of water This is also the case of Waters division sites whose rainwater analysis. An appropriate action program is being implemented to catchment areas are receiving increased attention. In See the programs for protection of biodiversity zones protect this region of more than 80 square kilometers. See indicator EN8 for the various sources of water used. France, Danone continues to implement measures to under EN11. protect its springs in collaboration with local partners, In addition, initiatives taken in the Volvic catchment area Of the 60.6 million cubic meters of water withdrawn, based on a model developed in 1992 with the Association by CEPIV (Environment Committee for the Protection Danone uses some 25 million cubic meters in formulating ADD EN10 for the protection of rainwater catchment for Evian mineral of the Volvic Rainwater catchment) are at the heart of a its finished products (not including production processes), Percentage and total volume of water recycled waters (APIEME). Today this approach is applied to European project known as Life-SEMEAU. This project essentially sourced from 87 bottling sites. and reused all the group’s natural mineral water springs. involves the development of a tool to simulate the role of forests in water resource quality and quantity. In The group has set a goal of ensuring the protection of the Production sites use water for production line cooling In September 2008, the Evian spring was added to the list cooperation with local players, the tool is used to define source area (rainwater catchment), the transition zone (path circuits. This water is reused in almost all cases (open of wetlands covered by the Ramsar convention (United farm and forest management plans for the areas concerned, taken by the water in the rock layers) and the emergence cooling circuits are the exception and not the standard). Nations program), which aims to ensure sustainable based on protection of the water resource and local area (exit zone for the spring). Additionally, every source For example, in the Early life nutrition division, the management of these regions that are key to maintaining economic development. It can be applied to highland area is operated in compliance with rules established by the Brive-la-Gaillarde plant (France) reuses a portion of this biodiversity. In Argentina, the Villavicencio site extends drainage areas in Europe, many of which are covered group, in particular with regard to long-term sustainability water for cleaning the production lines, and another for into a natural reserve of more than 70,000 hectares with forest. of volumes stored. sterilizing by steam, allowing the site to reduce its water (173,000 acres). Very close to the Andes, the site is home consumption by around 50%. to a wealth of biodiversity and initiatives have been taken In Indonesia, Aqua (Waters division subsidiary), the Danone drafted a charter titled “Groundwater protection to ensure the sustainable management of the area and CIRAD (French Agricultural Research Centre for policy” signed by Franck Riboud, Chairman and CEO of The production sites also use water for production line protection of water resources. Ecotourism and International Development) and the local NGO Bina Danone, in October 2004. This policy defines the group’s cleaning cycles, which are optimized to reuse the most environmental awareness projects are developed in the Swadaya launched a project in 2010 for protecting water commitment to sustainable management of groundwater during the pre-cleaning cycles. Investments have been reserve. In 2011, Danone signed an agreement with the resources in the Klaten catchment area while also in terms of managing natural and heritage resources. It made at several plants to improve water recuperation, Wetland Foundation that aims to qualify the Villavicencio improving the income of local farmers. A cooperative – restates the core protection objectives and describes in as has been accomplished at the Bailleul site in France site in Argentina as a Ramsar site, similar to what was Pusur Lestari – was created; it offers agronomy training and detail the principles of their application by all group (Fresh dairy products division). done for Evian. helps farmers obtain financing via a micro-credit system. subsidiaries. These application principles are systematically assessed for each spring and give rise to specific action In France, one of the primary approaches is to work plans. Site evaluation is based on the SPRING tool together with farmers to promote sustainable agriculture. (Sustainable Protection and Resources managING) which This involves avoiding the use of pesticides and fertilizers defines management standards for each source of spring that might infiltrate the water table. water bottled by the group. This tool has been deployed in every Waters division site, which has established a national The association “La Bulle Verte” (the Green Bubble) and regional availability map to identify pollution risks and founded in 2010 and uniting the town of Saint-Galmier, risks of water scarcity, as well as priority action zones. In France (where the Badoit spring is located) and its 2012, the Ramsar convention (United Nations neighboring towns, is dedicated to preserving natural international convention for wetland protection), IUCN spaces and biodiversity. The partners, which include the 94 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 95 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION BIODIVERSITY BIODIVERSITY In 2013, Danone Waters China drew inspiration from The group never withdraws more than what the spring Three projects are under way: the Indonesian project to strengthen its water resource can naturally produce. The water is checked for consistent ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored protection actions in the region surrounding the Longmen composition through regular sampling by certified outside In Senegal: with more than 10,000 hectares (24,700 acres) site (Guangzhou), in partnership with the Danone laboratories. Bottling is carried out under strict hygiene of restored mangrove and 79 million mangrove trees See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater protection Ecosystem Fund. This project aims to involve some 4,000 procedures, and water quality is verified daily. already replanted, the project developed by the NGO program. farmers and preserve the quantity and quality of water Océanium in Sine Saloum and Casamance is the world’s resources while also improving the living conditions of In the areas of agriculture and milk supply, the largest mangrove restoration project. Nearly 450 villages are Livelihoods Fund initiatives local communities, based on awareness initiatives and Fresh dairy products division launched the FaRMS involved in this project. With support from the Livelihoods Based on its successful experience with carbon offset the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices. The initiative with its farmer partners in 1997 (see indicator Fund, the key players in this successful project, Océanium projects launched in partnership with IUCN and the project aims to improve the quality of water consumed EN26 concerning initiatives taken to promote sustainable and the local communities, pool their capabilities to Ramsar convention on wetland since 2008, Danone by 20 million people living in the region by 2017. agriculture), to help improve and audit farms’ maintain the local ecosystem and develop sustainable decided to invite other companies to join these initiatives environmental practices (energy and water consumption, economic activity. by creating the Livelihoods Fund in 2011. Today, eight use of fertilizer and manure, waste, animal well-being, etc.). EN12 This tool encourages farmers to leave hedges and grassy large companies participate alongside Danone in this In India: in collaboration with the NGO Nature Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, carbon fund, which invests in major natural ecosystem stretches on their land, particularly adjacent to streams, Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS) and the local products, and services on biodiversity in protected restoration projects. These projects contribute to combating to protect biodiversity. communities in the Sundarban region, the project has areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside climate change by binding large volumes of carbon. The already enabled 16 million mangrove trees to be replanted protected areas goal is to store seven million metric tons of carbon over Danone also supports projects that foster rational use of on 5,500 hectares (13,600 acres) of mangrove. This area 20 years, for a minimum investment of €30 million. pesticides and fertilizers in the fields, and more integrated extends close to villages and offers them natural protection In the Waters division, protection of biodiversity The fund has already invested in six projects covering (Bleu Blanc Cœur) or organic (Les Deux Vaches, against climatic events. The project also serves to maintain is one of the core elements of the strategy for three types of activity in Africa and Asia. Stonyfield Farm, etc.) agricultural models. sediment surfaces enabling fishery resources to redevelop. protection of natural water resources The operation of a spring is related to its intrinsic quality. Mangrove restoration The Danone Produit Frais France subsidiary has thus In Indonesia, on the island of Sumatra: the restoration The spring must offer excellent geological and natural Since 2008, together with the Ramsar convention and launched the Reine Mathilde project, a program for the project launched in 2011 with the NGO Yagasu aims to protection. The Evian mineral spring, for example, is IUCN, the Livelihoods Fund has focused on mangrove development of organic milk production in the region of rebuild the mangrove by planting local species and to protected by a waterproof layer several dozen meters thick ecosystems for two main reasons: they are among the Basse-Normandie, in which one of the key initiatives is the restore a functional ecosystem to foster local communities’ with an average renewal period of 20 years. world’s most highly endangered ecosystems, and impact creation of a flagship experimental organic farm. The farm economic activity (fish, crab, shrimp, honey, etc.). From the vulnerable populations who live there. They feature a has organized nine open houses and received several 2011 to 2013, 10 million trees were replanted on 3,000 Each spring is subject to intensive geological research as wealth of biodiversity, at the interface between aquatic and hundred visitors since 2011. This regular event helps unite hectares (7,400 acres). well as environmental studies to identify risk factors in the land-based ecosystems. These ecosystems provide organic farmers and their partners, familiarize them with area and implement measures to protect natural and rural matter, guarantee the necessary biodiversity for the sustainable and innovative organic farming practices, and Agroforestry resources. Danone relies on local and national legislation development of fishery resources, and protect associated win them over by gradually showing them the concrete Agroforestry projects contribute to the regeneration of soil, and on contract agreements to obtain operating rights, crops. Lastly, being a considerable producer of biomass, a benefits and limitations of each of the practices tried out. pasture lands, forests and crop productions that have lost which may include restrictions (drilling prohibitions, mangrove ecosystem has high potential for carbon capture. their organic matter content and their fertility. Several regulation of polluting activities, etc.). In Costa Rica, Stonyfield and the Sustainable Food Lab agronomy protocols are applied based on local conditions. have launched the CAPE (Cellular Aseptic Processing These protocols aim to both restore the fertility of land and Water catchment takes place primarily through drilling Equipment) project with the goal of designing an organic boost subsistence and market crop farming activities. within a closed perimeter inaccessible to unauthorized fruit processing unit suitable for small and medium-sized persons. Catchment facilities ensure the hygiene and farms. This project should enable farmers from the APPTA In the Araku Valley in India, the Naandi Foundation has consistency of operations, and are adapted to the resource’s cooperative (Association of small producers of Talamanca) been working to support the region’s farmers for ten years hydrodynamics. Danone makes full use of experts to to reduce their losses, which today amount to 40% of their now. Organized in a “Small Tribal Farmers’ Cooperative,” ensure the rational and sustainable operation of its springs. production of cacao, bananas and other organic tropical they have launched an initiative to replant shade trees for For each site under operation, replacement of the natural fruits, due to the distance between the farmers and the coffee crops, with Naandi’s help. The project launched in resource is the single essential criteria. processing plant. These farmers will thus be able to increase 2010 with the Livelihoods Fund has enabled the planting their income. of some 3 million shade trees on 6,000 hectares (14,800 acres) of coffee farmland; 10,000 small coffee producers are involved in the project. 96 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 97 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION BIODIVERSITY BIODIVERSITY Sustainable tree upkeep methods will be applied and both Danone’s actions through its brands The group’s Forest Footprint policy crop yields and quality should improve. Villavicencio: “Dejá tu Huella” operation ADD EN14 Conscious of the critical importance of preserving Strategies, current actions, and future plans To preserve its natural source of mineral water, the the planet’s forests (in particular the tropical forests in for managing impacts on biodiversity In 2013, in Guatemala, in partnership with the government Villavicencio brand protects its surrounding nature reserve Indonesia and the Congo and Amazon basins), Danone is and the local NGO Fundaeco, the Livelihoods Fund of 72,000 hectares (178,000 acres) and its rich biodiversity. committed to a strategy of eliminating the deforestation In 2012, Danone commissioned a study from Bio launched a new project aimed at preserving the forests of Building on this experience, it is continuing an innovative impacts of its supply chain, and to a reforestation program, Intelligence Service to estimate the overall soil use related the Cerro San Gil region, known for its rich biodiversity. partnership with the NGO Banco de Bosques to between now and 2020. directly and indirectly to its businesses. This study indicates Aiming to plant 5 million trees on 4,000 hectares (9,900 implement the “Dejá tu Huella” (“Leave your mark”) that indirect activities (upstream agriculture) represent acres), this is the largest reforestation project ever operation, which allows consumers to participate in For this purpose, Danone has created a Forest Footprint more than 98% of the estimated surface area (3 million undertaken in Guatemala. In 2013, 300 hectares (740 creating a new nature reserve in the Chaco region, a huge policy that aims to: hectares / 7.4 million acres). acres) have already been restored with local communities. biodiversity reservoir of 250,000 hectares (618,000 acres) • evaluate deforestation risks related to the raw materials that is home to endangered jaguar and tapir species. For used directly or indirectly for the group’s activities; As the impact of Danone’s activity on biodiversity is Rural energy every bottle purchased, Villavicencio commits to protecting • propose specific policies; primarily related to upstream agriculture (soil and water), Responding to basic needs for energy (heating and lighting) one square meter of the reserve. Actions are also taken • implement actions prioritized according to risks and a pilot product lifecycle analysis study was completed in is a challenge in emerging countries, particularly in rural to inform the public of the dangers of deforestation and associated impacts. Six key commodities have been 2013 by the Danone LTDA subsidiary in Brazil (Fresh areas. Inefficient cooking methods generate energy costs as the importance of biodiversity in the local ecosystem. identified as priorities: paper and cardboard packaging, dairy products division), with NGO partners IPE (Instituto well as risks of respiratory disease for the local populations. The results are convincing, with nearly 2,200 hectares palm oil, soy for animal feed, wood energy, sugar cane, de Pesquisas Ecologicas) and IUCN (International Union They are also a major cause of deforestation, creating (5,400 acres) protected, active public participation in and bio-sourced raw materials for packaging. for Conservation of Nature), to evaluate the issues relating significant pressure on forests and threatening their the project, and increased consumer preference for the to biodiversity in Danone’s value chain and identify ecosystems and biodiversity. Optimization projects are Villavicencio brand. This policy has been rolled out with a specific policy concrete initiatives with farmers. based on simple, more efficient solutions. Improved for palm oil and a specific policy for paper/cardboard cooking methods greatly reduce consumption of wood Bonafont: “One million trees” packaging, co-developed with a benchmark NGO Sustainable agriculture and thus CO2 emissions, which can then be converted In 2013, in partnership with the local NGO Pronatura Sur, (Rainforest Alliance). See indicator EN26 concerning initiatives to reduce into carbon credits. Bonafont also developed a mangrove restoration project environmental impacts of products and services, and along the hurricane-devastated Mexican coasts in Chiapas Danone makes these policies publicly available on their effects. The Livelihoods Fund already invests extensively in and Oaxaca. A major campaign was launched to involve its website. agroforestry and ecosystem restoration projects, and in consumers and raise awareness: the Bonafont subsidiary Water and biodiversity Kenya at the end of 2012, in collaboration with Climate committed to investing a portion of revenues from the sale See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater Pal, launched its first rural energy project: “Hifadhi” of its bottles in the project, and to replanting one tree for protection program. (which means “conserve” or “keep” in the local language). every new “like” on its Facebook page. One million This project comprises two complementary facets: Mexicans participated and showed their support on the social network over the course of seven weeks. The local • distribution of improved cookstoves to 60,000 communities are at the center of the project: many households in three districts. These clay stoves set in awareness and training initiatives were carried out with metal reduce wood consumption by 60% compared residents and 183 of them participated directly in with traditional stoves, which helps to protect the local replanting trees. The project also helped to increase the forests (approximately 13,000 metric tons of wood not mangrove’s fishery resources, which contributes to securing burnt) and reduce CO2 emissions (preventing emission the revenues of the region’s 5,500 fishermen. of 2.75 metric tons per year and per stove); • implementation, at the same time, of an ambitious replanting project: 2,4 million trees will be planted with the communities. These trees will provide heating wood, fruit for both consumption and sale, and timber; the project will further help to restore degraded soil. 98 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 99 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS BIODIVERSITY AND WASTE AND WASTE In 2013, the teams particularly focused on deploying the Indirect emissions (scope 2) are emissions arising from the ADD EN15 EN16 module co-developed with software editor SAP for production of electricity, steam, heat or cold purchased by Number of IUCN Red List species and national Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas measuring the carbon footprint based on lifecycle analysis the group. conservation list species with habitats in areas emissions by weight (T eq. CO2) rules established previously for Danprint. This rollout aims affected by operations, by level of extinction risk to integrate footprint calculation with the subsidiaries’ The table below presents the group’s total greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions through product enterprise resource planning systems (ERP), and is emissions (scopes 1 and 2) at December 31, 2012 and 2013: The group has no production sites within protected zones lifecycle analysis successfully leading to extensive automation of data where species on the IUCN red list are located. Danone’s products are largely derived from natural collection. At end-2013, it was deployed in 22 subsidiaries Total emissions 2012 (all 2012 2013 ecosystems. That is why it is in the group’s interest to of greenhouse gases (produc(production representing around 46% of net sales. in T eq. CO2 sites) tion sites) sites) Certain regions outside the plants but still necessary to the contribute to preserving the environment in the framework Emissions scope 1 894,206* 480,120 460,256 group’s business are subject to increased protection. This is of its activities. Because carbon footprint is a global In 2013, Danone entered the Carbon Disclosure Emissions scope 2 847,529 767,170 778,566 true for rainwater catchment areas needed by the Waters indicator that reflects a number of different environmental Leadership Index for France in the framework of the Total emissions 1,741,735 1,247,290 √ 1,238,822 division, as many springs are located in nature zones whose parameters, Danone set itself the goal in 2008 of reducing Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP provides an √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document preservation is a primary goal. In partnership with the Bird its carbon intensity (g CO2/kg of products sold) by 30% evaluation tool for institutional investors and other Protection League (LPO), Volvic takes part in a program to over the 2008-2012 period, wherever the group exercises (*) of which vehicle emissions in T eq. CO2: 371,277 stakeholders. In 2013, the index included 25 firms selected protect the Red Kite and several species of bat in the Massif direct responsibility (production sites, logistics, packaging for the quality of data disclosed and performance in actions Central in France. A dozen nature-loving employees and end of life, excluding upstream agriculture). This taken to reduce climate change. The highest scorers enter volunteer to devote some of their work time to the ambitious goal was significantly exceeded thanks to the the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Danone’s observation, study and monitoring of nesting populations ongoing commitment of Danone’s teams and of the group’s excellent rating in 2013 (93/100) illustrates the group’s in connection with the “National Red Kite Action Plan.” partners participating in this policy. At end-2013, a 37.4% good internal data management and its understanding of Volvic received the first Skills Sponsorship award from the reduction had been achieved since 2008 (on a like-for-like climate change issues relevant to it. The score also rewards French Ministry of Ecology for this commitment in 2010. basis). Every link in the business chain is the focus of a Danone’s high degree of transparency in its responses. specific strategy with clear priorities. The international CITES report inventories the forest Greenhouse gas emissions by organization species threatened by deforestation in fragile tropical forests Organic These are calculated using the methodology described around the world. Under the group’s paper and cardboard reduction: 37.4% in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (see Report packaging procurement policy, all suppliers must strictly 2007 Parameters p. 157). comply with international legislation and not include these Emission -16.2g factors species in the paper pulp they use. variation Product -11.8g The approach chosen by Danone in 2013 is to integrate mix and geographic all the emission sources at the group’s production sites into effect 304.4 g CO2/kg Reduction action Measurement method its carbon footprint measurement. Emissions from offices, plans variation 2013 -86.6g warehouses and vehicles were not measured this year. Scope + 36.5g 226.7g Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions arising from CO2/kg + 0.4g consumption of fuels (natural gas, heating oil, coal, etc.) and refrigerant leaks. Carbon footprint measurement has been carried out since 2008 using the Danprint tool developed for the subsidiaries. The tool is currently deployed throughout the group. With this lifecycle analysis based tool the group can assess its progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared with goals defined in the Nature Plan for all activities in Danone’s direct scope of responsibility (production sites, logistics, packaging and end of life, excluding upstream agriculture). 100 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 101 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE AND WASTE Carbon footprint at group level (in %) Carbon footprint of the Waters division (in %) Carbon footprint of the Medical nutrition EN17 Total scope: 585 g eq. CO2 /kg product Total scope: 146 g eq. CO2 / kg product division (in %) Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: Total scope: 2,401 g eq. CO2 / kg product by weight (T eq. CO2) 226 g eq. CO2 / kg product 111 g eq. CO2 / kg product Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: 788 g eq. CO2 / kg product The group’s total emissions in 2013 (including upstream agriculture) are estimated at 17 million metric tons 1.2% 1.7% 0.9% 1.4% 0.3% equivalent CO2. The following estimates are obtained in Milk Other raw materials 2.2% Milk grams equivalent CO2 per kg of product for the group and Other raw materials 9.2% Packaging Other raw materials 7.1% 15.1% 5.8% by division, across the entire lifecycle analysis (direct and Packaging Production Packaging indirect emissions). 10.6% Production Logistics 13.3% Production Logistics Retail sales Logistics Retail sales Packaging end of life Retail sales 46.3% 36.1% 43.1% 11.3% 20.7% Packaging end of life Packaging end of life 12% Product end of life Product end of life 14.0% 7.9% 18.0% 21.9% Carbon footprint of the Fresh dairy products Carbon footprint of the Early life nutrition division (in %) division (in %) Total scope: 1,817 g eq. CO2 / kg product Total scope: 9,067 g eq. CO2 / kg product Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: 602 g eq. CO2 / kg product 1,749 g eq. CO2 / kg product 1.6% 2.5% 0.4% 1.2% 1% Milk Milk 6.8% Other raw materials 3% Other raw materials Packaging 11.3% Packaging 9.9% Production Production 3.4% Logistics Logistics Retail sales Retail sales 8.9% 54.0% 10.3% 69.3% Packaging end of life Packaging end of life Product end of life Product end of life 10.3% 6.1% 102 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 103 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE AND WASTE ADD EN18 EN19 EN20 EN22 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Emissions of ozone-depleting substances NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions Total weight of waste by type and and reductions achieved by weight by type and weight disposal method Reduction on scope of direct responsibility The table below indicates emissions of ozone-depleting The table below presents the NOx and SOx emissions The table below presents the quantities of waste generated The actions that contribute most strongly to reducing substances by the group’s sites at December 31, 2012 of the group’s sites at December 31, 2012 and 2013 by the group’s production sites at December 31, 2012 and emissions are reducing energy consumption in the and 2013 (Production sites environment scope): (Production sites environment scope): 2013 (Production sites environment scope): production plants, reducing packaging, and optimizing supply logistics flows. T eq. CFC 2012 2013 T eq. NOx SOx 2012 2013 Variation (**) (**) (*) on a likeCFC 0.000 0.002 NOx emissions 1,024 1,038 Metric tons 2012 2013 2013 for-like Plants Packaging Logistics HCFC 0.453 0.233 SOx emissions 1,466 954 basis(**) Total quantity End 2007 End 2013 -34.1% -38.1% -39.7% of waste 271,068 278,926 295,449 6.4% Emissions arising from the use of refrigerants that deplete the ozone layer decreased in 2013. This reduction was EN21 generated Ratio of total Enhanced measurement in the scope of indirect Total water discharge by quality and destination quantity of achieved through the gradual replacement of the waste genera9.6 9.3 9.8 1.6% responsibility ted per metric refrigerants used. Certain refrigerants have otherwise a In 2013, Danone primarily devoted its efforts to The table below presents the quantities of COD discharged ton of product significant impact on the greenhouse gas emissions, Total quanharmonizing carbon footprint measurement methodologies after treatment by the group’s production sites at December particularly HFCs. In the framework of the Consumer tity of waste with the group’s main suppliers of strategic raw materials. 31, 2012 and 2013 (Production sites environment scope): eliminated 238,339 √ 223,799 √ 229,413 Goods Forum, Danone has committed to cease buying by a specific refrigerators with HFCs for its own fleet by the end of process Variation on Proportion 2015. Under a policy known as the BCool initiative, Metric tons 2012 2013 a like-for-like of waste Danone began updating its proprietary refrigerator fleet basis √ recovered 87.9% 80.2% √ 77.6% Final discharge of Chemical √ 5,044 by a specific at points of sale in 2010 to ensure that only natural Oxygen Demand (COD) 4,085 22.3% process refrigerants based on CH or CO2 technologies are in use. Net COD ratio (kg/metric ton 0.14 0.17 16.8% of product) √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document By also selecting refrigerators with better energy √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document (*) including sludge from wastewater treatment facilities performance and ensuring their end-of-life recycling, (**) excluding sludge from wastewater treatment facilities Danone achieves both reduced energy consumption The net chemical oxygen demand (that is, COD after and a reduction in ozone-depleting emissions. treatment) per metric ton of product increased on a The group consolidates the quantities of waste generated like-for-like basis from 2012 to 2013. This is due in part to by the production sites into four new categories: hazardous the launch of new products with a strong impact on gross waste, non-hazardous non-organic waste, non-hazardous COD (that is, before treatment), as well as by the organic waste and the sludge from treatment facilities difficulties encountered in commissioning new wastewater (returned products and whey are not included, the latter treatment equipment. Action plans are in place in the being a byproduct that is generally reused by a third party) subsidiaries involved to reduce losses in wastewater and/or and monitors the percentage of these waste products that improve the equipment’s purification performance. is recovered. Recovery takes place through recycling, reuse of waste, composting and waste-to-energy transformation. 104 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 105 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES On a like-for-like basis, the ratio of waste generated per Packaging end of life: turning waste into resources metric ton of product increased by 1.6% between 2012 EN23 EN26 Danone seeks to expand collection and recycling of its Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills Initiatives to mitigate environmental and 2013, primarily because of an increase in the quantity packaging and aims to: impacts of products and services, and extent of organic waste following the launch of new products. • continue to support efforts to increase collection and No significant accidental spill occurred in 2013. of impact mitigation The reclamation rate decreased to around 78% for the reclamation rates for recycling in the countries where following reasons: waste collection is already organized by environmental Danone’s initiatives for reducing the impact • better application of the reporting scope; ADD EN24 of its packaging agencies; • integration of sludge from treatment facilities; Weight of transported, imported, exported, • where this activity is not organized, contribute to the Ever lighter bottles • difficulties in recovering a portion of organic waste or treated waste deemed hazardous under the collection of materials used in the packaging of Danone Danone has launched a number of initiatives for reducing in 2013. terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and products and explore new collection systems. the weight of its bottles. The initiative launched by the VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped Danone Waters China subsidiary is representative of the The sludge from treatment facilities only concerns internationally Through the Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone supports group’s policy to work on reducing the weight of its the sites that discharge their wastewater directly into four projects (in Indonesia, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil) packaging. The weight of the Mizone brand bottles has the environment following on-site treatment. In 2013, This indicator does not concern Danone. that encourage recycling, and in particular PET recycling, been significantly reduced since 2004, in particular in the 32% of these sites reported data. which has a positive impact on local economies. These large 600 mL format whose weight decreased by more than projects combine social and environmental goals and allow ADD EN25 25% between 2004 and 2012. Danone to increase its use of recycled PET (rPET) while Proportion of waste reclaimed by a speciﬁc process Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity (excluding sludge from treatment facilities) in % also improving working conditions and compensation for value of water bodies and related habitats Year Weight of the Mizone 100 87.9 bottle (600 mL) in g waste pickers. 84.1 82.3 85.8 86.1 87.4 80.2 signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting 2004 40 80 organization’s discharges of water and runoff 64.3 2005 35.8 In Mexico, in partnership with Ashoka and the association 60 2010 33.3 Mundo Sustentable, and with the support of the Danone See indicators EN9, EN11 and EN14 concerning water supply 2011 30.5 Ecosystem Fund, Bonafont has launched a project that 40 sources and protecting biodiversity. 2012 28.5 aims to organize the informal waste collection sector via 20 the construction of a sorting platform. With this project, 0 Bonafont is experimenting with a new supply chain model 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Between 2010 and 2013, these efforts allowed the Mizone that should enable it to double its purchase volumes of brand to save more than 8,500 tons of PET. recycled PET, while also improving the living conditions of the waste pickers working in the garbage dumps. There are Use of recycled materials thus 287 of them working on the platform and benefiting Expanding the use of recycled materials has been a major from this new PET purchasing model. strategic objective for the group for several years, whether through improved collection or optimized packaging end Plant-derived materials of life. A quarter of the group’s primary and secondary Four years of experimentation with plant-based plastics packaging is made of recycled materials. Danone is strongly (sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn) for five brands committed to a responsible circular “from the bottle to the (Volvic, Actimel, Activia, Danonino and Stonyfield) have bottle” approach, and aims to increase the proportion of allowed Danone to further its knowledge of the recycled PET (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in environmental implications (lifecycle analysis), compliance the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian and Bonafont with sustainability criteria (competition with food, end are already using rPET. The average rate of rPET of life, etc.), associated business issues and consumer incorporation in the Waters division was 9% in 2013. perceptions. 106 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 107 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION COMPLIANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WITH LEGISLATION TRANSPORT The group continues its many collaborative initiatives with In Poland, one of the pilot countries, the project involves experts and stakeholders to improve impact measurement the 350 dairy producers who supply the subsidiary, as well EN28 ADD EN 29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting and allow the emergence of third-generation renewable as their families and more broadly all consumers via an total number of non-monetary sanctions products and other goods and materials used for materials, that is, materials that are not in direct advertising campaign. The project aims to support dairy for non-compliance with environmental the organization’s operations, and transporting competition with foodstuffs. Danone is a founding farm development, secure a supply of quality milk, laws and regulations members of the workforce member of the Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance (BFA) with improve the living conditions of farmers and their families, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to encourage responsible and reduce the environmental impact of agricultural Danone paid a total of €114,000 in the form of penalties Transport is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. development of bioplastics. BFA brings industry together production. Concerning milk quality, for example, and fines for environmental issues in 2013, involving The share of logistics in products’ carbon footprint varies with leading experts, research organizations and society producers are trained in techniques that contribute to five sites. by division: as a whole to help guide the evaluation and sustainable the well-being of their 22,000 cows (food, health, etc.). development of these new materials. To learn more, The producers’ children were invited to participate as Fresh Early go to www.bioplasticfeedstockalliance.org. well, via a drawing contest on the topic “How my family dairy Waters life Medical and I take care of our cows,” an opportunity to share Group prodivinutrinutrition ducts sion tion division Initiatives taken by Danone to support farmers in best practices. This policy received a Forbes Sustainability division division developing sustainable agricultural practices that Award. Share of logistics in respect the environment 11% 10% 21% 3% 6% the carbon Although Danone does not generally control its upstream The FaRMS program footprint segment and accounts for less than 1% of global milk The FaRMS program (Farmers Relationship Management collection, the group has long been committed to reducing Software) was expanded during 2013 in the Fresh dairy While raw milk collection is by nature a local activity its environmental impact, joining FARRE (Forum for products division to include the Ukrainian, Egyptian and (extending a distance of 79 km on average from production integrated agriculture that respects the environment) Moroccan subsidiaries. The program now covers 50% of sites in France), Danone seeks to develop optimal solutions in 1999 and co-founding SAI (Sustainable Agriculture direct milk intake (14 subsidiaries), which represents almost with its transporters for all of its activities. Transport is Initiative) in 2002. 3,500 million liters of milk. This program supports largely contracted out, but Danone applies numerous best producers who implement best practices that are respectful practices to make it more efficient and reduce its energy In 2012, Danone launched a Sustainable Agriculture of the environment, and ensures systematic monitoring of intensity. taskforce to redefine its strategy in this area. Internal and farms with respect to nine key environmental criteria such external stakeholders (Danone Ecosystem Fund, expert as waste management, the use of crop protection products, In the Fresh dairy products division, logistics panel, etc.) were involved from the start, first to select a and energy and water consumption. A specific related audit environmental best practices have been communicated tool for assessing farm sustainability (based on the RISE was developed for intake centers; in 2013 this audit was since 2011 via the publication of Green Supply Chain method developed by Bern University), referencing a introduced in the subsidiaries in Books now also shared with the Early life nutrition division. complete benchmark (100 tools assessed) that addresses all Egypt and Morocco. The In 2012 the Waters division published its first Green Supply four dimensions (Health, Economy, Nature and Social). subsidiaries in Algeria, the United Chain Book. These best practice guide books allow the The task force then implemented the vision operationally States and Tunisia should enter the subsidiaries to share their most effective measures and through concrete projects in six pilot countries in 2013 program in 2014. therefore facilitate their deployment at new sites. (Europe, Americas and Asia) covering all models of dairy production (from subsistence farms to large farming Initiatives proposed in this way by the Waters and Fresh operations). The initiative aims to foster the adoption of EN27 dairy products divisions aim to improve the subsidiaries’ Percentage of products sold and their packaging sustainable farming practices in close collaboration with environmental and operational performance for a variety materials that are reclaimed by category producers and other dairy sector stakeholders. of activities including storage, waste management, and upstream and downstream transport. See indicator EN2 on the use of recycled PET. 108 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 109 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION TRANSPORT TRANSPORT For each activity, the subsidiaries are encouraged to reflect In the Fresh dairy products division, product lifetime is Constantly streamlining and seeking new solutions • the innovative downstream consolidation shared on three key focus areas to reduce impact from transport: shorter and use of rail transport is not always possible. Danone’s teams seek to implement innovative solutions to warehouse concept in the Miramas Carrefour warehouse • reducing energy intensity (alternative energy sources, Nonetheless, several countries have successfully reduce carbon emissions relating to transport while was continued in 2012. This concept enables a full train lower consumption, etc.); implemented intermodal projects, such as in the United improving logistics organization. delivery followed by redistribution to the 123 Carrefour • optimizing resources (optimizing travel distances and Kingdom with a return synergy to the Villefranche site in stores in the southeast of France and other distributor times, streamlining the frequency of trips, etc.); France. In Canada, 60% of transport to the west coast is In the Fresh dairy products division, several initiatives are warehouses; • the quality of achievements and the various players’ carried out by rail. The Dannon Company and Stonyfield emerging. Back-hauling actions, for example, continue in • elsewhere, the Danone Eaux France subsidiary involvement (from the supplier through to the subsidiaries in the United States have begun supplying their several subsidiaries to avoid empty truck returns. In Chile, continued its optimization initiatives for finished customer). warehouses by train. a back-hauling partnership created with Walmart allows products pallets in 2013, in response to new French Danone to use this customer’s trucks on certain routes. transport legislation authorizing 44-ton trucks Rail transport Road transport In Mexico, the frequency of truck deliveries is reviewed (compared with 40 tons previously). The Salvetat brand’s Mass rail transport is a major strategic focus for the Waters Raw milk intake by the Fresh dairy products division has throughout the year to adjust it to the actual level of sales. shift from four to five pallet layers, for example, reduces division. In 2013, the “rail/road” ratio for departure from improved thanks to route optimization software programs During low seasons, the number of deliveries can therefore trucks on the road by 15%. The truck load factor in Evian and Volvic plants stabilized at around 55%. Efforts now used in Russia, Brazil, Ukraine and Turkey to reduce be optimized while significantly reducing costs (€17,000 France in terms of net available weight has reached 92%. to increase the use of rail over long distances (Germany, transport distances. A new transport management software per month). United Kingdom) have brought the “rail/road” tonprogram reduces trip times and distances in the United kilometer ratio for Evian Volvic Sources to close to 50% States. Danone also continues its co-logistics projects In the Waters division, ongoing reflection seeking dual in Europe. This performance is the result of various throughout the world to pool transport resources with economic and environmental gains leads to introducing optimizations, including: other companies and improve truck loading rates: with specific modes of transport adapted to each line, with the • the success of Project Quicksilver from the Volvic plant Walmart in the United States, Arla Foods in the United aim of reducing the number of kilometers traveled and of to Germany, which increased the “rail/road” ratio from Kingdom, Saputo in Canada, etc. Danone Mexico, for switching from road transport to more environmentally32% in 2010 to 55% in 2011, and then 80% in 2012 example, has developed an efficient co-logistics model with friendly methods. For example: and 2013. This flagship project, supported by two grants Ferrero: the subsidiary shares its logistics resources with • Evian transport towards Russia has shifted from road from the European Marco Polo program (initiatives for Ferrero, thus giving access to the more than 350,000 local transport to a rail/shipping/road method via the environmental improvements to transport), goes beyond points of sale through which it distributes its products in Antwerp platform (Belgium); the commitments made to the European Commission Mexico. The model enables Danone and Ferrero to reduce • in China, the Danone Waters China subsidiary has with more than ten weekly trains carrying 1,000 metric costs by using the same infrastructures. At the end of 2012, introduced a new road/rail/shipping transport mix for tons of water leaving Volvic for the three German “rail the project was tested and optimized for one site, then long-distance product deliveries. This initiative generates link area” platforms. In addition, a logistics innovation replicated at 13 additional sites in only 15 months. This significant environmental and economic benefits. now eliminates the return of cases of consigned bottles approach resulted in a logistic fee benefit of €1.6 million in In 2013, the Mizone brand reduced its logistics related to the Volvic plant, which amounts to some 26,000 2013. Using this same logistics resources sharing and CO2 emissions by more than 8,600 tons (on the 600 mL fewer trucks per year on the Volvic-Germany route; optimization approach, Danone Russia created a joint format); • the accelerating use of multimodal transport. The Aguas venture with Norbert Dentressangle dedicated to logistics Danone Argentina and Aguas Font Vella y Lanjaron services (transport and storage). This joint venture, in which subsidiaries (Spain) are introducing intermodal transport Danone opens its logistics network to other industrial programs and considerably reducing road traffic on companies, launched business in July 2013. certain major routes. In 2013, the Danone Eaux France New initiatives were taken in the Waters division to reduce subsidiary opened a multimodal route connecting Evian greenhouse gas emissions caused by road transport. In with Bretagne, which will take its ratio of multimodal Mexico and Argentina, the installation of new distribution flow over total flow from 2% to 4% ; more than 1,000 centers in certain remote areas significantly reduces truck trucks are shifting to multimodal transport; transport distances. • continued initiatives to supply raw materials through rail transport. In 2013, for example, more than 200,000 empty leased pallets were returned from the Daventry platform (United Kingdom) by rail to the Evian and Volvic plans (reverse logistics), thus eliminating the use of 600 trucks on the road. 110 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 111 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION GENERAL GOVERNANCE In 2013, investments targeting environmental protection Working to connect Nature and Business ADD EN30 amounted to some €33.6 million, or around 3% of the Total environmental expenditures and group’s total capital investments. Danone’s environment strategy is rooted in governance in investments by type accordance with the company’s decision-making processes. The primary investment categories are the following: The Nature plan is managed at several different levels, 2012 2013 variation on • investments targeting reduction of CO2 emissions beginning with a Nature Committee comprising the In thousands of euros 2012 2013 a like-for(energy savings, logistics, renewable energy use, ecocompany’s key decision-makers (General Managers, VPs like basis Environmental expenditure design of packaging, etc.). On a like-for-like basis, these for operations, research and development, procurement, Fees paid for packaging investments have decreased 67% compared with 2012. etc.). Sponsorship of the Nature strategy is assured by the 51,658 50,877 collection/recycling They decreased this year due to the prioritization of group’s CFO, member of the Executive Committee. In Cost of industrial treatment: other projects, in particular targeting the growth of sales; addition, every division has a Nature Committee and there waste – water – atmospheric 31,233 35,166 emissions • environmental compliance: waste, wastewater, air are Nature managers in every subsidiary. In 2013, the Taxes and duties 8,194 8,514 pollution, soil pollution (wastewater treatment, group designed a Nature training module to raise awareness Other environmental costs treatment facilities, noise measurement, air quality, of the strategy within Danone. This module will be (studies, certifications, audits, 5,890 5,227 etc.) waste treatment, etc.). On a like-for-like basis, these expanded and made available to all employees in 2014. Costs of managing the CO2 2,563 1,918 investments rose 60% compared with 2012; emissions reduction plan • investments in projects related to water discharged by Responsible environmental communication Fines and penalties 93 114 the plants: following the launch of new products with an Third-party damages 8 1 impact on wastewater quality, some plants have invested In 2011 Danone created an Environmental Claims Guide Subsidies received -63 -1,726 to improve the efficiency of their treatment facilities, in in collaboration with the British “anti-greenwashing” Environmental expenditures before depreciation 99,576 100,089 particular in Latin America. These investments more agency Futerra and distributed it to all subsidiaries Depreciation 8,218 8,149 than doubled in 2013. communicating on Nature topics, to provide them with the Total environmental 107,742 108,238 -4% necessary elements for responsible communication of their expenditures In addition, since its creation in 2010, the Green Capex environmental initiatives. This nature claim management Environmental investments approval process has provided financing for projects with approach includes an internal approval process for claims Investments generating a reduction in CO2 emissions 37,348 14,944 high environmental value, but with a return on investment and aims to ensure that the group’s environmental (except Green Capex) that would prevent their acceptance under the usual communication respects strict guidelines for conduct Investments for environmental investment approval process. This process takes into in all strategic areas: climate change, water, packaging, compliance: wastewater – 4,832 13,916 waste – air pollution – soil polaccount a theoretical savings derived from applying a value agriculture and biodiversity. This tool is now available lution (except Green Capex) to metric tons of CO2 reduction resulting from these to Danone’s teams via a new interactive website launched Investments in improving water quality 997 2,679 projects. Operating expenditures related to the in 2013. (except Green Capex) environment amounted to around €108.2 million in Green Capex 4,102 1,707 2013. They include €50.8 million for waste, water and Investments in reducing water consumption 920 316 air management and for environmental taxes other than (except Green Capex) duties on packaging. This latter expenditure amounted Total environmental to €50.9 million in 2013. 48,199 33,563 -49% investments 112 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 113 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT EMPLOYMENT SOCIAL DIMENSION 115 EMPLOYM MENNT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 119 LABOR/MANAGEMEN NT employment coﬁxed-termntract, and region RELATIONS At December 31, 2013, the group had a total workforce of 104,642 employees (longand fixed-term contracts). 119 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The table below indicates the breakdown by geographic region and business division, with a comparison for the 123 3 TRAINING AND EDUCATION years 2011 to 2013. 1266 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OP PPORTUNITIES Social Indicator Scope Total Group Workforce Scope Total workforce (excluding interim workers) At December 31 At December 31 2011 (*) 2012(*) 2013 2012(*) 2013 Total number of employees 87,164 86,555 85,853 √ 102,401 104,642 of which managers in % 17% 18% 18% 16% 16% By geographic region France 10% 10% 10% 9% 8% Rest of Europe 25% 22% 22% 32% 30% China 10% 11% 12% 9% 10% Rest of Asia Pacific 18% 19% 20% 17% 17% Americas 31% 32% 32% 27% 26% Africa and Middle East 6% 6% 4% 6% 9% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% By business division Fresh dairy products 38% 36% 35% 45% 45% Waters 42% 42% 43% 36% 36% Early life nutrition 13% 14% 14% 12% 12% Medical nutrition 5% 6% 7% 6% 6% Central functions 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (*) Historical data √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 115 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT Breakdown of workforce by business division in 2013 Breakdown of workforce by geographic region in 2013 Net job creation (in % of Total Group Workforce Scope) (in % of Total Group Workforce Scope) 1% At December 31, 2013, on a like-for-like basis, 364 net jobs had been created Fresh dairy products France (Total Group Workforce Scope). The group’s highest net job creation is in Asia. 6% Waters 9% 8% Rest of Europe 12% Baby nutrition China Full Time / Part Time Medical nutrition Rest Asia Paciﬁc Central functions Americas 2012 2013 (*) 26% 30% Africa and Middle East 45% Full time Danone Part time Danone Full time Danone Part time Danone employees employees employees employees Total 96.7% 3.3% 96.1% 3.9% 36% Europe 90.6% 9.4% 90.9% 9.1% 17% 10% Asia 99.5% 0.5% 97.3% 2.7% Rest of the world 99.5% 0.5% 99.5% 0.5% By geographic region Africa and Middle East 99.4% 0.6% 98.2% 1.8% Breakdown of workforce by long-term, fixed-term This breakdown between long-term and short-term Asia Pacific 99.5% 0.5% 97.3% 2.7% contracts and interim workers workforce was calculated based on average workforce Eastern Europe 96.3% 3.7% 96.7% 3.3% Long-term employees are under contract without an end (the average workforce is calculated by adding together Western Europe 87.1% 12.9% 86.9% 13.1% date with a Danone subsidiary; employees are those with a the average total workforce at the end of each month Latin America 99.7% 0.3% 99.9% 0.1% contract with a Danone subsidiary comprising an end date. of the year, then dividing this total by 12). North America 97.6% 2.4% 97.9% 2.1% Interim workers refer to individuals without contract with By business division Danone but under the group’s direct management. Fresh dairy products 97.4% 2.6% 97.5% 2.5% Waters 97.9% 2.1% 96.2% 3.8% Average workforce 2012 (*) 2013 Early life nutrition 95.1% 4.9% 95.2% 4.8% Long-term Fixed-term Long-term Fixed-term Medical nutrition 89.6% 10.4% 90.2% 9.8% Interim Interim contracts contracts contracts contracts Central functions 92.9% 7.1% 91.7% 8.3% employees(**) employees(**) workers employees(**) employees(**) workers Total 85% 4% 11% 91% 4% 5% (*) Social Indicators Scope Europe 88% 6% 6% 89% 7% 4% Asia 84% 4% 12% 93% 5% 2% Rest of the world 84% 2% 14% 91% 1% 8% This breakdown is calculated by reference to workforce Percentage of part-time employees by geographic region at December 31, 2013, by geographic region. By geographic region (average workforce) Africa and Middle East 77% 5% 18% 91% 5% 4% 13.1% Asia Pacific 84% 4% 12% 93% 5% 2% Part-time work is mainly used in Western Europe, and to Eastern Europe 86% 6% 8% 90% 8% 2% a lesser degree in Eastern Europe. Western Europe 89% 6% 5% 88% 7% 5% Latin America 84% 1% 15% 91% 1% 8% North America 96% 3% 1% 96% 3% 1% 2.7% 3.3% 1.8% 2.1% By business division 0.1% Fresh dairy products 81% 3% 16% 88% 5% 7% Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Waters 90% 4% 6% 95% 3% 2% Middle Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America East Early life nutrition 77% 5% 18% 89% 6% 5% Medical nutrition 92% 4% 4% 93% 5% 2% Central functions 93% 6% 1% 91% 8% 1% (*) Social Indicators Scope (**)Under contract with a Danone subsidiary 116 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 117 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION LABOR/MANAGEMENT OCCUPATIONAL EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS HEALTH AND SAFETY LA2 ADD LA3 LA4 ADD LA6 Total number and rate of employee turnover Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that Percentage of employees covered by collective Percentage of total workforce represented in by age group, gender, and region are not provided to temporary or part-time bargaining agreements formal joint management–worker health and employees, by major operations safety committees that help monitor and advise The annual turnover rate for 2013 is 17%. Conditions are The tables below provide data on the percentage of on occupational health and safety programs extremely varied by region: from 6% in Western Europe This indicator is not consolidated at group level. subsidiaries and employees covered by a collective to 26% in Latin America. Regions with a high turnover bargaining agreement. In 2011, Danone strengthened its commitment to rate are those where qualified employees are more systematically introduce Management–Employee demanded. Subsidiaries covered by a collective bargaining agreement(*) committees to define, assess, implement and monitor 2012 2013 workplace health and safety policies and programs. On a like-for-like basis, the turnover rate decreased slightly % of subsidiaries 71% 74% from 2012 to 2013. The global convention signed in September 2011 with the IUF with regard to health, safety, working conditions and Employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement(*) Turnover rate(*)(**) 2012 2013 stress clearly specifies Danone is particularly committed to 2012 2013 Total 18% 17% creating a dedicated system for coordinating health and By geographic zone % of employees 89% 89% safety at work and working conditions for every site in all Africa and Middle East 20% 26% (*) Social Indicators Scope of Danone’s consolidated subsidiaries (including Asia Pacific 16% 14% headquarters). Eastern Europe 15% 15% The number of employees covered by a collective Western Europe 7% 6% This convention is implemented in all group subsidiaries bargaining agreement remained stable from 2012 to 2013. Latin America 28% 26% via the Danone Way program, whose “Health, safety and North America 17% 16% working conditions” key practice was updated in 2012 Are excluded subsidiaries with less than 100 employees. By category to include expectations with regard to its application: Staff, Supervisors & Workers 19% 17% communication of the convention to staff representatives Managers 15% 14% LA5 and self-assessment by subsidiaries of their practices to date, Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational concerning the convention’s principles. changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in % of departures(*) 2012 2013 collective agreements By gender Women 15% 15% Danone has signed a global convention with the Men 17% 16% IUF specifically regarding consultation of employee By category representatives in case of operational changes with Staff, Supervisors & Workers consequences for employment (May 1997). It stipulates of which women 15% 16% a minimum three-month notice period and was revised of which men 17% 16% in 2005. Managers of which women 14% 15% of which men 15% 16% (*) This indicator is calculated as per Danone-IUF convention, by taking into account external recruitments and departures (**) Social Indicators Scope 118 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 119 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION Occupational Occupational health and safety health and safety In 2013, Danone decided to extend the monitoring of LA7 its safety performance, following the severity rate (which 2012 2013 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Number Number represents the average number of calendar days lost Number of accidents Frequency Number of accidents Frequency and absenteeism, and number of work-related of fatalities with at least rate 1 (FR1) of fatalities with at least rate 1 (FR1) reported to 1,000 hours). The severity rate of accidents 1 day of leave 1 day of leave fatalities by region with lost time for the group in 2013 amounted to 0.07. By business division Danone has been committed to a worldwide program Fresh dairy products 5 274 4.1 1 228 3.4 After a sharp decline during eight years (FR1 declined known as WISE (for Working In a Safe Environment) Waters 0 119 1.4 0 103 1.2 by nearly 60% between 2009 and 2011), the improvement since 2004, with the goal of developing a safety culture Early life nutrition 0 41 1.6 0 61 2.5 of the frequency rate is slower since 2012. at all group sites to significantly reduce the number of Medical nutrition 0 17 1.7 0 11 1.1 work-related accidents. This program is rolled out in all Other 0 31 7.4 0 30 7.2 However, the group’s efforts to develop a “safety culture” divisions around the world, in plants and logistics centers Total 5 482 2.5 1 433 2.3 √ continued to expand in 2013, in particular by: and in distribution. It also applies to subcontractors • continued WISE program (80% of sites audited √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document working at Danone sites. every year); • transposing an excellence approach, supported by the The management of safety and working conditions as The number of fatal accidents includes only Danone In certain countries, medical coverage offered to employees WISE program, to other operational areas such as well as the WISE program are coordinated by the group employees part of the group consolidated subsidiaries, is extended to their families. commitment of all employees and operating efficiency; Human Resources Department with the support of except subcontractors. • extending the “safety culture” to encompass a culture of designated managers at every level of the company’s Information concerning work-related illness and the The program began with an audit in 15 countries, health in the workplace, through training in ergonomics, organization. associated absenteeism rate are not yet consolidated at representing 69,000 employees and 56 subsidiaries in 2010 workstation design, etc.; group level. (around 85% of the employees excluding the ex-Unimilk • launching a new safety standard, including specific The frequency rate 1 of work-related accidents (FR1) is the group). This audit helped identify ten countries which have teaching of group’s fatalities during the last 10 years. ratio of the number of accidents involving at least one day deployed Dan’Cares from 2011, with a goal to improve of medical absence to the millions of hours worked; it LA8 medical coverage by 2013. This effort is also expressed in the “Health, safety, working Education, training, counseling, prevention, and includes accidents involving fixed-term contracts, long-term conditions and stress” convention signed by Danone and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce contracts and interim workers. Secondly, in 2012, an assessment of existing medical IUF and managed through the Danone Way program. members, their families, or community members coverage was performed in all the group’s subsidiaries, regarding serious diseases In 2013, the continued decline of FR1 in 2013 in mainly to extend the implementation of Dan’Cares in all the The table hereafter indicates the breakdown of work-related due to the Fresh dairy products division in Latin America countries where Danone operates. fatalities, accidents engendering at least one day of work In 2010, Danone launched the Dan’Cares program which (which had a sharp decline of FR1 in Argentina and absence, and frequency rate 1 (FR1) by division at aims to provide all Danone’s employees with a medical Mexico) and, to a lesser extent, to the improvement of the To date, 70,000 Danone’s employees in 25 countries benefit December 31, 2012 and 2013. coverage for basic healthcare, including hospitalization and FR1 for Waters and Medical nutrition divisions. from a medical coverage in line with Dan’Cares standards, surgery, prenatal and maternal care, medical visits and from which 40,000 are the results of the actions plans pharmacy. Nevertheless, in 2013, the FR1 deteriorated in Western launched since 2011. Europe, notably in France, where subsidiaries have been Dan’Cares specificity is its scope of action: it is intended directly affected by uncertainties due to the adaptation and to be deployed in all the group’s subsidiaries, including competitiveness project and to the reorganization plan of countries where this medical coverage are not traditionally the sales function. supported (for maternity for example). All employees are concerned, long-term contracts, fixed-term contracts or even, in some cases, interim workers. 120 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 121 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION OCCUPATIONAL TRAINING HEALTH AND SAFETY AND EDUCATION This convention is implemented in all group subsidiaries Average number of training hours 2012(**) 2013(*) ADD LA9 via the Danone Way approach, whose “Health, Safety and LA10 Staff, Supervisors and Workers 29 29 Health and safety topics covered in formal Average hours of training per year per employee Working Conditions” key practice was updated in 2012 Managers 41 40 agreements with trade unions by employee category to include expectations with regard to its application: Total 31 31 communication of the agreement to staff representatives On September 29th 2011, Danone signed a worldwide Indicators regarding training were stable from 2012 By geographic region and self-assessment by subsidiaries of their practices to date convention on health, safety, working conditions and to 2013, which reflects Danone’s ongoing training efforts Africa and Middle East 19 24 concerning the convention’s principles. stress with the IUF (International Union of Food workers). in all geographic regions. Asia Pacific 32 33 This convention follows on from the agreement signed in Eastern Europe 32 30 2010 with trade unions in France. In 2013: Western Europe 29 30 • the average number of training hours per employee Latin America 33 30 The convention declares that health and safety at work, was 31; North America 36 29 working conditions, and preventing stress in the workplace • 83,060 employees received training (compared to 85,917 are complex and closely interwoven issues that require in 2012). shared preventive measures. Number of employees trained(*) 2012(**) 2013(*) Staff, Supervisors and Workers 70,859 67,231 The Danone–IUF convention restates each party’s Managers 15,058 15,829 responsibilities. The company is responsible for the health Total employees trained 85,917 83,060 and safety of its workers and of all individuals working at By geographic region the locations for which it is accountable. Among other Africa and Middle East 4,416 4,244 things, the convention asserts the following principles: Asia Pacific 27,395 26,842 • it is imperative to take into account the human Eastern Europe 10,468 11,025 consequences of change, in advance of major Western Europe 14,272 14,143 organizational changes; Latin America 26,750 24,184 • preserving a balance between personal and professional North America 2,616 2,622 life must be encouraged, among other things by planning work schedules, break times and vacations as far in Number of training hours(*) 2012(**) 2013(*) advance as possible; Staff, Supervisors and Workers 2,026,554 2,007,938 • involving employees as close to the ground as possible to identify ways to simplify their work makes it possible not Managers 631,397 624,812 only to find new efficiency levers, but also to improve Total number of training hours 2,657,951 2,632,750 √ employee well-being; (*) Social Indicators Scope • employees safety requires their participation in (**) 2012 figures on a like-for-like basis √ 2013 figures verified in the 2013 Registration Document. safetyrelated preventive measures, but also their right to withdraw from a hazardous situation; • medical monitoring must be systematically introduced in all subsidiaries and locations. 122 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 123 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION TRAINING TRAINING AND EDUCATION AND EDUCATION % of managers who had a PDR(*) in 2013 % of managers who had a PDR(*) in 2013 ADD LA11 ADD LA12 by business division by geographic region Programs for skills management and lifelong Percentage of employees receiving regular 91% 92% 91% 88% learning that support the continued employability performance and career development reviews 77% 78% of employees and assist them in managing career 64% 66% 69% 65% 63% endings The Individual Development Plan (IDP) that allows every individual to look towards the future and define For several years, Danone subsidiaries impacted by the training initiatives beyond the annual performance review, aging of the working population (primarily in Western continues to apply to a large portion of group employees. Europe and particularly in France) have either signed In 2013, 82% of managers and 69% of Staff, Supervisors agreements or adopted action plans that aim to plan for and Workers (SSW) benefited from an IDP (a 11 points Fresh Waters Baby Medical Central Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North dairy nutrition nutrition functions Middle Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America this aging and support continued professional activity increase for SSW compared with 2012, and stable for products East to a more advanced age. Measures implemented include: managers). • training (ergonomics, skills transmission, preparation for retirement, leadership); In the Staff, Supervisors and Workers categories, in 2013, % of managers who had an IPD(**) in 2013 % of managers who had an IPD(**) in 2013 • mid-career reviews; Asia and the Central Functions are ahead of the other by business division by geographic region • job adaptations to relieve physical and mental stress. regions and divisions. 82% 88% 81% 88% 81% 81% 84% 82% 80% 84% 73% Two initiatives currently promote greater coordination and In 2013, 76% of the group managers had an annual more systematic local initiatives in terms of lifelong skills performance review (Performance and Development development and training programs designed to ensure Review PDR). North America, Asia Pacific and Medical employability: nutrition are ahead of the other regions and divisions for • the implementation of legal obligations by the French this indicator. subsidiaries in the area of preventing physically straining Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Fresh Waters Baby Medical Central work. Two prevention topics dictated by law involve the These figures are provided for the Social Indicators Scope dairy nutrition nutrition functions Middle East Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America products development of skills and qualifications, and end-ofcareer at December 31, 2013. management, and should lead to joint agreements or action plans; % of SSW(***) who had an IPD or equivalent % of SSW(***) who had an IPD or equivalent • the deployment of “CODE Leadership” at operational for at least 2 years by business division for at least 2 years by geographic region staff level. Efforts have been made to adapt Danone 96% 93% Leadership College (DLC) courses and firmly establish 86% 77% them into day-to-day operational workplace routines, 70% 72% 73% particularly in the framework of the DaMaWay policy(1). 61% 59% This deployment aims to increase the autonomy of 46% 44% operators and teams in the workplace, and to foster the acquisition of transferrable skills. Fresh Waters Baby Medical Central Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North dairy nutrition nutrition functions Middle Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America products East (1) DaMaWay is Danone’s industrial performance management system that applies to all production sites in all divisions. This system supports all operators (*) PDR: Performance and Development Review of every age and qualification level with training and initiatives to allow them to develop their autonomy and teamwork and share expertise in industrial (**) IDP: Individual Development Plan performance. (***) SSW: Staff, Supervisors and Workers 124 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 125 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION DIVERSITY AND DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Age Disabilities LA13 64% of Danone employees are under 40 years old in 2013, Breakdown by age group by region in 2013 (in %) In France, the integration rate for people with disabilities Composition of governance bodies and figure improved compared to 2012 (67%) and showing first 5% 8% 13% 26% 5% 23% in the group’s French subsidiaries rose from 3.1% in 2007 breakdown of employees per category, according results of the Danone will towards more age diversity. to 5.2% in 2013 (slightly down compared to 2012). to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Nevertheless, there are significant disparities between Integrating people with disabilities into headquarters is 62% 61% 64% 59% 63% 61% regions, with a higher percentage of older workers in the most difficult, given the gap between training levels Gender diversity Western Europe and North America (28% and 23%) and required qualifications. Many subsidiaries have signed The share of women within the management population compared to other regions of the world, for example in specific three-year agreements with trade unions to support increased in 2013 compared to 2012, at all levels and Latin America and Africa – Middle East, where the rate is 33% 31% 23% 15% 32% 16% a longer-term approach to this issue. especially at the directors and executives level, which is 5%. Those regions are marked by a strong growth in the crucial to foster a global business. Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North group’s activities with a very young population. Middle East Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America At global level, the number of employees with disabilities > 49 years 30 49 years < 30 years rose to 887 in 2013. 73 subsidiaries employ at least one 2012 2013 Danone has also been engaged for several years in reflection disabled worker. In these 73 subsidiaries, the percentage of Women Men Women Men on the issue of the professional integration of young people. disabled people represents 1.4% of their overall workforce, Total managers (*) 45% 55% 47% 53% Within the French subsidiaries, initiatives address both the a figure that improved compared to last year. of which directors employment integration of young generations and the Breakdown by age group by region 31% 69% 33% 67% and executives origin of applicants for employment. This is the case of the Managers en 2013 (in %) This average percentage covers a variety of situations in of which executives 13% 87% 19% 81% following projects: 5% 6% 7% 15% 6% 14% terms of degree of advancement and integration policy for of which other 47% 53% 48% 52% • “Initiative 500”, which allows, since 2010, 225 young employees with disabilities, notably depending on whether managers people with no employment qualifications to enter in or not they are subject to demanding legislative 77% 86% 78% 66% 71% 70% (*) Social Indicators Scope these subsidiaries for a pre-qualification contract giving requirements. them access to studies’ certificates recognized by French These results are derived in particular from the Women government; Plan introduced in 2009 and rolled out in every subsidiary • “Sales school”, with the annual recruitment of 64 young LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by around the world, which applies two main approaches: students in a work-study program from a two-year 18% 8% 15% 19% 23% 16% employee category Organizational: university degree to Master 2 in sales professions. Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America • monitoring the number of women at each hierarchical East Managers and Directors categories level with a specific guideline on three key factors: Finally, the group continues in 2013 two majors > 49 years 30 49 years < 30 years The data is provided by the “HIRIS” information system internal promotion, external hiring and retention initiatives on relations between generations with the for Human Resources management indicators. of women within the group; Octave and Gen D seminars (see pages 29 of this Report). • measures to support work-life balance, including The basis chosen for comparison, i.e. the “compa-ratio”, teleworking, parenthood (that benefit both women Breakdown by age group by region is the total wages received by the individual compared to and men); Breakdown by age in 2013 in % SSW in 2013 (in %) the median wages established each year for all managerial • wage equality. 1% 2% 5% 9% 15% 33% 5% 30% and executive categories organized by grade. Individual: < 20 years • support for women (training, networking, mentoring) From 20 29 years 11% There are ten grades (excluding Danone Executive Board and men (awareness trainings). 24% From 30 39 years From 40 49 years 59% 58% 60% 55% 62% 54% members) in all 60 countries where the group does business. From 50 59 years The compa-ratio indicates this wage gap independently of Those actions are implemented more often in an 24% > 60 years the currency and country of reference. intergenerational way, crossing hierarchal levels and, in some cases, with other companies. This is the case for 36% 33% 25% 12% 33% 16% example of the mentoring from the seminar EVE achieved 38% Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North by creating pairs of employees from different companies Middle Paciﬁc Europe Europe America America East partners of the program. > 49 years 30 49 years < 30 years 126 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 127 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIAL DIMENSION DIVERSITY AND DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Examples: Staff, Supervisors and Workers categories • a compa-ratio of 1.0 means that the individual is paid As the group does not have a single classification system for exactly the median wage for his or her grade; these categories, and deployment of the information system • a compa-ratio of 1.10 means that he or she is paid 10% does not yet cover all these job categories, data is collected more than the median. from the internal SAP/Business Object Financial Consolidation reporting system. The tables below provide an overview of the gender gaps by level. The male-female comparison is made using the median Directors excluding general managers: annual men-women wage ratios. internal Danone grades 6b to 5 (equivalent to grades 20 to 22 of the Hay system) Compa ratio Average age Figures are calculated based on the median ratios for men’s vs 2012 and women’s annual wages on a comparable basis between Grade Women Men Total 2013 Gap Grade Women Men Total Gap 2012 and 2013, so that subsidiaries that exited or entered 5 0.98 1.02 1.01 -0.04 0 5 45.8 46.3 46.2 the scope between 2012 and 2013 are not included. 6A 1 1 1 0 0.02 6A 44.8 44.9 44.9 Moreover, Danone Russia is not included to this indicator. 6B 0.93 0.95 0.94 -0.03 -0.01 6B 42.4 43.4 43.1 Total Total directors 0.96 0.98 0.97 -0.03 -0.01 directeurs 43.6 44.5 44.2 This perimeter coverage of this reporting is 98%. Total workforce of 1,264 directors of which 32.4% women and 67.6% men. These figures include all directors in the group. Staff and Workers Supervisors There is an overall gap of -3% across the entire population, 2012 Sustainability Report 1.00 1.06 2012 comparable basis with a new gap identified in 2013 for the grade 5 directors. with 2013 1.00 1.05 There is a reduction of the gap identified in 2012 for the 2013 1.00 1.07 grade 6a and 6b directors. Gap 0.00 0.02 % of total 97% 97% employees 2013 Managers category: internal Danone grades 9.9 to 7 (equivalent to grades 15 to 18 of the Hay system) The results can be read as follows: 50% of subsidiaries pay their male and female “Staff and Supervisors” at the same Comp aratio Average age level on average, for all levels and all positions; and 50% vs 2012 Grade Women Men Total 2013 Gap Gap Grade Women Men Total of subsidiaries pay their male “Workers” an average of 7% 7 0.89 0.92 0.9 -0.03 -0.04 7 40 41.5 40.9 more than their female counterparts. 8 0.86 0.85 0.85 0.02 -0.01 8 37.3 39.7 38.6 9 0.81 0.79 0.8 0.02 0.02 9 35.1 37.5 36.4 9.9 0.85 0.79 0.82 0.05 0.01 9.9 27.8 30.2 28.9 Total Total 0.84 0.83 0.83 0.01 0.00 35.5 38.1 36.9 managers managers Total workforce of 16,577 managers, of which 47.8% women and 52.2% men. These figures include all managers in the group. For the entire manager population, more than 16,500 employees, no gender gap is apparent for wages. Overall, the compensation review procedures, guided by group policies and including a comparison of compensation for men and women, continue to direct attention to this issue where gaps can exist. 128 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 129 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HUMAN RIGHTS 131 INVESTMENT AND Te Seven Fundamental HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant PROCUREMENT PRAC CTICES Social Principles are: investment agreements that include human 5. Health and rights clauses or that have undergone human 133 NON-D DISCRIMINATIION 1. Child labor The company does not employ safety at work rights screening children aged under 15. If the law The company ensures that the 133 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATIO ON sets a higher minimum working age or compulsory schooling is to workplace and its environment do not endanger the nintegrity Danone’s commitment to comply with and promote AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING a higher age, it is this limit that applies. Educational programmes or health of employees. Action to reduce the causes of accidents human rights principles has been defined, deployed and and training are not included in and improve working conditions promoted to employees and suppliers through a variety 134 CHILD LABOR this limitation. is the object of ongoing programmes. Sanitary equipment, of means and in several phases: 2. Forced labor canteens and housing provided • Danone joined the United Nations Global Compact 134 FORCED AND The company does not use forced to employees are built and maintained in accordance with in 2003, and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009; or compulsory labor, meaning any COMPULSORY LAB BOR work or service performed under applicable legal requirements. As a minimum, the company • in 2005, the Seven Fundamental Principles (see left) threat or that is not consented to must provide employees with defined by the International Labour Organization by the person concerned. 135 SECURITY PRACTICES drinking water, clean toilets in adequate numbers, adequate conventions were addressed in an agreement between 3. Non-discrimination ventilation, emergency exits, Danone and the IUF, and were the subject of joint visits 135 INDIGENOUS RIG GHTS With due regard for applicable law, the company refuses to engage proper lighting and access to medical treatment. of 47 of the group’s subsidiaries from 2009 to 2013; in any discriminatory practices. • the group implements them via the Danone Way Discrimination means any 6. Work hours approach, which applies to 89% of the group sales distinction, exclusion or preference The company must ensure that and includes 16 key practices relating to Social and limiting equality of opportunity applicable legal restrictions on or treatment. It may be based on working hours are complied with. Environmental Responsibility, including a specific race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, The normal working week is 48 Human Rights dimension (see page 54 of this report); religion, political opinion, age, hours at most. Overtime is on a nationality, family obligations voluntary basis. Employees have at • the Seven Fundamental Principles are the basis for the or other considerations. least one day off each week, except RESPECT program launched in 2005 (see page 59 in exceptional circumstances and 4. Freedom of for a limited period. of this report) which aims among other things at association and right ensuring the application of these principles by the to collective bargaining 7. Pay group’s suppliers. The company recognises and The company ensures that: respects employees’ freedom • no wage is lower than the of association and their right to applicable legal minimum; In the framework of the RESPECT program, to ensure freely choose their representatives. • all employees receive a pay slip; The company also recognises • employees receive a decent wage that all suppliers comply with these fundamental social employees’ right to collective relative to country; principles, Danone has integrated a specific “Fundamental bargaining. The company ensures • wage rates for overtime are in all that employee representatives cases higher than for normal hours. Social Principles” clause into its General Terms of do not suffer any discrimination. Procurement. This clause is included in all contracts and is compulsory for all suppliers. By signing the contract, the supplier undertakes to: • comply with the Fundamental Social Principles; • promote respect for these principles among their own suppliers, subcontractors and partners; • give Danone the right to verify the application of these principles, in particular through audits; 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 131 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION INVESTMENT AND FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION PROCUREMENT PRACTICES NON-DISCRIMINATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING • if non-compliance by a supplier is identified during an audit, draft a corrective action plan targeting ADD HR3 HR4 HR5 Total hours of employee training on policies Total number of incidents of discrimination Operations identiﬁed in which the right to all identified non-compliance issues for approval and procedures concerning aspects of human and actions taken exercise freedom of association and collective by Danone; rights that are relevant to operations, including bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and • if a supplier refuses to draft a corrective action plan, the percentage of employees trained A convention was signed with the IUF concerning actions taken to support these rights or if recurring non-compliance issues are raised in anti-discrimination measures and promotion of diversity. several audits, recognize Danone’s right to terminate Employees’ awareness of human rights practices is raised Every year since 2009, a Danone representative and an IUF A convention concerning the right to union organization the contract with this supplier. through two approaches: representative visit several countries and sites together in has been signed with the IUF. Every year since 2009, • the Danone Way approach (see page 54 of this report): order to promote these conventions and concretely verify if a Danone representative and an IUF representative visit Since 2009 the scope of supplier responsibility has been every Danone employee has received a Danone Inside they are applied on the ground. These joint visits have been several countries and sites together in order to promote expanded to include Environment and Business Ethics, and Pack that describes the Danone Way approach and its carried out in 47 subsidiaries. No case of discrimination these conventions and international employee dialogue, the contractual clause has been amended accordingly. 16 key practices. These materials provide information was identified during these visits. and to concretely verify on the ground that the conventions on human rights, particularly with regard to the ban have been implemented and adapted to local conditions. The Seven Fundamental Social Principles on human rights on child labor and forced labor, diversity and equal Aside from these joint visits, information about cases of These joint visits have been carried out in 47 subsidiaries. are thus integrated into all agreements involving significant opportunity, and safety at work. Among the approach’s discrimination may be communicated via various channels: In addition, the IUF notifies central management if it is investments, encompassing: 16 key practices, eight relate specifically to “Human • reporting to the human resources department of each informed of failure to respect freedom of association. • 70% of sales agreements with customers; Rights” and “Human Relations”; group subsidiary; • 90% of purchasing contracts with major suppliers; • the RESPECT program (see page 59 of this report). • reporting to employee representatives in the subsidiaries Freedom of association is also one of the key practices • 100% of acquisitions of majority interests in external The Procurement departments manage supplier where they are present; monitored in all subsidiaries by the Danone Way approach companies; compliance with regard to social responsibility, and in • “local ethics” lines implemented in certain subsidiaries, (see page 54 of this report), including a key practice on Social • 100% of agreements concerning local community particular respect for human rights. A communication such as in Indonesia, Mexico and the USA. Dialogue that promotes employee dialogue in every group development, in particular with NGOs in the guide about the RESPECT program including the subsidiary. framework of Danone Ecosystem Fund projects. Fundamental Social Principles was broadly distributed The Danone Way approach also includes prevention to the procurement function in 2010. In this area, of discrimination, particularly through the implementation The Danone Way approach thus encourages subsidiaries to: 100% of purchasers have been informed. of on-site specific procedures and measures to identify and • implement the necessary conditions for electing staff HR2 eliminate possible discriminatory actions. representatives, whether unionized or not, in compliance Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and Beyond this, the number of hours of training and/or with local legislation; contractors that have undergone screening information is not consolidated at group level. • guarantee staff representatives’ independence with regard on human rights and actions taken to management teams and political parties through the organization of ad hoc elections; See RESPECT program, pages 59 to 61 of this report. • hold economic and social information meetings between staff representatives and management of each site, and with all employees; • confirm agreements between staff representatives and management by signing negotiated agreements. 132 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 133 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION CHILD LABOR FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR SECURITY PRACTICES INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR6 HR7 ADD HR8 ADD HR9 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk Percentage of security personnel trained Total number of incidents of violations involving for incidents of child labor, and measures taken for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and in the organization’s policies or procedures rights of indigenous people and actions taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor measures to contribute to the elimination of concerning aspects of human rights that are forced or compulsory labor relevant to operations This criteria does not apply to Danone activities. Respect for this principle is verified through the Danone Way approach (see page 54 of this report), for which the This aspect is dealt with in the same way as the indicator Service providers in the security sector commit to abolition of child labor is a prerequisite. All subsidiaries for child labor (HR6). comply with the RESPECT program’s Fundamental are required to put in place the necessary procedures Social Principles, and are screened by the group manager and resources to ensure that there is no child labor at in charge of life and property safety. The percentage of their sites. All the subsidiaries that completed the security personnel actually trained is not consolidated Danone Way assessment in 2013 were in compliance at group level. with this prerequisite, and no non-compliance incidents were identified. 134 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 135 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIETY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES SOCIETY DIMENSION • the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices within 137 LOCAL COMMUNITIES SO1 a network of buyers due for launch at a workshop in the Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs first quarter 2014; the network will bring together buyers 138 CORRUPTION and practices that assess and manage the impacts involved in Danone Ecosystem Fund projects and in the of operations on communities, including entering, RISE program, partner NGOs, members of the academic 140 PUBLIC POLICY operating, and exiting world and other institutions; • the integration of a sustainable sourcing component into 141 ANTI-COMPETITIVE The aim shared by all Danone’s social innovation initiatives the mission of DanTrade, a new entity which coordinates is to strengthen team skills in addressing the following BEHAVIOR challenges: the Fresh dairy products division’s procurements: “Connect to create the best sustainable sourcing solutions, • understanding social and stakeholder issues; 141 COMPLIANC CE • measuring social impact; together”. It aims to establish sustainability as one of this organization’s founding principles and to raise buyer • co-development and co-management, in particular awareness of issues relating to transparency, traceability, with NGOs; and the promotion of ingredients as a means of • the commitment of Danone employees to various distinguishing the group’s brands and products. programs; • internal and external communication. Measure the impacts of inclusive models Social innovation projects reach both direct and indirect Foster exchange between inclusive and beneficiaries. The people who play an active part in the conventional business models, through projects benefit from them directly, from the perspective a peer-to-peer approach of the fund’s job development and employability mission. Danone’s teams working in co-creation with civil society In addition, when a job is created, for example a micropartners take part in testing new models that differ from entrepreneur selling door-to-door who was excluded from those applied in mainstream business but complement the job market so far, the income generated by the business them. Four years of experimentation have led to the has positive impacts on his/her family development. development of more robust and sustainable models And where a program creates a service that contributes particularly in raw materials sourcing projects and projects to the independence of elderly people, it can be considered involving direct selling to consumers. as impacting public health issues. The people impacted are therefore “indirect” beneficiaries of those projects. In 2013, Danone Ecosystem Fund actions gave rise to The goal today is that all these projects directly benefit the launch or consolidation of three approaches to drive 50,000 people through job creation, microexchanges between these innovative projects and peer entrepreneurship and professional skills enhancement. projects within the subsidiaries: • the creation of a cross-cutting approach between the In this framework, a certification process for the project Danone Ecosystem Fund, the Waters division and a indicators is in progress in partnership with an independent business practices transformation platform (“Growth firm (Ernst & Young) to guarantee quality reporting on Too”) to work on the “Direct To Consumer” model. the fund’s projects. This approach firmly establishes the projects’ social aspect as a key component of their construction and functioning. Moreover, the Danone Ecosystem Fund has set up These projects generate many jobs through micropartnerships with academic research institutes to take entrepreneurship, particularly by providing training reflection on measuring social impact even further for people often excluded from the labor market. (see the 2012 Sustainable Development Report, SO1 section, A community of project leaders working on these pages 159-160). distribution models, has been set up to share best practices and to consolidate a comprehensive model delivering business performance and social impacts; 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 137 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIETY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIETY DIMENSION LOCAL COMMUNITIES CORRUPTION CORRUPTION The overall goal of a study to measure social impact is Danone’s Business Conduct Policy (BCP) was revised Since 2005 the DIALERT whistleblowing system to identify, qualitatively and/or quantitatively, how the in 2009. It includes founding texts such as the Universal has been implemented to allow all employees to report SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the projects have changed the lives of the programs’ Human Rights Declaration, a list of Danone’s to Danone management directly and in confidence of any organization’s anti-corruption policies beneficiaries. commitments to the United Nations Global Compact, breach of: and procedures OECD guidelines and the Sustainable Development • the group’s principles and procedures for internal control, At the end of 2013, seven social impact studies had been Principles, which include in particular the Fundamental including anti-corruption rules; All Danone employees were informed of the 2009 revision initiated with academic partners around the world, such Social Principles and Business Ethics Principles, directly • accounting and finance rules that could affect the of the group Business Conduct Policy. This was achieved as the William Davidson Institute at the University of referring to prevention of corruption. truthfulness of accounts and the financial situation of the through information meetings, presentations and questionMichigan (USA) or the SROI (Social Return On employee’s company or of another Danone subsidiary. and-answer sessions, and distribution of documents with Investment) network in partnership with the French The latest 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy or without formal acknowledgement of receipt. Managers, business school ESSEC (Cergy, France) and the Centre was distributed to all directors and managers (and even The visibility of this whistleblowing system is verified and in particular subsidiaries Executive Committees de coopération International en Recherche Agronomique more broadly in certain subsidiaries) by the Human during every subsidiary audit. There is an internal control members, received more extensive training and pour le Développement (Paris, France). Resource Departments of the subsidiaries, and supported item (part of Dango guidelines) that deals with this topic information. Since 2009, an induction document has with special initiatives to inform employees. This topic is and for which each subsidiary must run an annual selfbeen drafted and sent to the subsidiaries for transmission Lastly, to take a new approach to measuring all business included in: evaluation. to each newly recruited employee upon arrival. Titled impacts for Danone, the fund works with the French • the Danone Way referential; “Danone Inside Pack,” it contains several pages covering business school HEC (Paris, France) on a comprehensive • the evaluation of the subsidiary control system Since 2008, the DIALERT system has been extended the Business Conduct Policy. It was also distributed for the impact measurement method, in the short and medium (known as Dango); to Danone suppliers (letter from the subsidiaries to every first time in 2009 to employees working in the subsidiaries. term, based on the value created for Danone’s stakeholders. • the internal semi-annual opinion survey; major supplier and systematic inclusion in call for tender • the internal audit program each time an audit in the documents) to allow them to report in confidence any The business conduct survey first launched in 2010 in Measuring social and business impact is therefore a subsidiaries addresses these subjects. breach of the BCP rules with regard to themselves more than 160 group subsidiaries was repeated in 2011, key factor for the Danone Ecosystem Fund and must: (in particular possible cases of corruption). The DIALERT and supplemented by an analysis of the distribution of • help to identify possible program improvements or Since 2006, directors and managers sign a specific system was extended in 2011 to include the WHO Code communication material on these topics (BCP, Danone highlight decisive lessons in the projects’ success to clause in their employment contracts indicating that for Early life nutrition products. In addition to DIALERT, Inside Pack, etc.). enhance replicable models; they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy (BCP) some councils have implemented local whistleblowing • objectively assess the return on investment of these and commit to compliance by themselves and their teams. systems. The overall results attest a significant improvement in programs, to report on the value created to the Various tools have been provided to support effective terms of familiarity and distribution of these documents, stakeholders, particularly shareholders; application of these principles (presentations, posters, This channel produced a total of 40 valid ethics and best practices related to professional and business • contribute to the progress of research in this area question-and-answer booklets, etc.). A specific program to notifications in 2012. Around ten cases of confirmed ethics. Discussions were also able to raise new awareness by treating the fund’s projects as laboratories; prevent fraud was also developed in 2006 and has been fraud related to internal control led to appropriate of this topic among employees on the ground; a summary • leverage the impacts for Danone within the group expanded every year since then. sanctions. of results was examined at the highest levels of Danone’s and encourage the subsidiaries to engage in this kind organization. Action plans were defined and are underway. of project. An information booklet was updated in 2011 and distributed once again to the Executive Committees of SO2 Percentage and total number of business each subsidiary, recommending that each subsidiary units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO4 implements an annual fraud and corruption risk assessment. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Within the group’s four divisions, every consolidated There is also a mid-year reporting of allegations and subsidiary (integrated into Danone financial accounts) proven cases of fraud, in which corruption incidents are Danone strongly condemns all corrupt practices, is covered by the group’s seven-point anti-fraud and classified as “significant fraud”, whatever the amounts as highlighted in its Business Conduct Policy, distributed anticorruption program. More particularly, the first involved, in order to collect complete information on this to all managers and to many employees in all the group’s element in this program is an annual evaluation by type of occurrence. subsidiaries. The sixth point of the anti-fraud program each subsidiary of internal and external fraud risk. concerns the corrective and disciplinary measures to be applied within each subsidiary. 138 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 139 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIETY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS SOCIETY DIMENSION ANTI-COMPETITIVE CORRUPTION PUBLIC POLICY PUBLIC POLICY BEHAVIOR Lastly, mid-yearly reporting on internal fraud has been in In addition, Danone is registered on the Transparency place for six years, with the participation of 175 subsidiaries, SO5 Register set up by the European Commission and the ADD SO7 Public policy positions and participation Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive or almost every entity of the group. There were 280 cases of European Parliament. in public policy development and lobbying behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and suspected fraud registered in 2013, of which 170 proved to their outcomes be actual fraud, a majority of which were minor (products The group and its subsidiaries also maintain direct relations Danone considers lobbying as a positive action aimed or materials stolen, minor misappropriations). None of with the national authorities in the countries in which they at giving politicians and legislators the information they See indicator SO8 hereafter. these cases of fraud had a significant impact on Danone’s do business. These relations are maintained in compliance need to deal with current issues and define an appropriate accounts in 2013. In the huge majority of cases identified, with Danone Business Conduct Policy. legislative and regulatory framework adapted to an the employees implicated were dismissed following the increasingly complex environment. fraud investigations. ADD SO6 Danone has therefore reorganized its corporate teams Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions Finally, a follow-up meeting of cases of fraud and suspected in charge of public policy and lobbying. The goal is to to political parties, politicians, and related COMPLIANCE fraud takes place monthly at the group’s headquarters to better distinguish policy development from factors related institutions by country ensure the effective monitoring of cases and their to the application and monitoring of regulations. This appropriate management in terms of ethics and internal organization has been confirmed in the european plan for As indicated in Danone Business Conduct Policy, the use control. For this purpose, detailed information on the adaptation of the organizations implemented in 2013. of funds or other group assets, either directly or indirectly, SO8 nature of the main cases are collected and analyzed by Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total to benefit organizations of a political nature may only take the monitoring committee of fraud (Dialert Committee). number of non-monetary sanctions for The resources needed to extend these activities to the place in the framework of the laws and regulations in effect It brings together representatives of Human Resources noncompliance with laws and regulations subsidiaries have also been defined: in each country, and must be applied with complete functions, Internal Audit and Legal, and meets monthly. • in 2011, Danone created a Public Affairs kit and the transparency. This use is only possible with formal Following an investigation by the Chinese authorities Public Affairs Policy, which were presented to the management approval. This rule became more restrictive in (the NDRC, National Development and Reform subsidiaries in January 2012 and are regularly reminded the new 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy. Commission), in terms of pricing through the distribution during “PROUD” trainings, dedicated to Public Affairs’ chain, with companies marketing infant formula in China, managers in the group’s subsidiaries. These tools are used However, Danone encourages its employees to be involved Chinese authorities have inflicted on Dumex, a Danone to define action areas and initiatives to be implemented in their local community. These principles were further Early life nutrition subsidiary in China, according to the by the headquarters and subsidiaries; reinforced in the Public Affairs Policy communicated to fine of RMB 171.99 million (3% of the subsidiary’s sales), • the deployment process has also been formally defined Danone subsidiaries in January 2012 and are regularly approximately €20 million. as a Public Affairs best practice in the Dango internal reminded during “PROUD” trainings, dedicated to Public governance system to ensure that this policy is actively Affairs’ managers in the group’s subsidiaries. implemented and monitored every year in the group’s subsidiaries. Danone also takes active part in the efforts of industry associations working together to contribute to formalization of a public policy at both national and international levels. 140 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 141 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION Danone regularly evaluates the nutritional quality 143 CON NSUME ER PR1 of its products following their market launch. Life cycle stages in which health and safety HEAALTH AND SAFFETY impacts of products and services are assessed In 2013, the NutriProgress program for nutritional for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant 146 PRO ODUCT T AND products and services categories subject to quality verification and improvement covered eight countries for the Fresh dairy products division (Belgium, SERRVICE LABELING such procedures France, Italy, Spain, UK, Brazil, Mexico and USA): 2,018 Danone products and 2,730 competing products were 148 MA ARKETIING Consumer health assessed and compared. COOMMU UNICATIONS Prior to the product design process, Danone For the Early life nutrition division, data was updated in 150 CONSUM MER PRIVAC CY analyzes local nutrition situations and nutrition 43 countries (France, Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Mexico, patterns and ensures the nutritional value of Brazil, China, Indonesia, United Arab Emirates and the 150 COMPLIIANCE proposed formulas 34 countries in the Africa region). In 2013, Danone continued to pursue the Nutriplanet The review covered seven countries for the Waters division program which involves collecting key data about local (UK, Poland, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia and nutrition and health situations and eating habits. China), analyzing some 66 Danone references and 457 competing products. At end 2013, nutrition and health situation surveys covered 51 countries and related, depending on the case, The subsidiaries develop action plans based on to the entire population (17 countries), adults and children this evaluation. The Fresh dairy products subsidiary over three (eight countries) or specifically to babies and in Argentina, for example, reduced the level of sugar and their mothers (26 countries). At the same time, a specific fats in several of its product ranges (drinkable yogurts survey on elderly people was conducted in 11 countries. Yogurisimo & Danonino, Danonino soft white cheese, Highly targeted surveys on consumption of fluids covered Yogurisimo set yogurt, Danette, Serenito) over two years. 13 countries at end 2013. During this period, 10,000 tons of sugar and 880 tons of fats were eliminated. Danone’s survey of eating patterns launched in 2011 also gained speed and now covers six countries. Over the same period, the US subsidiary, Dannon Company, achieved a 29% reduction in the sugar content For new product launches, the Nutrition check included of the “Danimals” children’s product, while retaining the in projects verifies the products’ nutritional positioning same level of consumer preference. before they are launched, and their alignment with local issues. In the Early life nutrition division, across the Europe/ Middle East/Latin America regions, a comprehensive reformulation program reduced the calorie content of growing-up milks by an average of 9% (and up to 25% in certain formulas) and sugar content by an average of 4%; the great majority of formulas no longer contain sugar. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 143 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION CONSUMER CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY In total, 31% of 2013 sales correspond to products The percentage of plants in each division having To continue improving the results of these indicators, improved between 2011 and 2013(1) and 67% of sales ISO 22 000 certification is given in the table below: divisions carry on different projects focused on the specific ADD PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance are of products complying with demanding standards needs of each particular business. with regulations and voluntary codes (Fresh dairy and Early life nutrition products complying ISO 22 000 FSSC 22 000 concerning health and safety impacts of with Danone nutrition quality targets, water, sugar-free Medical nutrition 100 33 During 2013, Fresh dairy products division continued to products and services during their life cycle, beverages, Medical nutrition)(2). focus on “We Love Danone Yogurt” program, to reinforce Fresh dairy products 96 70 by type of outcomes the Quality culture in “hearts and minds”. By the end of Nutrition services and nutrition education Baby nutrition 90 43 the year 27 subsidiaries launched the program and more In the classification used by Danone, the concept of programs for consumers increasingly undergo Waters 76 8 than 8700 Danone employees followed it. «incident» concerns the subsidiaries. Being of limited scope, scientiﬁc evaluations to measure their impact. as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any For example, the “Eat Like A Champ” program supported Early life nutrition division continued the deployment of At group level, the Quality department defines the quality type, they are not consolidated. «Crises» however, as by the Fresh dairy products subsidiary in the UK(3) FOQUAL program, to fix the basics and drive the Quality policy and ensures its implementation: defining standards, defined by Danone, can extend beyond the subsidiary’s underwent a scientific impact study by an independent Culture. This extensive work had a positive impact on the systems and performance indicators consistent across the scope of responsibility and have repercussions for the entire organization. The study’s results, presented in September indicators results, with a decrease of 15 % in consumer different divisions and monitoring their implementation. group; they are thus consolidated at group level. 2013 on the European “Diet, Physical Activity and Health” complaints and an increase of 4% in Product Compliance. platform(4) show that children’s eating habits are improving: This policy is based on scientific aspects, best practices 17 food safety crises were recorded in 2012. Danone’s crisis children consume fewer biscuits, cakes, sweets, fried foods, Waters division did a big focus during 2013 in Quality published by WHO (World Health Organization), the management procedure includes blocking, withdrawing or crisps, sweetened drinks, etc., and drink more water and in Execution, trough initiatives like ABC concept, to CODEX and on Danone’s own expertise in its products even recalling products in some cases, in collaboration with eat more fresh fruit, whole grain cereals, skim or semi-skim standardize product specifications management and and manufacturing processes. the relevant institutions, where there is a serious or direct milk and plain yogurts. The results were sustained six monitoring in plants and in Supply Chain. It brought risk for consumer health. weeks after the end of the program. increases in the indicators related to product safety and Danone’s four divisions adapt this policy to the conformity of an average of 2%. specificities of their business lines (manufacturing In all cases, and even if the incidents are classified as a Consumer safety processes, number of ingredients, supply sourcing, etc.). “crisis” under Danone’s crisis management process, in-depth Medical nutrition centered its efforts in improvement verifications and enquiries are systematically carried out Danone implements a Quality and Food Safety policy projects in factories on doing things “Right First Time”, Each subsidiary is responsible for policy implementation into the complaints to establish whether or not the group developed to focus its attention on consumers. The system which contributed in having no crisis in 2013, and in the in compliance with local legislation and for integration is responsible. is based on a set of criteria to ensure product quality and reduction of consumer complaints and non-quality costs. of consumer expectations into the product development safety and compliance with Danone specifications at process. each stage in the distribution chain, from product design In addition, improvements are driven by Damaway to consumption, everywhere and all the time. concept (Danone Manufacturing Way, Danone own The performance indicators relating to consumer needs industrial production model) in all factories what helps are monitored daily at the production sites. The indicators To bring all group operations into line with a recognized in creating a culture of quality in hearts and minds. below are analyzed at division level by the Quality food safety standard, wherever they are based, Danone departments and at a central level for overall governance: has chosen the FSSC 22 000 standard. • Food Safety Index, to guarantee product safety based on seven indicators (good hygiene practices, good manufacturing practices, HACCP, control and monitoring plans, biovigilance and traceability); • product compliance, to assess that the group delivers products in line with expectations, in every country where it does business; • feedback from consumers, to evaluate their level of satisfaction. (1) 2013 Scorecard results, 37 subsidiaries, scope: Fresh dairy products, Early life nutrition, sugared beverages (2) 2013 Scorecard results, 45 subsidiaries in the four divisions. (3) http://www.eatlikeachamp.co.uk/ (4) http://ec.europa.eu/health/nutrition_physical_activity/docs/ev20130926_co08_en.pdf 144 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 145 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION PRODUCT AND PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING SERVICE LABELING In addition to labeling, many Danone subsidiaries Danone collects and efficiently processes feedback PR3 have created information and education programs for PR5 from consumers to ensure they are satisﬁed with Type of product and service information Practices related to consumer satisfaction, consumers: 238 programs of this kind were active the products offered to them required by procedures, and percentage including results of surveys measuring consumer around the world in 2013 including several programs Today, Danone obtains consumer feedback via most global of signiﬁcant products and services subject satisfaction at a national scale in the concerned countries. Globally, communication channels, including social networks, using to such information requirements around 501 million people have access to those a specially designed computer tool capable of processing Maintaining relations with consumers programs(8). each consumer request and turning it into concrete action. Danone’s products feature a nutrition label complying through consumer focus and local community Over 75 % of Danone’s sales, including its flagship with regulations. Fresh dairy products and beverages based service products, are screened via this tool in regions with differing (except mineral waters) also include a detailed information The primary mission of Danone’s Consumer Services cultures and languages in order to respond to consumer label, as defined in Danone’s own Nutrition Information ADD PR4 Center is to develop and maintain relationships with expectations on a daily basis. Scheme Charter. The Charter is consistent with the Total number of incidents of non-compliance customers. This Center allows the company to offer advice nutrition labeling system defined by the FDE association with regulations and voluntary codes concerning as well as information. Viewed as a local community based In order to be closer to consumers, the “Storechecks” (Food and Drink Europe), and applied by many food health and safety impacts of products and service, it also helps gather consumers’ comments, project has been launched and deployed since 2012. industry firms. This charter is currently being reviewed to services during their life cycle, by type of suggestions and reactions. It relies on analyzing consumer experience on the follow regulatory developments in Europe. Outside Europe, outcomes purchasing decision moment, what ensures fulfillment group’s subsidiaries apply the Charter where it is The Consumer Services Center’s objective is to rapidly of 100 % of its expectations (not only product compliance, compatible with local regulations and sufficiently easy In the classification used by Danone, the concept of respond to demands from consumers and to create added but also products availability, presentation and position for consumers to understand. «incident» concerns the subsidiaries. Being of limited scope, value for the brands. The Center answers all kinds of versus competitors). An on-shelf audit information system as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any questions about the products and brands, and more has been developed to simplify the process, make the In 2013 nutrition information was listed directly type, they are not consolidated. «Crises» however, as generally questions about dietetetics and nutrition. information instantly available and enhance reporting on the packaging of 99% of sales, either voluntarily defined by Danone, can extend beyond the subsidiary’s It also deals with claims linked to product quality. capability. or in response to regulatory requirements. In particular, scope of responsibility and have repercussions for the entire The Consumer Services Center can be contacted 24/7, the portion size was indicated on 93% of the products sold(5). group; they are thus consolidated at group level. on the internet, or by phone (as the number is on the For example, in Fresh dairy products division, Storecheck packaging). The mailing addresses of the Danone has started or is running on a regular basis in a total of 30 In Europe, 95% of products contained Front-Of-Pack-type In 2012, two crises were recorded in connection with subsidiaries’ Consumer Services Centers are also printed subsidiaries (approximately 65% of CANN).Upon the nutrition information, by means of a “GDA (Guidelines non-compliant labeling. Where there is a serious or direct on packaging. subsidiary business size and budget, Storecheck campaigns Daily Amount) for energy” icon(6), in accordance with the risk for consumer health, Danone’s crisis management are performed once a year up to a quarterly basis, and from commitment made in the Food & Drink Europe. procedure includes blocking, withdrawing or even recalling In France, for example, Danone’s Consumer Services 2 to 15 products references are audited per storecheck, In products in some cases, in collaboration with the relevant Center processes around 50,000 contacts per year 2013, more than 80 Storecheck campaigns have been done institutions. by phone, traditional mail and email. Its scope of representing more than 600 products references audited. The nutrition information listed on packaging is responsibility covers all Danone products sold on the often conveyed via the subsidiaries’ consumer relations In all cases, and even if the incidents are classified as a French market. departments and/or websites: nutrition information “crisis” under Danone’s crisis management process, in-depth communicated in this way in 2013 represented verifications and enquiries are systematically carried out 92% of sales(7). into the complaints to establish whether or not the group is responsible. (5) 2013 Scorecard results, on 45 subsidiaries of the 4 divisions (all products except mineral waters) (6) 2013 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products and waters divisions in European Union (10 subsidiaries) (7) 2013 Scorecard results, on 45 subsidiaries of the 4 divisions (all products except mineral waters) (8) 2013 Scorecard results, 45 subsidiaries of the 4 divisions ; one person having access to two different programs in counted twice 146 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 147 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION COMMUNICATION MARKETING MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Most of Danone’s advertising investments are dedicated Regarding early life nutrition, Danone recognizes PR6 to the healthiest products: in 2013 for example, 70% of the importance of the WHO Code (International ADD PR7 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Total number of incidents of non-compliance advertising expenditures served to promote fresh dairy Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes)(19) and and voluntary codes related to marketing with regulations and voluntary codes concerning products and early life nutrition products complying with subsequent resolutions of the World Health Assembly. communications, including advertising, marketing communications, including advertising, Danone’s nutrition quality targets, as well as waters, promotion, and sponsorship promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes beverages with no added sugar, and medical nutrition(10) Danone has committed to applying all legislation and representing 67% of the product portfolio. regulations governing marketing and the promotion of Danone works on responsible communication Danone’s commitment to limit advertising towards breast-milk substitutes and respects the role of Public in several ways. children under 12 in the EU countries is audited annually Danone has committed to complying with the ICC or Health authorities in developing health policies adapted to by external auditors in various European countries as part International Chamber of Commerce Code for Responsible the social and legal context, and to their development goals. In 2002 Danone introduced a procedure to ensure of the “EU pledge on advertising to children”: Food and Beverage Marketing Communication(11). The code that the health and nutrition claims contained in • regarding TV commercials, in 2013, the audit was bans, for example, all advertising displaying or promoting Beyond legal obligations, the Early life nutrition communications are coherent, credible and performed on six countries, by Accenture: Germany, behavior that conflicts with a healthy lifestyle, in particular division has greatly strengthened its tools and governance scientifically valid. Inspired by European regulations, Hungary, Spain, Poland, France and Portugal. 845,904 lack of physical exercise and excessive eating and drinking. procedures in this area and published its key documents this procedure applies to all group subsidiaries, except TV spots have been verified on a three months period. in 2013: the “Green Book” (“Danone Policy for the in countries where stricter local regulations are in force. The audit report indicates a 98,1% of compliance with In total, in the Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions, Marketing of Foods for Infants and Young Children”)(20) It covers all commercial communications that contain commitments by all committed players. For Danone, ICC Code compliance is 99.7% for all advertising and the “Blue Book” (“Management System Manual health or nutrition claims directed at the general public, the rate of compliance of TV commercials was 96,6% expenditures(12). for the Marketing of Foods for Infants and Young consumers and health professionals. It includes industry globally on the six countries, with the following Children”)(21). advertising and promotional campaigns in which reference distribution: 99,6% in Germany, 97,2% in Hungary, Danone is committed to limiting advertising targeting is made to a Danone brand, registered trademarks and 94,9% in Spain, 98,0% in Poland, 99,0% in France and children between the ages of 3 and 12 to products adapted An external audit of the subsidiaries’ practices was initiated other trade names that may be interpreted as health or 100% in Portugal; to their nutritional needs, in line with public health in 2011 in Africa; it was rolled out to Asia in 2012 and to nutrition claims, packaging, labeling, TV and radio • regarding websites, in 2013, the audit was performed on priorities. the other continents in 2013. commercials, brochures, vouchers, infomercials or ten countries: Belgium, France, Germany, Hungary, advertorials, press documents, content posted online, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain and Danone has therefore joined several local and regional and generally any communication that will be seen by United-Kingdom. 347 websites have been verified, pledges. This commitment was first made in Europe(13) the public. on a two months period. Of the 18 Danone websites in 2007, followed by the USA(14) in 2009, Brazil(15) and verified, 15 were compliant and 3 non-compliant. South Africa(16) in 2010, and Canada(17) and Switzerland(18) This is a multi-step validation procedure involving all of in 2012. In most countries, subsidiaries’ compliance with the company’s main functions (Research and Development, Corrective action was taken to handle all cases of nonthese pledges is verified by an independent auditor and Regulatory Affairs, Legal, Marketing, Sales, Medical compliance. the audit results are published. Affairs and Public Relations). It should be noted that none of these cases of nonIn the fresh dairy products and Waters divisions, In 2013, 62% of sales had a nutrition claim(9). compliance detected by the audits gave rise to consumer expenditure on advertising directly targeting children complaints or to objections by the public authorities. under 12 represented 11% of these two divisions’ total advertising expenditures in 2013. (9) 2013 Scorecard results, 37 subsidiaries in the Fresh dairy products, Waters (except mineral waters) and Early life nutrition divisions (10) 2013 Scorecard results, 45 subsidiaries of the 4 divisions (11) http://www.iccwbo.org/Advocacy-Codes-and-Rules/Document-centre/2012/Framework-for-Responsible-Food-and-Beverage-MarketingCommunications-2012/ (12) 2013 Scorecard results, 24 subsidiaries in the Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions (13) Europe: http://www.eu-pledge.eu/ (14) USA: http://www.bbb.org/us/childrens-food-and-beverage-advertising-initiative (15) Brazil: https://www.ifballiance.org/sites/default/files/Combined%20Pledge.pdf (16) South Africa: http://www.cgcsa.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=48:the-south-african-pledge-on-marketing-tochildren&catid=1:latest-news&Itemid=50 (19) http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/code_english.pdf (17) Canada: http://www.adstandards.com/en/ChildrensInitiative/default.htm (20) http://www.danone.com/no_cache/fr/publications/pyear/2013/?tx_bidanonepublications_pi1%5Btype%5D=0#pub3569 (18) Switzerland: http://www.swiss-pledge.ch/fr/ (21) http://www.danone.com/no_cache/fr/publications/pyear/2013/?tx_bidanonepublications_pi1%5Btype%5D=0#pub3568 148 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 149 _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION _INTERNAL ASSESSMENT GRI INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION CONSUMER PRIVACY COMPLIANCE ADD PR8 PR9 Total number of substantiated complaints Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for nonregarding breaches of consumer privacy compliance with laws and regulations concerning and losses of consumer data the provision and use of products and services This indicator is not consolidated at group level. At corporate level, no significant fines have been registered for non-compliance with the laws and regulations concerning supply and use of its products. 150 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION This section of the report corresponds to GRI indicators Finally, those subsidiaries that do not report certain social, 3.1 to 3.11 (see GRI Index on pages 163 to 169 of this Report). safety or environmental indicators may vary depending on 153 REPORT PARAMETERS the indicators; the coverage scope may differ following the categories hereafter, as described in the following sections: Consolidation scope 160 VALIDATION OF THE REPORT • Total Group Workforce Scope; BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD D PARTY and coverage scopes • Social Indicators Scope; • Safety Scope; The financial data included in this report corresponds to • Production Sites Environment Scope; consolidated historical data from the 2013 Registration • Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope – Danprint. Document. It was prepared in compliance with IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the European Union. Total Group Workforce Scope and Social Indicators Scope The consolidation scope is composed of all the subsidiaries In 2013, 181 group entities representing around 82% fully consolidated for the establishment of the group of the group total workforce reported social indicators consolidated financial statement, in other words the (Social Indicators Scope). In the case of the total workforce subsidiaries in which the group holds, directly or indirectly, indicator, the coverage rate is 100% (Total Group a controlling interest. Workforce Scope). Nevertheless, some subsidiaries do not report all social, Safety Scope safety and environmental indicators. These entities have In 2013, 154 group entities representing around 79% been consolidated into the group’s consolidated financial of the group total workforce reported safety indicators statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, and (Safety Scope). action plans have been drawn up and/or are planned to ensure the availability and accuracy of the social, In addition, in the case of subsidiaries exiting the environmental and safety data reported. consolidation scope as of December 31, 2013, their social and safety data is reported until the date they exit the These entities include: consolidation scope and is not taken into account in the • the more recently-acquired entities, most notably workforce as of December 31, 2013. In 2013, companies those joining the group as a result of the acquisition exiting the consolidation scope related mainly to AlSafi of Centrale Laitière (Fresh dairy products in Morocco) Danone (Fresh dairy products in Saudi Arabia). in 2013 and the companies forming part of the Wockhardt group (Early life nutrition and Medical Production Sites Environment Scope nutrition in India) acquired in 2012; In 2013, 161 production sites (among the group’s 191 • entities resulting from the merger of the Unimilk production sites) representing around 89.9% of the group group and Danone Russia (Fresh dairy products) in consolidated net sales reported environmental indicators 2010. Steps are being taken to ensure that their data (Production Sites Environment Scope). will be sufficiently reliable to be included in the reports on social, safety and environmental indicators as of the The environmental impact of administrative headquarters 2014 fiscal year. and logistics centers is not included in the consolidation scope (except for certain indicators, when the logistics However, these entities are included in the Total group centers are adjacent to a production site). Workforce Scope. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 153 _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope – These reporting guidelines regarding environmental, social, Workforce Danprint (product approach) Like-for-like variations safety and GHG data are available upon request from the A negligible portion of the managerial workforce is not In 2013, this scope covered 94% of the group’s sales (constant scope) Social Responsibility Department. collected in the data reporting framework (a few cases of volume. internationally mobile employees on assignment to other The group measures changes to some social and Social and safety indicators group entities). Furthermore, some disparities may exist in environmental indicators on a like-for-like basis, i.e. at The Human Resources Department is responsible for the workforce accounting methods for expatriate employees Variations in constant consolidation scope. The 2013 data are restated social indicators. Reported data are generally derived from (such is notably the case for expatriate employees who have consolidation scope using a consolidation scope identical to the 2012 scope. payroll systems installed in the subsidiaries and reported three-party contracts between the employee, the home via the group’s financial consolidation software (SAP/ subsidiary and the host subsidiary). Scope variations arise from fully integrated subsidiaries BusinessObjects Financial Consolidation). creations, acquisitions, disposals or liquidations. Selection of indicators Employees on long-term leaves (more than nine months) Safety indicators are reported monthly and entered at the are not counted in the total workforce at the end of the The social indicators presented: The subsidiaries integration and exit of the consolidation level of each subsidiary in WISE, the group consolidation reporting period. • correspond to Danone’s human resources policy in terms scope rules used for environmental and social data are the system for safety indicators. of monitoring of workforce and social performance and same as the rules used for the group’s financial statements: In China, employees remunerated by Danone but whose employee management and development performance; • acquisition: data for the acquired entity is included in Environmental indicators contracts are with a third-party company (equivalent to a • take into account cultural specificities and local the consolidation scope at the date the group took The Nature Department is responsible for environmental temporary work agency), are not included in the workforce. differences (various national legislations or legal control; indicators. obligations, etc.). • creation: the entity’s data is included in the scope from Fixed-term contracts and movements within the group are the date of creation; Environmental data are reported at the level of each not included in the entries/exits. The environmental indicators presented: • disposal or liquidation: data for the entity sold or production site by the Environment manager via the NatiV • correspond to Danone’s environmental policy and reflect liquidated is withdrawn from the consolidation scope application. Greenhouse gas emissions (product approach) Net job creation the progress made by production plants; these indicators at the effective disposal or liquidation date in the current are reported via the Danprint application. Net job creation corresponds to the current fiscal year’s are relevant to the group’s business; financial year. workforce compared with the previous fiscal year’s • make it possible to monitor Danone’s environmental workforce, on a like-for-like basis, as specified previously. When data is reported at production site level rather than performance with regard to its primary environmental Methodological details challenges. subsidiary level (case of certain environmental indicators), Number of training hours and number of trained The methodologies used for certain social and the rules for integrating or removing sites from the employees environmental indicators may involve limitations due in consolidation scope are as follows: Data collection particular to: Training data from French subsidiaries include training • acquisition: data for the acquired site is included in the categorized as ongoing professional training as well as other • the absence of shared national and/or international consolidation scope at the date of acquisition; To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the types of training. definitions; • creation: data for the newly constructed site is included reporting scope, shared data reporting guidelines for social, • the need to estimate, the representative nature of in the consolidation scope from the starting up date; safety and environmental data are transmitted and updated The number of trained employees takes into account all the measurements performed or the limited availability • disposal or closing: data for the site closed or disposed each year following data consolidation and comments by employees who received at least one training session during of external data needed for calculations. is withdrawn from the consolidation scope at the contributors. These guidelines specify the methodologies the year, including employees who have left the group as of effective disposal or closing date. to use for reporting indicators: definitions, methodology December 31, 2013. For these reasons, the definitions and methodologies used principles, calculation formulas and standard ratios. for the indicators hereafter are specified. The training sessions for which evidence has not been received at the reporting closing date are included in the following fiscal year. 154 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 155 _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS In the United Kingdom, the Early life nutrition and Frequency rates of work accidents Consolidated data related to waste do not include Greenhouse gas emissions by organization Medical nutrition subsidiaries take into account training Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) is the number of work-related (i) product returns (noncompliant raw materials rejected/ Greenhouse gas emissions by organization (scope 1 and as well as coaching, seminars and training sessions lasting accidents with lost time of one day or more that occur over unsold due to commercial issues), and (ii) whey, a byscope 2) for 2013 are calculated using the methodology less than one hour, which may lead to inflated data relative a 12-month period for every 1 million hours worked. product normally reused by a third party. described in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard to other subsidiaries. (revised 2010 version). The severity rate (SR) represents the number of calendar Data related to recovered waste include materials recovery Employees with disabilities days of absence due to work-related accidents with lost time (recycling, compost, reuse, etc.) and energy recovery. The approach chosen by Danone is to include all emissions This indicator covers employees declared as disabled for every 1,000 hours worked. sources of the group’s production sites in the measurement workers. The definition of a person with disabilities is Water consumption of its carbon footprint, since for the most part offices, determined by local regulations in the different countries. The hours worked are actual hours worked; if this figure Consumption of well water or surface water may be warehouses and vehicles are not owned by the group. In addition, due to local regulatory specificities, certain is not available, theoretical hours worked are taken into estimated when sites have no meter. The definition and countries include both externally documented disability account based on local practices and regulations. methods of accounting for various uses of water (including Direct emissions (scope 1) are those arising from recognition and disability recognized internally by the run-off, water pumped from and returned into streams) consumption of fuels (natural gas, propane/butane/LPG, on-site occupational physician. The assumptions used for the theoretical hours worked are specified in the technical environmental guide and heating oil, fuel oil and coal) and from refrigerant leaks (in calculation is left to the discretion of the subsidiaries, the specially developed software application NatiV. accordance with the GHG Corporate Protocol, only HFC Absenteeism taking into account local specificities, which can lead to Water consumption includes water used in industrial and PFC consumption is included). No group site uses The absenteeism rate is, in percentage, the total number minor discrepancies. process and water used in finished product formulation. PFC. of absence hours divided by the theoretical total number Indirect emissions (scope 2) are those linked to the of working hours. The grounds for absence taken into Work-related accident indicators also cover accidents The calculation method used by the group consists in generation of electricity, steam, heat or cold and purchased account for this indicator include sick leaves (with affecting interim workers working at Danone’s sites as well taking into account the water used in open cooling circuits by the group. or without hospitalization), illness and injury related as interns who have an internship agreement with Danone. (water pumped and returned without any modification to work and unauthorized leave. Longterm sickness Interim workers refers to individuals who do not have a except temperature). Emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are calculated by applying (more than nine months) and maternity/paternity leaves contract with Danone but are under the group’s direct to the activity data the global warming potential (GWP) are not included. management, working on a temporary basis and for whom If a logistics center is located adjacent to a production site, and emissions factors. working time is available (in number of hours); this can its water consumption is included when the sites are not The hypothesis choice for the theoretical hours worked create discrepancies in the scope of the workforce able to distinguish it. The emissions factors and GWPs used in calculating calculation is at the discretion of the subsidiaries, taking accounted for by the sites. emissions arising from energy consumption correspond to into account local specificities, which can lead to minor Energy consumption data in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines (2006 IPCC Guidelines heterogeneities. Waste By definition, the environmental indicators cover only for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories). IPCC In 2013, waste was classified into four categories for the impact of production sites. When Research and (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) is a group Some subsidiaries monitor absenteeism only for hourly paid monitoring purposes (hazardous waste, non-hazardous Development centers or other non-industrial sites are of inter-governmental experts specializing in climate employees, as other employees are included in a specific organic waste, non-hazardous inorganic waste and sludge located adjacent to the production sites, estimates may change. The emission factors regarding electricity program providing them some available days-off that can from water treatment facilities). be made by the production sites to take into account only correspond to the data from the International Energy be used for several reasons (vacation, sickness, special leave, their own energy consumption (estimate and deduction Agency (CO2 highlights 2013), and the factors used etc.). Such is the case in particular for Dannon Company The sludge from water treatment facilities taken into of energy consumed by the nonindustrial site adjacent to regarding heat, steam and cold correspond to data from (Fresh dairy products – United States), whose absenteeism account in the indicators relates only to those sites that the plant). the ADEME carbon database. rate for employees not paid on an hourly basis is estimated. discharge their wastewater directly into the environment following on-site treatment (are excluded sludge from In some cases, the energy consumption of buildings Emissions factors used to characterize the impact of internal wastewater treatment facilities that are subject to located adjacent to the production sites is included when refrigerant fugitive emissions are based on the report further external treatment). no separate measurement is possible. “Climate Change 2007, 4th Assessment Report, The Physical Science Basis”, from IPCC, published in 2007. In 2013, the “Volume of sludge from wastewater treatment facilities” indicator covered 32% of these sites, i.e. 19 sites in all, representing around 16,000 tons of sludge. Steps are currently being taken to ensure the accuracy of other sites’ data, as soon as possible. 156 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 157 _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS Wastewater Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) data presented Consolidation and External controls Adjustment of previous data correspond to wastewater after internal and/or external internal control To receive an outside opinion of the reliability and Certain reporting errors in previous financial years treatment. If no information about external treatment robustness of Danone Way approach results, Danone may be detected during the course of the current year’s is available, a purified output of 90% is applied. Danone’s group central Human Resources and asked KPMG Audit to verify the results of this approach. reporting. If this situation arises, historical data is Environment Departments respectively consolidate The audit report detailing the work undertaken and their readjusted to allow better interpretation of results In the case of the Akbou site (Fresh dairy products – social and safety, and environmental data based on the comments and conclusions can be found on pages 160 to and trends. Algeria), the net COD was estimated for 2013, as a information reported by production sites and group 161 of this report. result of operational problems and the lack of usable subsidiaries around the world. measurements. The purified output of the site’s treatment In addition, some of the social, societal and environmental plant was estimated on the basis of conservative The social data are collected from each group’s subsidiary. data published in this report was published in section 5.2 assumptions (COD measurements were taken early in 2014 Generally, reported data are extracted from subsidiaries’ of the group’s Registration Document and verified by when the site was experiencing operational difficulties). payroll systems. PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young, Danone’s This site’s data represents 28% of the group’s net COD statutory auditors. This data is identified with the following data. An action plan will be implemented to improve the Consistency checks are performed on data, then the group symbol: √ . The audit report detailing their work and reliability of COD measurement at this site in the next Human Resources departments’ of each subsidiary validate including their comments and conclusions can be found few years. the data before reporting in SAP/Business Object Financial in section 5.2 of the group’s Registration Document. Consolidation. Safety data are monthly reported by each site in the group’s safety data consolidation system. Those data are validated by each subsidiary, then a validation and publication process is implemented by the group, in relation with the divisions. Consistency checks are performed at division and group level at the end of the third quarter and during the consolidation of the data, and a formal “post-closure change request” procedure is applied for any corrections. Environmental data is collected at the level of each production site by the Environment manager. It is verified and approved by the subsidiary’s Environment coordinator before consolidation in the NatIV tool. The Environment coordinators of each division verify and approve consolidation of environmental data before its final approval by the group’s Nature Department. 158 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 159 _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION _PERFORMANCE REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION VALIDATION OF THE REPORT VALIDATION OF THE REPORT BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD PARTY BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD PARTY Danone Nature and scope of our work 17, boulevard Haussmann We conducted several interviews with the people responsible of the Danone Way approach in the Organization 75009 Paris Development and Social Dynamics department in charge of collecting the Results, in order to: • assess the suitability of the Danone Way Protocol with regard to its relevance, reliability, neutrality, understandability and completeness; This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. • verify that a data-collection, compilation, processing and control procedure has been implemented to ensure This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. the completeness and consistency of the Results and review the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the Results. At parent entity level, we performed analytical procedures on the Results and verified, using sampling Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone techniques, the calculation and the consolidation of the Results. Way Approach Published in the Group’s Sustainability At the entity level for a representative sample of entities selected(1) on the basis of their activity, their Report for 2013 contribution to the consolidated Results, their location and risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that the procedures were followed correctly and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in As requested, and in our capacity as an independent third party, we hereby present our report on the Results order to verify the calculation made and reconcile the Results with the supporting documents. The selected of the Danone Way approach (“the Results”) provided in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone sample represents 16.7% of the Danone Way consolidated net sales. subsidiaries for sustainable business development” of the Group’s 2013 Sustainability Report. Conclusion Management responsibility Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Results of the Danone The Results were prepared under the responsibility of the Group’s Corporate Organization Development and Way approach, taken as a whole, published in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries Social Dynamics Department, in accordance with the Danone Way internal protocol (the “Protocol”) which for sustainable business development” of the 2013 Sustainability Report are presented fairly in accordance with may be consulted at the department. The sections “Change in methods in 2013” and “2013 Results” presented the Protocol. in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries for sustainable business development” provide further details on the consolidation scope, the changes made to the Protocol and methods used to Comments on the Protocol and on the Results collect and control the published Results. Based on the work performed, the following comments were made on the Protocol, its implementation and the Results: Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the rules and regulations, ethical code of the profession and our internal Internal controls on the Results of the Danone Way approach have been improved during the annual procedures. We have also implemented a quality control system comprising documented policies and Danone Way campaign and the consolidation of group data. However, there is still room for improvement procedures for ensuring compliance with the code of ethics and professional auditing standards. and it would be appropriate to: • continue to raise the awareness of the persons in charge of Danone Way at the subsidiaries level on the Responsibility of the independent third party need to formalize the fact that they consider some topics do not apply to them; It is our responsibility, based on the work performed, to express a limited level of assurance that the Results • strengthen the internal control regarding the topic related to “Suppliers’ and Business Partners’ Corporate of the Danone Way approach, taken as a whole, are presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Social Responsibility (GOV2); during our work in some subsidiaries, we observed certain difficulties in above mentioned Protocol. understanding the requirements defined in the Protocol with regard to this topic. We conducted the review in accordance with International Standards on Assurance Engagements Paris La Défense, 4 of April 2014 (ISAE 3000), in compliance with professional standards and best practice applicable in France. KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Partner In charge of the Climate Change and Sustainability Services Department (1) Danone Ltd., Stonyfield, Danone Canada, Danone South Africa, Danone Waters China, PT NIS, Sari Husada. 160 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 161 _PERFORMANCE _PERFORMANCE GRI INDEX AND CONTENT GRI INDEX AND CONTENT Page Chapter of this Scope and/or page report of RD 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Self-evaluation of the application of GRI 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4-5 F (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI to the organization and its strategy with approval by KPMG Audit. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6 45 F 52 53 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization F p. 6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services F ch. 2.3, 2.4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating F p. 23 24 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters F p. 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with F ch. 2.2 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form F p. 6 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of F p. 87 88 customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization F ch. 2.2, 3.2 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership F ch. 2.1, 3.1 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 62 67 F 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report Proﬁle 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 69 F 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 69 F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 69 F 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents back cov. F Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 152 159 F 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 152 159 F joint ventures, suppliers) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 152 159 F 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 152 159 F operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions 152 159 F and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report RD: Reference document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 163 _PERFORMANCE _PERFORMANCE GRI INDEX AND CONTENT GRI INDEX AND CONTENT Page Chapter Page Chapter of this Scope and/or page of this Scope and/or page report of RD report of RD 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 152 159 F Stakeholder Engagement reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 73 F of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Examples of stakeholder groups are: communities; civil society; customers; 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 152 159 F shareholders and providers of capital; suppliers; and employees, other workers, or measurement methods applied in the report and their trade unions GRI Content Index 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 73 74 F 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 162 169 F 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 74 F and by stakeholder group Third party validation 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 75 F and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 160 161 F through its reporting 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Governance 5.1. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the F ch. 6 Economic Performance highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 77 F ch. 4.1, 4.2 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive F ch. 6.1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments for this arrangement) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 78 F 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members F ch. 6.1 due to climate change of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 78 F 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction P ch. 6.1 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 78 NR to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior P ch. 6.3, 7.6 Market Presence managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) SUPP EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 79 F at significant locations of operation 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest F ch. 6.1 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant 79 NR are avoided locations of operation 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest F ch. 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local 79 F governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, community at locations of significant operation and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 71 F ch. 5, 6.1 Indirect Economic Impacts relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily 80 83 P implementation for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 57 61 F ch. 5.1, 6.1 SUPP EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the 83 84 P identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, extent of impacts including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, F ch. 6.1 5.2 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Materials Commitments to External Initiatives EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 88 P 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 71 F by the organization EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 88 P 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 72 F Energy or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 72 F EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 89 P national/international advocacy organizations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 90 P SUPP EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 91 P SUPP EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 91 92 F services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives SUPP EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 92 F RD: Reference document RD: Reference document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 164 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 165 _PERFORMANCE _PERFORMANCE GRI INDEX AND CONTENT GRI INDEX AND CONTENT Page Chapter Page Chapter of this Scope and/or page of this Scope and/or page report of RD report of RD Water 5.3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 92 94 P Employment SUPP EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 94 P LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 115 117 F SUPP EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 94 F LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 118 P Biodiversity SUPP LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 118 NR or part-time employees, by major operations EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 95 F areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Labor/Management Relations EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 96 97 F LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 119 P in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether 119 P SUPP EN13 Habitats protected or restored 97 98 NR it is specified in collective agreements SUPP EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 99 P Occupational Health and Safety SUPP EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 100 P SUPP LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 119 P in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Emissions, Effluents and Waste LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 120 121 P EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 100 101 P and number of workrelated fatalities by region EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 102 103 P LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs 121 P in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding SUPP EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 104 P serious diseases EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 104 P SUPP LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 122 P EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 105 P EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 105 P Training and Education EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 105 106 P LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 123 F EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 106 P SUPP LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 123 F employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings SUPP EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous 106 NR under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage SUPP LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 124 125 P of transported waste shipped internationally reviews SUPP EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related 106 P Diversity and Equal Opportunity habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 126 127 P according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators Products and services of diversity EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 107 108 P LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 127 129 P of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed 108 P 5.4 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS by category Compliance Investment and Procurement Practices EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 109 F HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human 131 132 F for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulation rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Transport HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening 132 F on human rights and actions taken SUPP EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 109 111 P SUPP HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 133 F goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage members of the workforce of employees trained Overall SUPP EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 112 F RD: Reference document RD: Reference document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 166 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 167 _PERFORMANCE _PERFORMANCE GRI INDEX AND CONTENT GRI INDEX AND CONTENT Page Chapter Page Chapter of this Scope and/or page of this Scope and/or page report of RD report of RD Non-discrimination 5.6 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 133 F Consumer Health and Safety Freedom of association and collective bargaining PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services 143 145 F are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 134 F categories subject to such procedures and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights SUPP PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 145 P concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, Child Labor by type of outcomes HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 134 F Product and Service Labeling and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage 146 F Forced and Compulsory Labor of significant products and services subject to such information requirements HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 135 F SUPP PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 146 P labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Security Practices SUPP PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 147 P customer satisfaction SUPP HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures 135 NR concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Marketing Communications Indigenous Rights PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing 148 149 F communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship SUPP HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and 135 NR actions taken SUPP PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 149 P codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes 5.5 SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Consumer Privacy Local Communities SUPP PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 150 NR and losses of customer data SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess 137 138 F and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, Compliance and exiting PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations 150 F Corruption concerning the provision and use of products and services SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 139 P SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 139 P and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 139 140 F Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 140 141 F SUPP SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, 141 F and related institutions by country Anti-Competitive Behavior SUPP SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 141 F practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 141 F for noncompliance with laws and regulations RD: Reference document RD: Reference document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 168 — DANONE 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report DANONE — 169 _DANONE 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This Sustainability Report has been prepared with design, coordination and editing services provided by the Department of Organisation Development and Social Dynamics. This report is also the product of an on-going dialogue with Danone’s stakeholders. Contacts: Franck Aimé Vice President Organisation Development and Social Dynamics Laura Palmeiro Corporate Social Responsibility Director Xavier Marcadé Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Silviya Georgieva Social Affairs & Social Responsibility Manager Vincent Crasnier Nature Director Photography credits: Martine Piaia Governance and Nutrition Policy Manager © Ale Ventura/Photoalto, © Danone Environnement, © Danone France, © Danone DR, © Eric Ipavec, © Eric Manas, © Hellio Van Ingen, © Hellio/Van Ingen Vu aérienne , © Jetta Productions, © Peter Cade, © Rodrigo Cruz, © Roger Wright, © Séphan Gladieu/Blossom, © Shutterstock, © Thomas Haley, © Thomas Haley/Sipa Press. Design: www.landmarks.be Danone 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France Visitors: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 PARIS Tel : +33 1 44 35 20 20 Self-evaluation of the Blog: http://downtoearth-danone.tumblr.com/ application of GRI according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by www.danone.com KPMG Audit.
