2013 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BRAND PORTFOLIO AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report BRAND PORTFOLIOS Holistic Beauty from Asian Wisdom A trendy brand offering a total solution for brilliant beauty Nurturing Women's Beauty into Full Bloom Natural Benefit from JEJU Wanna be Sweet? Play ETUDE Holistic Beauty from Asian Wisdom Sulwhasoo is a brand inspired by Asian philosophy, which values harmony and balance. It revives legendary Asian medicinal herbs with the advanced modern science to offer ultimate skin solution and deliver holistic beauty where body and mind are in optimum balance. www.sulwhasoo.co.kr 6 7 BRAND PORTFOLIO AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report A trendy brand Nurturing offering a total solution for brilliant beauty Women's Beauty Based on the fundamental principle that water, the source of life, is the key to maintaining youthful and into Full Bloom radiant skin, Laneige is continually setting new beauty trends and delivering high-quality benefits through By incorporating its brand philosophy, emphasizing the power of nature, and the accumulated know-how insightful ideas. The premium beauty brand for young women is dedicated to beautifying and instilling confiof AMOREPACIFIC, Mamonde brings forth innovative beauty products through research on vitality of flowers dence in its devoted customers. www.laneige.co.kr to help each of its customers to become a starlet in her own world (ma monde: my world). www.mamonde.co.kr 8 9 BRAND PORTFOLIO AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Natural Wanna be Benefit Sweet? from JEJU Play ETUDE innisfree delivers healthy beauty based on the wisdom of pure Jeju Island, and offers quality products to cusETUDE is born as the first color make-up brand in Korea. We realize your princess dream for a magical experitomers. As the first natural cosmetic brand in Korea, innisfree is striving to become the No. 1 natural beauty ence. Spreading its charming ‘fun and easy Make-up Play Culture', ETUDE has been loved all over Asia more brand in Asia by engaging in sincere green life. www.innisfree.co.kr than in 13 countries. www.etude.co.kr 10 11 BRAND PORTFOLIO AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report High Performance Anti-aging Skin Care Powered by Asian Botanicals The Most Advanced Bio Science Cosmetics Brand The flagship brand of AMOREPACIFIC Corp. representing the company's 68 years that Provides Optimal Skin Care Solutions of history and philosophy in beauty, AMOREPACIFIC specializes in anti-aging skin With highly effective ingredients and products that are developed using cuttingcare products which provide fast action through carefully-selected Asian botanicals edge bio technology, IOPE provides optimal solutions for every skin concern and and advanced delivery technology. www.amorepacific-cosmetics.com helps you obtain naturally beautiful skin. www.iope.co.kr Exceptional Beauty for More Exceptional Moments Natural cosmetic brand integrating Hera is a brand for confident and driven women who actively seek challenges and traditional practices and natural ingredients changes and aren’t afraid to express themselves and show their alluring beauty. As Hanyul is rooted in traditional skin care practices. It reexamines traditional remedies a beauty trendsetter in Asia, Hera is spreading beauty and aesthetic value around and uses pure and effective active ingredients from nature to present balance in the world. www.hera.co.kr beauty care. www.hanyul.co.kr Revitalizing the skin with skin care products, made with ingredients from germinated seeds primera which stands for ‘prime’ and ‘era,’ provides skin care products that My Personal Beauty Shopper nourish the skin with ingredients from germinated seeds. It also offers new Verite presents trendy products that are both safe and effective to help customers possibilities and opportunities to our communities and the environment. get rid of their skin problems. You can rest assured that Verite is tested and true. www.primera.co.kr www.verite.co.kr Marine Energy Inspiration French High Perfumery House Skin reborn through the energy of the ocean, The origin of life. LIRIKOS is a presInspired by Emotion tige marine brand originating from the ocean. It uses the pure marine resources The High Perfumery House Annick Goutal is defined by Excellence for its perfumes, with natural healing and invigorating power. It also provides skin rebirth care its olafctory creativity and French Art de Vivre. The secret of our perfumers(Annick through marine energy, a substance obtained from life in the ocean. Goutal and now Camille Goutal and Isabelle Doyen) lies in their ability to transform www.lirikos.co.kr their emotions into perfumes. www.annickgoutal.com 12 13 BRAND PORTFOLIO AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report A Hair Care and Styling Brand A fascinating designer perfume that captures Leading Hair Trends the hearts of men and women alike mise-en-scène, derived from the a French film term, reflects our brand philosophy, Inhabiting a world that lies between dreams and reality, innocence and sensuality, which is to set the stage for creating trendy modern hairstyles by producing innoLolita Lempicka Perfumes takes nature as its inspiration and women as its muse. vative hair solutions, just as a quality film requires the producer’s meticulous effort www.lolitalempicka.co.kr in every scene. www.mjsen.co.kr An Essential Brand for Enhancing a Beautiful Figure Global premium hair brand which completes illi is a premium Korean herbal body care brand offering moisturizing and firming products. Anti-aging solution for the body is provided by integrating AMOREPAthe beauty through balance and harmony CIFIC’s skin care know-how accumulated through years of scientific research, past Ryo is a premium brand incorporating carefully selected ingredients originating secrets to maintain the perfect body, and natural ingredients derived from plants. from Korea and herbal care principles of Korean medicine for more natural and www.illi.co.kr balanced care of the hair and scalp. www.ryoe.co.kr Inner Beauty that Completes Natural Body Care Brand Health and Beauty Pleasing the Senses The VB Program reflects AMOREPACIFIC’s philosophy that true beauty is cultivated Happy Bath is a natural body care brand offering products that please the senses and nurtured within. Comprised of functional oral products that have been deof the body. Its product line includes body washes, moisturizers, cleansers and sun veloped through scientific research, the VB Program suited to every lifestyle helps care products that the entire family can use. www.happybath.co.kr create a more beautiful and healthier body. www.vbprogram.co.kr Dental Cosmetics Brand for Oral Care Solution from Nature a Beautiful Smile Representative Korean Tea Culture Made by Songyum is an oral care brand Median is a dental cosmetics brand Jeju’s Pristine Nature based on ancient medical practices that offers products based on mediOSULLOC is Korea’s representative tea culture brand operated by AMOREPACIFIC. and know-hows passed on through cal science and considers the lifeIt offers various tea products made with tea cultivated at OSULLOC organic tea Donguibogam, mainly using natural styles of consumers. garden in Jeju, a pristine island, and also provides a beautiful, healthy relaxation ingrendients. www.songyum.co.kr www.median433.co.kr place for customers by operating the OSULLOC Tea House. www.osulloc.com 14 15 CONTENTS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report 2013 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Building Taking 06 Brand Portfolio 76 Customers Sustainable Products Sustainable 20 CEO Message Sustainable R&D Innovation 22 Governance Structure Open Innovation Growth 24 Highlights Actions Customer Satisfaction Activities 34 History Performance Results 36 Worldwide Business 38 Vision 86 Environment Green Management 39 Financial Performance Sustainable Packages Biodiversity Conservation Creating 42 Interview with the Management Green Communication Sustainable innisfree's green story 44 Innovatingfor Ban on Animal Testing and Research on Performance Results Values the Customers Alternative Testing Methods The First Global Beautiful Fair Trade Indian Mangoes 96 Employees and Human Resources Management Business Partners Human Resources Development 50 Reducing the Sustainable Water Resources Management Great Work Place Environmental Impact Restoration and Research for Rare Varieties of Mutual Growth with Suppliers Indigenous Soybeans Performance Results 56 Growing through Reinforced Win-Win Cooperation with Business Partners 108 Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategies Harmony in Societies Consortium education program for nurturing the Make up your life Campaign talented professionals of our suppliers Pink ribbon Campaign 10th anniversary of Heemang store Employees' Sharing Activities GREENCYCLE Campaign Operation of Public Welfare Foundation Global Social Contribution Activities Performance Results Taking 70 Sustainability Sustainability Management 114 Appendix Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Sustainable Management Risk Management Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Introduction Ethical Management Independent Assurance Report Actions Communication with Stakeholders GRI Index Material Issue Evaluation Building Sustainable Growth AMOREPACIFIC, which embarked on a beautiful journey 68 years ago, is now globally recognized as an iconic ‘Asian Beauty Creator.’ AMOREPACIFIC will continue its endeavors to provide a total beauty solution to people worldwide. BUILDING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report CEO Message First, AMOREPACIFIC is implementing a customer-oriented management system, making active efforts to satisfy customer needs with groundbreaking and innovative products.. Moreover, we engage in sustainable practices and implement environmentally and socially conscious strategies in various processes from product development to disposal. Second, AMOREPACIFIC is endeavoring to communicate and mutually grow with its companions and partners including the executives and employees, clients, and suppliers. In addition, we are reinforcing our education and training programs to motivate our executives and employees to engage in personal growth and continually working to improve the working environment and innovating the work processes. Moreover, we are strengthening our winwin relationships with our clients, suppliers and beauty partners based on mutual respect and trust, while conducting corporate social responsibility programs to enrich the lives of the people in our local communities. Third, with a desire to leave behind a cleaner environment for our future generations, AMOREPACIFIC has been initiating a wide range of company-wide efforts to minimize the environmental impact of our business activities and to reduce both our greenhouse gas emissions and water usage in response to the current environmental issues such as climate change, water shortage, and the depletion of natural resources. Also, we have emerged as a forerunner in the efforts to preserve and protect biodiversity by conducting research on the AMOREPACIFIC, endeavoring to create a more beautiful measures to restore and utilize endangered plant species. world where there is harmonious coexistence between Furthermore, in support of the UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, we are committed to ensuring that these mankind and nature. principles are fully reflected in our management activities through transparent practices. AMOREPACIFIC has set forth a new vision to become a ‘Great Global Brand Company’ that brings forth world-changing beauty. Accordingly, we are endeavoring to fulfill our corporate We at AMOREPACIFIC, an iconic health and beauty care brand in Asia, have been following social responsibility and improve the quality of life for all mankind. Through these efforts, we our calling to rediscover the invaluable wisdom of our predecessors in beauty and skin care to vow to realize our vision to change the world with beauty and to emerge as a ‘Great Global be presented to our customers worldwide through our products, incorporating deep-rooted Brand Company’ that is admired and respected by consumers around the world. Thank you. traditionsand modern technology over the past 68 years. Even in times of an uncertainty and volatile business environments, we have continuously strived to perseve and make concerted efforts to respond quickly to the fast-paced changes in the world with our number one objective providing customer satisfaction. In addition to our business activities, we have been involved in a wide range of sustainable activities to contribChairman & CEO, AMOREPACIFIC Corporation ute to social development and environmental protection efforts. Kyung-bae Suh 20 21 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Governance Structure BOD Operation Top management(2014) To ensure efficient management, the AMOREPACIFIC BOD(Board of Directors) has set up expert committees to deliberate on the key management matters, including the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, and Non-Executive Director(NED) Nominating Committee. In 2013, the Board convened 5 times, the Executive Committee 5 times, the Audit Committee 5 times and the NED Nominating Committee once. Public announcements were made through the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange to inform the stakeholders of the important decisions made at the meetings. BOD Composition and Authority The BOD has the top decision-making authority. As of March 2014, the Board is comprised of 3 executive directors and 4 NEDs. Each director on the Board is obligated to Major Shareholders faithfully exercise duties and fulfill the responsibilities as a good manager based on Based on common shares held as of the Commercial Act of Korea and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, striving to the end of Dec. 2013 promote the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Each of the executive directors is the head of the business unit and nominated by the 2.8% Board. The NEDs are external experts in various fields including finance, global afDomestic individual fairs, environment, and marketing. The Board guarantees the independence of NEDs, shareholders and others allowing active presentation of one’s opinions on all aspects at the board meetings to be reflected in the decision-making processes. 13.9% 0.1% Domestic Treasury stock Board of Directors institutions As of the end of Mar. 2014 Responsibility/Affiliation Position Executive Kyung-bae Suh Supervision of management CEO, Chairman of BOD directors directors Sang-bae Shim Supervision of management Executive Committee member From the left (bottom row) Dong-hyun Bae Supervision of management support Executive Committee member Yang-sun Chai, Head of Marketing Strategy Unit / Jeonggy Baek, Vice-Chairman of AMOREPACIFIC Nonexecutive Jae-yong Song Professor, Business Administration, Chairman of Audit Committee GROUP / Kyung-bae Suh, Chairman-CEO / Young-chul Son, Auditor of AMOREPACIFIC GROUP / directors Seoul National University Sang-bae Shim, President Eon-oh Lee President, Busan Development Institute Audit Committee member Eun Namkung Professor, Environment and Audit Committee member From the left (top row) Seong-su Kim Energy Engineering, Myongji University Professor, Business Administration, 33.8% 49.4% Jae-wan Shim, Head of New Growth BU / Chan-hoe Kim, Head of Mass BU / Jae-cheon Ryu, Head of Luxury BU / Dong-hyun Bae, Head of Management Support Unit / Byeoung-do Kang, Head of SCM Unit / Foreign institutions AMOREPACIFIC Seoul National University Min-jeon Lee, Head of Premium BU / Sang-hoon Han, Head of R&D Unit Group and 9 persons 22 23 Highlights Highlights AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC, Products Emerging as Adored by Consumers a Global Brand 10 million 10 million 1 trillion Global Champion Brands, expanding into new markets The number of Aritaum Modi nail polish The number of IOPE Air Cushion saled Sales of Sulwhasoo First Care Activating · Sulwhasoo, expands into the Malaysian, Vietnamese saled breaks the 10 million barrier surpasses the 10 million Serum reach over 1 trillion KRW and Indonesian markets · Selected as world-class goods by MOTIE1) · Cumulative sales exceed 1 trillion KRW · LANEIGE, expands into the Indonesian market · Honored with the IR52 Jang Yeong-sil Prize since its launch in 1997 · ETUDE, expands into the Chinese market · Over 100 billion KRW in sales in 2013 · innisfree, expands into the Hong Kong, Singaporean and Indian markets 1) MOTIE: Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 24 25 Highlights Highlights Domestic Business Performance In 2013, AMOREPACIFIC achieved steady growth despite the sluggish domestic cosincreased demand for digital sales channels through VERITE, a brand exclusively sold metics market resulting from economic recession and reduced consumer spending. through home shopping networks, and IOPE Air Cushion also recorded high sales. The sales of high-end cosmetic products in department stores declined, while rapid Despite the low growth rates in luxury market, Sulwhasoo and HERA performed increasing in sales of mid and low-end cosmetic brands with consumers demandhigher growth rates than market through online channels. Sales at duty free shops ing for more affordable products. The advancement in digital devices also resulted also grew as a result of the increased number of travelers. The sales at the domestic in the growth of sales through online and mobile distribution channels and home duty free stores grew substantially due to the growth in the number of Chinese tourshopping networks. AMOREPACIFIC strengthened its sales capacity through product ists visiting Korea, while additional growth engines were secured by expanding our and customer service innovation and responded to market changes by ensuring balcoverage to duty free shops all over Asia. ance among the various brands and diversifying its distribution portfolio. As a result, We maintained our leadership position in sales among department store brands by AMOREPACIFIC recorded 2.56 trillion KRW in sales, a 6% year-over-year growth, and displaying steady growth. In particular, HERA gained a strong foothold at depart375.6 billion KRW in operating profit, a 0.2% year-over-year growth. ment stores with a huge growth in sales recorded through its makeup line and the UV Mist Cushion. In addition, primera successfully established itself as an organic, natCosmetics Business uralism-oriented brand offering affordable products and attracted customers who were shifting their attention from high-end brands to lowto medium-end brands The door-to-door sales achieved stable growth through innovation in sales approach within the department stores. and systems, despite the sluggish market condition. We have ensured distribution In contrast, there were challenges faced by the retail stores inside marts due to the visibility and solidity of inventories in counter customer’s perspective, launched exenforcement of the regulation that restricts the number of business operation days clusive products for door sales channel to cope with diversified customer’s needs and and the saturation of the market. However, the sales were boosted by the strong perdeclining consumptions in the channel, and reinforced product lines in makeup and formance of hit products of IOPE and the growing number of new customers. health functional foods. In addition, a bilateral communication channel was set in place for our beauty partners including the storeowners and counselors as part of our Mass Cosmetics Products and Green Tea Business effort to ensure fairness and transparency in transactions and restore confidence in our company. With respect to personal care products, the high-functionality hair cosmetic products Aritaum continuously made steady sales growth by successful launching the new grew in sales by 8% compared to the previous year. For hair care products, mise-enproducts of major brands including IOPE and LANEIGE, and the huge hit sales of Scène's hair dye and nourishing products exhibited high growth, while illi saw an ‘Modi Nail’, an affordable yet trendy product line. increased market share with its premium anti-aging body care product line. ARITAUM continued its successful growth by transforming its space offering differIn regard to our green tea business, OSULLOC and premium products sold mainly at entiated shopping experiences through upgraded services and innovative products. department stores showed steady growth, with a 7% year-over-year growth. With an As for the digital sales channels, both the home shopping and online sales channels aim to boost sales and profits we are striving to attract new and young customers by showed a significant growth in sales. Active measures were taken to respond to the setting up new locations of OSULLOC cafes and online-offline programs. 26 27 Highlights Highlights Global Business Performance Sales by overseas region 337 (Unit: billion KRW) 2011 259 2012 2013 189 105 80 Asian beauty. On the other hand, innisfree, a naturalism-oriented brand, attained 76 77 74 a greater market share through the expansion of existing retail stores and opening of new stores. Mamonde enhanced its visibility by improving its distribution chan25 24 16 19 nels and created a foundation for qualitative growth. In the second half of the year, ETUDE was launched in China, which created a momentum for further growth in the makeup market. Based on these achievements, the sales in China grew by 30% compared to last year, reaching 336.5 billion KRW. China Asia (excl. China) North America Europe We are also aggressively expanding into the emerging Asean markets by strategically * Based on the consolidated financial statements of overseas subsidiaries. launching our brands and expanding our store networks. In Singapore, Sulhwasoo ** The individual financial statements in the last year’s report were excluded. and LANEIGE in addition to the newly launched innisfree, are widely-available and the brand portfolio is continously being diversified. In Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, Sulwhasoo was newly launched and more LANEIGE stores were set up as a Asian Market means to accelerate our market expansion. AMOREPACIFIC achieved high sales growth in major growing markets including ChiAdvanced countries na and the Asean region by expanding its brand and distribution portfolio. In China, the main focus has been to promote the market share of global champion The business aims in France, the U.S. and Japan are to achieve consistent sales brands: Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree and ETUDE. LANEIGE has estabgrowth, focusing on market recognitions of the brand name. In France, we have atlished itself as a premium cosmetic brand for young women and recorded over 40% tained sound sales growth with the launch of Lolita Lempicka despite the sluggish in sales growth with the successful launch of new products, and through the diverperfume market. In the U.S., a significant sales growth resulted from launching of sification of the distribution channels to include online shops and home shopping new AMOREPACIFIC products, expanding to online distribution channels, and hit networks. Sulwhasoo also saw an increase in sales at its major stores as the brand sales of IOPE in the AMORE shops. In Japan, qualitative growth was achieved by the successfully secured its image as a luxury cosmetic brand, epitomizing the essence of major brands, IOPE and Ryo through home shopping networks and drug stores. 28 29 Highlights Highlights Experiencing the Beautiful Journey of AMOREPACIFIC Opening of 'Story Garden,' AMOREPACIFIC opened an exhibition den containing a variety of plants, from hall called Story Garden on September which the raw ingredients are derived, the Experience Center for 5, 2013 in commemoration of the and this reflects the corporate philosothe Beauty Stories 68th anniversary of its foundation. phy, emphasizing the importance of Story Garden, situated in AMOREharmony with the environment. This PACIFIC’s cosmetics production site in is followed by a visit to the experiential Osan, Gyeonggi-do Province, presents exhibition hall, which is divided into the beautiful journey and ambition of three themes: past, present and future. the group. With the motif of the camelEach of the areas focusing on ‘storytelllia, which was one of the fundamental ing,’ ‘spatial design’ and ‘experience’ ingredients used by the company some demonstrates the stories related to the 80 years ago, the exhibition hall prefoundation and growth of AMOREsents the past, present and future of the PACIFIC as well as its future vision uscompany through storytelling. ing audiovisual media and exhibition The tour starts off at the botanical garitems. 30 31 Highlights Highlights Presenting A Natural Cosmetic Memorable Experiences Brand within through Diversified Spaces Traditional Beauty Care Opening of HANYUL HANYUL was renewed into a naturalingredients were derived from the plant ism-oriented brand incorporating the species found in Korea such as rice, seMamonde’s Reframe traditional beauty care methods of Kooritae, baekhwagoh, white chrysanFlagship Store rea in March 2014. themum and pure artemisia and the For the brand reframe, the plant speplants used in the extraction process in Myeong-dong cies native to Korea offering diverse were carefully selected from the best benefits and traditional beauty care production regions. With these indigmethods demonstrating the wisdom of enous ingredients, traditional processour mothers were combined with moding techniques were used to extract ern technology. The skin care technolothe beneficial substances for the skin. Mamonde opened its first-ever flaggies gained by AMOREPACIFIC over the Through these processes, HANYUL was ship store in Myeong-dong, Seoul, in years were used to present women with reborn as a naturalist cosmetic brand July 2013 to offer its exclusive products a chance to restore the much-needed that integrates the incredible power of developed with the know-how and balance in their skin. Natural cosmetic nature and the wisdom of our ancestors. technologies gained over the past 22 years and to present its unique brand identity. The Mamonde flagship store is comprised of two floors: the first floor can be described as a functional space where customers can test out and purchase a variety of products, while the second floor is dedicated to providing customer services. The store is not just your average store as it was designed to exist cohesively with the famous shopping district, while taking into account what the customers would see, feel and experience from the moment they spot the store to the moment they decide to walk into the store to try out and purchase the products. 32 33 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report History 1945 1954 1962 1966 1971 1984 1993 2007 2012 1948 1958 1964 1973 1979 1992 2001 2008 2010 1932 Launch of a cosmetic business MAR 1959 Incorporation as Pacific Chemical medicinal cosmetic product, of Cosmetics History (present-day Co., Ltd. JUN 2006 Initiation of the holding company in Gaeseong by Dok-jeong Yoon Co., Ltd. ABC Ginseng Cream AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation) SEP 1993 Total Commitment Initiative system (AMOREPACIFIC GROUP) (mother of Sung-whan Suh) SEP 1959 Signing of the industry’s first APR 1971 Launch of Korea’s first makeup MAY 1984 Opening of Amore No. 1, a beauty guarantees NOV 2007 Registration in the UN Global Production of camellia oil technology licensing agreement campaign (Oh, My Love) center(Myeong-dong) (Quality, Service,Environment) Compact (UNGC) SEP 1945 Foundation of Pacific Chemical with Coty France MAR 1973 Establishment of the Pacific JUN 1987 Change of company name to Pacific JUL 2000 Establishment of the Korea Breast FEB 2008 Declaration of the 1948 Release of MELODY cream (release of Coty powder) Scholarship and Cultural Founda Chemicals Co., Ltd. Cancer Foundation AMOREPACIFIC WAY 1951 Release of ABC pomade Korea’s NOV 1962 Completion of the factory tion (present-day AMOREPACIFIC SEP 1990 Establishment of a subsidiary in SEP 2001 Opening of O’sulloc Museum SEP 2010 Completion of the construction of first plant-based one construction in Yeongdeungpo Foundation) France (Seogwang Tea Garden Mizium a 2nd R&D center AUG 1954 Establishment of the industry’s (Korea’s largest automated MAY 1973 Initial public offering of AMOREPAJAN 1992 Declaration of the new manageon Jeju Island, present-day OCT 2010 Incorporation into the Dow Jones first research lab cosmetics manufacturing facility) CIFIC Chemical Industries Co., Ltd. ment philosophy (Service to Man OSULLOC Tea Museum) Sustainability Index (DJSI) World AUG 1956 Relocation of the headquarters AUG 1964 Korea’s first to export cosmetic OCT 1978 Establishment of the R&D center kind, Respect for Humanity and MAR 2002 Change of company name to MAY 2011 Platinum sponsor of the 22nd (Hangang-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul) products ('Oscar' Cosmetics) DEC 1979 Opening of the Museum of Cosmet Future Creation) AMOREPACIFIC World Congress of Dermatology AUG 1958 Publication of Korea’s first SEP 1964 Launch of Amore and introduction ics History (present-day AMOREAUG 1992 Completion of the construction JUN 2003 Set-up of the Beautiful World MAY 2012 Completion of the construction of monthly beauty magazine, of the door-to-door sales system PACIFIC Museum of Art) of the R&D center (Giheung, Yongin) Fund by the late founder AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Campus 'Hwajanggye' 1966 Launch of the world’s first herbal APR 1982 Establishment of the Pacific Museum MAR 1993 Change of company name to Pacific Sung-whan Suh (Heemang store) SEP 2013 Opening of Story Garden 34 35 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Worldwide Business Korea 4,735 employees North America Europe 2,560.9 bil. KRW in sales 66 employees 216 employees 23.5 bil. KRW in sales 74.2 bil. KRW in sales China 5,609 employees 336.5 bil. KRW in sales Other Asian countries (excl. Korea & China) 727 employees 105.3 bil. KRW in sales History of Global Expansion by Brand 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Hong Kong China U.S. Vietnam Taiwan Thailand Brunei Philippines Japan Indonesia Singapore Malaysia Canada New Zealand China Hong Kong U.S. China Taiwan Malaysia Singapore Vietnam Thailand Indonesia China Hong Kong India Singapore Thailand Indonesia Vietnam Myanmar Japan Singapore China Malaysia Taiwan Brunei Hong Kong Philippines 1) The sales figures are based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. 36 37 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Vision Financial Performance Vision 2020 Core Values AMOREPACIFIC GROUP Sales by Business Sector Great Global Brand Company AMOREPACIFIC WAY Sales Operating profit Net profit AMOREPACIFIC aims to become a great company that brings The AMOREPACIFIC WAY consists of the core values and codes 3,432 3,895 (Unit: bil. KRW) 15.2% 84.8% 3,059 for world-changing beauty. In order to realize our vision of of conduct to be observed by the employees of AMOREPACIFIC Personal care and Cosmetic products becoming ‘Great Global Brand Company’ by 2020, we have as the Asian Beauty Creator. The five core values are Openness, green tea products established three strategies and are continually discovering Innovation, Proximity, Sincerity and Challenge. 'Openness' refuture growth engines by expanding into the overseas marflects our understanding that true innovation and growth stem 470 450 435 kets and developing new products to meet the needs of our from our willingness to communicate openly with those out376 347 355 global customers. Moreover, one of our objectives is to become side our organization. 'Innovation' demonstrates our drive and a globally admired and respected company by reducing the enambition to present groundbreaking products, while 'Proximvironmental impact of our business activities and orienting our ity' shows our desire to stay close to our customers. 'Sincerity' management practices to benefit our stakeholders as part of is our promise to be earnest and ensure practices in good faith, our efforts to fulfill our corporate social responsibility. and 'Challenge' indicates our tenacious spirit to undertake new 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 challenges and never fall complacent. Vision Sales by Region Great Global Brand Company AMOREPACIFIC 2.4% 0.8% Sales Operating profit Net profit Europe North America Openness 3,100 (Unit: bil. KRW) Goal Direction Value 2,555 2,850 3.4% Asia Great Global Brand Company (excl. China) Innovation Challenge · Good to · 50% contribution · Transforming into 373 brand company 370 ‘Great Company’ to total sales by AMOREPACIFIC 365 327 · Leading global overseas sales · Nurturing of the 269 267 beauty company · Expansion into the 5 global champion WAY · Achieving new growing brands 'qualitative growth' markets · Establishment and · Development of realization of the 10.8% 82.6% global human Asian beauty standards 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 resources Proximity Sincerity China Korea · Last year’s operating profit and net profit were revised due to the change in the employee wage standards of IFRS. · Based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. 38 39 Creating Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing sustainability management to contribute to improving the quality of life for everyone. We are leading the movement in creating a more beautiful world through our innovation activities for consumers, efforts to reduce environmental impact, win-win cooperation with our business partners and social contribution programs. INTERVIEW AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Interview with the Management To accomplish the vision, 'Great Global Brand Company,' Sung-woo Kim Partner, KPMG what would be the major contributions of sustainability management and the key roles of the each Business Unit? Sang-hoon Han, Min-jeon Lee, AMOREPACIFIC aims to bring goodness mitigate various social issues including It is fundamental and essential for more important to offer greater values Head of R&D Unit Head of Premium BU and beauty to the world through sound diseases prevalent in an aging society. companies to continually consider the to consumers for companies to survive. corporate management activities. This In addition, we are developing techimpact of its business activities on soPremium BU aims to pursue global exvision is an extension of the principle nologies to reduce the environmental ciety and the environment in order to pansion through the CSR activities of of the corporate social responsibility impact of using personal care products leave behind the world as it is, if not LANEIGE and Mamonde among othto bring forth value to society in the and the negative impact of pollution better, for our future generations. Beers, and to conduct research on ways to process of creating value for company, on our skin. Furthermore, we are conhind this considerate attitude, there is shift people’s attention toward the isi.e. 'creating shared value.' R&D is the ducting research to restore and utilize a need for ‘sincerity.’ A company must sues of resources, the environment and beginning of the journey toward this endangered plant species. engage in sustainability management the marginalized classes. Furthermore, vision as its results can be used as soactivities with sincerity to create and we plan on implementing programs to lution for various social issues. We are provide more values to the customers. build win-win relationships with our conducting research on the measures While rational consumption is the curinvaluable beauty partners. incorporating cosmetic ingredients to rent trend, it will become increasingly Byeoung-do Kang, Dong-hyun Bae, A positive corporate identity can be proGlobal Brand Company,' it is necessary AMOREPACIFIC needs to coexist with Support Unit is continually developing Head of SCM Unit Head of Management Support Unit jected to consumers when the company for us to acquire and maintain superior the economic, social, and environvarious measures to guarantee work engages in efforts to increase the efficompetency and at the same, support mental matters in harmonious and and life balances for each employee by ciency of energy use, reduce GHG emisour partners to strengthen their caorganic manner, to accomplish ‘Great providing comfortable safe working sions, engage in CSR activities to conpacity as well. SCM Unit passes on the Global Brand Company.’ Thus, we must places and fair evaluations and reward tribute to society, and builds win-win innovation capacity of AMOREPACIFIC listen the voices of external parties and systems. Also, more programs to suprelationships with its business partners. to the business partners to assist in the maintain cooperative ties, while pracport employees such as flexible work In order to become an admired and reconstruction of eco-friendly production ticing with sincerity and excellent exhours, daycare facilities, long weekend spected company throughout society, bases, and we will strive to maximize ecution power. holiday system, holidays for long-term there is a need to internalize sustainthe synergy created in the SCM ecoRespecting our employees and the comworkers are provided. ability management practices in each system through continuous exchange pany, executing our beliefs in change of the business areas. In order for and cooperation activities. world through beauty will enable to AMOREPACIFIC to emerge as a 'Great step on our vision. The Management 42 43 Major Achievements in Customers 2.68 R&D % Ratio of R&D investment to sales Innovating for the Customers 340 Products products Number of sustainable products With our top priority being our customers, we are committed to deliver innovative 100 Raw materials products of the highest quality that can provide customers with pleasant experi% ences and move their hearts. Also, we take RSPO1) certifications of palm oil into account the environmental and social 100 impacts of our business processes from procurement of raw materials to disposal as part of our effort to promote sustainable % consumption. Percentage of materials tested for its potential impact on biodiversity 98.4 Services % Percentage of resolved customer complaints 1) RSPO Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil, Nonprofit organizations producing sustainable palm oil CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers Ban on Animal Testing and Skin irritation test using artificial skin Research on Alternative Testing Methods Ban on Unnecessary Research on Alternative AMOREPACIFIC officially Animal Testing Testing Methods on Cosmetic Products declared a ban on unnecSince 2013, inter-laboratory validation essary animal testing on AMOREPACIFIC officially declared a ban studies have been conducted to imon unnecessary animal testing on cosprove the reproducibility and accuracy cosmetic products metic products in March 2013 as part of the skin irritation test that was develin March 2013 as part of of its ongoing effort to prevent cruelty oped animal alternatives by AMOREto animals. It not only banned the inPACIFIC. In addition, AMOREPACIFIC its ongoing effort to house testing of cosmetic ingredients has a plan to perform additional valiprevent cruelty to and products on animals in 2008, but dation studies to draft our animal alalso, forbid its partners from conductternative on 'OECD1) Guidelines for the animals. ing new and additional animal experiTesting of Chemicals,' a collection of the ments unless otherwise instructed by most relevant internationally agreed the state or prescribed in the relevant non-animal testing methods’ in 2014. laws and regulations. Moreover, various animal alternatives AMOREPACIFIC operates a verification had developed by AMOREPACIFIC R&D system to make sure that substances Unit including the eye irritation and that have been tested on animals are skin irritation using an reconstructed not used in the products manufactured skin or eye model originated from by the company or its partners. Also, Asian. The result of our efforts were internal regulations have been estabpresented at the 13th International lished to ensure strict adherence to this Congress of Toxicology (ICT 2013). policy and an animal testing monitorAMOREPACIFIC will dedicate our efing committee has been organized for forts to strengthen the competitiveness 1) OECD follow-up management and verificain non-animal testing method by endOrganization for Economic Cooperation tion purposes. less reach and academic activities. and Development 46 47 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers The First Global Children planting a mango tree sapling Beautiful Fair Trade Indian Mangoes Beautiful Fair Trade is AMOREPACIFIC’s Prior to the initiation of the program, AMOREPACIFIC unique raw material procurement we used signboards and loudspeakprogram implemented based on three ers on auto-rickshaws to promote. By purchases mango seeds basic principles of ingredient safety, the end of our promotional activities, from Jamui to make environmental preservation and conresidents began bringing us mango tribution to local communities. Startseeds to sell them. The mango seeds mango butter and ing with the procurement of camellia that were purchased and collected in donate part of in 2010, we have signed agreements this manner were transported to a facwith 9 regions in Korea and expanded tory in Nagpur, where the nuclei inside the proceeds the scope of the program in 2013 to the seeds were extracted and processed to the region. include other regions in the Asian coninto mango butter. This was used to tinent. make the primera Mango Butter ComIndia is a major producer of mangoes forting Body Lotion. where land cultivation and farming In 2013 alone, AMOREPACIFIC bought occurs in a smaller scale. In particular, 27.3 tons of mango seeds through this farming is a major source of income in program, and it undoubtedly contribJamui, a city in the state of Bihar located uted to the local economy as an addiin the northern region of India, where tional source of income. there is low income level and high ilIn December 2013, primera conducted literacy rate. Also, the rights of women the 'Let's Love' campaign to donate are not upheld. mango tree saplings to households AMOREPACIFIC has chosen Jamui for with young daughters. To be more spethe Beautiful Fair Trade Program. We cific, primera matches every 2,000 KRW purchase mango seeds from this region donation made by a customer buying to make mango butter, and use the prothe primera Mango Butter Comforting ceeds from the sales of our products to Body Lotion in order to buy mango tree help young girls in this region receive saplings for the households. proper school education. 48 49 Major Achievements in Environment Greenhouse gases (GHG) Water 357,937 31,638 3) 325,610 340,661 31,096 31,178 Reducing the Environmental Impact 4.774 4.764 1) 1.217 2) We have established an environmental 1.110 1.006 4.086 management system, which is strictly observed by all of our business sites, in order to minimize the environmental 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 impact of our business activities. Moreover, we have been leading the inTotal Basic unit Total (tons) Basic unit (tons/product tons) dustry by our activities related to biodi(tons of CO2) (tons of CO2/100 million KRW) versity protection. Per unit GHG reduction rate year-over-year Per unit water reduction rate year-over-year 9.4 % 14.2 % 1,2) Per unit GHG emissions in 2011 and 2012 were re-calculated · Scope of GHG emission calculation: SCM (production/logistics), research institute, based on the changes made to the sales according to headquarters and regional offices, sales offices etc. the consolidated financial statements. · Method of calculating the GHG emission: method prescribed in IPCC 2006 3) The GHG emission in 2012 reported last year was revised · Electricity emission factor: 0.448 tons CO2/MWh (Korea Energy Management accordingly when an external organization (DNV) noted an error Corporation) during the verification process. · Scope of water consumption calculation: 3 production sites in Korea (Beauty, Mass Cosmetic and Sulloc Production Sites) CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Sustainable Water resources management activity Water Resources Management Sustainable utilization of water reregulate the coolant supply to an optiThe water saving sources has recently become an impormum level. As a result, we were able to tant global issue, and AMOREPACIFIC reduce coolant consumption by approx. practices observed has been implementing midand long23,000 tons. Also, the washing process at the Mass Cosmetic term water resource management plan at the manufacturing plant was optifor the purpose of reducing its water mized and shortened according to the Production Site such consumption. In 2013, an evaluation type of product being manufactured. as regulated supply system for water resources manageThis helped reduce the amount of wament was set in place for more systemter used for cleaning and shortened of coolant and improveatic management. the washing time. For instance, for the ment of the washing newly introduced mixer used for the Reduced water consumption in manufacture of toothpaste, the washprocess helped to reduce the production process ing time was decreased by 43% and the water consumption amount of water used in the washing by approx. 30,000 tons The Mass Cosmetic Production Site, process was decreased by 77%. recording the highest water consumpin 2013. tion among the Production Sites of AMOREPACIFIC, was under examinaReduced supply of Reduced amount of tion to determine the amount of wacoolant to the vacuum washing water ter consumption and water loss rate. pump Through this survey, it was determined that the largest amount of water was used in the vacuum pump and washing processes. 23,126tons 2,285tons It was confirmed that excess amount of Saving of approx. Saving of approx. 70 million KRW coolant had been supplied to the vacu30 million KRW um pump and in order to prevent this, a flowmeter was installed in the pump to 52 53 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Restoration and Research Storage for the rare bean varieties for Rare Varieties of Indigenous Soybeans Manchuria and the Korean peninsula set up a soybean cultivation complex in We examined are known to be the place of origin of Paju, Gyeonggi-do Province, comprised beans. There have been a wide variety of a farmland and greenhouses for the basic constituents of of beans from wild to cultivated beans, seed multiplication work. During this the native soybean but in the recent years, indigenous process, we identified the growth charvarieties of them in Korea have been acteristics and yield for the purpose of varieties and their disappearing due to the growth of gevariety classification. This project made effectiveness in skin netically modified beans, which are it possible to mass produce some 140 easy to grow and exhibit high yields. In varieties of rare, indigenous soybeans care. The results of our addition, many of the indigenous varieand opened the door to discovering research showed that ties were taken to the U.S. and are now their efficacies. being imported back into Korea. The soybean varieties used in the pronapttegikong, AMOREPACIFIC initiated the project ject were then examined to discover horangikong and saeal to restore the indigenous and rare vathe ones with benefits for the human rieties of soybeans in order to promote skin, and napttegikong, horangikong contain anti-oxidant and the value of our native resources and to and saeal were found to contain antianti-aging substances. strengthen the competitiveness of Kooxidant and anti-aging substances that rean bean varieties, considered as one other general soybeans do not have. of the four major heritage materials. Also, dolkong was found to contain diSince 2011, we received 140 rare soyverse flavonoids1) and have the largest bean varieties that are native to Korea amount of anti-oxidant substances. from the Rural Development AdminisBased on these results, we plan to contration and cultivated them for the purduct research on their efficacy on the pose of restoration and proliferation. skin and develop the optimum method Through this project, we identified the of processing these bean varieties for 1) Flavonoids Yellowish pigment present in a wide range unique characteristics and the germinautilization in the manufacture of cosof foods that has anti-bacterial, anti-allergic tion rate for each of the varieties. After metic products within 1 or 2 years from and anti-inflammatory effects and inhibits oxidation reactions in living organisms. completing the basic preparations we now. 54 55 Major Achievements in Society Employees 18.1 Percentage of women in management1) % Growing Through Harmony in Societies 90.3 % Employment retention rate after maternity leave2) AMOREPACIFIC endeavors to pursue 20 Business Partners business growth and to fulfill social responsibility at the same time. Our aim bil. KRW is to help women with beauty and to Amount of Win-win Corporation Funds in operation pursue harmony in people, nature, and 1,053 society. To realize this vision, AMORESocial contribution PACIFIC proactively contributes in various activities with employees, partners, persons and local communities Number of participants in the Make up your life Campaign 176 tons Amount of empty bottles collected through the GREENCYCLE Campaign 1) Management includes managers, masters, senior managers, executive director, senior executive director, vice president, president and chairman 2) Calculation method for the return rate: {1 – (number of female employees resigning after taking a maternity leave in the previous year/number of female employees who took a maternity leave in the previous year)} x 100 * The performances are for the domestic programs. CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Society Reinforced win-win cooperation Roadmap to mutual growth with suppliers 2014 – with business partners Continuous improvement of win-win relationships 2013 · Establish an education system for the partner companie with Build intimate a consortium partner · Prepare a CSR1) support system relationships · Hold General Assembly for mutual growth 2012 · Expand the financial assistance system for partner companies General Assembly for agreed to engage in mutual cooperaAMOREPACIFIC Establish balanced · Support the Global Green Partnership Program Mutual Growth with Suppliers tion, outlining the details for fair trade practices and financial support for prodemonstrated its business · Introduce and operate the 4 major guidelines and standard contracts relationships based · Prepare the audit standards reflecting the sustainability guidelines On February 20th 2013, AMOREPAmotions. Also, it includes reinforcing resolution to build on trust · Support the secondary suppliers and observe the fair trade guide CIFIC held the General Assembly for resource support for the small stores Mutual Growth to share the long-term to create best practices, deriving a sucwin-win relationships vision of the partnerships to 100 parcessful win-win relationship model. with its 67 suppliers · Establish a set of sustainability guidelines for the suppliers ticipants of the 67 suppliers (raw ma· Develop and operate the mutual growth index terials, packaging materials, ODM, proCommitment actions of win-win 2011 · Prepare a fair trade practices guidebook for the suppliers duction and logistics) to build win-win cooperation with Door sales agents Set up a mutual · Improve the operating environment for subcontractors growth relationships. At the meeting, growth system · Build a win-win cooperation portal site 250 million KRW for financial supports AMOREPACIFIC organized the Door· Establish a complaint/difficulty resolution ability guidelines were delivered to selected 23 outstandto-Door Sale Mutual Growth Associa· Support the secondary suppliers and observe the fair trade guide ing suppliers. Also various win-win tion with the door sales agent owners, cooperative activities such as providwhile committing five win-win coing consulting services, win-win coopoperation actions that are expected to eration fund (20 billion KRW), and the boost the revenue and welfare of door2013 General Assembly Green Partnership Association were unto-door salespersons, counselors. These for Mutual Growth with Partners folded. Based on these efforts, AMOREactions include a committee operation PACIFIC and partners concluded a muto resolve the difficulties in the field tual growth agreement On May 27th. supporting the growth program. Also, the period of agent contract is extended Mutual growth agreement with from 1 year to 2 years, while promisAritaum franchisees ing to host the association meetings at least every quarter in order to take heed On January 17, 2014, AMOREPACIFIC of the voices of the frontline counselors. 1) CSR and the Aritaum Franchise Association Corporate Social Responsibility 58 59 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Society Consortium education program The vision and objectives of AMOREPACIFIC’s consortium education program Training creative and innovative for nurturing the talented professionals individuals of our suppliers Professionals Technical dedicated to professionals bringbecoming the best Training of ing forth achievein their fields ments professionals reminiscent of small hidden champions Consortium who can contribute to AMOREPACIFIC program value creation corporate college through innovations The Ministry of Employment and LaQuality training program and AMOREPACIFIC is bor appointed AMOREPACIFIC to opoutstanding educational erate the National HR Development environment contributing to human Consortium Project in 2013. Utilizing resources development Systematic Key vocational the training facilities of the company is AMOREPACIFIC established a longunfolded to run training programs and term HR development plan, encomby offering diverse field training training nurture talented professionals for the passing the manufacturing and loeducational programs partner companies. gistics fields, to be implemented until 2018. 13 basic customized training to 125 suppliers. Creating a cosmetics education courses were offered to 125 partner Class of cosmetics colors Consortium Education Program system, together with partners companies, a total of 1,725 trainees was completed the courses in 2013. Number of training programs AMOREPACIFIC has established the conAlso, the consortium project team exsortium to provide free vocational trainamined the practical needs for training 13 programs ing to the employees of suppliers all year contents through workshops with supround. In July 2013, the training agreepliers in order to create more effective Number of past trainees ments with 125 suppliers(packaging educations in a detailed manner. materials, ODM, raw materials, logisAMOREPACIFIC plans and seeks op1,725 trainees tics, etc.) were made in order to equip portunities to expand more on scope the professionals in partner companies of partner supporting program to esTraining fund with outstanding job skills and comtablishment of corporate colleges for petency, contributing enhancement of partners as next step. Approx. 430 million KRW supplier's business productivity. www.champap.com 60 61 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Society 10th anniversary of 202 Heemang stores by 2013 Heemang store Heemang store is a micro-credit program, As of the end of 2013, a total of 202 202 shops were in which financial assistance is provided shops were established through Heeto low-income single mothers to set up mang store program and it is estimated established through businesses to earn a living. Using the dothat the social impact of this program Heemang store program nation from the founder Suh Sung-Whan, over the 10 years has produced an ecoAMOREPACIFIC has been helping women nomic value of 10.6 billion KRW.1) by 2013 and the social become more self-reliant and financially The loan repayment rate among the impact was estimated independent since 2003. businesses participating in Heemang The year 2013 marked the 10th annistore program was reported to be 81%, to be 10.6 billion KRW versary of Heemang store and a comwhich is higher than the rate reported in value. memorative event was held in Novemfor the general self-employed populaber under the title, “Beautiful Women, tion.2) Also, the fund is being operated Changing the World.” The female CEOs soundly, with the loan repayments bewho overcame their financial struggles ing re-invested into the fund to assist through Heemang store gathered toother low-income single mothers. Number of shops established through Heemang store program gether to share their experiences and the achievements of 'A Bundle of Hope' (Unit: shops) 56(202) (a group of women engaging in new types of charity activities) were present2011 34(146) 2012 ed at the event. The sharing of inspi2013 rational stories and valuable achieve20(112) 1) The estimate was presented at the 8th ISTR ments further instilled hope among the (International Society for Third-Sector Re attendees. AMOREPACIFIC employees search) Asia Pacific Regional Conference (based on 169 shops and financial assistance have donated additional 100,000 dolof 6.2 billion KRW): the social impact of lars (equivalent of 90 million KRW), Heemang store was converted to monetary value from the aspect of financial accessibility through a voluntary fund raise called and increased disposable income of single'Hope Companion Campaign', and parmothers. 2) Source: Statistics Korea’s 2011 Report on ticipated in various promotion activities the “Analysis of Business Foundation Number of new shops to activate Heemang store business. and Dissolution from 2004 to 2009” (cumulative) 62 63 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Society GREENCYCLE An artwork created using empty containers that was displayed at APMAP exhibition Campaign AMOREPACIFIC changed the designausing empty bottles. primera also conThrough GREENCYCLE tion of the Empty Bottle Recycling Camducted a program where participants paign to GREENCYCLE Campaign in could make seeding pots using cosmetCampaign, 2013. Accordingly, efforts were made ic containers. AMOREPACIFIC has to collect and recycle empty containers Meanwhile, the environmental efficieninto new product containers and to encies of GREENCYCLE Campaign was anastriven to promote the courage customer participation in the lyzed through a lifecycle assessment. As recycling of empty campaign. a result, it was discovered GHG reduction Of the returned containers, recyclable occurs through the process of collecting cosmetic containers and containers were selected and recycled empty bottles. invited customers into new cosmetic containers. Also, Furthermore, GREENCYCLE program is to participate in a wide empty containers were used to create continuously put more efforts on inartworks and they were presented at novation for its processes ranging from range of programs. 'Reversecape,' an art exhibition held in production to collection, developing its Osan in 2013 through APMAP, a pubgrowth to universal program that helps lic art installation project conducted by customer’s eco-friendly lives. AMOREPACIFIC. We also operated new programs where our customers can participate. During the Seoul Lantern Festival held around the Cheonggyecheon Stream area, we encouraged the general public to participate in our GREENCYCLE Campaign by offering people a special event to make candleholders and flower pots 64 65 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUES AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Society Global Make up your life campaign in China Social Contribution Activities Make up your life Campaign in China ployees of the company who voluntarily AMOREPACIFIC is joined the program. The Make up your life Campaign is engaged in global social conducted as part of AMOREPACIFIC’s Mamonde’s social contribution contribution activities, corporate social responsibility program activities in China with an aim to help female cancer pacentering on China, tients see the beauty within themselves The M-Garden Campaign aims to prowith a belief that 'Beauty and regain their confidence. This camvide emotional support to the marginpaign was also initiated in China in alized classes using flowers, the brand is a gift that will change 2011 and it has become AMOREPACIFIC theme of Mamonde. Together with the the world.' China’s representative social contribution Shanghai Jiu-qian Volunteer Center, activity. The campaign, scope of which a non-government organization in was expanded to include the suburbs of Shanghai, we provided art education to Shanghai in 2013, has helped 327 fethe children of migrant workers1) and male cancer patients through 9 events created a mini flower garden for them. to date. We established partnership ties The Beautiful Dream Campaign inwith medical institutes including the volves giving lectures to female college Shanghai East Hospital and Yueyang students in China as part of the effort Hospital. We have also introduced a to instill hope among the young adults, family invitation program for the cancer who are disheartened by the growing patients. youth unemployment rate. In 2013, Of particular note, the Make up your well-known female leaders from all over life Campaign raised the awareness and China were invited to speak about inner stimulated interest in the social contriand outer beauty and 304 students who bution programs of the company among attended this lecture gave positive feedthe organization members, as evidenced back, explaining that the lecture helped 1) Migrant workers by the fact that the volunteer team for them realize the value of youth and gain Workers in the low socioeconomic class who the campaign is comprised of the emmore self-confidence. moved from rural areas to urban areas 66 67 Taking Sustainable Actions AMOREPACIFIC is striving to become 'Asian Beauty Creator' that changes the world with beauty. For this purpose, we are making our utmost efforts to create a brighter future together with our customers, employees, business partners and society. TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Introduction Sustainability Management Risk Management AMOREPACIFIC strives to realize its viployees and business partners; and soon sustainability management and resion of becoming 'Asian Beauty Creator' cial contribution. We also disclose the views the results of our key initiatives. that changes the world with beauty in achievements made through our activiIn 2013, the results of the initiatives order to create a beautiful world where ties while guaranteeing transparency. were reviewed twice, and we enhanced people, nature and companies can coKey initiatives for each of the stratethe effectiveness of sustainability manexist in harmony. For this purpose, we gies set forth are undertaken annually, agement by linking the performance AMOREPACIFIC has reinforced its risk plans in advance for each identified information protection index on an anhave taken initiatives in accordance and the Sustainability Management indexes of our strategic directions with management system to preserve the risk and carefully monitored the status nual basis. with the following four major strateCommittee, which is the top decisionthe performance-based remuneration value of the company and minimize quarterly. We also expand the scope of gies: customers; the environment; emmaking body, makes strategic decisions for the executives. the potential negative impact of interthe risk monitoring on overseas and iniIn order to prevent hacking and leakage nal and external environmental factiation of new businesses. of corporate and customer informators such as increased social demand tion, we have been simulating a situaVision and Strategies of Sustainability Management for win-win relationships with busiResponse to the Franchise Act tion, in which our servers, networkers, ness partners, stricter regulations on databases and application programs personal information protection, and We reinforced the information proviwere hacked into, annually as a means Beauty for Good increased management complexity due sion system to prevent damage to the to identify and improve upon the weak Asian Beauty Creator that changes the world with beauty to global expansions. franchise operation and unfair pracpoints. We made a preemptive retices. By re-examining the franchise sponse to potential web-based hacking Good Product Good for Planet Good Relationship Good Citizenship In 2013, the Risk Management Combusiness model and revising and supattempts against our B2B and B2C sysCustomers Environment Employees and Partners Social Contribution mittee consisting of our top manageplementing franchise agreements at tems by reinforcing our firewall. Morement identified the major compathe group level, we endeavored to stop over, we have been conducting simu· Gain customer trust by · Minimize the environmental · Develop the human resources · Fulfill our corporate social ny-wide risks that might occur and unfair practices in advance. lated training for post-disaster recovery reinforcing product safety impact of every process and help employees to attain responsibility by conducting and enhance eco-efficiency a balance between their strategic social contribution discussed potential management and processes twice a year to prepare our· Create opportunities for careers and personal lives activities response plans. Accordingly, the Risk Strengthening of Internal Security selves for major network failure caused growth through sustainable innovations · Create fair and long-term partnerships with business Management Office (RMO) continually by DDOS attack among other factors. partners monitored the 18 potential companyAMOREPACIFIC provided internal inwide risks and 14 unit risks, classified formation protection policy, 14 deGlobal Operation Model Major Awards and Certifications by seriousness of risks. Company-wide tailed guidelines, and the confidentirisks divided into 5 categories, which ality pledges signed by our employees. To response to the changes in the globAwards & Certifications Results are strategic, legal, operational, proInternal security is to prevent the leakal business environment fluctuations, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Included into the DJSI World and chosen as the leader of the personal care motion, and financial risks. age of business secrets such as cosmetwe have reinforced oversea subsidiary product sector for 4 consecutive years In order to ensure systematic risk manics manufacturing technologies and processes and systems for information FTSE4Good Included into FTSE4Good for 3 consecutive years agement, we devised management techniques. They are monitored by the reporting and sharing. 70 71 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Introduction Ethical Management Communication with Stakeholders The year 2013 marked the 20th and make improvements. education program called 'Sincerity AMOREPACIFIC communicates with diverse stakeholders to discover opportunities for growth and prepare for potential crises in 10th anniversaries of the announceNotebook' was developed for individadvance. For this purpose, we have independently set up processes in which the stakeholders can participate and established comment of the Unlimited ResponsibilCampaigns and Education ual, team and organizational learning, munication channels. Through these efforts, we are analyzing the sustainability management issues of interest to our stakeholders ity and Ethical Management policies and was conducted for 6 different orand determining the matters of priority. by AMOREPACIFIC. A corporate ethics The 'Not Giving and Not Receiving Gift ganizations. Means of Communicating with Stakeholders pledging ceremony was held to reflect Campaign,' which had been consistStakeholders Communication channels Notable opinions Responding efforts on the past 68 years and to become ently carried out for the past 10 years, Supporting the Introduction of resolved to adhere to one of the fundawas remodeled as the 'Doing the Right Corporate Ethical System for Partners Customers · Customer satisfaction surveys & CGAP · Improvement of product safety · Held exhibitions on CGAP cases to inform others of · Prosumer activities · Opposition to animal testing existing customer complaints for improvement measures mental principles – 'Sincerity.' Things Campaign.' This campaign in· Corporate and brand websites and · Improvement of customer services · Declared the ban on unnecessary testing of cosmetic volves repeatedly communicating to Based on the operation of the pilot prosocial media pages · Expansion of sustainable products products on animals · Expanded sustainable products Revisions to the Code of the employees of our company the key gram in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC officially · Employee satisfaction surveys · Establishment of a corporate culture · Strengthened the ABC working time system Employees Ethics and Introduction of matters related to the Code of Ethics to launched 'With,' a program aiming & regular labor-management meetings emphasizing on respect and considera · Operated an in-house daycare center and rest area · AMOREPACIFIC人 (in-house online tion for others for female workers the Ethical Sensitivity Index ensure that they do the right thing. In to assist in the introduction of corpocommunity) · Establishment of a differentiated · Reinforced the SHE (Safe, Health and Environment) addition, we produced an online case rate ethical system, in March 2013. It · 2013 Sustainability Management Forum employee welfare and benefits system management system · Promotion of mutual growth between First, the Code of Ethics, strictly obbook on unethical practices under the involves presenting the guidelines for the company and employees served by employees to prevent corruptitle 'Detective Amore' to be sent to ethical practices and providing support · Creation of a safe working environment Business · General assembly on win-win cooperation · Promotion of benefits for business · Formed the Mutual Growth Committee for Doortion, was revised in accordance with the those in managerial positions. Also, we for adherence thereto. Of the direct partners · Seminars on win-win practices partners to-Door Sales domestic and overseas ethics guidelines published a newsletter and a webzine suppliers, 16 took part in the program · Online information sharing channel (purchas · Reinforcement of an open communica · Supported the nurturing of technical professionals ing portal, win-win portal, pro tion system of business partners and the needs of our executives and called 'The Moment of Sincerity' comand various activities were carried out. duction information synchronization system) employees. We will strive to promote prising the ethical practices of our emLocal · Social contribution programs · Support for promoting healthy beauty · Conducted the Make up your life campaign and spread the Code of Ethics as a 'strict ployees and actively distributed them to communities · Social contribution portal among women · Conducted the Pink ribbon campaign · Mecenat activities · Support for low-income women trying · Supported the Heemang store(micro credit program) principle' among the members of our the global subsidiaries. to earn a living organic network including the overseas Meanwhile, we launched a new educa· Support for the marginalized classes subsidiaries and suppliers. In 2013, we tion program called 'AMOREPACIFIC Goverment · Visits to and meetings with relevant · Manufacture and sales of safe, high· Monitored and observed the relevant laws and regulations governmental agencies quality products that comply with regulations · Proposed improvements through the activities of independently developed and introEthical Expedition Team.' It is an online Reported cases of unethical practices in 2013 · Korea Cosmetics Association (KCA) activities · Support for cooperation in improving relevant institutions’ committees (Unit: cases) regulations to achieve industrial devel · Supported governmental policy research duced an ethical sensitivity index as a education program with a motto of 'Inopment means to measure the ethical climate teresting Ethical Explorations' aiming Internal policy 21 · Communicated with external stakeholders · Respect for diversity and expansion of the · Developed special jobs for the disabled and employed External of our entire organization. Based on the to enhance the employees to make the Customer consultation 8 experts (human rights management specialists and complaint resolution system people with disabilities NGOs) · Improvement of animal welfare and · Increased the research efforts to discover alternative index, we derived ethical business stratright decisions in the event of ethically Partners 1 encouragement of sustainable consumption measures to animal testing egies and discovered the weak points of questionable situations by presenting Total 30 Shareholders · Regular shareholders meetings · Provision of management performance · Shared the medium-and long-term business directions · IR Analyst Day results and business outlooks · Provided performance results and IR data each organization in order to set forth them with cases of work-related ethical * Reporting channels: reporting site (anonymous · Enhancement of corporate access · Hosted an event for the Analyst Day event and partici and implement tailored programs to dilemmas. Furthermore, a book-based reporting), e-mail, phone, fax, etc. pated in the global conference 72 73 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Introduction 2013 Forum for Human Rights Management Major Matters under Discussion With respect to the issue of respecting Material Issue Evaluation Emphasis on the importance of human diversity, there is a need to discover the AMOREPACIFIC attempted to strengthen rights management and the need for marginalized classes in the blind spots of its management practices that are constep-by-step introduction society including women, minorities and siderate of the people and in line with the the disabled and to make an effort to reideal human rights practices by appointing At present, human rights management solve the related issues. Additionally, with human rights management specialists. practices are recommended, but there is a the expansion into the overseas market possibility that it will become mandatory in full swing, it is necessary to monitor Date: March 5, 2013 under the law. Thus, companies making forced labor and child labor practices enProcess of Selecting Significant Issues Attendees: Division Manager Sung-jin preemptive responses will be able to engaged by overseas subsidiaries and busiAMOREPACIFIC derived major issues based on the following 4-step significant issue selection process: Kim (International Labor-Management hance their global competitiveness. It is ness partners. Cooperation Division of the Laborhighly important that the human rights The current complaint handling system in Issue pool Degree of interest Business impact Derivation of Management Development Foundation), management system does not simply end place for the employees of AMOREPACIFIC among stakeholders major issues Professor Cheol-woong Je (School of Law with a grand slogan and declaration, but must be expanded to include the sales Media analysis Measurement of the degree Analysis of the degree of Derivation of major at Hanyang Univ.), Professor Hyo-seon gets actually implemented in the operabeauty partners the retail stores. Of par· Analysis of issues related to sustainability management (Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2013) of interest among the interimpact of the issue in question issues based on the detion process. ticular note, it is advisable to conduct nal and external stakeholders on management performance gree of interest among Kim (Economics at Chung-Ang Univ.) and Analysis of competitors · Analysis of the major sustainability issues of 7 competitors in the industry · Customers stakeholders and the Ju-hyun Kang (representative of the Global social campaigns to resolve emotional la· employees results of the business Competitiveness Empowerment Forum) Most important agendas for AMOREbor issues together with distributors and Analysis of the internal sustainability management strategies and KPI · Business partners impact assessment · Meeting minutes of the Sustainability Management Committee PACIFIC are to meet the global standards, cosmetic companies, who are facing the · Local communities Analysis of the guidelines (GRI 3.1) and Q&A of external to respect diversity and to expand same problem. · NGOs assessment institutions (SAM, FTSE4Good) its complaint handling system AMOREPACIFIC reports an annual susThen, a total of 21 major issues were departners' and 'reinforcement of sustain2013 NGO Forum tainability management report on the rived based on the significant issue selecable products'were considered most imMajor Matters under Discussion As part of its efforts to encourage sussignificant issues derived through the tion process outlined above. The major portant by the stakeholders. In addition, Efforts to ensure coexistence with animal The use of simple and recyclable and tainable consumption and develop safe analyses of the levels of interest among issues chosen in this manner were ranked an increasing degree of importance was welfare and product safety upcycling packaging materials must be products, AMOREPACIFIC appointed NGO increased. There is a need to consider the stakeholders and business impact. based on the order of priority determined placed on the issues 'customer satisfacmembers to communicate with the stakeAMOREPACIFIC declared a ban against developing refillable or replaceable prodFirst of all, an issue pool was prepared by according to the levels of interest among tion activities' and 'biodiversity preservaholders. unnecessary testing of cosmetic products in order to promote sustainable conanalyzing competitors in the media, costhe stakeholders and business impact. As tion.' This report contains detailed inforucts on animals. There is also a need to sumption. metics and personal care product sectors, a result, it was identified that the issues mation on the 21 major issues outlined Date: June 21, 2013 pass on to the smalland medium-sized At present, AMOREPACIFIC operates a international guidelines and KPI. of 'building win-win relationships with below in their respective sections. Attendees: Professor Jae-cheon Ryu (KIST), enterprises the alternative measures to promise mark system, which has not been President Jeong-hwa Kang (Consumers animal testing. Further, it is necessary for effectively made known to consumers, Union of Korea), President Ja-hye Kim B A A B High AMOREPACIFIC to promote cooperation and thus there needs to be improvement (Consumers Korea), co-representative Mi① Building win-win relationships with ⑧ R&D Innovation ⑮ Information protection policy among Asian countries to increase the usmeasures. In order for widespread suspartners ⑨ Reinforcement of sustainability Transparency of the jung Nam (Korean Woman's Environmen② Development of environmentallyand management of overseas subsidiaries governance structure ing alternative measures to animal testtainable consumption to be possible, it tal Network), Yoon-mi Cho(Green ConsumInterest levels socially-friendly products ⑩ Assisting employees Management of harmful ing, similar to the EU countries. is necessary to educate the consumers as ③ Customer satisfaction activities in balancing their careers and chemicals er Network in Korea), co-representative of stakeholders ④ Development of sustainable personal lives Risk management well. If necessary, AMOREPACIFIC needs Soon-rye Yim (Korea Animal Rights Advopackages ⑪ Responding to climate change Ethical management Development of sustainable products to consider conducting wide-range sus⑤ Reinforcement of social contribution ⑫ Increase the diversity of executives Green marketing cates), standing representative Hee-kyung activities and employees Labor-management relations and sustainable consumption tainable activities together with NGOs and Jo (Korean Animal Welfare Association) ⑥ Preservation of biodiversity ⑬ Development and nurturing of human by customers consumer organizations. Low ⑦ Green management resources Low Business impacts High ⑭ Expansion of corporate culture on the company 74 75 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers Sustainable Products Type of Sustainable Products and its Development Type of sustainable products Representative products Number of items Customer-friendly Additive-free products Hanyul 194 Products providing customer assurance and Optimizing Serum products earning their trust with improved safety Under the three major principles of increase our utilization of raw materials The findings of a life cycle assessment reinforcing product safety for consumderived from nature. of rinse-off products showed that the ers, minimizing environmental impact highest amount of water was used in LOHAS certified products Happy Bath 4 Products that pursue a healthy and sustainable lifestyle Bio Bebe Soothing Lotion and harmonious coexistence with local the usage phase. Based on this result, communities, the sustainable products Increased Utilization of we conducted research to reduce water of AMOREPACIFIC are divided into three Raw Materials Derived from Nature use during washing. categories: customer-friendly products, Through the R&D process, we develOrganic products Songyum 10 environmentally-friendly products and To increase the use of ingredients deoped a defoaming system that selecProducts that received Ecocert or external My Child Toothpaste Strawberry socially-friendly products. rived from nature, AMOREPACIFIC set tively acts upon being diluted during organic certification Our internal certification standards for forth the standard volume for raw marinsing without influencing the amount the specific types of products belongterials to be used in each of the cosmetof foam created, and allows the foam to ing to these categories are continually ic type and is working to develop the disappear more quickly in the rinsing revised in accordance with the domestic necessary technologies. We successstage compared to the existing shamEnvironmentallyEcosystem conservation products Happy Bath 6 and international trends, amendments fully developed an essence with 90% poo products of AMOREPACIFIC. Based Products that received the certified eco-label from Real Moisture Body Wash friendly the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute to the laws and regulations, and expert of its key ingredients originating from on this technology, we developed a new products opinions. natural resources using a technology formulation that shortens the rinsing enabling the solubilization of natural time by 28% compared to the past Reinforcing the Sustainability substances, and we also developed a shampoo products. This allows users to Carbon footprint products mise-en-scène 15 Products that received the certified carbon footprint l Pearl Shining Moisture Shampoo of the Raw Materials technology that can be used to increase save water, while at the same time lowabeling from the Korea Environmental Industry & the content of natural ingredients in ering the amount of water required for Technology Institute In accordance with the 2020 Sustainafoundation formulations. As for lipstick wastewater dilution (amount of clean ble Raw Material Roadmap established formulations, we plan on increasing the water necessary to dilute contaminated Socially-friendly Beautiful Fair Trade products primera 38 in 2011, we are endeavoring to secure use of natural oils. Additionally, we are water to the level of rainwater for disproducts Products that use raw materials purchased through Miracle Seed Essence more outstanding raw materials from continually conducting joint research charge into the natural water systems). a win-win relationship with local communities the three perspectives of customerwith external research institutions in friendliness, environmental-friendliorder to replace petroleum-derived ness, and social-friendliness. and based ingredients with plant-derived subUniversal design products mise-en-scène 73 Products that are considerate of the needs and Damage Care Shampoo on the Raw Material Sustainability stances and to discover new active inconvenience of socially underprivileged, such as Assessment System introduced in the gredients in nature. people with physical disabilities 2011, we are making ceaseless efforts Go to our website to check out our product safety to review new raw materials. In 2013 Development of Total reinforcement process (http://www.amorepa340 in particular, we made various efforts to Water-saving rinse-off formula cific.com/sutain/safety_item_02.jsp) 76 77 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers R&D Innovation Development of Technology for i.e. ginsenoisde. Through the joint research, we sucvital energy from the plant stem cells, dients obtained through enzyme synenzymes helps break down the dead Standardization of Ginseng Berry cessfully developed a capsulation techAMOREPACIFIC has been cultivated the thesis and the mildly acidic cleansing skin cells that accumulate on the skin Extract and Identification of Active The standardized ginseng berry subnology for stabilizing and protecting Plant Stemcell InnovatorTM in the conbase that helps maintain the natural surface with reduced turn-over rate. Aging Efficacy stance designated as Gingseng Berry® unstable compounds and took the reditions of harmful factors for the skin pH level of the skin surface strengthen Papain promotes exfoliation in its miis made up of a differentiated composisearch further to develop the bioactive such as low temperature, UV rays, CO2, the skin barrier and enhances supplecro-capsulation state, while keratinase In the country of origin of Goryeo gintion of ginseng saponin and its content targeting technology for delivery of the and Ozone. ness. This in turn facilitates absorpremoves only the keratinized or hardseng, we discovered a new value of is 2 to 3 times higher than ginseng roots. compounds to the targeted destination tion of the active ingredients by the ened layer of the skin. Lipase, on the ginseng and successfully developed Gingseng Berry® has shown outstanding in a stable manner. This technology alBio-enzyme Cleanser skin after cleansing. Of particular note, other hand, breaks down fat (triglycGinseng Berry®1) Extract Ampoule, preeffectiveness in regulating the expression lows the accurate delivery of the active Containing 3 Major Enzymes AMOREPACIFIC has applied the polyol eride), the main constituent of sebum senting a new paradigm of the ginseng of SIRT1, known as a longevity gene, and ingredients contained in a capsule in template and partitioning technology that causes unwanted shine and dulland red ginseng market. This product also had an anti-aging effect. Also, it the form of a sponge, which can be deIOPE Enzyme Powder Treatment Wash for micro-capsulation of papain enness of the skin. has been recognized for its innovative helped promoting the blood circulation formed and absorbed by the skin easily, contains an independently developed zyme, comprising the enzyme complex, AMOREPACIFIC developed a technolintake methods and formation, which in the peripheral arteries and improved to the target area of action. bio-enzyme complex, which helps elimin order to allow the creation of rich ogy integrating the use of lipase and eliminated inconveniences of tradithe skin tone, while it was shown to Using the bioactive targeting technolinate the unnecessary dead skin layer foam using just a small amount (0.5g chitosan to break down and absorb tional intake and formation of Goryeo have an effect in preventing cardiovasogy, we added the sequoia stem cells and controls excess sebum secretion. recommended). sebum, and applied it to IOPE Enzyme ginseng. cular diseases (e.g. arteriosclerosis). substances(Plant Stemcell InnovatorTM) This is a bio product developed based The 3 major enzymes making up the Powder Treatment Wash. Ginseng is a representative medical For the newly developed technology with powerful action inside a capsule, on the principles of the bio activities bio-enzyme complex are papain and herbal plant of Korea that is well-known for the standardization of ginseng berenabling the active ingredients of the of the skin in order to make the skin keratinase, which break down protein, across the world. It has long been conries and discovery of new efficacies, plant stem cells to travel to the area smooth not by physical friction but by and lipase, which dissolves oily subsumed as a health-boosting and general AMOREPACIFIC has filed for 73 patent requiring intensive care. Sequoia is the enzyme activity. Additionally, the ingrestances such as sebum. Each of these food product. However, ginseng was applications in Korea and abroad, regworld’s largest tree species, known for typically cultivated for its roots and its istered 4 patents and published papers its strong vitality that allows it to surberries were used simply as seeds for in 4 SCI journals to date. vive for more than a millennium. In orcultivation in the following season. der to maximize the extractions of the AMOREPACIFIC R&D Center separated Bioactive Targeting, the seeds from the ginseng berries, a Stable Ingredient Delivery System and extracted and concentrated the 1) Gingseng Berry® is the registered trademark juice, pulp and peel of the berries using AMOREPACIFIC has jointly conducted of AMOREPACIFIC, which successfully its independent technology. Through research on an innovative biotechnoldeveloped a technology for the standardiza these processes, we successfully obtains ogy-based intelligent delivery system tion of ginseng berries. 2) ESPCI: Ecole Sup rieure de Physique et a standardized substance containing a with Professor Jerome Bibette of ESPCI2) de Chimie Industrielles de la Ville deParis Ginseng Berry® Extract Ampoule Application of the bio-active targeting technolIOPE Enzyme Powder Treatment Wash consistent amount of ginseng saponin, since 2009. ogy to an active ingredient (France) 78 79 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers Open Innovation As part of the open innovation activities, AMOREPACIFIC performs national R&D projects and joint research with external institutions to preemptively secure the technologies of the future necessary for business growth. Major Open Innovation Activities in 2013 Development of Cosmetic Development of Cosmetic Development of Functional MateriPublication of documents we examined introduced Development of New, Products Using Marine Products Using Marine Algae als by Establishing Bean Cultivation ‘The Cultural History of the beauty care methods unique to KoHigh-Refractive Resources from Sinan and Resources Complex and Restoration of and Research on Rare Beans Korean Herbal Cosmetic Products’ reans; for instance, ‘Miansu,’ made at Makeup Material and Application to the Products home, was applied in the last stage of Partner: Sinan-gun Partner: Wando-gun Partners: Yeongwol-gun of Gangwonbase makeup application to moisturPeople want makeup and sun care proddo Province, Gangwon Techno Park and For sustainable development of Koize the skin and make it appear more ucts that do not irritate the skin while Jayu Boncho (Grace of Nature) rean herbal cosmetic products, it is radiant. The formulation with charmaintaining their function of blocking important to not only use outst anding acteristics similar to Miansu was dethe harmful UV rays. In order to meet ingredients and technologies, but also veloped in the same year in 2013 and these demands, the AMOREPACIFIC to incorporate the unique history, phiwas launched as Luminature Essential Makeup Research Institute decided to losophy and culture of the brand. The Finisher(Korean name: Mian Finisher). invest its efforts into the development Main activities Main activities Main activities AMOREPACIFIC R&D Center has been of a skin-friendly, high-refractive subworking together with the Institute of This product designed to be used as an stance. For 5 years since 2009, we con· Research on materials obtained from · Discovery and supply of new · Establishment of a beauty bean the mud flats in Sinan marine resources production site on the land owned by Oriental Medicine, Kyung Hee Univeressence in the last step of the skin care ducted joint research with the research Yeongwol-gun for the proliferation sity to discover historical documents on routine to revitalize and add a healthy team led by Professor Ji-man Kim of · Research on the efficacy of marine · Development of cosmetic and mass cultivation of rare beans herbal cosmetic products and skin care. glow to the skin has becoming highly Sungkyunkwan University with an aim resources ingredients using the clean marine · Joint research for production of highalgae obtained from Wando-gun Based on 3 years of research involving popular among consumers. By combinto develop a new high-refractive, skinquality beans for beauty products and in-depth examination of medical docuing the principles of Korean medicine friendly material. The research teams development of raw materials ments such as Donguibogam as well as and advanced scientific technology, we of AMOREPACIFIC and Sungkyunkthe Annals of the Joseon Dynasty and plan to develop products that can be wan University successfully performed Expected results Expected results Expected results Gyuhapchongseo(a collection of books appreciated by our customers worldnano-film, zero-defect coating of the · Commercialization of cosmetic · Development of new marine · Creation of new income sources for of matters concerning daily housewide and continue our research to shed inorganic UV block agent using phosproducts made with the marine cosmetic ingredients that are safe the farmers in the region by subcon hold), we published a book titled ‘The light on the cultural and historical value pholipids, which constitute the skin cell resources from Sinan-gun and effective tracting the ‘beauty bean cultivation’ Cultural History of Korean Herbal Cosand significance of Korean herbal cosmembrane, and successfully developed · Protection and nurturing of indigenous metic Products(Deulnyeok Publisher)’ metic products. a stable compound by impregnating an bio resources and stimulation of the in April 2013. Some of the historical organic UV block agent. local economy 80 81 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customers Customer Satisfaction Activities Customer Complaint phone and the Internet and in person a wide range of activities to reinforce Lifelong Customer Campaign panies such as Smart Wallet and credit In order to enhance the convenience Management Activities, at stores are accepted humbly as ‘gifts’ our customer consultation services. card companies. In addition, we have of receiving the beauty points, we have CGAP that will contribute to product developCustomer consultation satisfaction rate AMOREPACIFIC values each and every extended the diverse benefits to inlaunched mileage and beauty point ment, and we engage in active efforts is assessed on a regular basis to be recustomer, and this is reflected in the clude personal care products and items cards and provided opportunities to Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC to resolve the complaints and provide flected in the education and training Lifelong Customer Campaign. Efforts bought at duty free shops. 1.08 million customers of our affiliated (CGAP) is a customer complaint mansolutions as a way to further develop programs, and we strive to provide acare made to build strong relationships Moreover, we are now providing bencompanies to try out our products. agement policy unique to AMOREPAour company. curate answers to the frequently asked with our customers including suggestefits to approximately 3 million overCIFIC which involves collecting the voice questions through our portal site. ing products and benefits based on the seas customers in 9 countries including Operation of the Chinese of customers regarding their inconvenReinforced Consultation Services In 2013, we revised our manual on cuscustomers’ prior purchases. China, the U.S., Japan and Singapore. Prosumer Group ‘Suhyedang’ iences and complaints and taking the tomer consultation in order to enhance In 2013, we expanded the channels corrective action necessary as quickly as In order to effectively respond to custhe quality and consistency of our custhrough which we communicate with Beauty Point Services In order to collect VOC overseas to be possible. Customer complaints filed via tomer inquiries, we are undertaking tomer services. Also, we even upgraded our customers in addition to the existreflected in product development, we the customer consultation satisfaction ing online communication channels AMOREPACIFIC is engaging affiliation are operating a prosumer group comrate assessment; we record the telby setting up a Facebook account and marketing to provide more benefits prised of Chinese citizens in Korea ephone calls and assess our customer collaborating with our affiliated comthrough the beauty point card system. called ‘Suhyedang.’ In 2013, some 50 Solutions to Customer Complaints in 2013 consultation service based on the conmembers took part in the development Issue Solution versation exchanged between the cusof new cleansing foam, anti-aging tomers and our service representatives. products and beauty food products, A customer noted that it is difficult to The cap and container were newly dewhich were scheduled to be launched open and close the cap of Lirikos Marine signed to facilitate the opening and closing of the cap. in China. They not only provided valuExpert Restoring Cream and thereby able opinions, but also participated in suggested improvement in its design. online promotional activities. In addition, the members were given a chance to experience the K-beauty Culture of AMOREPACIFIC by visiting Story GarVoice of Customers (VOC) Management den and participating in the Pink Rib(Unit: cases) bon Marathon. Channel 2011 2012 2013 Phone 138,173 135,880 173,596 Before After Online 10,843 11,052 7,426 Preference Test of Beauty Food Products by Suhyedang 82 83 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Customer Information tem and management scheme in 2013 Also, we combined the security organiwith an aim to complete them by the zations which had formerly been spread Protection first half of 2014. Through these efacross the personal information protecforts, we have not only fulfilled our legal tion and corporate information protecMajor Performance Results of the Customer AMOREPACIFIC strives to protect the duties and obligations to protect the tion units among others, and newly es(Unit: products) rights of its customers through the personal information of our customers, tablished an information security team customer information protection acbut also minimize the risks of abuse and to oversee the security of information at tivities. With an understanding of the leakage of customer information and home and abroad. As a result, it is now 2011 2012 2013 importance of securing and protecting enhanced the security of our company’s possible for us to make rapid and accu139 311 340 customer information, we planned 14 confidential information including our rate responses to information security Number of projects to reorganize our security sysknow-hows. risks in an integrated manner. sustainable products Reinforced Access Restrictions the outside must use a personal computer or tablet PC Major Performance Results 2011 2012 2013 that has been registered and installed with a valid seIn order to prevent access to the system containing cuscurity program. Of particular note, those accessing the Number of Domestic application 266 228 230 cases tomer and corporate information by unauthorized indicustomer information database are subject to strict conpatents vidual, we have upgraded the security measures to only trol and monitoring through the DB access restriction Domestic registration 117 115 112 cases allow access to the major systems through our internal and DB encryption systems. network. Also, those wishing to access the system from Overseas application 200 209 210 cases Overseas application 32 51 57 cases Tracking of Customer Information Access Records information on a large number of customers by an executive, employee or a relevant party. In this case, the Number of published papers 57 48 47 cases Every act performed while using the personal inforindividual in question is summoned for questioning. mation system is tracked and recorded. Also, there is Through these efforts, we can expect to prevent errors R&D expenditure Investment costs 73,396 71,483 83,167 mil. KRW a system in place to immediately detect system access and illegal activities in advance, and to make it possible through an abnormal route or from a location differto stop the spread of damages and losses in the event of ent from normal or alarming behaviors such as viewing accidents by tracking the responsible party. Ratio of investment 3.03 2.51 2.68 % costs to sales Ratio of customer 99.1 99.2 98.4 % Reinforced Management of Partners Handling Our partners, handling our customer information. In parcomplaints resolved Customer Information ticular, we have frequently been diagnosing the security status of our partners commissioned to handle our cusAverage consultation 95.9 93.0 92.8 % AMOREPACIFIC is dedicated to fulfilling the managetomer information on our behalf starting in 2013 in orsatisfaction rate1) ment and supervision duties prescribed by the relevant der to ensure that such information is stored in a secure law. We sign privacy policy agreements with all of our environment. 1) The assessment standards for the consultation satisfaction rate were revised in 2012. * The performances are for the domestic programs. 84 85 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Green Management Response to comparison to the amount recorded in the GHG emissions were lowered by GHG Reduction Activities in Fuel efficiency on average processes. Through the CFT activities, 2010. about 1,149 tons of CO2 and this rethe Transport Process we analyzed the risk and opportunity Climate Change (Unit: km/L) sulted in cost savings of about 380 milfactors resulting from water use acGHG Reduction Activities in lion KRW. AMOREPACIFIC is making diverse efcording to domestic and overseas enAMOREPACIFIC built an inventory to the Production Process In case of the Mass Cosmetic Producforts to implement eco-friendly logisvironmental changes. In 2013, we set engage in companywide efforts to tion Site, efforts were made to improve tics. the management direction for each of reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emisAt the Beauty Production Site, various the processes and equipment such as Since 2012, we have been engaging in 8.12 8.90 9.20 the activities involving water use, and sions in response to the global climate activities were performed as part of the heating and cooling systems, with joint transport with Yuhan Kimberly for established midand long-term roadchange. Based on the midand longthe energy saving efforts such as boostthe highest energy consumption and the distribution route between Osan maps to reduce water consumption. 2011 2012 2013 term GHG reduction plan of the SCM ing of the efficiency of the heating and the air compression system. By doing and Gimcheon. We share the same veThrough these efforts, we are striving established in 2011, efforts are being cooling systems and air compressor, this, the GHG emissions were lowered hicle when transporting goods between toward our goal of reducing our water made to achieve the target of 30% and application of the waste heat reby around 333 tons of CO2 and about the Osan and Gimcheon logistics centAlso, we reduce power consumption use by 30% per unit of output by 2020 reduction per unit of sales by 2020 in covery system. Through these efforts, 100 million KRW was saved in costs. ers of AMOREPACIFIC and between the at the logistics centers by increasing compared to 2010. Gimcheon Factory of Yuhan Kimberly the efficiency of the processes and imand Seoul Metropolitan Logistics Centproving the facilities. For instance, the Reducing Water Use er. This helps reduce the environmental restocking process at the Osan Logistics by Reusing Rainwater impact of transport, while reducing the Center was improved to decrease the Establishment of the Establishment of the Introduction of the Autotransportation and distribution costs at average daily work time by 2.3 hours, AMOREPACIFIC is trying to reduce the Waste Heat Recovery Real-time Monitoring mated Cleaning System for the same time. while the 14 old stacker cranes at the amount of tap water used at the Beauty System System the Freezer As for GHG emissions from the vehicles, Daejeon Logistics Center were modiProduction Site by reusing rainwater. A 95.5 tons of CO2 for GHG 95.8 tons of CO2 for GHG 42 tons of CO2 for GHG the EMS(Eco-driving Management Sysfied to increase the operation efficiency rainwater storage tank with 1,400 ton emissions are reduced each year emissions are reduced each year emissions are reduced each year tem) has been installed in the vehicles per hour by 37%. capacity and a purification treatment Beauty Production Site Beauty Production Site Mass Cosmetic to collect information on the driving facility have been installed. In 2013, Production Site habits of the drivers, based on which the water level of the storage tank Eco scores are given to the drivers, and Water Resources was increased in order to enhance the those with high Eco scores are then efficiency of rainwater use. AdditionA waste heat recovery system was established A monitoring system was installed in the cenIn the past, the freezer was cleaned chemically Management provided incentives. As a result, fuel efally, a rainwater filter was installed to to recover the high-temperature condensate tral control center to check the operation of the and mechanically once a year in order to prewater generated during the production of hot production site in real time and cut off the utilivent inefficiency caused by internal contaminaficiency improved by about 3.4%, while improve the quality of rainwater to be water for reuse. Through this, the temperature ties when the processes are complete in order tion. Now, with the introduction of the autothe amount of diesel used decreased In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC established used in the cooling tower. Through of the water supplied to the boiler was into optimize the utility operation time. mated cleaning system, the operation efficiency has been optimized. by 33,370 L and the GHG emissions the water Cross Functional Team (CFT) this, Beauty Production Site reduced its creased and energy was saved as a result. were reduced by 87 tons of CO2 in 2013 to respond to water-related issues and water consumption by 20,223 tons in compared to 2012. reduce the water use in manufacturing 2013. 86 87 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Green Management Activities at the Shanghai Production Site Sustainable Packages The Shanghai Production Site of AMOREGHG Reduction Efforts they were encouraged to engage in green PACIFIC manufactures some of the prodpractices in and outside of the production ucts of Mamonde and innisfree that are In 2013, the energy consumption rate was site for environmental protection. sold in China. In order to reduce the enviidentified and measures for improvement ronmental impact of the production prowere derived as part of the effort to reduce Energy Saving Education for Employees cesses, efforts are being made to reduce the GHG emissions from the production the GHG emissions and raise awareness site. In the first half of 2013, energy saving eduAMOREPACIFIC is reinforcing the susvironment, we have discovered a busiWe signed an agreement to participate of employees on site regarding the enThe work hours were monitored in real cation was provided to the employees. We tainability of packages by developing ness partner that can provide us with in a pilot program to reduce package vironmental issues. The new production time to optimize the facility, lab and informed them that energy can be saved materials and alternatives as a means a stable supply of recyclable materials. volumes, which has been initiated by and research base which is scheduled to cooling system operation times, and the even through the most trivial activities in to reduce the environment impact. With our partner, we have developed the Ministry of Environment for the be completed by 2014, the construction number of lighting fixtures was reduced our daily lives and encouraged them to With the goal to reduce the amount 100% PCR ABS material, which is more purpose of reducing the amount of of which is scheduled to be completed by in areas with low work load such as raw engage in energy saving practices. In the 2014, will be equipped with an improved material storage facility. As a result, the second half of the year, an energy saving of product packaging by 25% by 2020, environmentally-friendly compared to cosmetics packages that can potentially environmental management system and GHG emissions were reduced by 15 tons activity organization was formed so that it is pursuing sustainable packaging the existing ABS material, while at the harm the environment. In accordance be introduced with outstanding environof CO2. These activities and subsequent reall employees could participate in devising material development based on four same time can be applied to compact with the agreement, we are planning to mentally-friendly equipment and facilities. sults were informed to the employees and energy saving measures voluntarily. strategies: Reduce, Recycle, Reuse, and cases. The quality of the newly develreduce the packaging volume by more Renewable. oped material was checked through a than 10% for more than three of the packaging functionality test and it was skin care products by 2014. The efforts Recycle: subsequently used to make the packagto reduce the container volume in 2013 Application of 100% PCR ABS1) ing for Mamode Total Solution Essence included the simplification of the cap of Results of Environmental Management of Shanghai Production Site BB Balm. IOPE Plant Stemcell Emulsion and as a In order to spread the use of recyclable result, the package volume was reduced GHG emissions1) Energy consumption Water consumption material with the same functionality Reduce: Participation in the Pilot by 23%. and durability as the conventional maProgram to Reduce Package Volume 15,064 terials yet causes less harm to the en1) PCR ABS : Post-Consumer Recycled ABS 13,788 12,850 1,115 1,189 944 Before After 248 296 320 0.298 16.549 1.133 0.241 0.894 0.234 11.905 0.881 9.668 Total (tons of CO2) Total (TOE)2) Total (tons) Basic unit Basic unit Basic unit (tons of CO2/tons of product) (TOE/tons of product) (tons/tons of product) 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1) Calculation of GHG emissions is based on the standard of the demonstration project of Mamode Total Solution Essence BB Balm IOPE Plant Stemcell Emulsion Shanghai GHG emissions trading system at the Shanghai Municipal Development & Reform Commission 2) TOE:Tonne of oil equivalent 88 89 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Biodiversity Conservation Sponsoring the Establishment of The Biodiversity Foundation estabdiversity Foundation. The fund is to be als of Halla Mountain and Gotjawal1), Jeju Environment Research Institute, Jeju lated to the native plants for a better the Biodiversity Foundation lished partnership ties with primera, used toward the foundation’s academic which are regarded as a repository of Culture and Tourist Guide Dong-Yul understanding. Also, they are conductnatural cosmetic brand, and has since research on animals, plants and the enbiodiversity, are discovered to examine Jwa, as well as Professor Sin-ho Kang ing research on Jeju plants and striving AMOREPACIFIC has been taking part been conducting a wide range of joint vironment, and the biodiversity preserthe intangible heritage of Jeju Island and Professor Pyeong-jae Lee from to contribute to the preservation of the in wildlife research and preservation programs. In time for the Month of vation activities. and its people such as their traditions Semyung University) has been gatherinformation and knowledge related to activities in Korea and abroad and Earth Environment, employees took and culture. ing regularly every quarter since April the genetic resources that have been also supported the primate research part in the 'Roots and Shoots' activities Preservation of Traditional The advisory group comprised of 4 mem2013 to discuss the culture and lifestyle disappearing over the years. conducted by the research team led by to create beautiful roads and streets, Knowledge of Jeju Plants bers (Professor Gwan-pil Song from the of the people of Jeju Island that are reJae-chun Choe Professor of Eco Science and donated notebooks made with at Ewha Woman’s University through recycled paper to protect the environAMOREPACIFIC has consistently enthe AMOREPACIFIC Foundation. In adment. As a result, a total of 1,000 notegaged in activities to study and condition, we sponsored the establishment books were donated to the foundation serve the plants native to Jeju Island of the Biodiversity Foundation in order and delivered to the children in Indoand the related traditional knowledge. to contribute to the preservation of bionesia and the domestic children centWith the adoption of the Nagoya Prodiversity and promote the respect for all ers. On the International Day of Peace tocol for biodiversity preservation and living things. (observed annually on Tuesday in the the growing importance of access to The Biodiversity Foundation was estabthird week of September; designated genetic resources and sharing of benlished to conduct research on wild flora as a day without wars in hopes of world efits, it has become just as essential to and fauna, to disseminate the idea of peace), a large dove sculpture was creprotect intangible assets as protectrespecting all living creatures, and ated together with the foundation and ing tangible assets. AMOREPACIFIC to develop and provide technologies was used in the parade taking place on is operating an advisory group on the necessary for preservation of nature. the Ewha Woman’s University Campus. traditional knowledge of Jeju plants AMOREPACIFIC became an official primera donated some of the proceeds as a means to research and preserve 1) Gotjawal, Jeju Island sponsor of the foundation’s establishfrom its sales, and the funds obtained the tangible and intangible traditional A unique forest and terrain found on Jeju ment, which was launched through a through the environmental protection knowledge of Jeju plants and the reIsland that is the one and only place in the world containing both the tropical northern foundation ceremony in May 2013. campaign primera Friends to the Biolated culture. Traditional plant materiDonation to the Biodiversity Foundation limit plants and polar southern limit plants. 90 91 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Environment Green Communication innisfree's green story Under the slogan, ‘Natural Benefit from Jeju,’ innisfree is delivering the cleanness, purity and beauty of Jeju Island Creation of Osan Dullegil LIRIKOS' Save the Sea Campaign LANEIGE Waterful Sharing Campaign and practicing green lifestyle together with its customers. AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site LIRIKOS, which initiated the Save the Since 2010, LANEIGE has been implesigned a memorandum of understandSea Campaign in 2004, decided to join menting the Waterful Sharing Caming (MOU) with Osan-si of Gyeonggi-do forces with UNEP Korea in 2011 for afpaign to provide clean water to children Province for a local community develforestation of the oceans, considered who suffer from unsafe drinking water. opment project including the creation the source of life. The campaign aims After establishing partnership ties with Expansion of the Eco-friendly in the Green Tea line certified in 2012, began in 2003 and a large number of of Dullegil bridging the production site to prevent desertification of the marine UNICEF in 2013, LANEIGE initiated its Product Line four more items in the Apple Juicy line customers are still taking part in the with the Mulhyanggi Arboretum. The environment caused by various polluactivities to improve the living and eduwere additionally certified in 2013. campaign to this day. Over 56 tons of existing 1.5 km hiking trail was imtions and wastes and restore a healthy cational environment for children in innisfree is using recycled resources for Through the certification system, the empty containers have been returned proved and 300 m road was newly cremarine ecosystem. In 2013, a group of Asian countries with water shortages. 31 items. It uses the plant byproducts direct and indirect CO2 emissions durin 2013 alone, and this is equivalent to ated as its extension. Also, the AMORE marine supporters consisting of univerSome of the proceeds from the sales (green tea, tangerine peel, seaweed, ing the life cycle of products are indiplanting 949 trees. Beauty Herb Center, where plants from sity students experienced marine plant of the limited edition of the hydration and bean peel), which typically become cated on the container to provide the which cosmetic ingredients are derived, ecosystem and engaged in promotional products of LANEIGE were donated tothrown away, to make paper products information necessary for consumers to Green Christmas, was created within the Arboretum to activities to raise awareness of the ward the UNICEF Wash in School Profor the product boxes to reduce pulp engage in a more eco-friendly lifestyle. 'You are the Santa' raise people’s understanding of cospractices that can restore the marine ject, aiming to install drinking water consumption and protect forests. Campaign metic ingredients and to create a pleasecosystem. facilities and improve the sanitation of Also, it is actively participating in the Empty Bottle Recycling Campaign ant resting area. schools in the Asian countries suffering carbon footprint labeling certification for Environmental Conservation innisfree conducted 'You are the from shortages of clean water. system supervised by the Ministry of EnSanta' Campaign to bring warmth in vironment. In addition to the two items The Empty Bottle Recycling Campaign the Christmas season. When anyone Carbon Footprint Certifications in 2013 281g 369g 588g 297g Signing of the MOU for Local Community Marine afforestation activities off the coast of Agreement signing ceremony between Development Chuncheongnam-do as part of LANEIGE and UNICEF Apple Juicy Liquid Apple Juicy Deep Cleansing Foam Apple Juicy Cleansing Oil Apple Juicy Lip & eye remover LIRIKOS' Save the Sea Campaign Foaming Cleanser 92 93 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT posted one’s video file showing chilGlobal CSR, Green Christmas Campaign in China, Major Performance Results in the Environment dren’s wishes on SNS, innisfree helped Prevention of Desertification Green Library Project Energy consumption Wastewater discharge Landfill waste dispose to deliver the children’s wishes so that in China ‘Million Tree Project’ 203,396 the one who posted on SNS could beIn December 2013, innisfree, together 185,796 185,033 come a special Santa for them. The The 'Million Tree Project' initiated by with the Shanghai Song Ching Ling campaign was designed when the video ‘Roots and Shoots,’ a non-governFoundation, built the innisfree Green 1,829 files are shared and spread more, so as mental organization, is a tree planting Library for children in 4 schools Yun10,287 10,179 children’s wishes are delivered more campaign aiming to stop the desertifinan. The green libraries were estab1,060 1,034 500 KRW was donated for every Green cation occurring in some of the regions lished in order to deliver learning ma8,677 Christmas limited edition product was of China. innisfree took part in this proterials and other books to children from sold, and the proceeds were donated to ject and donated 10,000 trees. In April low socioeconomic classes and create a Total (TOE) Total (tons) Total (tons) Save the Children Foundation. 2013, the employees and customers of better educational environment for 0.137 0.027 2.786 0.127 2.781 0.122 innisfree traveled to the desertification these kids. In order to share the joy of 2.284 Basic unit 0.014 Basic unit 0.012 Basic unit Sponsoring the Gotjawal region in Inner Mongolia to create an charity activities with our customers, (TOE/tons of product) (tons/tons of product) (tons/tons of product) Trust of Jeju innisfree forest. This year, 10,000 more we donated one book to a green library TOE:Tonne of oil equivalent trees were bought using the proceeds every time a Christmas limited edition As an invaluable ecosystem on the Jeju from the sales of Green Tea Seed Serum product was sold, and delivered an ‘anIsland and the largest evergreen forand Eco Bazaar and donated for the degel certificate’ with a drawing made by 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 est in Korea, Gotjawal is regarded as a sertification of China. There are plans the kids in Yunnan to the participating clean natural heritage that also plays a to undertake continuous management customers. significant role in improving the underand conservation activities to ensure ground water of Jeju. that the innisfree forest grows dense COD generation Dust discharge Rainwater use in 2013 with trees. 9,754 However, its area has been decreasing gradually due to the discriminate devel7,502 opment. To prevent further destruction, the Gotjawal Trust of Jeju is striving to 6,030 20,223 2,011 tons purchase the privatized lands to be converted into publicly owned lands as part 1,635 1,392 of the effort to conserve the area and its ecosystem. innisfree donated 100 million KRW to the foundation in January Recycled water in 2013 0.029 0.147 0.020 Total (kg) Total (kg) 2013 and took part in protecting the 0.092 0.019 0.083 region. The donated amount is enough Basic unit Basic unit to purchase about 10,330 m2 to (kg/tons of product) (kg/tons of product) 16,529 m2 of the land. innisfree plans to continue making such donations to COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand 27,984 tons help converse the invaluable Gotjawal. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Million Tree Project The scope of these performance results includes the Beauty, Mass Cosmetic and Sulloc Tea Production Sites in Korea. 94 95 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Employees and Business Partners Human Resources Management AMOREPACIFIC encourages the executives and employees to fulfill their calling to become Asian Beauty Creator, envisioned by the company, by realizing their full potential and enhancing their level of achievements at work. Executives and Employees in and qualifications in accordance with al fits and preferences. It is a program personal growth and development. Adtem, we are further reinforcing the Korea and Overseas Chapter 4 of the Code of Ethics. Also, allowing selection with applicants ditionally, we introduced the AP Career performance management system to fair evaluations and rewards are given whose jobs have a close association Market, a career development scheme motivate the executives and employees The number of executives and employbased on their job performance, while with our business. It prevents unilatallowing employees to actively particito realize their full potential and exert ees of AMOREPACIFIC in Korea is 4,735 discrimination based on gender, place eral recruitment and dispatch by the pate and make plans themselves. It is a their maximum capabilities by giving as of December 2013. The male-female of birth, educational background, discompany, while allowing the applicants job rotation system, through which the fair evaluations and rewards. ratio is 36:64, with women accounting ability and nationality is strictly forbidto explore their aptitude in advance so employees take initiatives in dispatch, In order to achieve fairness in our perfor a greater percentage of our personden. Moreover, in compliance with the that they do not feel lost when they that guarantees transparency in job formance management system, we innel. The number of female executives employment policy, collective agreebegin their work. In order to pursue rotations to enhance HR satisfaction. troduced a performance management and managers is also increasing every ments and the Labor Standards Act, we individual’s mutual growth with the Through this system, our company can maturity index to monitor from the asyear. On the other hand, the number of strictly forbid child and forced labor. In company, one’s higher satisfaction secure a broad human resources pool pect of objectivity, fairness, acceptabilexecutives and employees of AMORE2013, we made the necessary preparafor the job is considered as one of the and well-prepared and talented indiity and transparency, and we proceeded PACIFIC overseas is 6,486 in total as of tions to establish a standard producimportant factors and it is affected by viduals, while the employees can design with regular training and communicaDecember 2013. Majority of our overtion site in order to recruit more people one’s job fit. The new process, recruittheir career paces more clearly and ention at the same time. Moreover, the seas personnel including the managewith disabilities. As of 2013, 17 people ing collectively in various positions, gage in self-development to meet their evaluators gathered together to discuss ment and general employees are from of disabilities and 71 war veterans are enables individual’s job preferences to own goals. So, in essence, our company the job performance of the evaluatees locals for a more localized personnel employed by our company. be applied by offering chances to expeand employees are gaining competiin order to prevent evaluation errors management system. rience the job before the selection. tiveness together. The AP Career Marand heighten fairness and acceptabilChannel Booster, ket is serving as the basis for our human ity of the results. Also, in pace with the Diversity among the Executives a new employee AP Career Market resources system, which creates outrapid global business expansion, we are and Employees and recruitment brand standing results for our organization. establishing a global performance manPrevention of Discrimination AMOREPACIFIC is operating a variety agement system to ensure that all the Channel Booster is a brand for recruitof career development programs such Fair and Consistent executives and employees of AMOREPAAMOREPACIFIC provides equal opporing activities for talents in sales and as education programs tailored to difPerformance Management System CIFIC in Korea and abroad are evaluated tunities to all of its executives and emmarketing, reinforced by preliminary ferent job positions, job rotations and and rewarded based on their efforts and Channel Booster interns in the first and ployees according to their competency verification process, adopting individujob posting to assist the employees in Under the performance based HR sysachievements under the same criteria. second halves of the year 96 97 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Employees and Business Partners Human Resources Development record the journey to five countries of Leadership program for 10 weeks to acquire the India(Wangocheonchukgukjeon). As of Fostering Talented Leaders of the skills for their assigned jobs early on. At 2013, the cumulative number of emFuture through Leadership Training the same time, in order to induce practiAMOREPACIFIC is committed to nurturing globally talented Asian ployees dispatched overseas is 186. efcal and dynamic personal development Beauty Creators, who are creative and challenging, based on the HR forts were made to prepare the talented individuals for the global stage such as Based on a leadership model unique to our company, we implement a among our personnel, we introduced a new learning management system that development system of the AMOREPACIFIC WAY. inviting excellent overseas employees structured leadership pipeline model mitigated the problem identified in the to work at the headquarters in Korea, consisting of training of the essential mandatory learning point acquisition providing a technical expert program leadership skills required in each of the system. The new learning management for training in advanced overseas techjob positions. With recognition of the system promotes self-motivated learnnologies, and overseas internship prochanges in the role of the leaders within ing and enhances learning efficiency gram for employees with great potenan organization and establishment of a by allowing individuals to personally Vision Innovation skills and competency. AMOREPACIFIC tial. new value system, we present the roles determine the programs that they wish Passing on the Management Innovation Education Program Beauty University(ABU) is an in-house The participants of the program are and necessary skills for each of the job to take part in instead of making the Philosophy and Value to All the school providing education in reflection largely divided into regional experts positions so that all the leaders can be programs obligatory. Through this shift Employees In order to nurture experts in the main of the characteristics of each of the disand field experts. A system to support equipped with the essential capabilities in the paradigm from obligated learnfields of our group’s focus, AMOREtribution channels aimed at improving the employees dispatched overseas in advance with an aim to build a strong ing to self-motivated learning, we hope AMOREPACIFIC has established a code PACIFIC established an education and the vocational skills and job competenwas established to provide specialized pool of talented individuals and to enthat each of the individuals becomes of conduct for each of the sub-organtraining system through which employcy to an appropriate level. Also, various education according to the job dusure seamless operation. self-driven and absorbed in the educaizations and designed an internalizaees can choose a program they desire in qualification tests are conducted to reties, teach global business manners In addition, new recruits take part in the tion and training programs to make tion program to ensure that the core order to enhance their job competency. inforce the beauty partners’ knowledge and foreign languages, build an interstructured on-the-job training (SOJT) greater achievements. values pursued by the company are The members of our organization with and capabilities with respect to beauty, cultural understanding and facilitate made aware to all the employees. It is crucial knowledge are appointed as sales and service. early adjustment to the new environthe employees who can create sound in-house instructors to pass on their ment to their families. In addition, in and unwavering corporate culture and knowledge to others. Also, in order to Global order to meet the request to increase design a great future for our company. nurturing track in order to foster sales Global Competency the support personnel for the global We desire to become a 'Great Global and marketing experts, we are operReinforcement Program business, we are concentrating our Brand Company' by reinforcing the ating a marketing expert to establish support toward educating and trainglobal competence of our employees and disseminate our sales and service AMOREPACIFIC has been committed ing candidates for overseas dispatch, and pursuing brand innovation from philosophies, concentrate on strengthto recruiting and nurturing talented and conducting in-house Chinese prothe perspective of our customers, and ening the basic skills, and promote inindividuals who can lead the global ficiency tests to encourage everyone to as part of the effort, we are supporting novative products. business arena through the Hyecho learn foreign languages. Additionally, a the personal growth and development Project, initiated in 2011. The project system was established and is in operaof our employees. On top of that, we operate diverse eduaims to develop global talent who can tion to pass on the values of AMOREcation and training programs so that shine on the global stage by instillPACIFIC to the overseas subsidiaries, the beauty partners working on the ing in them the spirit of tackling new and a global beauty system was set in frontline can take pride in themselves challenges reminiscent of Hyecho, place to provide education and training as Asian Beauty Creators and hone their Korea’s first frontier to go abroad and to our overseas beauty partners. Hyecho House 98 99 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Employees and Business Partners Great Work Place AMOREPACIFIC strives to create a great work place by developing a harmonious and smart working environment where there is no gender discrimination. Creative Work Style, ronment where the employees can be place in order to provide the necessary Smart Work creative in their work. In 2013, spatial support to ensure that the concept of changes were made to bring forth inSmart Work can internalized. AMOREPACIFIC is implementing the novation in the ways we work. A proSmart Work system to create an envigram for the management was set in Diverse Communication Spaces Big Think Time In order to increase the frequency of official and nonBig Think Time is in operation to allow individuals to official meetings and non-scheduled encounters, we think about and contemplate on the vision and the eshave designed communication spaces such as AP Cloud sence of the business among other matters without any and Interactive Hug on each of the floors. interruptions. ① ② ③ Flexible Seating System Eliminating Unnecessary Work ④ ⑤ The Flexible Seating System implemented for our sales By discovering and eliminating unnecessary work that and marketing personnel was introduced to turn offices is only performed to follow the conventional practices into sales locations to allow them to engage in sales acwith respect to costs, environment, etc., we were able to tivities closer to the customers. save 3.6 billion KRW, eliminate 417 types of unneces① AP Cloud : Lounge sary tasks and 10 tons of unnecessary documents. ② AP Cloud : Library ③ AP Cloud : Biz.Center ④ Flexible Seats ⑤ Interactive Hub 100 101 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Win-Win Relationship tion of child labor, and forced labor. ing the health of all employees and Communication with Online Community, 'AP IN' English and Chinese to ensure that the Their compliances are monitored by ensuring healthy, disease-free lives. members of AMOREPACIFIC around between Executives and Employees each of the relevant departments at in The effort of the company expands AMOREPACIFIC IN (AP 人) is an on-line the world receive the information reLabor & Management good faith. Also, educations to prevent the healthcare programs for individual community where people can propose lated to the company and be passed on Evergreen Board sexual harassment in the work place are personnel. Discounted vaccinations for and share ideas. In the community the values we pursue. The members of AMOREPACIFIC is proud for no conconsistently provided as a mandatory hepatitis A and cervical cancer applied site, everyone is welcome to suggest AMOREPACIFIC themselves participate flicts or disputes between labors and Based on the principles of communie-learning program. The department to all employees and expanded to one’s ideas regarding any matters related in the creation of the contents by servmanagements for the past 22 years. cation, field-oriented, encouragement store and production line workers were families and employees at partner comto the company including customer ing as columnists and sharing their The numbers of employees in the labor and acknowledgement, AMOREPACIFtrained through videos and printed mapanies. services, products, working environtalent and knowledge. This commuunion were 2,372, 50.7% of all emIC is making an active effort to create a terials provided. ment and employee welfare and bennication channel can be accessed from ployees. Joining Labor unions depends physically and emotionally pleasant en'Love Your Body' Program and efits. The ideas obtained through this anywhere around the world via the on individual own will by registering vironment at the work place. Evergreen or leaving at any time. A group agreeSafety and Health of Low-Sodium Meals Board is a communication forum where channel are reflected in development Internet using any mobile devices. FurExecutives and Employees of innovative products, effective sales thermore, we have an audio program ment is signed once every 2 year, and the diverse opinions of our employIn order to promote the importance of activities and improvement of diverse called Radio Star and publish a quarthe provisions stipulated in the agreeees are obtained to be reflected in our Safety and Health Management taking care of one’s health, AMOREsystems and policies. Moreover, AP IN terly communication magazine called ment applies to all the employees. management activities. The young emSystem Certification PACIFIC conducted special lectures is used as a place for communication ‘Asian Beauty Creator’ so that all emThe Labor-management committee ployees who have been with the comthrough the ‘Love Your Body’ Program and information exchange among all ployees and stakeholders can interact operates at each of the production sites. pany for 3 to 5 years joined CEO Suh on AMOREPACIFIC strives to ensure the under the themes of abdominal fat employees. Through this platform, we with each other regardless of location, At the meeting held every quarter, the a hike to freely voice their opinions and safe work place for all employees. food and exercise through the in-perprovide the latest information on our affiliation, and job position. members of the committee consult on discuss their difficulties and problems ‘Beauty Production Site’ and ‘Mass Cosson and online lectures, a total of 310 businesses and a wide range of quality the matters related to welfare promoas a means to seek solutions together. metic Production Site’ had acquired the participated. Also, health columns and contents from our affiliates to promote tion, resolution of difficulties, safety safety and health management system in-house announcements were providthe job competency of the participants. and health, and improvement of the Happy Plus certification (K-OHSMS 18001) from ed under themes of skin cares in winter, The members of AMOREPACIFIC are working environment in order to enthe Korean Standards Association. The and danger awareness of smoking and sparing no efforts to create a great sure that everyone’s work and life bal‘Happy Plus’ program is to support all production sites are continuously imdrinking. work place themselves through AP IN, a ances. Also, the management and the employees working joyfully and using proving their safety and health manIn order to help everyone incorporate horizontal communication platform alunion leaders meet on a regular basis their creativity. In 2013, the lectures agement standards to prevent any achealthy habits, ‘health & diet’ meals, lowing diverse thoughts and informafor bilateral communication, and paron humanities and the graphic noble cidents in advance. The sub-committee low in sodium and calories, and salads tion to be shared. ticipate in meetings held with employlecture were offered. Also, the Thank and a working-level committee for SCM made with fresh ingredients are proees of the production sites to obtain You Card Campaign was initiated for Safety Environment work to reinforce vided. Diverse Communication Channels and take heed of the opinions of the the purpose of building stronger ties the safety management throughout and solidarity among them. for Domestic and Foreign on-site leaders. the company, performing inspections The Beautiful AMOREPACIFIC MemExecutives and Employees Monitoring of Labor Regulations and monitoring. ber Award given to those who demonstrated superb performance as well as AMOREPACIFIC is operating multiple and Human Rights Education Regular Health Examinations and the Outstanding Contact Point Service in-house communication channels to Smoking Cessation Clinic Award are presented. These awards promote communication at the work AMOREPACIFIC strictly adheres to the encourage a corporate culture for applace. ‘News Square’, on-line magalaws and regulations on labor practices AMOREPACIFIC commits to promotpreciating one’s achievements. zine, provides contents in Korean, such as maternity protection, prohibi102 103 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Employees and Business Partners Mutual Growth with Suppliers AMOREPACIFIC deploys strategy for mutual growth with partners in 3 directions, ‘implementing fair trading culture’, ‘communication and participation’, and ‘reinforcing cooperation and supports’. 3 Directions for Introduction of the Standard whether our suppliers are complying matters that must be complied with by At the General Assembly for Mutual the Secondary Partners Committee. The Mutual Growth Subcontracting Agreement and with the fair trade guidelines and the our suppliers were selected as ‘Musts’ Growth held in February 2013, the committee is convened every quarter to the Corporate Ethics Program, ‘With’ level of cooperation and support. In as a means to enhance the soundness long-term visions of AMOREPACIFIC obtain feedback from those working in AMOREPACIFIC is engaging in activi2013, the current status of the coopof our corporate ecosystem. Accordingwere announced in the presence of the field and to eliminate any unreaties for mutual growth with its partners AMOREPACIFIC introduced the four erative relationships with our supplily, in 2013, sustainability assessment the representatives of 67 suppliers. In sonable practices. Various activities are First, we maintain our relationships major guidelines recommended by the ers was inspected based on the mutual was conducted on our suppliers, and November, we held a win-win practice being undertaking to gradually expand with suppliers that comply with the Fair Trade Commission (selection and cooperation index. This was part of our for those who were deemed to below seminar under the slogan Together, our cooperation and support to our secprinciples of fair trade based on reasonmanagement of suppliers, signing of efforts to ensure that all the members standard in some of the areas, we plan We Can and obtained feedback from ondary partners. able procedures and standards. In order agreements, issuance and retention in in the value chain help one another and on providing the necessary assistance the representatives of 69 suppliers to propagate the fair trade culture to writing, and operation of an internal to gain sustainable global competitiveto raise them above the standard by the companies as part of our effort to creOperation of a Win-Win the primary and secondary suppliers, review committee for subcontracted ness. . next assessment period. ate a stronger bond. In addition, reguCooperation Portal we are establishing and implementing work) as our standard work process, lar meetings have been held by each of a wide range of support policies and based on which we signed the standSoundness of the Corporate Communication and the sub-committees to provide essenAMOREPACIFIC is using a win-win costrategies. Second, for communication ard subcontracting agreements with Ecosystem Obtained through Participation tial information to the suppliers such as operation portal to provide informawith and participation of our partners, our suppliers. Also, we are operating a Sustainability Assessment of suppliers the amended law on cosmetics and to tion on diverse events and education we engage in continuous communicorporate ethics introduction support Maintaining a Communication promote communication and participrograms to the suppliers, and a cybercation to ensure that their voices are program called ‘With’ to support our AMOREPACIFIC established sustainaChannel with suppliers pation for the purpose of establishing arena is in operation to listen to the heard and reflected in our purchasing suppliers to comply with the corporate bility guidelines for its suppliers to reinand maintaining strong relationships. voices of our suppliers who are facing policies. Third, we provide practical ethical code and fair trade observances. force the sustainability of the corporate The Partners Committee comprised difficulties and hardship for bilateral and effective assistance to help nurture ecosystem in 2011, and set forth the of 5 sub-committees focusing on raw Formation of Secondary communication. Also, a guidance retheir corporate ecosystem and enhance Mutual Cooperation Index criteria and standards for sustainability materials, packaging materials, ODM, suppliers Committee flecting the four major guidelines retheir technical capacity. assessment in 2012. The sustainability production and logistics has been in lated to fair trade is posted on the webIn order to estimate the degree of muassessment of our suppliers is largely operation since 2010 to obtain opinIn 2013, AMOREPACIFIC expanded the site to provide a clear explanation of the Implementing tual cooperation and growth with our divided into four fields: environment, ions from our suppliers that can be scope of its meeting activities to include supplier policy of AMOREPACIFIC. Fair Trading Culture suppliers, we developed a mutual co safety and health, labor and human reflected in the implementation stratnot only the primary suppliers but also operation index in 2012 to examine rights, and corporate ethics. The key egy to maintain stronger relationships. the secondary suppliers by establishing 104 105 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Major Performance Results of Employees and Business Partners Employee engagement (Unit:points) 2013 81 2011 2012 75 77 Reinforcing money of 250 million KRW and their data and information. employees are provided with a special Cooperation and Supports change to receive overseas training. Assisted Payment of We will continue our efforts to help to the Joint Patent Costs to Percentage of female employees Expanded Scope of boost our suppliers’ capacity and capaSupport Technological (Unit:%) Financial Assistance bilities based on the guidance regardDevelopment ing the 6 major capacities required of 2011 2012 2013 In 2012, we increased our win-win coour suppliers: excellent technology, We provide financial assistance for the operation fund to 20 billion KRW and expanded the eligibility criteria for the quality, supply, unit price, reliability and sustainability. The fair evaluation and costs incurring from the registration of joint patents as well as technical advice 63.7 63.6 64.0 financial support to include not only the reward system motivates our suppliers and information on the relevant procepackaging suppliers but to the secondto fortify their competitiveness. dures. Also, we license our patents and ary suppliers who play an important provide the right to use our patents role in our value chain. Accordingly, adPassing on the Knowledge of free-of-charge for outstanding suppliMajor Performance Results 2011 2012 2013 ditional funding of 4.8 billion KRW was Automated Technology ers in order to assist them in developing provided to our suppliers, who invested to Boost the Production their technical competency. the money to revamp their production, Education & training hours per person 100.8 105.6 75.4 hours Technology Capacity quality and technology infrastructures. Also, various conditions were fineEducation & training costs per person1) 1.7 1.6 1.3mil. KRW The employees of 25 suppliers were tuned to facilitate the cash flow of the invited to the production sites of our suppliers such as decreasing the payPercentage of women in the management 17.0 18.0 18.1 % company on two occasions in June and ment settlement period to less than 10 July 2013 to learn about the technolodays and setting the payment of 17.5 gies used in our automated systems. Percentage of employees in the labor union 51.2 50.6 50.7 % billion KRW in advance before Chuseok Of particular note, they were given a arrives. chance to learn about the operating Accident rate Accident 0.00 0.11 0.04 % principles of simple automated faOutstanding Partner Awards cilities which could easily be applied Accident frequency rate 0.00 0.52 0.02 % by their companies and the application AMOREPACIFIC evaluates its suppliers cases. Moreover, we have provided our Number of trainees in the Consortium Education Program (Suppliers) 1,725 on a regular basis based on their perpersons suppliers with our unique automated formance and capacity and based on technology by allowing field visits and the results of the evaluation, outstand1) Education & training costs per person: incl. domestic programs only inspections and providing technical ing suppliers are selected for total prize * The performances are for the domestic programs. 106 107 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategies Make up your life Campaign AMOREPACIFIC is implementing strategic social contribution activities to change the world and create value for society under the slogan, 'MAKE UP YOUR LIFE' AMOREPACIFIC’s Make up your life their appearance resulting from the number of hospitals nationwide are Campaign is a social contribution proanti-cancer treatments, in order to reactively participating in this program gram conducted to present ‘beauty,’ store self-confidence and eliminate the as our partners. Those who provide the the core value of our company, in order feeling of loss. makeup services to the patients are the to instill confidence in women and culIn 2013, it was conducted in 36 hosmakeup experts dispatched from our tivate their inner beauty for improved pitals in 5 cities nationwide with some company. In 2013, 540 Amore counAMOREPACIFIC has undertaken a mismission, we are implementing social profit foundation for promoting public quality of life. Through the campaign, 1,000 participants. We’ve also been ofselors participated in the program as sion to 'create healthy beauty for womcontribution activities in three major arinterests and striving to fulfill our corpowe pass on our makeup and skin care fering the same services at the homes volunteers. en and their families as a responsible eas under the slogan, 'MAKE UP YOUR rate social responsibility by sharing and know-hows to female cancer patients, of patients, who find it difficult to visit corporate citizen.' In order to fulfill our LIFE' In addition, we are operating nonmaking social contributions. who are distressed by the changes in the hospitals, for the past 4 years. A Project areas Self-reliance Health Growth Support women to become physically Promote balanced growth of mankind, Support women to and emotionally healthy based on our nature and companies become financially self-reliant principle of 'Beauty & Health' Key projects Make up your life campaign GREENCYCLE Heemang store Pink ribbon campaign Implementing Korea Breast AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC foundation Cancer Foundation Foundation Welfare Foundation Other Mise-en-sc ne Short Film Festival (MSFF), Sulwha Culture Exhibition, Cultural Heritage Caring Services, projects LANEIGE Waterful Sharing Campaign, Asia women Eco-science Forum, Beautiful Life Make up your life campaign 108 109 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Social Contribution Pink ribbon Campaign Employees' Sharing Activities The Pink ribbon campaign conducted join us in the campaign efforts. Every in Korea in order to improve people’s AMOREPCIFIC conducts employees' providing simple labor services, they are activity program was introduced to for the purpose of promoting the preyear, we hold the Pink tour, a health understanding of the significance of sharing activities where the employees also sharing their talent and knowledge choose a unique monthly theme of the vention of breast cancers that the Pink examination program aiming to raise breast health and regular mammocan experience and disseminate the wherever they are wanted and needed. sharing activities every month for more Ribbon Campaign, a worldwide reprepublic awareness of the importance of grams under the slogan ‘My Beautiful value of sharing and exert a positive inMeanwhile, there is a department that fun and excitement. sentative campaign that promotes the early diagnosis and prevention of breast Breasts 333’1). It became a celebrafluence on society as a whole. provides all the support necessary for In 2013, about 3,500 employees took prevention of breast cancers for womcancer, and Pink generation, an event tion of women and their strength, and The sharing activities include the Beautithe employees to voluntarily join these part in the social contribution proen, is conducted in Korea by AMOREwhere the general public is invited to people came with their entire families. ful sharing activities, Beautiful saturday programs. There is a sharing mileage grams and the average volunteer hours PACIFIC as one of social contribution serve as the ambassadors of our camAbout 23,000 people participated in (donation of goods), the Donation of a certification system where rewards are per person increased from last year to activities. Through this campaign and paign. In 2013, we recruited 202 Pink the marathon, each donating 10,000 fraction of employees' salary (monetary given according to the frequency of about 7 hours. Furthermore, we dothe related activities, AMOREPACIFIC generation ambassadors for online acKRW as a participation fee. The prodonation), Matching gift, and Cultural participation in these sharing activinated our company’s personal care, aims to educate people on the importivities to promote self-diagnosis methceeds were donated to the Korea Breast heritage caring services (protection of ties, and there is a matching gift system makeup and green tea products to over tance of breast health and breast cancer ods and make the contents go viral. Cancer Foundation to be used toward cultural heritage). These activities in through which the company matches 1,000 facilities. prevention. Moreover, experts were invited to share its breast cancer prevention and treatprinciple require that the employees the amount of donations made by the We established a non-profit organitheir talent and knowledge to inform ment efforts. participate voluntarily. In addition to employees. Also, a thematic sharing zation called the Korea Breast Canpeople how early diagnosis and prevencer Foundation to help women lead tion are essential. 1) ‘My Beautiful Breasts 333’is a message healthier lives, and are actively encourIn addition, the Pink ribbon love marareminding women to raise three fingers and aging relevant organizations and instithon, one of the representative events draw three circles on the third day after the tutions as well as other companies to of the campaign, was held in 5 cities end of their monthly menstrual period. Pink Generation Beautiful Saturday (donation of goods) 110 111 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Social Contribution Operation of Public Welfare Foundation Major Performance Results of Social Contribution Social contribution activities expenditures (ratio compared to pre-tax profits) (Unit: %) 2011 2012 2013 2.6 2.6 2.8 In addition to the social contribution and creation of an outstanding research in low-income families. activities, AMOREPACIFIC operates environment. Moreover, it has supthree foundations for public interport 16 research projects including the AMOREPACIFIC Major performance results 2011 2012 2013 est: AMOREPACIFIC Foundation, Kolong-term projects such as the ‘Study of Welfare Foundation rea Breast Cancer Foundation, and Historical Records on Korean Women’s Social contribution Amount of expenditures 11,068 9,330 10,013 mil. KRW AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation. Lifestyle,’ ‘Study of Literature on Tea,’ The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundaactivities Each of the foundations undertakes and Korea’s first ‘Primate Research Protion is operating projects to promote expenditures Ratio compared to sales 0.4 0.3 0.3 % academic and cultural research project.’ The foundation provided about the welfare of women from the low-inPink ribbon Number of marathon 24,827 24,470 23,852 persons jects and social contribution activities 500 million KRW per year for various come classes. In 2013, it implemented Campaign participants for betterment of women’s health and activities including holding lectures for a project to improve the environment welfare. the public and creating and distributing of facilities for women, through which Number of health 31,227 31,150 25,193 persons online contents to communicate the rethe bathrooms in 5 facilities were lecture participants AMOREPACIFIC search outcomes to the public. maintained and repaired and a rest Foundation area and education center for women Financial assistance for 249 258 319 mil. KRW Korea Breast Cancer were installed in 7 facilities. Moreover, surgery and treatment The AMOREPACIFIC Foundation is acFoundation in order to promote cultural diversity in quiring knowledge and information Korean society, it supported the cultural Sharing activities Number of participants 2,951 3,932 3,516 persons necessary to create a more beautiful The Korea Breast Cancer Foundation contents activities in 19 communities for employees world by supporting comprehensive is involved in multiple projects related with a high population of non-Korean Average volunteer hours 6.2 6.4 7.0 hours research integrating science, arts, eveto breast cancer such as the Pink ribwomen. Also, it produced photo essay Public welfare AMOREPACIFIC 468 420 530 mil. KRW ryday life and academics based on the bon campaign, lecture on health and albums of foreign women and their foundation Welfare Foundation keywords of ‘Beauty of Asia’ and ‘Wombreath cancer, financial assistance for families to be sent to the women’s famexpenditures en and Culture.’ It publishes ‘Woman low-income women with breast cancer ilies in their native countries. In 2013 AMOREPACIFIC Foundation 444 590 526 mil. KRW and Culture’ and conducts a refinement and financial assistance for academic alone, a budget of 500 million KRW lecture program called, ‘Mi (Beauty)’ research. In 2013, it executed a budget was executed to help improve the welKorea Breast Cancer 1,915 980 1,110 mil. KRW through which the outcomes of its of 1.1 billion KRW for the Pink tour fare of women in marginalized classes Foundation activities are presented. Also, it is conconsisting of 145 lectures, financial asincluding minority women. tributing to the discovery of researchers sistance for 107 breast cancer patients * The value of donated goods in 2012 was re-estimated based on their actual prices. ** The performances are for the domestic programs. 112 113 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position End of 2013: As of Dec. 31, 2013 End of 2012: As of Dec. 31, 2012 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Unit: million KRW) (Unit: million KRW, exept per share amounts) AMOREPACIFIC Corporation AMOREPACIFIC GROUP AMOREPACIFIC Corporation AMOREPACIFIC GROUP 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Assets Assets Sales 3,100,413 2,849,462 3,895,391 3,431,733 Current assets 967,574 804,189 1,552,258 1,378,649 Cost of sales 911,807 847,204 1,199,461 1,013,893 Cash and cash equivalents 294,012 170,707 364,548 227,459 Gross profit 2,188,607 2,002,258 2,695,930 2,417,840 Bank deposits 140,193 142,499 529,193 535,799 Selling and administrative expenses 1,818,769 1,636,920 2,226,179 1,967,424 Trade receivables 197,428 170,180 243,296 221,531 Operating profit 369,838 365,339 469,751 450,416 Other receivables 25,859 20,076 7,391 9,183 Finance income 11,345 12,208 25,974 29,446 Other current assets 27,322 33,294 39,512 48,389 Finance costs 2,664 2,125 3,325 2,298 Inventories 282,761 267,433 342,133 333,989 Other non-operating gains (losses)-net -18,149 -15,379 -14,837 -9,774 Non-current assets held for sale 26,185 2,299 Share of profit of associates 3,156 1,675 4,330 2,921 Non-current assets 2,434,275 2,222,004 3,369,598 3,137,305 Profit before income tax 363,526 361,718 481,892 470,711 Bank deposits 6,699 5,158 7,525 5,603 Income tax expense 96,167 92,460 126,887 124,003 Other receivables 105,797 82,383 135,208 109,713 Profit for the year 267,359 269,258 355,005 346,709 Available-for-sale financial assets 7,015 6,243 30,987 32,372 Profit attributable to: Property, plant and equipment 1,936,044 1,766,807 2,288,369 2,102,570 Owners of the Parent 267,975 270,430 163,011 154,828 Investment Property 201,632 203,232 201,632 203,232 Non-controlling interests -616 -1,172 191,993 191,881 Intangible assets 132,572 121,208 650,753 636,794 Other comprehensive income -2,565 -20,748 -7,477 -24,015 Investments in associates 7,886 5,093 11,618 8,911 Actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations -264 -10,545 -1,330 -13,603 Deferred income tax assets 36,606 31,870 43,473 38,093 Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets -87 -1,892 -3,883 785 Other non-current assets 26 10 33 18 Share of other comprehensive income of associates -286 -151 -286 -2,447 Total assets 3,401,849 3,026,193 4,921,856 4,515,955 Loss on currency translation of foreign operations net -1,927 -8,160 -1,978 -8,750 Liabilities Total comprehensive income for the year 264,794 248,509 347,528 322,694 Current liabilities 542,699 417,240 644,292 528,704 Attributable to: Trade payables 115,350 100,405 110,831 116,411 Owners of the Parent Company 265,687 250,341 157,066 144,705 Borrowings 82,397 22,553 84,237 24,812 Non-controlling interests -892 -1,832 190,462 177,989 Other payables 182,668 150,721 221,750 202,861 Earnings per share (Unit: KRW) Current income tax liabilities 55,624 41,517 76,518 56,592 Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders 38,842 39,198 20,102 19,143 Deferred revenue 38,657 42,144 48,037 48,855 Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the preferred equity holders 38,893 39,248 20,157 19,193 Provisions for other liabilities 3,622 6,702 7,518 11,734 Diluted earnings per share for profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders 19,539 18,602 Other current liabilities 64,382 53,198 84,485 67,439 Diluted earnings per share for profit attributable to the preferred equity holders 19,594 18,652 Current liabilities held for sale 10,914 Non-current liabilities 291,018 265,165 368,618 353,038 Economic Value Creation & Distribution Borrowings 68,992 42,850 68,992 51,750 (Unit: 100 mil. KRW) Retirement benefit obligations 44,274 47,542 54,029 58,112 2011 2012 2013 Deferred income tax liabilities 158,099 149,703 221,350 213,543 Employee1) 3,375 3,974 4,453 Other non-current liabilities 19,655 25,070 24,247 29,633 Government2) 1,278 1,209 1,329 Total liabilities 833,717 682,406 1,012,909 881,742 Local community 56 39 54 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Creditor 17 12 15 Capital stock 34,508 34,508 44,451 44,451 Shareholder 449 449 449 Additional paid-in capital 712,702 712,702 673,017 673,096 Capital surplus 7,770 7,761 22,622 7,385 Company 2,824 2,236 2,231 Other components of equity -1,810 -1,810 -140,830 -134,507 Beauty partner3) 3,958 4,244 4,871 Accumulated other comprehensive income -14,021 -12,011 -7,323 -2,479 Distributed economic value 11,957 12,162 13,402 Retained earnings 1,815,257 1,592,449 1,533,662 1,390,507 The economic values are calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. Non-controlling interests 13,725 10,188 1,783,348 1,655,760 1) This amount is the sum of salaries, retirement allowances, fringe benefits, etc. provided to employees. Total equity 2,568,132 2,343,787 3,908,947 3,634,213 2 ) This amount is the sum of taxes, utility bills, income tax expenses, consolidated income tax expenses, etc. Total liabilities and equity 3,401,849 3,026,193 4,921,856 4,515,955 3) This is the value distributed to Aritaum shops, Amore counselors, etc. 114 115 Independent Assurance Report We were engaged by Amore Pacific Corp. (‘AP’) to provide independent assurance on the information presented in AP’s 2013 Opinions During our engagement, we discussed the necessary changes to the Report with AP and reviewed that these changes were Sustainability Report (‘the Report’). AP is responsible for preparing the Report, including the identification of stakeholders and and conclusions adequately incorporated into the final version. material issues. Our responsibility is to provide an opinion on the Report. On the AA1000AS: In relation to the principle of Inclusivity: the engagement of stakeholders Context and scope Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether: • AP engages stakeholders all throughout sustainable business. The Report identifies customers, employees, suppliers, local 1. AP has applied the “AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard(2008)” community, government, NGO and shareholders as stakeholders and stipulates the operation of communication channels. 2. The information in the Report is fairly stated in all material respects, based on the reporting criteria set out in ‘About This Report’ • We are not aware of any key stakeholder group which has been excluded from dialogue in the Report. The scope of our engagement conforms to the AccountAbility AA1000AS(2008), including the aspect of “materiality”. In relation to the principle of Materiality: the determining and reporting of material issues With regard to the financial data stated on pages 114-115, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly • To deduct material issues in sustainability, AP determines a pool of issues by analyzing the media, competitors, internal KPI derived from AP’s audited financial statements. To obtain a thorough understanding of AP’s financial results and position, the and external evaluation and measures the concerns of stakeholders and the impact of business. audited financial statements of AP for the fiscal year ended 31 March 2014 should be consulted. • We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. Criteria The Report was prepared in accordance with AA1000APS(2008) which consists of three principles as stated in “About This Report”: inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The report was also prepared in accordance with the GRI(Global Reporting In the relation to the principle of Responsiveness: the organization’s response to the issues Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1). • AP determines material issues in sustainable business by incorporating the stakeholders’ opinions through the conduct of a materiality test, and reports the results. Assurance standards We conducted our engagement in accordance with the ISAE3000 and AA1000AS . • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AP has not applied the responsiveness principle in consider The limited assurance of ISAE3000 corresponds to the moderate level assurance defined in AA1000AS(2008). ing the matters to be reported. Among other things, these standards contain requirements regarding the independence and competency of the assurance team. On the content of the report Based on the above work, we conclude that the information in the Report does not appear to be unfairly stated in terms of principles for defining report content. Independence, impartiality We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) and competence Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants which requires, among others, that the members of the assurance team (pracRecommendations Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters can be considered for improved sustitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client. The Code also includes tainability reporting of AP: detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence, due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts • The establishment of an internal process to measure and monitor the performance of strategic subjects in the vision regarding independence. and purpose of sustainability is needed. It is recommended to develop a quantifiable performance index on AP’s sustainability strategy directions and issues, and to disclose the schedule, target and performance in order to report the current state of We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team including specialists in stakeholder engagement, auditing, enviaffairs in achieving strategies. ronmental, social and financial aspects, and similar engagements in the related industries. • It is necessary to report in more detail the contents of specific stakeholders’ engagement activities, the interested matters of stakeholders and responsive performance in the deduction of material issues. We expect AP to intensify stakeholder respon Work performed Our work included the following procedures to form our conclusion on the Report: siveness by continuously supplementing the evaluation process to identify and manage the material issues in sustainability t hrough stakeholders’ engagement. • Evaluated AP’s stakeholder engagement process • As the proportion of overseas business increases, it is necessary to match the reporting scope of financial and nonfinancial • Evaluated AP’s process for determining material issues performances. In order to intensify reliability, AP should consider expanding the reporting scope of nonfinancial performanc • Conducted media analysis and internet search for references to AP during the reporting period es to include overseas businesses as is the scope of financial performances disclosed in the Report. • Interviewed with the person in charge to assess AP’s sustainable business activities and processes during the reporting period • Reviewed of internal documentation and data base, including the aggregation of data into information as presented in the We have discussed the reporting process and observations with AP. They were receptive to our comments. Report • With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on pages 114-115, verified that they were correctly derived from AP’s audited financial statements Seoul, April 2014 KPMG SAMJONG Accounting Corp. CEO Kim, Kyo Tai 1) International Standard on Assurance Engagements. Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Federation of Accountants 116 117 2) The 2nd AA1000 Assurance Standard, issued by the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability GRI Index ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators Reporting Status Page UNGC ISO 26000 G3.1 Indicators ReportingStatus Page UNGC ISO 26000 Official Notice on Profiles Indirect EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for ◐ 108-113, 115 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, Strategy and Economic public benefit 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of 20, 21 6.2 Analysis Impacts 6.8.7, 6.8.9 sustainability to the reporting organization and strategy EC9 Understanding and describing indirect economic impacts ◐ 58, 60, 104-106 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 20, 21, 42, 43 6.2 6.7.8, 6.8.5, Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization 122 6.8.6, 6.8.7 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6-15 Environmental 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, subsidiaries and joint 36, 37 6.2 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 88, 95 8 2.4 Location of head office/headquarter 36, 37 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source ● 88, 95 8 2.5 Number of countries where overseas production sites are located and names of countries 36, 37 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 86-87 8, 9 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services ◐ 86-87 8, 9 2.6 Nature of ownership structure and legal form 22 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ◐ 64, 86, 87 8, 9 2.7 Characteristics of markets served 24-29 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 51, 88 8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 36, 37, 39 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership 22 EN10 Total and ratio of reused and recycled water ◐ 87, 95 8 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 24, 70 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas ◐ 15, 94 6.5, 6.5.6 Reporting 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 122 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Parameters 3.2 Date of the most recent report 122 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in None protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 3.3 Reporting cycle 122 EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◐ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its contents 122 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing biodiversity N/A 54, 90-91 3.5 Process for defining report contents 73-75 EN15 Number of national conversational list species with habitants in areas affected by operations, N/A 3.6 Boundaries of the Report 122 by level of extinction risk 3.7 Matters on any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Report 122 Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 51, 88 8 6.5, 6.5.5 3.8 Basis for reporting on the entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 122 Effluents and EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ◐ 87 8 period and/ or between organizations Wastes EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 51, 86 7~9 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 39, 45, 51, 57 EN20 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 95 8 6.5, 6.5.3 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 28, 51, 113 the reasons for such re-statement EN21 Total water discharged by quality and destination ● 95 8 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement None EN22 Total weight of waste by type and treatment method ● 95 8 methods applied in the report EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills None 8 3.12 GRI Index 118-120 EN24 Weight of transported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of N/A 8 3.13 Independent Assurance Report 116-117 7.5.3 the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 22, 23 6.2 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats N/A 8 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 Commitments and significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Engagement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 22 Products and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact ● 64, 76, 89, 92-94 7~9 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 22 Services mitigation highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EN27 Ratio of recycling of sold products and relevant packaging materials ◐ 89 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 4.4 Mechanisms enabling shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions 22 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with ● 3) 8 6.5 to the highest governance body environmental laws and regulations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior manag70 Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials ◐ 87 8 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 ers, and executives (including composition by division), and the organization’s performance used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workplace (including social and environmental performance) Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 4) 7~9 6.5 4.6 Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 22 Labor Practices and Decent Work 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 22 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ◐ 36, 37 6.4, 6.4.3 highest governance body and its committees LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time ● 102, 5) 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 38, 44, 50, 56, 70 employees, by major operations to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their LA15 Return to work and retention rate after childcare leave, by gender ◐ 57 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification 22 and management of economic, environmental and social performance Labor / LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 102 1, 3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, Management 6.4.5, 6.3.10 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 71, 1) Relations the organization LA5 Minimum notice period regarding important operational changes ● 6) 3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 4.12 Externally developed economic/environmental/social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 21 which the organization subscribes or endorses Occupational LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in the formal joint labor-management health and ● 102 1 6.4, 6.4.6 Health safety committee 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 73 and Safety LA7 Number of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and work-related ● 107 1 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 73 fatalities 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 73 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist work◐ 102 1 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, stakeholder group force members, their families, and community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the 73 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ◐ 102 1 6.4, 6.4.6 Economic organization has responded to those key topics and concerns Training and LA10 Annual average hours of training per person by employee category ◐ 107 6.4, 6.4.7 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 39, 115 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Education LA11 Job training and lifelong learning programs for continuous employment and assisting retired ◐ 98-99 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due ◐ 86-87 7 6.5.5 employees to climate change LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ◐ 97 6.4, 6.4.7 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ◐ 115 by gender Market EC4 Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant ◐ 2) Diversity and LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age group and Equal minority group ● 22, 96, 107 1, 6 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 Presence locations of operation Opportunity EC5 Ratio of local purchasing policies, practices and percentages at significant locations of ◐ 48 1 6.4.4, 6.8 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ◐ 96 1, 6 operation EC7 Ratio of local hiring and proportion of senior management from the local community at ◐ 96 6 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 significant 118 119 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators Reporting Status Page UNGC ISO 26000 Human Rights Investment and HR2 Percentage of human rights evaluation conducted on major suppliers and subcontractors ◐ 7) 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Procurement Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human Practices HR3 ◐ 102 1,6 6.3, 6.3.5 rights Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of discrimination cases and measures taken ◐ 96 1,2,6 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 ● 102 1~3 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Bargaining Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, Child Labor HR6 ● 96 1,2,5 to contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Compulsory HR7 ● 96 1,2,4 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Labor Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous people and actions Indigenous Rights HR9 None 1,2 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 taken Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Assessment HR10 ◐ 102 and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Remediation HR11 ◐ 102-103 grievance mechanisms Society Effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operaLocal Community SO1 ◐ 62-67, 108-112 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 tions on communities Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ◐ 72 10 6.6, 6.6.3 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 72 10 SO4 Measures taken in corruption cases ◐ 72 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ◐ 60, 89 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 SO6 Total amount of cash or in-kind donations made to political parties or politicians None Anti-Competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7 None 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Behavior and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncomCompliance SO8 ● 3) 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 pliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities None Local Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Community SO10 ◐ 64, 108-112 actual negative impacts on local communities Product Responsibility Customer Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR1 ● 8) 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 Health and for improvement Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 None health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant PR3 ◐ 77, 93 8 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Service products and services subject to such information requirements Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 ● 9) 8 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Activities on customer satisfaction, including results of customer satisfaction survey evaluation ● 81-83 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary rules related to marketing comPR6 ● 1) 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Communication munications, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of ● 3) outcomes Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breach of customer privacy and losses of customer data ◐ 84 1 6.7, 6.7.7 Compliance with Monetary value of fines levied for violating laws and regulations on providing products and Laws and PR9 ● 3) 6.7, 6.7.6 services Regulations FOR INQUIRIES Please contact the AMOREPACIFIC Growth Support Division CSV2 Team 1) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s voluntary compliance with fair trade rules is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/justice_summary.jsp Signature Tower, 100 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 2) Minimum wage laws are strictly followed. Tel +82. 2. 709. 5355 Fax +82. 2. 709. 5419 3) There were no violations of laws and regulations during the reporting period. 4) Environmental conservation costs amount to KRW 3,132 million in 2013. E-mail csr@amorepacific.com 5) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s benefits program is available at http://recruit.amorepacific.co.kr/people/welfare.do www.amorepacific.com 6) Articles 13 and 19 of the Collective Agreement stipulate the minimum notice period. 7) The sustainability of major cooperative companies is evaluated through regular audits. 8) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s product safety process is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/safety_item_01.jsp * This report is our sixth Communication on Progress (COP) issued after joining the UN Global Compact. 120 121 2013 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report Purpose This report was created to disclose AMOREPACIFIC’s sustainability management activities to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. AMOREPACIFIC plans to issue this report every year to advance into a company that contributes to sustainable development and to engage in active communication with all of you stakeholders. Scope This report specifies the activities and performances of the AMOREPACIFIC Head Office, R&D Center, Human Resources Development Center, Provincial Offices, Beauty Production Sites, Mass Cosmetics Production Site, and Sulloc Production Site. Basic information is provided on overseas offices and subsidiaries. We plan to gradually disclose information on detailed activities in future reports according to sustainability management action plans. Period Covered This report covers AMOREPACIFIC’s activities from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. Data from 2011 and 2012 were included for comparative purposes. Report To verify the accuracy and enhance the credibility of the contents of this reVerification port, we received an independent outside verification. Standards The 2013 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report has been prepared in acFollowed cordance with the G3.1 guidelines set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the main agenda of ISO 26000. 122
