Titel 2013 CSR 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Focus on growth and knowledge Content Statement by the Managing Partner 3 CSR on the agenda 4 Whistleblowing schemes become mandatory 5 CSR gains global momentum 6 Youth opportunities and education 8 The right combination of competencies, expertise and skills 9 Partnership benefiting Ethiopian children 10 Contributing to child welfare 11 Bech-Bruun high up 14 Bech-Bruun in figures 15 CSR 2013 3 Statement by the managing partner It has been five years since BechWe admitted six new partners, conBruun released its first CSR report; tributing to our expertise within whistand five years of valuable experience leblowing schemes, green marketing and good results. With this our fifth and compliance. CSR report we confirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and Bech-Bruun Academy, which we initialook forward to achieving many great ted in 2007, enjoyed great success as results in the future. the number of clients participating in our courses and seminars increased Over the years, we have, first of all, by 21% and satisfaction peaked. We coupled CSR with our core competenalso introduced seminars for law cies and are now providing advisory students, inviting them to join us for services within CSR due diligence, clitwo days full of professional inspiramate adjustment and anti-corruption. tion and personal development. We plan to repeat this successful event We have also established two schools in 2014. in Africa, improved the quality of education at 11 Ethiopian schools and Another move in 2014 will be the provided coaching to African start-up relocation of our Aarhus offices to the businesses. And we have contracted city’s tallest and most energy efficient numerous pro bono partnerships corporate building: City Tower. We are with charitable Danish organisations, looking forward to moving into facilitisuch as the Danish Red Cross, WWF, es equipped to present-day standards Hold Danmark Rent (litter free Denand also to being able to further redumark) and Foreningen Grønlandske ce our environmental footprint. Børn (Greenlandic children and young people’s welfare association). We hope you will welcome this report and read about and be inspired by Internally in our organisation, we these initiatives and much more. have focused on employee health and reduced our unit consumption We wish you happy reading. per employee. Moreover, we have implemented the industry’s leading QA Bech-Bruun, June 2014. system, thus ensuring that we comply with statutory rules for the prevention of money laundering, among other things. Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg In 2013, our focus areas included Managing partner strengthening of our expertise and skills, education and training and ”green building”. CSR 2013 4 CSR on the agenda Voluntary CSR initiatives are, to an increasing degree, transforming into statutory requirements through specific CSR legislation and amended regulation on, for example, anti-corruption, human rights and board gender diversity. In 2013, a series of new CSR rules took effect in Denmark. Since its launch in 2000, the UN their environmental impact must Stricter penalties for corruption Global Compact initiative has grown communicate these policies. If an The economic crisis has increased steadily. Today, more than 7,000 enterprise does not have a CSR focus on macro-economic consebusinesses around the world have policy, this must appear from the quences of corruption and bribery. joined the UN Global Compact. In financial statements’ management’s The European Commission’s report Denmark, participants number more review. on corruption in the EU estimates than 200, which establishes Denthat Member States incur a loss of mark as the country with the highest More women on boards just under DKK 900bn a year owing per capita participation. The extended reporting requireto corruption. ments also include new rules on boPart of this may be explained by the ard gender diversity. The objective Although Denmark is among the fact that Denmark has incorporated of the provisions laid down by s. 99b least corrupted Member States the UN Global Compact indirectly of the Financial Statements Act is according to the NGO Transparency into CSR legislation as enterprises to create a more equal distribution International, Danish enterprises are submitting a Communication on proof men and women on corporate still confronted with corruption and gress report now automatically comboards. bribery when doing business with ply with the reporting requirement non-Danish partners. in s. 99a of the Danish Financial From now on, Danish enterprises Statements Act (årsregnskabsloven). covered by the CSR reporting rules, On 1 July 2013, the maximum which number about 1,100 of penalty for bribery was increased Reporting on human rights and Denmark’s largest enterprises, must further in the Danish Penal Code impact on the climate determine their targets for women (straffeloven). Bribery of public sector In 2013, Danish CSR reporting under on boards as well as adopt a policy employees is now punishable by s. 99a of the Financial Statements for how to meet this target and acup to six years of imprisonment as Act was extended to include more count for developments. Enterprises opposed to the previous three-year compliance requirements. failing to comply with the provisions penalty, and the maximum penalty of ss 99a and b are subject to a fine for bribery of private sector business From now on, enterprises that have – the level of fines being unknown, partners has been increased from defined their policies on how to however. 18 months to four years. The new respect human rights and to reduce rules apply to Danish enterprises domiciled in Denmark and abroad. CSR 2013 5 Whistleblowing schemes become mandatory In 2013, the Danish parliament submitted a consultation paper for a new Bill which will make whistleblowing schemes mandatory in the financial institutions sector. Throughout the years, Bech-Bruun has assisted businesses in fighting unlawful acts through whistleblowing schemes. The UN Global Compact strives The statutory whistleblowing to protect employee rights and schemes are yet another example of Part of the EU capital requirefight corruption; and so does the how voluntary CSR measures are inments directive legislation, which will soon make creasingly being turned into binding The Bill proposing statutory whistlewhistleblowing schemes mandatory legislation. So far, whistleblowing blowing schemes, which form part of for Danish financial institutions. schemes have merely been part of the EU capital requirements directive the Recommendations of the Danish (known as CRD IV), went out for conFrom voluntary measure Corporate Governance Committee’s sultation in the Danish Parliament in to statutory requirement ”Corporate governance code” (2010), 2013. Although the implementation The mandatory whistleblowing which recommends that corporate of the Directive has been postponed schemes are to counteract excessive supreme governing bodies decide until 2014, the Danish provisions risk exposure and situations neglecwhether to establish their individual have already incorporated the ting financial regulations and to prowhistleblowing schemes. coming EU whistleblowing scheme tect any employee choosing to report requirements. unlawful acts, such as bookkeeping Increased transparency irregularities, money laundering and The management of any business bribery. prefers to learn about irregularities Compensation of six to nine within the organisation from internal months’ salary sources rather than to read about Any enterprise discharging, demo”Whistleblowing schemes them on the front pages of newsting or in any other way violating the papers. rights of an employee who has rehave become increasingly ported irregularities through a whistimportant to both the corpoIn return for this confidentiality, the leblowing scheme, may be ordered rate sector and citizens. The employees must be able to trust to pay the employee compensation public and corporate secthat the management does not corresponding to six to nine months’ tors have a growing amount exploit its knowledge to unlawfully salary. discharge, demote or neglect to proof sensitive personal data mote an employee. Whistleblowers registered in their files, and, must therefore be able to report ofHow can we help? therefore, it is of paramount fences anonymously. Such reporting At Bech-Bruun, we have specialised importance that employees may, for instance, be made through in whistleblowing schemes and have can blow the whistle in case an online feature on the enterprise’s assisted various enterprises througthey meet with irregularities intranet without it being possible hout the years in fighting corruption to track the whistleblower. The using such measures. Among other or violations of the law.” whistleblowing scheme must also things, we help prepare the desired be operated independently of the whistleblowing policy, which supports Thomas Munk Rasmussen day-to-day management so that the our client’s code of conduct, informaPartner person about whom the disclosure tion notices to the employees, data is made does not receive the report. processing agreements and reports to the Danish Data Protection Agency. We also provide a 24/7 telephone hotline, which is open for queries about and reporting of irregularities under the whistleblowing system. CSR 2013 6 CSR gains global momentum CSR is becoming increasingly institutionalised not only in Europe and Denmark but also globally as the CSR trend is gaining serious momentum. Norway handles complaints EU inspired by Danish CSR India introduces CSR in new about business conduct reporting companies act In Denmark, the Danish Mediation The European Commission has In 2013, India introduced an amendand Complaints-Handling Institutabled a proposal very similar to ed companies act. The amended tion for Responsible Business the Danish corporate CSR reporting act means that companies are now Conduct Denmark has yet to handle model. Enterprises whose headunder an obligation to spend at its first complaint. In contrast to count exceeds 500 must include a least 2% of the profits generated this, the OECD National Contact report on significant environmental for the past three years on CSR Point (NCP) Norway handled seven and social circumstances in their initiatives, corresponding to CSR incomplaints in 2013 about violation financial statements. The proposal vestments of more than DKK 10bn of the OECD’s Guidelines for Multiis expected to affect Danish busiannually. Furthermore, one third national Enterprises. nesses only slightly since they are of the board of directors must be already subject to the Danish CSR independent members, and at least reporting requirements. one of the board members must be a woman. CSR 2013 7 USA fights corruption China blacklists violators Exclusion of corrupt enterprises The USA continues to spearhead In 2013, the National Health and In 2013, the World Bank put 47 the fight against corruption. In Family Planning Commission enterprises on the blacklist owing 2013, average costs incurred for (NHFPC) of China announced that to corruption. In the EU, six commediation in corruption matters it would publish a list of corrupt panies were excluded from particiexceeded DKK 430m – corresponpharmaceutical companies, agenpating in public EU tenders owing ding to a fourfold increase in the cies and people in 2014. Companies to corruption or money laundering 2012 figure. Moreover, the attitude on the blacklist will be imposed a activities. According to the new towards international companies two-year ban on sale in the region EU anti-corruption report, several with attachments to the USA has in which the violation took place. If enterprises must be expected to be become more uncompromising. a company commits the same violaexcluded in the years to come. Enterprises trading in US dollars or tion twice within a five-year period, having a mail server in the USA or the ban will be imposed to apply for employing US citizens risk being the two years nationwide. focus of attention to an increasing degree by the American anticorruption authorities. CSR 2013 8 Youth opportunities and education Education and knowledge are at the core of Bech-Bruun’s business and our basis of development. In addition to training and educating our own junior associates and law student assistants, we arrange annual seminars for committed law students and invite a group of summer interns to test whether they find a career in a large law firm attractive. Bech-Bruun’s ten practice groups Summer interns replace theory generally employ around 50 law for practice ”From day one, I was met with student assistants and 70 junior Each spring, we recruit summer ina variety of exciting and chalassociates. They all constitute a vital terns who want to try their skills on lenging tasks. I was welcomed recruitment basis for our business, a law firm in the month of August. by friendly and committed which is dependent on having the We target our recruitment on young colleagues sharing a strong industry’s best employees. people studying for a master’s degree who want to boost their CVs work ethic and a passion Successful seminars for law by swapping sunscreen and bath for being a lawyer. I clearly students towels for suit and knee-length recommend being a summer In order to attract the best qualified skirts. Our objective is to provide intern at Bech-Bruun if you talent, we arrange a number of free the summer interns with a unique are eager to see law put into professional seminars and lectures insight into what it is like to have a for law students. In March 2013, we career with one of Denmark’s largest practice. It is an exceptional held our largest seminar to date. law firms. At the same time, the chance to find out whether For the first time ever, we invited students and Bech-Bruun get the you want to be a practising all year groups of law students at chance to assess whether a position lawyer or not.” the University of Copenhagen to as junior associate holds any potenjoin us at Langelinie Allé. During the tial for them. Jeppe Hornemann Hundsdahl two-day seminar, the 75 participants Summer intern, 2013 attended lectures in corporate Local social responsibility law, property law, communication In our opinion, education and and effective learning and study training are not the only ways to techniques. generate growth. Corporate social responsibility is also very imporThe seminar, which is inspired by tant. This is why we approve of our annual professional developthe framework agreements’ social ment day targeted at corporate laclauses which bind us to appoint an wyers, was scheduled as 30 lessons employee for a certain period. distributed on three programmes, the students attending programmes In October 2013, we entered into a on the basis of their year group. new professional business relationship with Femern A/S about legal The concept and the seminar were advice on environmental issues. The a huge success. On a scale of 1 to 5, contract runs until December 2016, where 5 is very good, the particiand one of its conditions is that we pants rated the seminar an average must employ a full-time junior clerk. of 4.34. Therefore, we contemplate We are pleased that we may help repeating our success in 2014 with in this way to ensure that young the aim of achieving an even higher people get the chance of vocational score. training and a job. CSR 2013 9 The right combination of competencies, expertise and skills New competency profiles, employees between the ages of 18 and 68, diversity in management and an employee group who, among themselves, speak 18 languages. These factors all contribute to the diversity on which Bech-Bruun bases its business and expertise. Diversity generates the best results. Consequently, we have constant focus on composing the best possible consultancy teams for our clients to ensure that all the right skills and expertise are brought into play, including competency profiles, seniority and nationality. New competency profiles An advanced level of legal specialisation is one of the most important elements of Bech-Bruun’s business model. Many of our clients also benefit from the fact that our consultancy services cover other aspects as well. As it is, 13 of our advisers may boast of an educational or academic background other than a degree in and solve all types of cases for all At Bech-Bruun, our ambition is to law. Our financial consultants are types of clients. improve our gender statistic. Howable to provide specifically valuable ever, our challenge, which is shared advice in major actions in damages, Diversity in management by other law firms, is to retain our matters about merger control and In the summer of 2013, we focused women associates and assist them restructuring; our CSR consultant ason diversity in management when in choosing the path to law firm partsists businesses with various issues hosting a conference on the implenership and senior management. ranging from CSR due diligence on mentation of the new rules about acquisitions and investments, the women in management and on We have already launched several preparation and implementation of boards. The conference was a step initiatives to meet this challenCSR strategies and policies, measuon the way to generate ideas as to ge. We have developed a special res to fight corruption and bribery to how we and other enterprises may career development programme for recommendations on how to handle contribute to improving the gender women, including jobs with a higher such matters in relation to the statistics. level of flexibility, addressing career employees. wishes at appraisal interviews, offers The then Danish Minister of Gender of individual coaching; joined the Our Chinese colleagues are able to Equality and Ecclesiastical Affairs, Mr ambassador corps network aimed offer clients advice on investment iniManu Sareen, opened the conferento boost the number of women in tiatives in China and to help establish ce by telling the conference audience management and participated in the contact between Chinese investors about the reasons for legislating on Confederation of Danish Industry’s and Danish enterprises. ”the under-represented gender.” The Diversity Think Tank. discussions afterwards were about We continuously strive to ensure that the practicalities of diversity and reOur initiatives and efforts are subject we have employees whose compecruitment of women to top manageto current assessment, and diversity tency profiles complement those of ment as well as boards of directors. will continue to be one of Bechour associates and help us match Bruun’s focus areas. CSR 2013 10 Partnership benefiting Ethiopian children Improved conditions at 11 schools in Ethiopia. This is what we aim to achieve through Bech-Bruun’s renewed partnership with the Save the Children Denmark. Since 2008, Save the Children DenIn 2012, we extended our partnermark and Bech-Bruun have worked ship with Save the Children Denmark side by side to ensure better access to run until 2017. Both children and to education in Africa. Our cooperateachers at 11 schools have already tion has resulted in the construction enjoyed the results of the renewed of two totally new schools: one in cooperation: Angola and one in Ethiopia. • More than 100 teachers have received post training. ”Knowledge is the founda• A total of 534 child-to-child tion of Bech-Bruun. And we support groups have been estabknow that access to quality lished. A number of teachers education is important for have been trained in setting up the support groups and helping Bech-Bruun in South Africa the individual child, its family them with their study of various Morten Hove Henriksen is a Ph.D. and local environment. This academic subjects. student and Bech-Bruun’s CSR is why we give first priority • Particularly talented pupils have consultant. In January 2014, Morten to being part of Save the been rewarded for their efforts went to South Africa to perfect his Children’s work in Ethiopia. and academic performance. knowledge on how enterprises may • Eleven schools have received 225 fight bribery in emerging markets. The goal is still far from being writing desks to share among reached, so we are pleased them. Regina M. Andersen is a partner to keep on contributing to • New and better equipment for the and partakes in Bech-Bruun’s daily the good work.” science and chemistry classrooms routines of advising enterprises on and new textbooks and a variety stock-exchange listings and securiSimon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg of teaching materials for the ties trading. However, for the first six Managing partner schools. months of 2014, Regina has obtained leave from Bech-Bruun to work as a Improved education quality legal aid volunteer in South Africa During the first years of our partnership (2008-2012), we focused on Mikkel Friis Rossa is a partner, worimproving the framework of educatiking in our IP & Technology practice on in Africa. group. Mikkel visited South Africa in March 2014, among other things to By extending our cooperation, we advise local start-up businesses on are now able to focus on improving how to best develop their businesses the quality of the teaching taking and generate growth. place at the 11 schools sponsored by the partnership and located in the Ensaro district of Ethiopia. Our cooperation involves 5,500 children and 500 teachers. The partnership’s target groups also include 250 parent teacher associations (PTAs), the parents of the children and their local environment. CSR 2013 11 Contributing to child welfare In October 2013, Bech-Bruun partner Lars Svenning Andersen was elected chairman of Save the Children Denmark. Besides helping children who grow up in a bullying, abusive or neglectful environment and providing relief and protection to children in the world’s hot spots, a key issue is to ensure that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is implemented into Danish legislation. In October 2013, when Bech-Bruun family trips,” explains Lars Svenning criticised Danish children’s lack of partner Lars Svenning Andersen Andersen, who also emphasises that knowledge of the Convention on the was elected chairman of Save the victimised children elsewhere in the Right of the child in its conclusive Children Denmark, we were given world will not be forgotten. evaluation of the Danish state’s work the opportunity to further comwith children’s rights. Legislative memit ourselves to the work of Save Legislation overtrumps asures in this area will help raise the the Children. With Lars Svenning conventions attention of the authorities and also Andersen in the chair, victimised The chairmanship is perfectly in among the children themselves,” children in Denmark will receive line with Bech-Bruun’s CSR strategy, says Lars Svenning Andersen. extra assistance. which is based on the UN Global Compact. For instance, we commit Lars Svenning Andersen’s term of ”Internationally, Save the Children ourselves to support the UN deoffice currently runs for three years. Denmark holds a strong position claration of human rights. Save the His objectives are: since our secretary general, Ms Mimi Children’s working basis is the UN Jakobsen, has a seat on the global Convention on the Right of the Child, • To create strong local associations board of Save the Children Internatiwhich the organisation is engaged in all municipalities. onal. My focus, therefore, will be on in getting implemented into Danish • To increase revenue to DKK 500m. national issues. I want to strengthen legislation. • To double the number of memthe local representation of Save the bers. Children and increase our coope”After 34 years as a lawyer, I know • To recruit more volunteers, for ration with the local authorities, that conventions do not have the example, among resourceful schools, volunteers and other partsame effect as legislation. We thesenior citizens. ners who can contribute to helping refore recommend that the Danish • To increase the coordination of children being bullied, abused or government incorporate the Conthe various existing initiatives. neglected and who can help create a vention on the Right of the Child into • To start up more charity shops. refuge for victimised children. Such Danish legislation. Last year, the UN refuge may be summer camps and Committee on the Rights of the Child CSR 2013 12 CSR 2013 13 CSR 2013 14 Bech-Bruun high up In July 2014, we will relocate our Aarhus offices to the most energy efficient and tallest corporate building in the city: City Tower. In 2011, we cut the first turf of what is today’s tallest corporate building of Aarhus city. On 28 July 2014, Bech-Bruun’s 130 employees in Aarhus will move into the 4,500m2 offices occupying the 14th, 15th, 16th and 22nd floors of the building. Our relocation to these offices located centrally in Aarhus will help us reduce our resource consumption. City Tower, which is the name of the new building, is the first corporate building in Aarhus to meet the strict 2015 requirements of energy rating 1. The building’s energy rating indicates how many kilowatt hours are spent annually on heating, ventilation, cooling and hot water per square meter. Obviously, this makes demands on the windows, insulation and ventilation of the building. At City Tower, integrated solar power cells have been installed on the building’s southern façade, supplying energy to the building. The system may generate up to 180,000kWh. Apart from a more energy-efficient solution, we also gain a breathtaking view and improved surroundings for our work. Facts The building is the first corporate building in Aarhus meeting the 2015 requirements for energy rating 1. City Tower has also been certified as a Green Building. City Tower covers a total of 34,000 m 2. CSR 2013 15 Bech-Bruun in figures Employees As of 31 December 2013 61 Partners Equity partners 61 16 Associate partners 16 Associates 113 Junior associates 72 Other fee-earners 40 Other employees 215 215 113 Employees 517 Average age 37 years Average length of service 8 years Equity partners Associate partners 40 72 Associates Junior associates Other fee-earners Other employees Environment 2011 2012 2013 1 After our merger with Philip Law Firm, our number of employees has grown, hence the larger consumption of water. Electricity consumption (kWh) 945,094 1,023,777 1,000,635 We have also given up bottled water and installed cold water dispensers Heating consumption (mWh) 1,012 903 1,042 on all floors, which means that our employees now consume more tap Water consumption (m3) 3,254 3,9121 4,6771 water than before. However, we are investigating whether our increased water consumption may be due to other Combustible waste (t) 80.01 86.54 79.56 factors. Recyclable material (t) 35.682 24.052 19.31 2 In connection with the merger with Philip Law Firm, our filing room was cleared out, which resulted in a larger amount of paper recycling than in previous years. Client courses 2011 2012 2013 Number of clients having participated 951 1,054 1,326 in Bech-Bruun Academy Client Satisfaction with Academy Client 4.53 4.58 4.68 (scale of 1 to 5, where 5 is very good) Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai T +45 72 27 00 00 Denmark Denmark China www.bechbruun.com COP Summary Activities, Objectives and Results Human Rights 1. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and respects the protection of support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights. To show our protection of support we, once a year, participate in the World’s Best News internationally proclaimed campaign aiming to spread the message that efforts against human rights; and poverty make a difference. Our Code of Conduct explicitly expresses our support for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2. make sure that they are Bech-Bruun actively helps to prevent the abuse of human not complicit in human rights. In cooperation with Save the Children, we have rights abuses. engaged in a number of activities and, for example, built two schools in Angola and Ethiopia for the purpose of ensuring the right to education. In 2012, we renewed our partnership with Save the Children. Over the next five years, we will help support and improve education at 11 schools in Ethiopia, educating 5,500 pupils, and provide further training to 500 teachers. Through our extensive pro bono activities, we support organisations which would not otherwise be able to get legal advice. In 2013, we rendered pro bono advice to organisations such as the Danish Red Cross, WWF and Hold Danmark Rent (litter free Denmark). In addition, in October 2013, Bech-Bruun partner Lars Svenning Andersen was elected chairman of Save the Children Denmark. His objectives are: To create strong local associations in all Danish municipalities, to increase revenue to DKK 500m, to double the number of members, to recruit more volunteers, for example, among resourceful senior citizens, to increase the coordination of the various existing initiatives and to start up more charity shops. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and upholds the freedom of uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining of all its association and the employees. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all Bech-Bruun supports the elimination of all forms of forced forms of forced and and compulsory labour. compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition Bech-Bruun supports the abolition of child labour. With our of child labour; and school in Ethiopia, we have created a gathering point for the local community and now witness an increasing acceptance of school attendance, also among the adult population which now wants to go to school. 6. the elimination of Bech-Bruun supports diversity and the elimination of discrimination in respect discrimination. For many years, we have taken on an equal of employment and number of female and male lawyers. Moreover, Bech-Bruun occupation. has, as its special focus area, the aim of increasing the number of women in management and, especially, at partner level. We have launched several initiatives to reach this goal. We have a special career development programme for women including a high level of job flexibility, and we address career wishes at appraisal interviews and offer individual coaching. In addition, we have joined an ambassador corps network aimed at boosting the number of women in management positions and participated in the Confederation of Danish Industry’s Diversity Think Tank. In 2013, we hosted a diversity conference to generate ideas on how we and other businesses can break the glass ceiling and improve gender diversity. The Environment 7. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and advocates a reduction of our own support a precautionary impact and of the impact of our surroundings on the approach to environment. We encourage all our employees to care for environmental challenges; the environment and to help increase our daily focus on recycling, energy consumption, etc. Through our pro bono work, we also support environmental organisations and their work. In 2014, we will relocate our Aarhus offices to the most environmentally sound corporate building, which will help us reduce our resource consumption. The building is the first corporate building in Aarhus to meet the strict 2015 requirements of energy rating 1 and is equipped with solar power cells, which supply energy to the building. 8. undertake initiatives to Over the past decade, we have made significant efforts to promote greater reduce our consumption of resources. environmental responsibility; and Through our supplier policy, we strive to promote environmentally sustainable procurement practices. Every year, we participate in the campaign ‘Bike to work’, which encourages our employees to take the bike to work and thereby reduce our CO2 impact. 9. encourage the We have for a long time been one of the leading advisers in development and Denmark within the areas of energy, recycling and diffusion of sustainable use of resources. To support this strategic focus, environmentally friendly we have entered into a number of strategic partnerships technologies. with the objective to put our expert competences to use in a manner that will impact most effectively on the environment. Such partnerships include agreements with Copenhagen Cleantech Cluster (now named CLEAN) and China Renewable Energy Industries Association. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and complies with the official code of work against corruption in conduct for lawyers. Furthermore, we have developed our all its forms, including own Code of Conduct, which explicitly states that we take a extortion and bribery. zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Moreover, we have implemented the industry’s leading QA system, thus ensuring that we comply with statutory rules for the prevention of, for example, money laundering. To support our efforts, we have also become a member of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ anti-corruption network in China in which our employees in China can learn and share knowledge with other Danish businesses engaging in activities in China on how to combat corruption.
