October 2014 United Nations Global Compact Australian Postal Corporation 2014 Communication on Progress Contents 3 Overview of Australia Post and the United Nations Communication on Progress 6 Human Rights Principles 9 Labour Principles 12 Environment Principles 16 Anti-Corruption Principle Overview Overview Who we are From humble beginnings delivering the nation’s physical mail, we’ve recognised the need to adapt our At Australia Post, we provide trusted and reliable services in line with the Australian community’s shift services to help people and communities throughout to online channels. To stay true to our communityAustralia. For over 200 years we have always sought based brand and our original purpose, we’re expanding to help citizens, businesses and government. Not just access to trusted services – physically through our some, but everyone, everywhere, every day so that post offices and by offering secure and convenient communities work better, and can prosper. digital formats – while reforming our letters service and investing in our parcels network. We’ve done this by delivering letters, helping businesses and consumers with parcels, simplifying Australia Post is a self-funded government business everyday tasks through digital channels and providing enterprise with the Australian Government as its a national post office network that supports local sole shareholder. As required under the Australian communities and organisations. This has us providing Postal Corporation Act 1989, we continue to balance everyday essential services that Australians rely on – our commercial objectives with the need to meet our but in a contemporary, increasingly digital way. community service obligations (CSOs). In a rapidly changing world, the needs of our people, The profit we earn is used to pay a dividend to our customers and communities, and the trust they place shareholder, and to reinvest in our assets and services in us, remain at the core of every decision we make so that we are equipped to meet the changing needs and action we take. of our customers. Our commercial success therefore ensures we can positively impact the communities we serve, and continue to improve the products and services we provide. 3 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Overview This year we again met all the performance standards Australia Post operates under a set of ethical associated with our CSOs, including delivering 94.5 standards. The Ethical Standards Policy is part of our per cent of letters on time or early, against our 94 per comprehensive booklet Our Ethics: the way we do cent target. things at Australia Post. This booklet clearly defines the standards of behaviour we expect from our people As we plan for Australia Post’s future, we are focused and our business partners regarding the treatment on offering vital and relevant services that meet the of others to ensure we meet our commitments as a contemporary needs of our customers so that we signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Our can be part of tomorrow. Given that the community Ethical Standards Policy and the Our Ethics booklet is shifting away from using our letters service at an incorporate our ‘culture pillars’, which are the basis for accelerating rate, we are now at a critical turning point. how we do things at Australia Post and the core beliefs that guide how we behave. Our culture pillars represent Over the past four years our business renewal strategy the behaviours we need to demonstrate every day has set the foundations for growth and helped us to to be a responsible and sustainable business for the remain strong, sustainable and customer focused. Our future. investments during this time have allowed us to: • Adapt our products and services for both the physical and digital worlds. Our four culture pillars are: • Alter our investment profile with a strong focus on Safety – We respect ourselves and each other by growth opportunities in trusted services, ecommerce creating a safe and working environment. and digital services. Accountability – We take personal responsibility and • Streamline our operations. work together to deliver on outcomes. • Build better connections with our people, our Customer Focus – We are passionate about delivering customers and the community. exceptional value for the customer. In the next phase of our transformation, we will have Speed of Action – We achieve quality outcomes an ongoing focus on customer-centricity, operational quickly and efficiently. excellence, reform and business efficiency. This will be essential to ensuring we continue to be relevant to the Australian community for years to come. As we face the challenges and opportunities of the future, we will continue to carefully balance economic, social and environmental considerations to ensure our business is sustainable and that we continue to deliver essential services to all Australians. culture Pillars.indd 1 23/04/14 8:46 AM 4 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Overview Some of the key treaties that we adhere to which • International Convention on the Elimination of all align to our commitments to the United Nations Global forms of Racial Discrimination Compact are: • Convention on the Elimination of all forms of • Universal Declaration of Human Rights Discrimination against Women • International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights • Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. • Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of About this Communication on Progress the Crime of Genocide In July 2010, Australia Post became a signatory to the • Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment We are fully committed to implementing and aligning • Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness our operations with the ten principles that address human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. • Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons This Communication on Progress outlines our • Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees commitment to each of the ten UNGC principles over the last year. The majority of information included in • Slavery Convention of 1926 this Communication on Progress is based on Australia • Supplementary Convention on Slavery Post’s Annual Report for the 2013–14 financial year (covering the period July 2013 – June 2014). We also • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Rights at Work use the GRI G3.1 reporting guidelines and produce an integrated Annual and Sustainability Report to a self• Convention on the Rights of the Child declared B+ application level. • Convention on the Political Rights of Women 5 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Human Rights Human Rights backgrounds. Our diverse workforce consists of 137 nationalities, who speak 65 languages and make a Principle 1: valuable contribution to our business. Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights. Australia Post also places a heavy focus on ensuring a safe working environment for our people. We are constantly striving towards zero injuries and zero Principle 2: tolerance of unsafe acts in our workplace. With most Businesses should make sure they are not complicit of our workforce based at postal facilities or out on the in human rights abuses. roads, we continued to focus our safety initiatives on addressing incidents associated with manual handling, load shifting, operations and the use of motorcycles. Australia Post continues to develop and deliver a range of diversity programs and initiatives focused on Our commitment building and leveraging a workforce that truly reflects the customers and communities we serve. We track our Australia Post operates in accordance with human performance against four focus areas: Aboriginal and rights international treaties to ensure that we support Torres Strait Islanders, gender, people with a disability, and protect human rights and ensures we are not and culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) people. complicit in human rights abuses. We demonstrate our commitment to the protection of As an organisation, we are committed to continuing human rights in our supply chain through our Supplier to keep the community at the heart of our decision Code of Conduct which requires all suppliers to adhere making and ensuring that all our practices and to a number of international human rights standards activities support and protect internationally as well as requires them to respect and protect the proclaimed human rights. rights of employees and local communities. We demonstrate our commitment to protection Our commitment to the wider Australian community of human rights through a number of policies and comes to life through the Our Neighbourhood program. processes which guide the way we work with all our This program represents Australia Post’s commitment stakeholders. The ‘Our Ethics’ book informs the way to the community beyond its business operations and we treat our direct and indirect workforce as well as role as a large employer of people and informs the way promotes a culture of respect with our customers, we contribute to and operate in communities across suppliers and other stakeholder groups. Australia; with the goal of building healthier, more Specific business and functional areas have vibrant and more inclusive communities. responsibility for ensuring we have policies and systems in place to manage our human rights impacts. Policies and processes to support our commitment Our human rights commitments to our workforce (both direct and indirect) are expressed through a number The rights of our workplace participants are protected of policies, procedures and initiatives. Under the Equal through a number of policies and processes. The Our Employment Opportunity (Commonwealth Authorities) Ethics booklet describes the behaviour expected by Act 1987, Australia Post produces an annual report Australia Post of everyone who is employed by, or on our workforce profile, diversity strategy and engaged with Australia Post, both in Australia and performance against four diversity indicators: gender, overseas. New employees receive a copy of the booklet Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, people and we regularly reinforce our policies, which aim to with a disability and people from culturally diverse prevent anti-social behaviour. 6 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Human Rights Australia Post has a number of key policies and • We have commenced a comprehensive review of procedures that protect our workplace participants’ the Supplier Code of Conduct which is included human rights including the: in all contracts for goods and services. We have also commenced a review to strengthen our social, • Equal Employment Opportunity Policy ethial and environmental compliance oversight and assurance processes. • Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Throughout 2013–14 we again demonstrated our • Work Health and Safety Policy commitment to the communities we serve through • Work Health and Management System: Framework the various activities of the Our Neighbourhood and Standards program. Our Neighbourhood continues to guide Australia Post’s community approach and • Incident Notification Policy and Procedures investments as an important part of our overarching commitment and support to the community, • Occupational and Safety Risk Assessment and the particularly those most vulnerable. We developed Control Strategy Policy and launched Our Neighbourhood last year to bring We also continue to support the inclusion of people with to life our commitment to the community beyond our a disability and Indigenous Australians with specific services and our role as a large employer of people. goals and targets outlined in our Accessibility Action Our Neighbourhood is an integrated community Plan and Reconciliation Action Plan. investment program that delivers shared value for Australia Post and the communities we serve. This Our procurement process also supports and respects means achieving tangible and measurable business the protection of internationally proclaimed human benefits to create economic value for all Australians. rights. A Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all contracts for goods or services. Suppliers are • During National Reconciliation Week in May 2014, expected to meet all ethical, social and environmental we launched our third Reconciliation Action Plan standards laid out in this code. Our suppliers must (RAP). In our RAP, we have committed to a series of also be able to report on their social, ethical and actions in relation to building relationships, enhancing environmental performance. respect and improving opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. This year marked 25 Key achievements years of a formal commitment by Australia Post to providing employment opportunities and support to • The ‘Our Ethics’ booklet outlines the expectations Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people we have of our workplace participants. As it is and communities. important that we ensure its ongoing applicability and reflection of best practice, this year we • As at 30 June 2014, our Aboriginal and Torres Strait commenced a comprehensive review of the Islander employees represented 1.5 per cent of our Our Ethics booklet. workforce. Our goal is to increase this representation to 2.5 per cent of our total workforce by July 2017, • Australia Post refreshed our Whistleblower reflecting the national population. Policy in February 2014 to ensure relevance to the business and current legislation. The policy • This year we continued to build our female outlines Australia Post’s commitment to creating leadership pipeline and see an increase in the and maintaining a working environment in which number of women holding leadership positions workplace participants are able to raise concerns across our organisation. Our female leaders now regarding unlawful or improper conduct, without fear make up 36.2 per cent of management roles and of reprisal and with the support of Australia Post. 34.1 per cent of executive positions. In 2013–14 we Consequently Australia Post provides a confidential continued to focus on building our female talent hotline, managed externally, providing an avenue pipeline through a range of programs targeted at for employees, business partners and customers to every major career transition point. report any actual or suspected unlawful or improper conduct occurring at Australia Post. 7 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Human Rights • In March 2014 we celebrated International Women’s • Launch our second Accessibility Action Plan. Day by hosting events across the nation. Our theme was “inspiring change” and we invited a number of • Conduct an analysis to uncover how we can better dynamic women from business, community and sport leverage our culturally diverse workforce. to share their motivational stories with our employees. • Continued implementation of the Diversity and • We continued to build awareness and improve access Inclusion Strategy that helps to build a diverse and for people with disability by implementing our inclusive workplace free of discrimination. Accessibility Action Plan. This year we launched the • Continued implementation of flexible work practices. Real Stories Project, which is focused on capturing and sharing uplifting stories about people with a • With at least 80 per cent of our workforce based at disability who work at Australia Post. One of these postal facilities or out on the roads, we continued to stories was made into a short film, which will be used focus our safety initiatives on addressing incidents to continue to build disability awareness throughout associated with manual handling, load shifting Australia Post and be shared as a case study with operations and use of motorcycles. other organisations. People with disability currently represent 6.9 per cent of our workforce. • Continued focus on making our leaders more accountable for safety throughout our • Australia Post embraces and celebrates cultural operational network. diversity. Twenty-three per cent of our workforce identify as being from a culturally and/or • Increasing the frequency and quality of linguistically diverse background. Our people come conversations between our people about safety. from 137 different nations and speak more than 65 • Continuing and improving our incident management languages. Although we reap the benefits of cultural processes, which launched in September 2014. diversity every day, we formally celebrated our rich cultural diversity in March by again partnering with • Upon completion of internal and external the Scanlon Foundation and participating in A stakeholder engagement and review of the ‘Our Taste of Harmony, an event that encourages our Ethics’ booklet, a comprehensive communication employees to share food and stories from different program will be implemented by June 2015 to ensure cultures at their workplace. all workplace participants are aware of the ethical standards that are in place at Australia Post. • According to our 2014 Say2Action Employee Engagement results 70 per cent of our workforce • Communication and implementation of strengthened believes that Australia Post values diversity. This Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance compares to the Australia and New Zealand and assurance process to internal and external benchmark of 69 per cent, indicating that our stakeholders. investment in diversity is having a positive impact. Further information Key actions for the year ahead More information can be found in: • Implementation of our third Reconciliation Action Plan key initiatives with a strong focus on increasing • ‘Our Ethics’ the representation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait • 2014 Diversity & Inclusion Annual Report Islanders in our workforce. • Accessibility Action Plan • Continue to roll out, assess and improve our suite of female development programs to strengthen our • Reconciliation Action Plan female talent pipeline. • Continuing to build on the Our Neighbourhood programs and the work with our community partners as a major stakeholder group. 8 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Labour Labour perspectives and culture. We ensure our contract workforce respect and protect the rights of employees Principle 3: and local communities through their commitment to Businesses should uphold the freedom of the Supplier Code of Conduct. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Policies and processes to support our commitment Principle 4: Australia Post has clear policies and expectations for Businesses should uphold the elimination of all acceptable standards of workplace behaviour. These forms of forced and compulsory labour. behavioural standards are outlined in the booklet ‘Our Ethics’. New employees receive a copy of the booklet and training at induction and we regularly reinforce our Principle 5: policies, which aim to prevent anti-social behaviour. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ‘Our Ethics’ provides a baseline that everyone treats others, whether a co-worker, customer, contractor or supplier with courtesy and respect at all times. Policies Principle 6: such as the Harassment, Discrimination and Bullying Businesses should uphold the elimination of Policy and the Social Media Policy and Guidelines discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. further support this expectation. We continue to celebrate our diverse and inclusive workforce where differences are valued and respected, Our commitment and which reflects the customers we support and communities we live in. Australia Post plays an important role in the lives of our people. We are committed to assisting our people to We do this through our Diversity and Inclusion Policy develop their skills, advance their careers and become and our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy which leaders of our organisation to help meet the challenges promote and celebrate our differences and protect our of the future. We also seek to ensure our workplace employees from prejudice. participants operate in an environment free from any Our recently refreshed Harassment, Discrimination prejudice, harassment, discrimination or bullying. We and Bullying Policy applies to all workplace have a number of policies, objectives and targets in participants and it expressly protects an employee place that help to create a fair and open workplace from harassment or discrimination because of their that supports and respects freedom of association and personal association, political belief and/or their union the right to collective bargaining. or employer association. Australia Post takes a proactive approach towards In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct requires all ensuring our people are treated with courtesy and suppliers to demonstrate a commitment to human respect and that the work environment encourages rights and fair employment practices in accordance workplace participants to speak up, share opinions with existing international standards, such as the whilst also listening to and respecting each other. Our United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, goal is to eliminate all forms of discrimination. These the International Labour Organisation Declaration messages are made clear in the ‘Our Ethics’ booklet on Fundamental Rights and the United Nations and the recently revised Harassment, Discrimination Convention on the Rights of the Child. Suppliers and Bullying Policy. Both of these resources promote must also be able to report on social, ethical and a culture in which our employees are encouraged to environmental performance. value and celebrate differences in beliefs, opinions, 9 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Labour Key achievements our culturally diverse workforce provides us. We uphold the United Nations Global Compact Principle • The Australia Post Enterprise Agreement, 6 – “Businesses should uphold the elimination negotiated in 2013, demonstrates our commitment of discrimination in respect of employment and to the recognition of freedom of association, occupation” – through a number of policies, expressly providing that Australia Post recognises practices and initiatives. Under the Equal the role unions play in the workplace and the right Opportunity (Commonwealth Authorities) Act 1987, of union delegates to represent union members. Australia Post is required to report on an annual This is demonstrated regularly through joint basis on our workforce profile, diversity strategy consultation and union representation of employees and performance against four diversity indicators: during workplace discussions, such as those around gender, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, business change. people with a disability and people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. • Further, the Agreement provides authorised union delegates with paid leave to undertake dispute • This year we continued to invest in building our resolution training that may enhance their ability female leadership pipeline through a range of to represent the interests of their members and programs targeted at every major career transition. their understanding of the Enterprise Agreement. In Examples of these programs included: addition, Australia Post has developed and adopted ‘Guidelines on role, rights, responsibilities and -The TenProgram – a mentoring program support for union delegates,’ in recognition of the matching 10 of our high potential women with 10 valuable role they play for many employees. of our Management Committee. Eight of the 10 participants in this year’s TenProgram progressed • Australia Post has continued to deliver on all into more senior or expanded roles by 30 June 2014. commitments made during the Enterprise Agreement bargaining process. -Xplore – a leadership and career development program for our female managers. From July to • Australia Post meets our commitments to the December 2014, 37 women participated in the United Nations Global Compact Principle 5 – program. By the end of the financial year the “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of retention rate of this future senior leadership child labour” – through a number of avenues. ‘Our talent pool was 97.3 per cent. Furthermore, 21.6 Ethics’ clearly defines the standards of behaviour per cent of participants had been promoted into expected of our people and our business partners, more senior positions. ensuring we operate ethically in purchasing goods and services and in conducting business with -mymentor – a self-paced personal and career suppliers. To ensure the ongoing relevance of ‘Our development program offered to our awardEthics’ a comprehensive review is currently being level female employees. The 2014 intake was our undertaken. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires largest ever, attracting 476 participants. This year all suppliers to demonstrate a current commitment also marked the largest intake of mentors with 76 to human rights, fair employment practices and of our leaders (both men and women) taking on a environmental responsibility in accordance with mentoring role. Since the program’s launch, over existing international standards, such as the United 1,200 of our female workforce have completed the Nationals Universal Declaration of Human Rights mymentor program. and the United Nationals Convention on the Rights -Horizon – a 12-month leadership development of the Child. Suppliers must also be able to report on program for women moving into senior social, ethical and environmental performance. management and general manager positions. We • At Australia Post we value the broad range of launched the Horizon program in October 2013 ideas, experiences, skills and leadership styles with 17 participants. 10 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Labour Australia Post refreshed its Harassment, • Australia Post will continue to communicate with Discrimination and Bullying Policy in late 2013. To and educate all workplace participants on our coincide with this policy update, we established a policies and procedures that support the elimination dedicated Harassment, Discrimination and Bullying of discrimination in the workplace including the Hotline and email address, which is available to all Harassment Discrimination and Bullying Policy, the workplace participants to report any concerns they Social Media Policy and Guidelines and the refreshed have about inappropriate behaviour occurring in their ‘Our Ethics’. workplace. • Australia Post will continue to implement the In addition Australia Post developed and launched Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and targets to its Social Media Policy in November 2013, which is support the building of a more diverse and inclusive complemented by our existing Social Media Guidelines. workplace that is free of discrimination. The Social Media Policy supports and educates employees in the appropriate use of social media as • Continued implementation of the Accessibility it relates to their employment. It is recognised many Action Plan. Through implementing our Accessibility employees use social media sites and forums, however Action Plan, we have continued to take a lead role in Australia Post encourages employees to be mindful improving accessibility for all Australians of the risks and benefits of social media so they can with disability. participate in an enjoyable and meaningful way. The • Continued implementation of third Reconciliation Policy outlines Australia Post’s expectations in relation Action Plan. During National Reconciliation Week to the use of social media and provides some simple in May 2014, we launched our third Reconciliation rules for employees to follow show respect, be open Action Plan (RAP). In our RAP, we have committed to and take responsibility. a series of actions in relation to building relationships, We have commenced a comprehensive review of enhancing respect and improving opportunities for the Supplier Code of Conduct which is included Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. in all contracts for goods and services. we have • Communication and implementation of also commenced a review to strengthen our social, strengthened Supplier Code of Conduct and ethial and environmental compliance oversight and compliance and assurance process to internal and assurance processes. external stakeholders. Key actions for the year ahead Further information • Australia Post is committed to continuing to More information can be found in: recognise and respect the role unions play in the workplace and have established processes and • Australia Post Annual Report 2014 practices to ensure timely, thorough and genuine union consultation occurs in relation to all significant • ‘Our Ethics’ change that impacts on our employees. • 2013 Enterprise Agreement • After we finalise our review of ‘Our Ethics’, • Equal Employment Opportunity Report Australia Post will engage in a comprehensive communication program to ensure all workplace • Accessibility Action Plan participants are aware of the ethical standards that are in place at Australia Post. • Reconciliation Action Plan 11 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Environment Environment to make decisions that reduce the environmental impact of our business, in support of Principle 8 – Principle 7: “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Businesses should support a precautionary approach greater environmental responsibility”. to environmental challenges. This year we have again committed to being a leader in environmental sustainability, by focusing on driving clean energy and energy efficiency programs across Principle 8: our 1,200 facilities as well as becoming more fuel Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote efficient by exploring alternative fuels for our fleet of greater environmental responsibility. 12,000 vehicles. In 2010 we established an ambitious target to reduce Principle 9: our carbon emission levels by 25 per cent by 2020 (based on emission levels generated in 2000). Four Businesses should encourage the development and years on, we continue to implement carbon reduction diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. initiatives such as our National Energy Management Plan, energy audits, energy and fuel efficiency projects and dedicated research and development (R&D) activities across our business. Our Commitment Australia Post also demonstrates commitment to Principle 9 – “Businesses should encourage the At Australia Post we provide trusted and reliable development and diffusion of environmentally friendly services to help people and communities throughout technologies” – through our fuel and energy efficiency Australia. In connecting people and communities, we initiatives and the availability of a dedicated R&D recognise that our operations have an impact on the fund of $500,000 to investigate and research new environment and we are committed to understanding environmentally sustainable technologies. these impacts and taking measures to reduce them. Policies and processes to support We voluntarily participate in programs, such as the Australian Packaging Covenant, and our approach is our commitment underpinned by a robust environmental management We have a comprehensive approach to environmental system, which is aligned with the ISO14001 sustainability, which is outlined in our Environmental environmental standard that actively monitors and Sustainability Strategy. Our aim is to be recognised as manages our environmental impacts. a leader in environmental sustainability. In addition to our own environmental activities, we We are committed to: help the Australian community to actively participate in national recycling programs by providing collection • Driving a culture of continuous environmental points for Cartridges for Planet Ark (printer cartridges) improvement with a focus on fuel and energy and Mobile Muster (mobile telephones) at our post efficiency. offices across the country. • Actively pursuing renewable or lower carbon fuels Australia Post demonstrates commitment to Principle and energy sources. 7 – “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges” – by • Understanding and managing our environmental integrating environmental considerations and risks with the goal of minimising or eliminating improvements in our daily operations focusing on our those risks. services, our fleet, our buildings and our workforce. • Ensuring the environment is considered in our We also work to empower our customers and suppliers investment and corporate strategies, procurement and the products and services we offer. 12 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Environment • Actively working to minimise pollution, manage waste • Are able to be reused or recycled at their end of life streams and address relevant biodiversity issues. and are appropriately labelled. • Engaging with our customers, employees • Help minimise our energy and fuel use and and shareholder on environmental issues and carbon emissions. transparently reporting on our environmental performance. • Help minimise our water use or waste disposal. • Complying with all applicable legal and regulatory In order to support Principle 8 – “Businesses should requirements. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility” – and Principle 9 – “Businesses Our Environment Policy, which was endorsed by the should encourage the development and diffusion of executive leadership team in October 2013, reinforces environmentally friendly technologies” – Australia Post our commitment and precautionary approach to is focused on: environmental sustainability. It also demonstrates our understanding that our actions are important to our customers and our people, as well as our business 1. Executing best practice energy and fuel outcomes. management To continually measure our performance against our 2. Implementing renewable and low carbon environmental commitments and our legal obligations, energy sources our performance is monitored by the Australia Post Board Audit and Risk Committee. 3. Engaging our major stakeholder groups Australia Post also continues to strengthen the 4. Developing environmental products of integration of sustainability considerations into our commercial value procurement processes. This includes formalising the consideration of sustainability risks and opportunities 5. Complying with all applicable regulatory at key milestones of the procurement process. In requirements the short term we’ll strengthen our Supplier Code 6. Integrating environmental considerations into of Conduct and continue to engage, suppliers business as usual to strengthen their compliance programs and sustainability capabilities. 7. Best practice electricity and fuel management The practice of ‘sustainable sourcing’ involves the 8. Implementing renewable or low carbon energy purchasing of goods and services that won’t harm sources and processes. the environment, economy or community. At Australia Post, we aim to apply sustainable sourcing across our whole supply chain by ensuring both we and our suppliers maintain high environmental, economic and community standards. When it comes to sourcing of suppliers, where practicable, our preference is to procure products and services that: • Source materials from sustainable or renewable sources and have the appropriate certification. • Source material made from recycled content. 13 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Environment Key achievements • Introduced new motorbikes, vans and sedan to our fleet that have enhanced fuel efficiency. This This year a number of our operational decisions and includes 1,871 new motorbikes that are 60 per cent initiatives directly contributed to better efficiency and more fuel-efficient than the previous motorbikes. productivity outcomes for us, as well as delivering real value for the community and for the environment. • Integrated a biofuel blend into the Transport Fleet and energy management initiatives continued fleet at selected facilities saving almost 1,000 to reduce costs and carbon emissions, contributing tonnes of carbon each year. to a further 6 per cent decrease in our Scope 1 and 2 • Installed more than 1,000 solar panels, a 275kWp carbon footprint. system as part of our redevelopment of StarTrack We’re also extending our environmental and social House in New South Wales and a 99kWp solar system commitments beyond our business and throughout on our Heathwood Delivery Centre in Queensland. our supply chain by helping our customers deliver • From an international perspective, we’ve better environmental outcomes. Our new Environment enhanced our International Postal Committee Policy was developed to guide internal improvements, Sustainability benchmark by 6 per cent. product development, and sourcing decisions. These actions support our ‘shared value’ approach to • Completed the refurbishment of Australia Post’s delivering tangible, economic and social benefits for us, Sydney Head Office, Star Track House, taking and the communities we serve. the building’s NABERS green energy rating from 2.5 stars to a planned 5 stars. In 2013-14, Australia Post achieved the below: • Continued the development of environmental • Implementation of the APC Action Plan. The APC products of commercial value such as reverse Action Plan acknowledges that our commitment logistics, sustainable packaging and carbon under the former National Packaging Covenant, reporting. which ended in June 2010, now extends to the new Australian Packaging Covenant program. The • Through our product stewardship partnerships Action Plan commits Australia Post to continuing with Planet Ark and Mobile Muster we’ve recycled the work it commenced in 2005, seeking to reduce over 400,000 cartridges and approximately 283,000 the environmental impacts of the packaging related mobile phones, batteries and chargers. to our business activities. This document therefore provides a practical framework for implementing • We’ve also joined forces with TerraCycle and have improvements in our packaging practices over the currently recycled well over 1.5 million cigarette 2011-15 period. butts. And building on that success, we’re in the early stages of recycling dental care products • Positive update to the Procurement Policy. including toothbrushes and toothpaste, cleaning products, containers (specifically Earth Choice • Implemented energy efficiency initiatives at over spray bottles) and coffee pods. 200 of our buildings. bio-diesel 14 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Environment We have commenced a comprehensive review of the Supplier Code of Conduct which is included in all contracts for goods and services. we have also commenced a review to strengthen our social, ethial and environmental compliance oversight and assurance processes. Key actions for the year ahead • In 2015, we will remain focused on reducing our carbon emissions. We recognise that exploring technology to find innovative solutions will continue to be a key component of our future activities, as well as encouraging the engagement of our employees. We aim to: • Focus on our maturing sustainable procurement process. • Further integrate environmental risks into our enterprise risk management framework (ERMF). • Implement our enterprise wide engagement strategy. • Focus on improving the recyclability of our packaging. • Increase our product stewardship offering. For the second year in a row, we set aside a $500,000 • Communication and implementation of strengthened research and development fund to investigate and test Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance and new energy efficiency solutions for our network. assurance process to internal and A number of projects are currently being trialled or are external stakeholders. under development, including: Further information • Installation of LED lighting products at three More informatiion can be found in: retail outlets in Melbourne • Australia Post Annual Report 2014 -New task lighting to assist specialised business processes • Environmental policies and programs -A new energy-efficient heating, ventilation • ‘Our Ethics’ and air conditioning solution at Bentleigh letter delivery centre • Commitment to the environment -Improved canopy lighting through the • APC Action plan installation of LED products, including light sensors, at three of our facilities. 15 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption With regard to procurement, the expectations and requirements of potential and current suppliers around Principle 10: bribery and corruption are laid out in our Supplier Code Businesses should work against corruption in all its of Conduct. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires forms, including extortion and bribery. that all suppliers adhere to key areas of corporate governance and ethical business management practices, which respects the rights of employees and local communities. The code outlines our expectation that all suppliers are expected to “comply with all Our commitment local and national laws and regulations on bribery, We are committed to working against corruption in all its corruption and prohibited business practices”. forms and Australia Post expects its people to adhere to Australia Post’s Probity Guidelines also apply to all all international agreements and Australian legislation. procurement activities undertaken by our people or Australia Post maintains a comprehensive system of agents and contractors acting on behalf of Australia Post, corporate governance practices designed to provide irrespective of whether formal contractual arrangements appropriate levels of disclosure and accountability. have or have not been initiated and/or established. These practices derive principally from the provisions The Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality Policy is covered of the Australian Postal Corporation (APC) Act 1989, by the Conflicts of Interest Policy. The purpose of both the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies (CAC) the Policy and HR guidelines is to promote an ethical Act 1997 and the Commonwealth Government Business approach to dealing with all stakeholders and to Enterprise Governance and Oversight Guidelines (2011). protect the reputation of Australia Post and its people from real or perceived influence from suppliers. At Australia Post, everything we do has a social, environmental and economic impact. The Australian We also have a Whistleblower Policy and process, which community trust us with the delivery of their essential provides a 24-hour-a-day service that is independently products and services every day, and our retail managed by an external provider. footprint places us at the heart of communities Australia Post has a robust assurance program across the country. As such it’s important that our covering the prevention, detection and response to people represent Australia Post in an ethical way by incidents of fraud and corruption. This is supported by conducting business with integrity, honesty, fairness ongoing assessment, design and implementation of and in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, effective controls. codes and corporate policies and procedures. The Australia Post ‘Our Ethics’ booklet lays out clearly unacceptable behaviours around bribery and corruption and highlights our and zero tolerance approach to both fraudulent and corrupt conduct. Policies and processes to support our commitment We make unacceptable behaviours around bribery and corruption clear to the workforce in the ‘Our Ethics’ booklet. Australia Post’s Fraud and Corruption Group Policy stipulates that the prevention of fraud and corruption is the responsibility of all our people and that any detected incident will be dealt with to the full extent of the HR Policy and where applicable the criminal law. 16 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post Anti-Corruption Key achievements Key actions for the year ahead • We reviewed and adopted our Fraud & Corruption • Implementation of the Fraud & Corruption Group Group Policy this year. This Policy remains central to Policy across the Australia Post Group. how Australia Post manages risk and clearly outlines our commitment to preventing fraud and corruption. • Undertake additional enterprise wide Fraud & Corruption compliance training. • We developed and ran an enterprise wide Fraud & Corruption awareness program. Awareness • Apply the Annual Fraud Control Plan to undertake training was provided across the enterprise to business unit specific awareness programs and ensure all employees covered by the Fraud & advice on fraud and corruption. This will be targeted Corruption Group Policy and the Fraud Management to areas of our business that have a higher risk for Plan, have sufficient knowledge of our commitment fraud and corruption. to preventing fraud and corruption. Further information • Developed and ran an enterprise wide Fraud & More information can be found in: Corruption compliance training program which was implemented to ensure there is adherence • Australia Post Annual Report 2014 to the compliance policies outlined above and the security of Australia Post and our customer’s • Our commitment to Governance information is optimised. • ‘Our Ethics’ • A targeted security risk assessment program was conducted for all higher risk business initiatives, products and projects to monitor internal and external fraud and corruption risks, and to highlight any areas of exposure. 17 | United Nations Global Compact 2014 Australia Post
