Human Rights  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Women and Gender Equality  Children's Rights  Indigenous Peoples  Persons with Disabilities  Human Trafficking Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Suggested topics...  Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards  Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct)  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact principles on Human Rights  Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at The Human Rights and Business Project)  Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year DCS Telecom supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights our code of conduct places at the core of the company and the treatment of people is what shapes our company values. We have a staff handbook which covers office rules and manner in dealing with potential abuses of human rights. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Suggested topics...  Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms  Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights  Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties  Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within the company  Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights We have a complain Email address known by all employees any one can report any complains of abuse or fears through and this complains have been reviewed by the HR department and discussed by the Board. We have strict and clear human resource polices which give clarity to all the employees. Also we train our staff to be aware of the code of conduct which lays out the fundamentals of the human rights legislations. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Suggested topics...  Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period  Information about how the company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights  Periodic review of results by senior management  External audits of Human Rights performance We as DCS Telecom senior management talks to employees daily and believes through engagement and operating an open culture we can create an environment for all our employees to thrive. All outcomes are measured monthly and any action taken where needed. We open ourselves up to audit from official bodies and pride ourselves on our workforce. Labour  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  Child Labour  Forced Labour  Migrant Workers Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Suggested topics...  Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments  Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination  Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact Labour principles  Assessment of labour-related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations  Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year We are a responsible company who works hard to ensure labour is treated fairly and correctly. We encourage our staff to meet, associate, and speak up if they have concerns. DCS Telecom management has to meet on a weekly or monthly basis to discuss labour issues. The firm also respects gender bias in recruitment of new staff. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Suggested topics...  Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms  Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies  Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured  Describe how the company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work  Consultation with employees and other stakeholders  Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization  Human resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles  Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions In 2014 we are planning to entitle to medical insurance. We work hard to create an open culture where employees can be nurtured and developed. The fair treatment and development of our people is key to the company's growth. The staff is aware that any issues can be channeled to the staff administrator if the line managers do not act. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Suggested topics...  Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.)  Describe how the company deals with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to the Global Compact Labour principles  Periodic review of results by senior management  Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period  External audits (e.g. SA 8000) We will measure the outcomes monthly and take the appropriate action when needed to ensure we create an environment which engages and values its employees. Management report to the partners the results of any labour issues, partners then approve changes, salary increases; comparison is done with other firms. We tries to actively recruit women and men, all staff advertisements also state this. Environment  Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  Climate Change  Water Sustainability  Energy  Biodiversity  Environmental Stewardship  Green Industry Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Suggested topics...  Assessment of the environmental footprint and impact of the company  Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact environmental principles  Describe specific goals in the area of environmental protection for the upcoming year We appreciate the importance of the environment and the staff is encouraged to practice environmentally friendly practices whilst doing their work. We are always looking for new ways to reduce our waste. We look forward to investing in paperless audit software to remove the impact on the environment on printing paper. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Suggested topics...  Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection  Initiatives and programs to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.)  Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes  Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the environmental footprint of products or services  Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company's environmental performance  Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within the company We plan this year to take a renewed look at our energy usage and environmental processes. We always communicate to staff and clients the need for paperless documents, the use of email is mandatory, sending reports by email, recycling paper on both sides, use 4 pages per sheet, to reduce the volume paper, control of printing facilities to monitor printing. All air-conditioners and lights in the meeting rooms only used when clients request for it, other times it is always switched off to save electricity. All light switches are turned off at night. We encourage our staff and clients to use the green energy to decrease the impact on the environment. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Suggested topics...  Information about how the company deals with incidents  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to the Global Compact environmental principles  Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period  Periodic review of results by senior management  External audits of environmental performance DCS Telecom manages all environment issues immediately with good common sense. As our company regularly audits environmental impact. We track this constantly throughout the year and pride our self on the results Anti-Corruption  Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Suggested topics...  Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation  Written company policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion  Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments  Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact anti-corruption principles  Specific goals in the area of anti-corruption for the upcoming year There is minimal risk of corruption due to the nature and regulation of the industry. We pride ourselves in only working with business partners who comply fully with the UN convention on Human Rights and place this as a fundamental principle of the company. All staff is required to annually declare any instances of conflict of interest or issues touching on corruption. Staff, as part of the training, are trained how to handle issues of possible corruption Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Suggested topics...  Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms  Awareness raising or training of employees about the company's policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.)  Allocation of responsibilities for anti-corruption within the company  Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti-corruption We require all our business partners to comply with Human Right legislation; there is little to no risk of corruption in this market and we work hard to ensure we are known for our reputation and quality . All staff is trained to handle cases of corruption, even possible directly with the manager and partner involved. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Suggested topics...  Information about how the company deals with incidents of corruption  Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery  Specific progress made in the area of anti-corruption during the last reporting period  External audits of anti-corruption programmes We will continually measure our business partners and suppliers against the UN convention on human rights and only work with fully compliant and responsible companies. The Company internal quality system, staff training, on the job supervision ensures that there is zero tolerance on corruption.
