Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress April 2014 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support …………………………….. Page 3 Human Rights Principles .…………………………….. Page 4 Labour Principles ……………………………… Page 6 Environment Principles ……………………………… Page 8 Anti-corruption Principles ……………………………… Page 10 Page 2 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support The MIT Pte Ltd reaffirms the United Nations (UN) Global Compact bearing significance to the fact that we are fully and unequivocally committed to integrating our business operations and strategies with the ten (10) universally accepted principles covering human rights, labour, the environment and business ethics. We are also aware of the great value that participation in UN Global Compact as envisaged in the Guide to Engagement in the UN Global Compact will bring about sustainable growth through partnerships with government, industrial enterprises, non-governmental organizations, civil societies and the public. Hence, our topmost priority in line with the COP Policy is to enhance public accountability, transparency and progressive improvement leading to targeted growth. Our policies and principles regarding human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption are posted on our website at www.mit.com.mm. Yours sincerely Dr Tun Thura Thet CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Page 3 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The critical aspect of the mission of MIT is to assist the citizens of Myanmar in particular and the world’s citizens and societies at large, to realize their full potential in terms of utilization of communication technology in the modern world. In other words, we design and implement our operations and engagements in a way that they can easily gain access to reliable information, opportunities for self-expressions, involvement in public issues and connect people to people. We would like to mention a few examples of how MIT have been attempting to humbly achieve success on human rights issues: From the very outset, as soon as we made the pact with UNGC, we began training sessions for our employees to inform them of the UN TEN PRINCIPLES and make them aware of the importance of observing and promulgating them in the Myanmar society. We have come up with new, fair and practical policies governing our employee ethics which are set out in our company’s Staff Handbook. Related rules and regulations are stated in clear terms. In addition, we make every effort to uphold and promote human rights by: (1) Upholding our values and standards in all our operations (2) Communicating with our stakeholders (3) Working through external initiatives such as the UNGC. Our commitments to human rights are embedded in our Code of Business Principles that affirms our willingness to conduct our business operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and respect for human rights and interest of our employees. Page 4 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress We are opposed to force and child labour. We respect employees’ rights to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom to collective bargaining. We encourage all our employees to bring to our attention any complaints they may have. Regarding CSR, our company has donated several sets of computers and printers towards the Government Middle School No.(10), Hlaing Thar Yar Township, Yangon, in 2014. This is a small step, by any means, but we are always keeping a look-out for an opportunity to give back to the community we work in. Besides, we organized a basic computer training program for the teachers so that they would be able to teach their pupils in turn. Measurement of Outcomes We are extremely confident that our commitment to respecting and upholding human rights within our establishment as well as within the Myanmar communities will ultimately materialize. So far, MIT have not received any complaints on breaches of human rights and related matters. We keep reminding our employees not to get involved in or be a party to an inside or outside pecuniary scandals that not only might tarnish the name of the company but also ruin their livelihood. We believe that this shows that our employees are fully aware of the importance and significance of human rights and putting them into practice in their working life. Page 5 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation MIT Ltd upholds policies that open up and usher in freedom of association and collective bargaining. We take upon ourselves the task of eliminating forced labour, child labour and discrimination in employment and at worksites. We have also stated our policies clearly in writing detailing employee rights and responsibilities, their compensation and benefits. We have held meetings, from time to time, to raise awareness on labour rights and responsibilities our employees should know and put into practice. Most importantly, we have been able to communicate with our business partners and suppliers and encourage them to take note of labour principles and adhere to them in all their business dealings. Assessing labourrelated risks in our company is one of our top priorities. Based on our assessment, we then take necessary steps to avoid risks and hazards at the worksites. As an example, we have distributed clean-water bottles to all our employees so that they may be able to consume fresh, clean water to maintain good health during their working hours. The company arranges twice a week to provide fruits to the employees as an added healthcare measure. Page 6 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress All employment contracts are prepared and written to meet, in as much as possible, the spirit and letter of the Labour Law of Myanmar. All our employees are entitled and are encouraged to get registered themselves in the Social Welfare Scheme of the Ministry of Labour. We encourage them to do so because a wider range of short and long term social benefits could be available to them. An anti-hepatitis virus B vaccine injection programme has been initiated at our company to improve healthcare concerns for all employees. An annual sporting event is also held so that our employees would become conscientious of keeping themselves fit and healthy all the time. Many of the measures we have taken towards labour-related issues can be seen in our company Staff Handbook which in turn is updated regularly. Our company has come up with a programme to raise the level and quality of intellectual and professional performance of our staff. We send them abroad, from time to time, to attend internationally-recognized courses. This is an integral part of our Human Resources Development Plan. We also run in-house, programming-updating courses whereby all our programming staff are upgraded on programming and relevant skills needed to keep abreast with worldwide software development. Measurement of Outcomes We believe that as a result of these measures, we have had a satisfactory compliance on job contracts and very rare cases of jobhopping. On the whole, we have had zero workrelated mishaps and injuries over the last year. We have never received any complaints on our company working conditions for the same period. Our senior management checks and reviews these measures, from time to time, and recommends updating these implementations so as to meet challenges posed by labour-related issues. Page 7 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Since our operations are office based, we have had rare environmental impact on the communities we work with. Instead, our service-based operations are directly involved with our customers who purchase and utilize our products and businesses and suppliers who provide us with necessary materials and services. Our core business operation is to provide services to our clients in the form of software and related service offerings, hardware and accessories and related service offerings. We take great precaution not to damage the environment while operating. To improve the energy efficiency at our offices and workplaces, we have drawn up a set of regulations for our employees to follow. For instance, all employees are reminded to switch off their computers, air-conditioners, faxes, copiers etc during the breaks and at the end of each working day. We have also replaced old, energy-consuming lights with new LED ones to save energy consumption. We had built an upper-floor extension on the existing building to increase office space and have installed OPP to lessen the heat emission thereby reducing the need for energy consumption. We are in the midst of constructing a new office building somewhere in Yangon. This new building will have solar panels installed so that the need for fossil fuel will be considerably reduced and much cleaner environment created. Page 8 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress In addition, in order to get ourselves engaged more and more in environmental protection projects by cooperating and sharing with business partners and other entities, two of our staff had been sent in 2013 to attend a National Seminar on Green Growth Policy Tools for low carbon development in Myanmar. Also, in order to reduce waste materials at work, our company has come up with new software called xRM 360 which has already been put in place and has been operational for some time now. The main aim of this project is to optimize cost-efficiency, reduce paperwork, and create a cleaner paperless environment. We have also computerized all the recruitment processes reducing paperwork. One of our ambitious goals is to purchase, in future, all office utilities, like lights, air-conditioners and of course, all computers and components that are user friendly and manufactured under environmentally friendly technologies. We have also communicated this policy to all our business partners, clients and stakeholders so that they too can contribute towards keeping the environment safe. Our senior management monitors the implementation of these measures to protect the environment. Measurement of Outcomes As a result of these measures undertaken by us, we have achieved chiefly the energyconsumption efficiency, cleaner and waste-reduced environment at our worksites. The positive outcome, on the whole, would be like lending a helping hand towards protecting the environment in Myanmar. Page 9 of 10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery MIT is committed to be in compliance with all local anti-corruption laws. We also support international and regional legal frameworks against corruption in all its forms. In light of the seriousness that corruption impacts on many societies around the world, we take such measures as communicating and training all our employees on anti-corruption commitment our company has made. Our senior management takes the responsibility to check all internal transactions and see if they confirm to our business practices or not. Another measure we have come up with is prohibiting all our employees from presenting gifts, for the purpose of paying homage or obeisance on special, social and religious occasions, worth in excess of Ks 10,000 either in cash or in kind. Measurement of Outcomes We realize that the fight against corruption is an on-going affair. To date, no incidents of bribery or kickback or any other types of corruption have been reported for the past year. Starting from the coming year, we will be pursuing a wider range of measures to fight against corruption. Page 10 of 10
