IMC AG | Scheer Tower |Uni Campus Nord | 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Saarbruecken, 07 January 2014 Communication on Progress Year: 2013 To whom it may concern: Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarise the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in the future. Yours sincerely IMC information multimedia communication AG Scheer Tower Uni Campus Nord Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer 66123 Saarbruecken/Germany Tel. +49 (0) 681 9476-0 Fax +49 (0) 681 9476-530 (Chief Executive Officer, IMC AG) eMail info@im-c.de Web www.im-c.com Commercial Register Saarbruecken HRB 13 338 VAT Number: DE 812 187 208 Executive Board: Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer (CEO) Frank Milius Christian Wachter Dr. Volker Zimmermann Chairman of the Supervisory Board Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. August-Wilhelm Scheer Bank Details Deutsche Bank AG Kto. Nr. 2 545 440 02 BLZ 590 700 00 IBAN DE71590700000254544002 BIC/SWIFT-Code: DEUTDE5M555 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 1: Businesses should support IMC acts in conformity with humans rights legislation and considers its prescriptions especially with  and respect the protection of internationalregards to following points: ly proclaimed human rights Work Conditions It is one of the main objectives of IMC to create safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during the work. In 2013, IMC’s headquarters has moved to a newly built office, the Scheer Tower, which provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, almost all IMC subsidiaries have moved to new offices which meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. In each subsidiary there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. IMC employees have always access to drinkable water. Snack-bar, canteen and small kitchen with drinks are also available in every IMC building. Wages and Salary IMC ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. Requirements to be met for achieving different salary levels are clearly defined and available to all employees. Labour is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also IMC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. Selected performance indicators: The following table shows the current distribution of staff according to gender and age criteria. It also shows IMC’s performance in achieving a gender-balanced workforce: 2011 2012 2013 Gender Female (in %) 29 33 35 Male (in %) 71 67 65 Age groups < 30 years old 20 24 26 30-50 years old 75 71 69 >50 years old 5 5 5 Principle 2: Businesses should ensure IMC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the regions it oper that they are not complicit in human rights ates. abuses; IMC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the IMC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining in accord freedom of association and the effective ance to local labour legislation. Employees have right to join or to form trade unions. Employees’ recognition of the right to collective barrepresentatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out their representative functions gaining; in a work place. Principle 4: Businesses should support All labour is sourced from the open labour market, employment is freely chosen and there is no  the elimination of all forms of forced and forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. All IMC employees are provided with labour contracts compulsory labour; and may resign at any time they consider appropriate. In addition, IMC offers the following benefits to its staff: Accident insurance Company pension scheme Principle 5: the effective abolition of child IMC doesn’t source workforce from a child labour. It acts in accordance to following rules:  labour; The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. Principle 6: Businesses should support It is the policy of IMC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treat the elimination of discrimination in respect ment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed term contract of employment and occupation. status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. IMC emphasises that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organisation’s Disciplinary Procedure. IMC recognises the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. Selected performance indicators: 2011 2012 2013 Nationalities of full-time staff 21 24 29 Gender equality (% of female full-time staff) 29 33 35 Principle 7: Businesses should support a IMC promotes perceived attitude to resource management and resource expenditure in relation to  precautionary approach to environmental environmental background. All operations have to be completed undue any negative impacts on challenges; human beings or environmental pollution. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake IMC continues the use of an additional line in all employees e-mail signature: “Think again – do you  initiatives to promote greater environmenreally need to print this e-mail?” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the tal responsibility; house. Travel policy of IMC underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when booking flights and hiring cars. IMC practices waste separation, according to the German law. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for IMC. Challenges, which result from complexity of  the development and diffusion of environenvironmental protection, have large influence on ITdevelopment and usage spectrum: mentally friendly technologies New media channels for educational programmes are offering chances to promote environmental protection. • Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work life balance. • The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km. • IMC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. IMC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years. • IMC supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combining its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol; these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. • IMC, finally, has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures; in 2013, IMC has received the “Cloud for Society Award” for its business operations in this area. The award also covers “green IT” aspects of IT operations. • IMC has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from IMC’s car pool. Performance indicators: 2011 2012 2013 % of cloud-based IT systems 14 29 38 # of company cars with high CO2 7 7 0 emissions (SUVs) Principle 10: Businesses should work All directors, officers or employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business of IMC,  against all forms of corruption, including including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money laundering, bribery, improper extortion and bribery. payments and anti-competitive activities. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from reoccurring. In order to foster compliance with anti-corruptions rules in a broad range of business operations, IMC has developed an interactive training curriculum available for use in organisations of all kinds. In addition, IMC has broadened its product portfolio with an online compliance management system which is used by IMC customers in order to effectively provide compliance relevant training to their workforce. END OF DOCUMENT
