ANNUAL REPORT 2013 ADVANTAGE SAAB: INNOVATIVE AND EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS CAPACITY TO MANAGE THE BENEFITS OF A STRONG START Saab was founded in 1937 to manufacture fighter and a strong competitor. World-class, high technoaircraft for the Swedish Armed Forces. The requilogy expertise has been developed and the list of rement was a high defence capability without too ground-breaking innovations is long. high of a cost. The solutions needed to be intelligent Saab is ahead of many competitors in developing and cost-efficient from the start – beginning on the a new generation defence and security solutions. drawing board. In short: Saab was born smart. This is particularly true with respect to Gripen, one Since then we have been a key development of the most cost-effective multi-functional fighter partner to the Swedish Defence Materiel Adminissystems on the market. Saab is also at the forefront tration (FMV) and the Swedish Armed Forces and in the area of radar systems, which is undergoing a customers in other countries. Close co-operation technology shift. with customers and rigorous customer requirements Investments are made in prioritised product areas have contributed to our formation from the start. as Saab adjusts costs to prevailing market condiAs the world is marked by old and new threat tions. Our goal is to maintain and strengthen our scenarios and conflicts, deeper dependencies and position as one of the world’s most cost-effective new forms of co-operation are evolving. An increahigh-tech defence and security companies. singly integrated society requires technology with Strained national budgets and shrinking dethe flexibility, multifunctionality and ability to operate fence spending, particularly in the US and Europe, jointly. Demands for efficiency have driven Saab to result in a tougher international competitive envialways secure the entirety rather than the details. In ronment. Saab initiated comprehensive efficiency parallel with this, the tradition of making the most improvements during the year as part of its efforts of limited resources has been interpreted from an to strengthen competitiveness, with an estimated operational and lifecycle perspective. effect of MSEK 500 by the close of 2014. The extraordinary technological challenges thSaab will continue to develop cost-effective roughout the years have driven and developed Saab solutions, resulting in a safer society and long-term into a broad-based Swedish innovation powerhouse value creation. CONTENTS Results 2013 and Cover Traffic Management 22 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate governance Saab has a clear focus inside Strategic goals 24 Financial review 44 report 122 Groundbreaking successes 1 – Profitable growth 26 Business areas 45 Shareholder information 131 Saab in brief 2 – Performance 28 Risks and risk management 51 Glossary, Financial Chairman’s statement 4 – Portfolio 29 Other information 55 information 2013 CEO comment 6 and contact details 137 Sustainable innovations 32 Financial statements 59 Gripen 8 Sustainability 34 Notes 70 Megatrends 10 – Business ethics 37 Dividend motivation 119 Markets 12 – Society 38 Proposed disposition Value creation 14 – Environment 39 of earnings 120 Saab’s business model 16 – Employees 41 Audit report 121 Market organisation 20 While every care has been taken in the translation of this annual report, readers are reminded that the original annual report, signed by the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. RESULTS 2013 • Order bookings totalled MSEK 49,809 (20,683) and the order was mainly attributable to timing differences in milestone paybacklog at the end of December amounted to MSEK 59,870 ments in large projects, investments and acquisitions, as well as (34,151). The increase is mainly due to the orders received a payment related to a legal dispute. from Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) regarding development and serial production of Gripen E, but • Proposed dividend for 2013 is SEK 4.50 per share (4.50). also to several other significant orders received during the year. For example, Saab received an order for development Key financial ratios (MSEK) 2013 2012 and integration of combat management and radar systems Order bookings 49,809 20,683 on a new frigate for the Royal Thai Navy. Brazil placed orders Order backlog at year-end 59,870 34,151 for the upgrade programme of the airborne surveillance sysSales 23,750 24,010 tem Erieye and for the electromagnetic signal-sensor part of EBITDA 2,367 3,186 the Brazilian border security programme Sisfron. Meanwhile, EBITDA margin, % 10.0 13.3 market conditions are still challenging. Operating income (EBIT) 1,345 2,050 • Sales declined 1 per cent to MSEK 23,750 (24,010). ExcluOperating margin (EBIT margin), % 5.7 8.5 ding acquisitions, sales declined 3 per cent. There was a lower Income after financial items 979 2,003 activity level primarily within the business area Dynamics, Net income 742 1,560 which was compensated by growth in the business areas Aeronautics and Combitech. Operating cash flow -1,480 -396 Earnings per share, SEK (after dilution) 6.79 14.52 • Gross income totalled MSEK 6,328 (7,208), corresponding to Operating cash flow per share, SEK (after dilution) -13.56 -3.63 a gross margin of 26.6 per cent (30.0). Dividend per share, SEK 4.50 1 4.50 • Operating income totalled MSEK 1,345 (2,050), corresponReturn on equity, % 6.3 12.8 ding to an operating margin of 5.7 per cent (8.5), including Equity/Assets ratio, % 43.8 39.0 a non-recurring item of MSEK 231 related to a lost legal Total research and development (R&D) dispute in Denmark regarding DACCIS. 2012 included a expenditures 6,543 5,946 positive non-recurring item of MSEK 207 from the reversal Internally financed R&D 1,332 1,798 of a potential earn-out liability. Adjusted for non-recurring R&D share of sales 5.6 7.5 items the operating margin was 6.6 per cent (7.7). No. of employees at year-end 14,140 13,968 • Net income was MSEK 742 (1,560), with earnings per share Share of women, % 22 22 after dilution of SEK 6.79 (14.52). During the fourth quarter Academic degree, % 57 55 Saab, in accordance with accounting standards, reclassified 1) Proposed by Board of Directors the value decline of the investment in the Indian company Significant events after the conclusion of the year: Pipavav from equity to financial net. The value decline was caused by a share price decline and a value decline of the InNo significant events have occurred after the conclusion of the dian currency, rupee, against SEK, since the investment was year. done. The reclassification and write-down of the investment Outlook statement 2014: had a negative impact on the net income of MSEK 133. In 2014, we estimate that sales will be in line with 2013. • The operating cash flow amounted to MSEK -1,480 (-396). The operating margin in 2014, excluding material non-recurIn the fourth quarter, operating cash flow amounted to ring items, is expected to be somewhat higher than the operaMSEK 547 (264). The lower operating cash flow for the year ting margin 2013, excluding material non-recurring items. Sales distribution 2013 Business areas, % Geographic markets, % Market segments, % Aeronautics, 27 Sweden, 41 Air, 45 Dynamics, 14 EU excluding Sweden, 17 Land, 27 Rest of Europe, 3 EDS, 16 Americas, 13 SDS, 23 Naval, 10 Asia, 18 S&S, 13 Civil Security, 8 Africa, 4 Commercial Aeronautics, 7 Combitech, 6 Other, 3 Australia, etc., 5 Read more on pages 2 and 45-50 Read more on page 12–13 Read more on page 3 Saab has a clear focus Since 2010, Saab’s strategy has focused continuously. This enables us to offer high on four priority areas. Our aim is to create performance and cost efficient solutions. long-term value by accomplishing these strategic priorities. Saab shall also Portfolio maintain a solid balance sheet, focus on The portfolio is focused on areas with significant competitive advantages and growth potential. capital efficiency and generate strong performance Investments are made in product innovation, profitable portfolio cash flow. development of prioritised products and system growth integration expertise. Acquisition of businesses Profitable growth shall strengthen key areas and add to our local A local presence on prioritised markets enables presence. us to strengthen the relationship with our people customers. We focus on markets where we have People a strong market position and on product areas Saab shall be an employer of choice in the with good growth opportunities. global market. We are focusing on securing and developing the right skills for current and future Performance needs. Motivated, driven and high performing We have a long tradition of integrating highemployees are the backbone of our offering, eftech systems and we reconsider and develop ficiency and growth. our tools, methods, and work procedures Vision Mission Values It is a human right to To make people safe by Expertise: We combine a strong history of knowledge feel safe. pushing intellectual and with constant learning. technological boundaries. Trust: We are honest and reliable global citizens, and we keep our promises. Drive: We have a passion for innovation, are open to change and committed to being fast and flexible. Long-term financial goals and results Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Equity/Assets ratio, % Dividend, SEK Organic sales growth averaging Operating margin after depreciaEquity/assets ratio of over The long-term dividend objective 5 per cent annually over a busition and amortisation (EBIT) of at 30 per cent. is to distribute 20–40 per cent of ness cycle. least 10 per cent – is formulated net income to shareholders over At year-end 2013 the equity/ as an average over a business a business cycle. In 2013 organic growth was assets ratio was 43.8 per cent cycle. -2 per cent (-2). (39.0). For 2013 the Board proposes In 2013 the operating margin a dividend of SEK 4.50 (4.50), after depreciation/amortisation representing 65 per cent (30) (EBIT) was 5.7 per cent (8.5). of net income. 24.6 24.4 24.0 23.5 23.8 12.5 44 4.50 4.50 4.50 41 39 39 35 3.50 8.5 2.25 5.6 5.7 4.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 20131 1) Proposed by Board of Directors GROUNDBREAKING SUCCESSES FOR SAAB IN 2013 Saab received numerous recognitions in 2013 for its engineering expertise and multifunctional products, including an agreement with FMV for development of the next generation Gripen – the Gripen E – and a co-operation agreement with Boeing to develop new training aircraft for the US Air Force. The year ended with Brazil’s selection of Gripen. Contract with FMV regarding Gripen E Erieye upgrades for Brazil Contribute to NASA’s aviation safety In February the Swedish Defence Materiel Saab received two orders during the year research Administration (FMV) and Saab entered from Brazilian Embraer Defense & SecuThe American National Aeronautics and into agreement regarding development rity for upgrades to the Erieye airborne Space Administration (NASA) awarded and modification of the Gripen E for radar system. Saab a contract to develop scenario-based Sweden through the period 2013–2026 as methods for verification and validation of well as a potential order for production of ‘Yes’ vote from Swiss parliament future aviation concepts. Gripen E for Switzerland. The Swiss parliament confirmed in August and September its support for the purSignal sensors for border Co-operation agreement with Boeing chase of Gripen E. In May 2014, the Swiss monitoring system Saab and Boeing signed a co-operation citizens will make the final decision in a Saab subsidiary MEDAV GmbH received agreement in December for the developreferendum. an order in May for the electromagnetic ment of an entirely new, advanced and signal sensor component of the Brazilian cost-efficient training aircraft with the Command and control system for the border monitoring programme Sisfron. purpose of participating in and winning Thai Navy the US Air Force’s procurement as the first Saab received an order in October for the Upgrade for Australian submarines order. development and integration of radar and Saab and Australian Submarine Corporacombat management systems for a new tion signed an agreement at the end of Brazil chooses Gripen Thai Navy frigate. the year for steering system upgrades and In December the Brazilian government modernisation for the Australian Navy’s announced its selection of Gripen as its Collins class submarines. future fighter aircraft. Negotiations with the Brazilian Air Force will follow. Brazil Read more about significant events in intends to purchase 36 Gripen NGs. 2013 in the administration report on page 56–57. saab annual report 2013 1 SAAB IN BRIEF A STRONG OFFERING Offering world-leading solutions, products and services for military defence and civil security, Saab leads the market for combat fighters, traffic surveillance systems and tactical weapons. Saab’s home markets are Sweden and the Nordic region, while Saab also holds a strong position in the European market. The new market area organisation that came into force 1 January 2013, will ensure the identification and fulfilment of customer needs in key growth markets such as Asia, the US and India. Business areas Aeronautics Dynamics Electronic Defence Systems Offers a product portfolio comprising the Offers a product portfolio with ground Offers a product portfolio comprising Gripen fighter system, unmanned aerial combat weapons, missile systems, torpeairborne reconnaissance and surveillance systems (UAS) and components for Saab’s does, unmanned underwater vehicles and systems and airborne, land-based and own aircraft and for passenger aircraft signature management systems for armed naval systems in radar, signals intelligence manufactured by others. forces and unmanned underwater vehicles and advanced electronic self-protection. Examples of products: Gripen, Airbus 380 for the offshore industry. Examples of products: Giraffe AMB, Erieye wing spar and UAV03 Örnen. Examples of products: Carl-Gustaf and and Arthur. RBS 70 and RBS 15 missile systems. Share of Group sales 27% Share of Group sales 14% Share of Group sales 16% Gripen RBS 70 Arthur Security and Defence Solutions Support and Services Combitech Offers a product portfolio comprising Offers primarily support solutions, techniAn independent Group subsidiary that command and control systems, training cal maintenance and logistics, as well as reports as a business area. The company is and simulation, air traffic management, products, solutions and services for milione of Sweden’s largest technical consecurity and monitoring systems and tary and civil missions in locations with sulting companies, offering consulting communication solutions. limited infrastructure. services in systems development, system Examples of products: Remote Tower, air Examples of products and solutions: 340 MSA integration, information security, systems traffic management system and 9LV (comReconnaissance aircraft, CBRN warning security, communication, mechanbat management and fire control system). system, mobile camps and field hospitals. ics, technical product information and logistics. Share of Group sales 23% Share of Group sales 13% Share of Group sales 6% Plantagon Remote Tower 340 Maritime Security Aircraft (MSA) 2 saab annual report 2013 Market segments Business areas Air Land Naval Civil security Commercial Other Sales, MSEK1 aeronautics Aeronautics 6,869 Dynamics 3,572 Electronic Defence Systems 4,161 Security and Defence Solutions 5,891 Support and Services 3,419 Combitech 1,598 Sales, MSEK 10,693 6,462 2,292 1,979 1,615 709 23,750 Saab’s business areas have systems, products and services that meet the various defence and security needs of the market. The units interact within the group, both in research and development and in marketing. The aim is both to have a specialised offering in each market segment and to capitalise on synergies. 1) Refer to the business areas’ total sales. Corporate and internal eliminations are included in the Group’s total sales. Market segments Air Land Naval We offer fighter systems, air C4I solutions, We have leading positions in many segWe have a strong position in radar and unmanned aerial vehicles, countermeasures ments and offer, among other things, early warning, command, control and and electronic warfare, avionics solutions, tactical weapon systems and highly communication systems (C4ISR), tactical weapon systems, sensors, training solutions sophisticated surveillance and command weapons and underwater systems. and aftermarket services. Gripen is a comand control systems (C4I) as well as solupetitive single-engine fighter system currently tions for troop protection. Our offering in service in five countries. During the year includes sensors, signature management Sweden took the decision to procure the and countermeasures, reconnaissance and next generation Gripen, and a co-operation air defence systems, training and logistics agreement was concluded between Sweden solutions and support weapons. and Switzerland. In December, the Brazilian government announced that it had selected Gripen. Share of Group sales 45% Share of Group sales 27% Share of Group sales 10% Civil security Commercial aeronautics Our civil security offering is focused on Saab is a supplier to leading international monitoring and situational control as well as aircraft manufacturers, including Boeing ensuring efficient flows, with an emphasis on and Airbus. We supply mainly lightweight airports and air travel, ports and shipping, high-strength aerostructures, avionics and and emergency response planning. Saab also operating systems, structural and system has a good offering in monitoring systems integration, and support solutions. Saab for prisons and remand centres. We hold has experience of more than 4,000 aircraft strong positions in Sweden, Central Europe, builds, and we provide maintenance for the US and Australia. the approximately 400 Saab 340/2000 aircraft that remain in operation around the world. Share of Group sales 8% Share of Group sales 7% saab annual report 2013 3 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT INTERNATIONALLY RESPECTED INNOVATION POWERHOUSE I am addressing this statement to our shareholders countries in Asia and South America have increased their miliand others with an interest in Saab. Allow me to share tary spending. In 2012, global defence spending declined for the some reflections having taken an active role in Saab’s first time since 1998. development for a long time, as a director and as Overall, this is the reality we have to deal with. It is not unchairman. complicated. Saab is one of the defence and security companies that are well positioned for the developments in the international Saab operates in an industry where a long-term approach and market. We strive to offer our customers the most efficient and financial stability form part of the business itself. Customers are effective solutions. We can partly thank our origins for this: often defence authorities or the equivalent, which, regardless of Cost-effectiveness and innovativeness are two strong genes in what nation they represent, place high demands on reliability and Saab’s DNA. But heritage and a good start have to be managed cost effectiveness. The combination of technological, financial and and developed. Saab continues to develop its ability. One example political challenges requires that Saab demonstrates stability and is the increased international presence that we have successively strong survival ability – regardless of economic conditions. built up, and learnt important lessons from, over many years. An important milestone in our ongoing internationalisation was Ability to manage our heritage in a changing to establish a local market area organisation in our key markets business environment during 2013. This means that, using our own capabilities and Saab was born in an entirely different age from the one we live in expertise, we are able to service the needs of different markets today. Back then we were facing a world war; Sweden was neutral better and more quickly with solutions for improved civil security and decided, with scarce resources, to develop its own defence – regardless of whether these are military or civilian security capabilities. Today, Saab acts in a global defence and security solutions. market, where strategic military priorities have changed as new threats and security needs have taken shape. International collaboration builds trust Geopolitical shifts, control of natural resources and secure In a globalised world where technological development is accelerglobal transport solutions for freight and passengers are some of ating, new opportunities and challenges are developing. Technolthe driving forces that influence our industry. The level of ecoogy transfer and exchange of skills are important, especially for nomic growth affects all industries. The past few years have been a company like Saab, acting from an export-dependent country. marked by strained government budgets, with the need to prioriLong-term and trusting collaboration between different actors tise expenditure, which has resulted in reduced defence spending, and countries benefits all parties. At a time when many countries particularly in Europe and the US. At the same time, emerging are actively working to attract foreign companies to set up and “SAAB HAS LONG ­RECOGNISED THAT ­ACCESS TO THE VERY BEST EXPERTISE IS essential IN ORDER TO REMAIN AT ­THE CUTTING EDGE of technological development.” 4 saab annual report 2013 invest, competition is increasing for international investment and My position, and that of the board, is that transparency is a industrial co-operation. The areas vary, but the common denomimatter of trust – especially when it comes to governance and nator is that all parties are increasingly recognising that there monitoring of all the different parts of the business. During the are advantages in mutual and trusting exchange of knowledge. year, the internal governance of Saab has been further intensiSaab has long recognised that access to the very best expertise fied when it comes to clarifying responsibilities and monitoring is essential in order to remain at the cutting edge of technologiperformance, at both the product level and the individual level. cal development. Our base for research and development is in This includes not only financial performance, but also obviously Sweden, but without our international partnerships in education, how we live up to our responsibility to contribute to a safer and research and development, and production Saab would have lost more secure society. ground and business. In December 2013, heads of state and government met at the On 18 December, the Brazilian government said that its European Council in order to discuss issues including European decision to acquire the Gripen NG was based on its ability and security and defence policy. For us, an important part of this capability, technology transfer and the cost of both the purchase was the discussion that took place on measures to strengthen the and the entire lifecycle. This is, first and foremost, an important European defence industry. Traditionally, the defence industry and well-deserved recognition of Gripen as a weapons system. has quite naturally been a concern circumscribed by national But I would also argue that it is a recognition of Saab as a serious considerations and priorities. We welcome the current discussion and long-term business partner that demonstrates long-term at the highest level in the EU that emphasises the importance of community engagement built on respect and sincere mutual openness and transparency, equal treatment and equal opportuniexchange between different actors in society. Now we must live up ties, a so-called level playing field. to the responsibility that we hope will be the result of the contract Saab is today an internationally respected innovation powernegotiations that are underway. house. The past year’s successes for our outstanding technologies A concrete example of collaboration is the Swedish-Brazilian in areas such as radar serve as clear evidence. Today, Saab has a Centre for Research and Innovation (CISB) that we initiated in portfolio that is well matched to its customers, with cost-effective São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil. The CISB brings together people and multi-functional defence and security solutions for both from government, academia and industry. The aim of the centre is military and civilian use. We also know that in order to remain to conduct self-funded research in order to generate innovations at the cutting edge we must constantly develop our offering. for commercial application, both in Brazil and internationally. We have therefore identified key technologies at the core of our In Switzerland, Saab supports a similar organisation through the offering. These will be provided with the necessary resources to Swiss-Swedish Innovation Initiative. ensure long-term customer value and shareholder value for many decades to come. The importance of openness and transparency The board strives constantly to ensure that Saab has an updated and relevant ethical business framework. Part of this work involves taking an active role in the development of international Stockholm, February 2014 guidelines and principles that govern the way our industry acts and conducts business. Examples of this are our commitments to the Aerospace and Defence Industry Association (ASD) and the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). Another example was the board’s decision for Saab to adopt the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2011. All this is a logical consequence of the internal work being conducted around busiMarcus Wallenberg ness ethics at Saab. In short, we have zero tolerance for corruption. Chairman saab annual report 2013 5 CEO COMMENT UNIQUE EFFICIENCY OFFERS GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES Saab is in many respects a unique company. Our oriarea Dynamics was also affected by budget constraints and delays gins and our DNA have resulted in us doing things both in customers’ investment processes. This was compensated by smart and cost-effectively. The ability to anticipate growth in the business areas Aeronautics and Combitech. requirements for defence and security solutions means The order backlog has been filled with strategically important that Saab is at the absolute forefront of developing and orders and was at a historically record high of MSEK 59,870 (34,151). During the year we received orders worth SEK 29.8 bilcustomising its product portfolio. lion from Sweden’s FMV, related to the development and production of the Gripen E. Apart from these orders, we are seeing a Saab has a clear focus. We supply high-tech products, integrated clear shift in the defence market. Saab’s business has previously solutions and services in a cost-effective manner to our cusexperienced its main growth in the traditional markets of the tomers. In this way we assure returns for our shareholders and West, but business is now being won and is growing in emerging achieve our growth targets. Guiding Saab in the right direction markets, such as those in Asia. in a challenging market requires that we have very good underThe continued challenging market conditions have prompted standing of both global and local markets and of our customers. us to announce efficiency measures in 2013 that are expected We need to have dedicated employees and the right cost structure. to generate MSEK 500 in cost reductions at the close of 2014. Saab’s strategy is based on four cornerstones: creating longAnother example of action is the establishment of the new market term profitable growth; constantly reviewing and adapting our area organisation at the beginning of 2013. Our financial position portfolio; creating more efficient operations; and continuously deis strong, which ensures that we can work with a long-term stance. veloping our employees. The past year has been marked by both This is essential in our business, where we often have commitchallenges and very positive breakthroughs. Clear examples of the ments with our customers for many years. latter are Brazil’s choice of Gripen and the decisions of the Swiss parliament to proceed with its procurement of Gripen. Focus on governance and cash flow Achieving sufficient profitability is about being in control of the Changing market margins on execution and deliveries. Our portfolio includes When I summed up 2012 at the annual general meeting in April, everything from long-term contracts with complex systems one subject I spoke about was the way efficiency, active portfoto products and services delivered to customers on short lead lio management, and research and development contribute to times. The reported margin varies according to the particular growth, competitiveness and good profitability. I also brought up project mix. During the year a more transparent and more clearly the challenging market situation that requires us to constantly broken down governance model was introduced in order to develop our ability to deliver according to our customers’ needs. obtain greater internal transparency. The gross margin for 2013 I can now say that the tough market situation is a continuing amounted to 26.6 per cent (30.0). Operating income for 2013 reality. Competition is fierce and customer needs are changing totalled MSEK 1,345 (2,050) and the operating margin was 5.7 faster than ever before. This requires us to always be prepared for per cent (8.5). The result includes a material non-recurring item change and to develop together with our customers. of MSEK 231 related to a lost legal dispute in Denmark. Adjusted for material non-recurring items the operating income amounted A more customised and focused portfolio to MSEK 1,576 (1,843) and the operating margin was 6.6 per cent The new market area organisation will ensure a continuous dialogue (7.7), which is in line with the revised guidance provided in the with customers in key markets. This means that the investments half-year report. made in research and development are better able to match future A key priority is to secure a positive cash flow. As part of the customer needs for defence and security solutions. In turn, this efforts to work actively on cash flow during the year, inventory leads to lower costs today and more secure revenues in the future. and outstanding accounts receivable have been analysed. It is not Saab is one of the most research-intensive companies in Sweden uncommon for working capital to vary over time in the defence and in the global defence market. In the past year we invested 28 industry. This depends largely on when milestone payments are per cent of sales in research and development. The technologies made and on the current project mix. 2013 operating cash flow we are investing in will complement existing product areas and totalled MSEK -1,480 (-396). The lower operating cash flow in enhance Saab’s competitiveness. In order to shorten lead times 2013 is mainly attributable to timing differences in milestone payfrom identified need to delivery and revenue, we have strengthments in large projects, investments and acquisitions, as well as a ened the portfolio management system used by both the developpayment related to the Danish legal dispute. ment and the sales organisations. Identified customer needs are now better matched with decisions on development efforts. International breakthrough proves Saab’s capability The Gripen system’s cost-efficient multifunctionality is a success Focus on efficiency on the international export market. The Gripen C/D is today Sales amounted to MSEK 23,750, an organic decline of 2 per in use with five air forces and with the British Empire Test Pilot cent. Budget constraints in the US had a negative impact on our School. During the year, FMV ordered development, modificatraining and traffic management operations in the US. Business tion and production of 60 Gripen Es for the period 2013–2026. ­ 6 saab annual report 2013 “SAAB IS AN ATTRACTIVE PARTNER IN THE INTERNATIONAL ARENA.” In Switzerland the parliament voted in favour of procuring have also established research collaboration in several markets. Two Gripen, and in 2014 there will be a referendum on this. successful examples are our research centres in Brazil and India. In December came the good news that Brazil has chosen Gripen During the year some of our most experienced employees have as its future fighter aircraft. Negotiations are now underway with moved out into the world. Together with locally recruited colthe Brazilian Air Force to conclude contracts for 36 Gripen NGs. leagues, a market area organisation has now been well established Moreover, in 2013 we saw growing international interest in Gripen in the markets where we do business. This means that new busias the next-generation multi-role fighter in, for example, Asia, ness is assured and is always conducted in accordance with our Europe, South America and sub-Saharan Africa. Overall, this is an ethical guidelines and in a commercially efficient manner. important recognition of Saab’s engineering. There is great potenAs a more decentralised organisation has been established, tial for more international business with Gripen. our expectations of both managers and employees have been The surveillance capability of the Erieye airborne radar system clarified. The more performance driven corporate culture creates enables users to monitor targets in the air and at sea. During both clarity and development opportunities for all employees. the year, the Brazilian Air Force ordered an additional upgrade This strengthens Saab’s attractiveness as an employer among the programme for the system, which will further enhance its ability best and brightest students of today and tomorrow. This also to control its airspace and to monitor the country’s borders. encompasses our determined efforts to get more women into the Saab’s successes in the international market can be attributed to company as a whole and into leadership positions. With a deterour highly competitive product portfolio. We are also an attractive mined effort in terms of both recruitment and internal leadership partner internationally. The collaboration agreement signed with development programmes, we will achieve our goal of at least 30 Boeing to jointly develop and build an entirely new, advanced and per cent women in senior positions by 2015 at the latest. cost-efficient training aircraft is one example of this. Boeing and Finally, I can only look forward to another exciting year in Saab will develop a strong industrial collaboration in order to parwhich I believe we will see new international breakthroughs for ticipate in the upcoming US Air Force TX procurement of some Saab’s fantastic product portfolio. 350 new aircraft and related systems and logistics. Stockholm, February 2014 An important business in the community Today we are present locally in 32 countries. In Sweden we have operations in 50 different locations. We have an important role in the development of safer communities that provide security for people all over the world, and we are an active participant in the local community, irrespective of where we operate. This is why we have initiHåkan Buskhe ated close collaboration with several universities and colleges. We President and CEO saab annual report 2013 7 NEXT GENERATION OF GRIPEN CUSTOMER CO-OPERATION FOR SMARTER MULTIFUNCTIONALITY The new generation of Gripen is a true multidevelopment”. This methodology was secured through role combat aircraft developed to meet the marthe development of the Neuron unmanned aircraft, ket’s demand for operational functionality. With among other things, and is now used in all technical areas avionics at the absolute cutting edge, tactical for the Gripen E project. All software and hardware decustomisations can be made more quickly than velopment is done with the help of computerised models, meaning that updates are made extremely quickly. Fewer ever before. test flights are needed with this model-based development, since many verifications can be conducted in The agreement with FMV for the order of a new generasimulators rather than in the air. Any problems with the tion of Gripen was signed in February 2013. It is arguably models are detected at an earlier stage and changes can be one of the largest contracts of all time for Swedish indusmade to the models rather than at a later stage during test try. Under the terms of the agreement, another country in flights. Simply put, things are more correct from the start, addition to Sweden is required to order the new Gripen. which improves development efficiency. In August and September both chambers of the Swiss parliament voted in favour of acquiring Gripen and a Co-operation on development referendum will be held in May 2014. And the Brazilian The new Gripen’s solutions need to meet the demands of government announced in December that it has selected the market. A demo programme was therefore initiated Gripen as its future fighter aircraft. back in 2006 to indicate which new capabilities customers Production of the new Gripen is done primarily in were demanding of Gripen, such as increased cargo caLinköping and work is already in full swing. Test flights, pacity, new sensors and the ability to stay in the air longer. where critical subsystems and their interoperability are In other words, many of the major actions taken for the tested to minimise risk, are already well underway. First Gripen E had already been done in a flying demo version, delivery is planned for 2018. As previously reported, deso the project’s risks were greatly reduced. Saab showed velopment is proceeding according to plan and contracts with the demo programme that the Gripen E fulfils the have been signed with all major subcontractors. Negotiaincreased requirements while otherwise maintaining pertions are underway with the Brazilian Air Force for the formance standards. The Gripen E’s engine will have appurchase of 36 Gripen NGs. Saab’s offer to the Brazilian proximately 20 per cent greater thrust than engines from government covers technology transfer and industrial previous Gripen versions. We co-operate closely with partnership, which may mean that some parts may be customers to further guarantee that Gripen E’s operationmanufactured in Brazil. al capacity meets customer demands. Saab is responsible for design, while FMV, the Swedish Armed Forces and the More correct from the start Swedish Defence Research Agency (FOI) provide ongoing One reason that the development of the Gripen E is prosupport and feedback. This is a great strength in ensuring ceeding according to plan is that Saab uses ”model-based customer satisfaction when delivery is made. Countries that have chosen Gripen Czech Republic British Empire Test Pilot Sweden Contract 2013. DevelopContract 2004. CusSchool Contract 2005. Flying ment of Gripen E. Production of 60 tomisation of 14 Gripen Gripen in Sweden to train future aircraft aircraft. C/D that are leased from test pilots. Swedish government. Switzerland Political support in Parliament in 2013 for purchase of 22 Gripen E. Sweden Contract 1983–2006. South Africa Contract Hungary Contract 2003. Thailand Contract 2008 Brazil Government chooses in 2013 Development of Gripen A/B/C/D. 1999. Customisation and Customisation and produc– 2010. Customisation and Gripen as its future ﬁghter aircraft, Production of 235 aircraft. Of these, production of 26 Gripen tion of 14 Gripen C/D leased production of 12 Gripen C/D. intends to buy 36 Gripen NG. 14 aircraft have been leased to the C/D. from Swedish government. Czech Republic. 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 8 saab annual report 2013 The next generation Gripen for Sweden and Switzerland has been named Gripen E. Built for information sharing Gripen is a true multi-role fighter aircraft in the sense that the Gripen E’s customer value lies in the system’s unparalleled operapilot can switch between fighter, attack and reconnaissance when tional combat capacity, its balanced design and the fact that the the plane is in the air. This can be compared with early multi-role aircraft is built for information sharing. Information sharing refighters, when pilots had to determine the type of mission the fers to Gripen pilots’ access to information gathered and analysed plane would be performing before taking off. The ability to switch within their own group, giving pilots on the ground access to the roles when in the air means that the pilot can continuously receive same information as their airborne colleagues have. Information other searches on radar, depending on the type of mission. Sensors sharing is an element of the ”information war” – determining aim at airborne targets on fighter missions and at land targets on where the enemy is while avoiding detection yourself. An increasattack missions. Gripen E will go one step further in development. ing number of the world’s air forces have realised that having an With new sensors; an Active Electronically Scanned Array information advantage is actually more important than having (AESA) radar, a passive IR sensor where the target’s thermal maximum speed and manoeuvrability. Sweden has a 40-year traradiation is detected and “MAW” (Missile Approach Warners) dition of developing inter-aircraft information sharing – experithat detect incoming weapons – pilots will be able to see targets ence that is gathered in the Gripen E. in the air as well as on the ground. The latter interoperate with a new advanced electronic warfare system that Saab has developed, A true multi-role fighter aircraft which gives great ability to detect and disrupt other aircraft, as With its balanced design, Gripen has an equally great a capacity to well as protecting the own aircraft from attack. perform fighter, attack and reconnaissance missions. Fighter acGripen E’s avionics are designed in such a way that flight safety tions are against airborne targets such as aircraft, helicopters and functions are separated from tactical functions, making it easier drones. Attack missions are against land and sea targets. Reconfor users to create their own tactical applications. Customers naissance missions gather information on specific geographic arwishing to specialise Gripen for the fighter, attack or reconnaiseas. Low radar detectability is important, for instance, for combat sance roles can be accommodated. aircraft developed with only attack capabilities which most often means that customers pay in the form of lower acceleration power and manoeuvrability. saab annual report 2013 9 Megatrends Global shift, new requirements for security solutions Worldwide security needs are increasingly influenced A generic geostrategic emphasis – urban and maritime by economic circumstances and by the vulnerability implications of every-day social functions. This means that military The increasing importance of economic factors and everyday resources will increasingly be put to the protection of societal operations to national security puts a geostrategic emcritical infrastructure and of strategic resource flows phasis on places and functions crucial to society. In peace time, guaranteeing access to the global commons and enabling strategic of various kinds. flows of all kinds of resources becomes a more important mission, as does maintaining a readiness to handle natural disasters The World: military, economical and civil aspects or humanitarian catastrophes, at home or abroad. In times of converge to a widened defence and security domain conflict, cities – and more precisely their transportation and comToday’s globalised world is characterised by megatrends like munication networks (including ports and airports) as well as the urbanisation, stronger inter-connectedness and rapid unpredictasystems to supply food, water and electricity will be tempting ble technological advances large impact, not only in an economic targets and objects to protect. Given the layout of the world this. context but also affecting security policy. There is no doubt traalso means that urban and maritime aspects will be important. ditional military capabilities will remain the core asset and focus All in all, the development brings changing and/or enlarged of any nation’s defence capabilities for a long term to come, but responsibilities for armed forces in many parts of the world, new aspects of defence and security are gaining in importance. functionally as well as geographically. It also brings new chalIn terms of global governance some major factors of change are lenges and opportunities for the traditional defence and security economic power, regionalisation and the growing importance industry. assigned to an evolving multi-polar world order with nation states remaining the key actors. The Industry: challenges and opportunities As touched upon in previous annual reports, the concept of naStagnating military spending, albeit with clear regional differences, tional security is widening, with nations as well as organisations present a major challenge for most defence industries, but especially giving economic prosperity and societal functions like critical for the ones based in the western world. However, the increased infrastructure, and strategic flows of goods and resources a more focus on economic matters and sustainability also bring opportuniprominent place in national security thinking. ties. In many ways civil and military affairs are converging into an With this also comes a growing focus on societal resilience and enlarged security business domain including military and civil actors a need to keep society safe from all kinds of hazards. As a result, as well as public and private operators. In this context infrastructure in the absence of a serious threat, the resource allocation between is key, and the overlapping civilian and military usages of and depenmilitary defence and security aspects and non-military security, dencies on cyberspace related platforms, networks and functionaliresilience and sustainability aspects within national budgets may ties are good examples. change to the benefit of the latter. The current stagnation, or even While remaining firmly in the defence business, traditional decrement, of military spending in the western world and the defence companies can branch out to adjacent or even interlinked global demand for increased spending on infrastructure may well business segments and make use of their high-tech skills in fields be a part of such a scenario. like ISR, cyber security, technical consulting, system integration, National militaries are becoming more involved in continuous training, simulation and traffic management to support both sesecurity and resilience work, lending support in the protection curity, resilience and efficiency. But at the same time the developof larger portions of a nation’s physical infrastructure than before ment has brought new competition, with companies traditionally against threats of military force and asymmetric kinetic attacks, seen as civilian now engaging more in the widening defence and including cyber-attacks. The potential aggressor could be anythsecurity market. ing from another nation’s armed forces to terrorists or organised Another aspect to keep in mind when trying to assess the crime. In the rapidly growing cyber segment, nations also use future of defence business is that the speed of technological military resources to protect digital network functionality and advancement will change the conditions (shorter time-lines, more intellectual property. unpredictability) of capability development and defence procureNaturally there is also an offensive side to this, with modern ment planning for both buyers and sellers. history, research and recent exercise patterns showing a growing interest among nation states in developing capabilities to attack Defence as a service societal functions and paralysing an enemy’s civil society while In many places, the introduction of new technologies as well as keeping lethality low. the professionalisation of the armed forces increase the likelihood One often underestimated driver behind this development is of certain defence activities being bought as a service rather than an evolving normative framework that has contributed both to a performed by military personnel. Weapons maintenance, intelquite drastic reduction of the magnitude of especially inter-state ligence collection, analyses, administrative tasks, transportation, wars (fewer, smaller, shorter, less lethal etc.), and to an increasing support activities like housing and feeding forces, IT-services and focus on legitimacy and “just warfare”. even operational activities like remotely flying armed UAV’s are 10 saab annual report 2013 Security needs The primary drivers in Saab’s market areas are threat scenarios and of, and overlap between, the two main dimensions of security policy is security needs. This applies to the defence sector and civil society as critical to also understanding the opportunities, breadth and potential well as to the grey zone in between. Understanding the development in Saab’s market. Threats to the climate and environment Threats and risks to society International responses Defend borders and territories Time 1937 2013 Training Command & Control Maintenance The three areas of training, command and control, and maintenance are links as well as the lowest common denominator between these two security dimensions. For Saab, these areas originate in a traditional border-protecting military context, but are just as relevant and possible to implement in an urban-centred, ﬂow-protecting environment. some examples. The increasing element of services in the defence is limited. At the same time, the need for new infrastructure sphere combined with a growing involvement with everyday sois growing rapidly in the emerging economies where existing cietal functionality also bring about an enlarged 24/7 operational infrastructure, hard pressed by demographics, urbanisation and duty in peacetime, with military units constantly engaged in, for growing trade, is already hampering further growth. example, port-security or cyber-security operations. Some calculations suggest a need for investments of at least USD 40 trillion over 20 years1 and it seems logical that the Spending defence industry will find ways to address this market to a much While global military spending might be stagnating, the regional higher degree than before. differences in spending patterns clearly indicate a big market The image above can be seen as an illustration of this developpotential in many of the emerging powers in regions like Asia, the ment. Middle East, Africa and Latin America. The regional discrepancies become even stronger if one takes note of the differences as regards how money is allocated within defence budgets, with the growth regions generally spending a larger part on acquisitions and operations. Infrastructure – a huge sector with strong links to the defence domain The convergence of the traditional defence sector and parts of civil society increases the opportunity for defence companies to strengthen their position in non-military markets, for example infrastructure. In the western world the need for maintenance and modernisation of existing infrastructure is immense, not least in defence markets like the US and parts of Europe where the current willingness to invest new resources in traditional military operations 1) source: oeCD Journal: FInanCIal MarKet trenDs – VoluMe 2011, Issue 1. saab annual report 2013 11 Markets compleX environment requires efficient solutions Being able to equip the military with modern defence platforms and technologies requires resources. A number of Western countries are cutting their defence budgets, which increases the need for cost-effective products and solutions. Meanwhile, the demand remains for interoperable systems for participation in international interventions. europe uSA AND CANADA Customers in Western Europe are reducing their defence spending The USA and Canada accounted for approximately 39 per cent of somewhat due to the economic downturn in Europe. Most countries the world’s total defence spending in 2013, according to IHS Jane’s in the region are restructuring their armed forces in order to reduce Defence & Security. The US defence budget alone accounted for 38.6 their organisations and create scope to continue to modernise their per cent of global defence spending, which is a decrease from the equipment. year before. Many countries in Central and Eastern Europe still need to acquire The defence budget in the US is expected to decrease the coming new equipment for their armed forces in order to enhance their abilyear and reach a low point in 2015 when a large decrease of overseas ity to collaborate with, and contribute to, NATO. As the EU expands contingency operations, for example operations in Afghanistan, is eastward there is an increasing need to secure the ﬂow of goods and planned. After that the defence budget is estimated to be ﬂat or even people and to protect the new external borders of the Union. show a slight increase. In Canada, the defence budget is expected to decrease in coming years. In the Nordic countries, Norway, Denmark and Finland have their own approach to their security policy and the defence industry. Both The US will nevertheless continue to have the largest defence exNorway and Denmark are members of NATO, and Denmark is about to penditure globally. resume its acquisition of a new fighter aircraft. Finland will also need to buy new fighter aircraft in 10 years. The Baltic countries have a general need to modernise some of their share of global defence spending in 2013 39% equipment with a somewhat limited budget. Most countries in the Nordic and Baltic regions are reducing their defence budgets, which means an increased need for cost-effective products, services and solutions without compromising on capability and interoperability. The market for civil security is growing in the region. CeNTrAL AND SouTh AMerICA Central America has had among the lowest defence spending in the In December 2013, European Union heads of state and government world in terms of percentage of GDP. However, the trend of decreased discussed for the first time in several years the common security and or unchanged defence spending has been broken in recent years. The defence policy. It was concluded that a properly functioning defence reason is that the region’s defence forces, along with internal security market is based on transparency and fair competition. Co-operation forces, have been involved in the fight against drug cartels and organbetween member countries’ defence industries is considered essential ised crime groups. to the successful development of future high-tech defence solutions. Closer co-operation on defence policy between the member countries South America’s defence spending has increased in recent years. This will be discussed again during the EU summit in June 2015. trend is apparent in better quality of the armed forces since defence spending is rising faster than troop size. Brazil accounts for approximately half of the region’s defence spendshare of global defence spending in 2013 24% ing and has the ambition and resources to develop a diversified defence industry. According to IHS Jane’s Defence & Security, Brazil’s defence spending will increase by approximately 3 per cent annually the coming years. share of global defence spending in 2013 4% 12 saab annual report 2013 ASIA AND pACIfIC regIoN MIDDLe eAST AND AfrICA In 2013, spending in the area accounted for 24 per cent of total global The availability of reliable data on defence budgets in Africa is somewhat defence spending. This entire region increases its defence spending by ﬂawed, but the trends in defence spending in Africa suggest that these will 3.3 per cent annually, and growth is primarily driven by China. China increase in coming years, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. and Japan are the two countries that had the largest defence budgets One of the challenges in the Middle East is to leave the dependence in the region. IHS Jane’s Defence & Security estimates that in 2013 on oil behind and to move towards a more sustainable industrial base. China accounted for 8.4 per cent of total global defence spending, and The reduced focus on energy and the global interest in stability in the shows an annual 11 per cent increase of defence spending. In 2013, region mean that there is a need to increase the national defence and Japan’s total defence budget was the third largest in the world and acsecurity capabilities. This means that expenditure is increasing in the counted for 4.3 per cent of total global defence spending. region. The growing ﬂow in society implies strong performance in the The defence budget in India has seen nominal annual growth. Howmarket for civil aviation and shipping. ever, its expenditure is impacted by deferred decisions and a weakAccording to IHS Jane’s Defence & Security Saudi Arabia increased its ened local currency. The procurement process for defence materiel defence and security budget by 18.6 per cent in 2013 and has the largest means that co-operation and local manufacturing are favourable in defence budget in the region, accounting for 3 per cent of total global India. In addition to modernisation of the armed forces, increased defence spending in 2013. asymmetric threats have led to a need to also modernise the coast guard, paramilitary organisations and civil security. share of global defence spending in 2013 9% share of global defence spending in 2013 24% uNITeD NATIoNS, uN NATo The UN is the largest multilateral organisation in the world when it Many EU countries are members of NATO. In addition to NATO’s funcomes to stabilising conﬂicts and post-conﬂict situations. The growing damental role to safeguard its members’ freedom and security through number of natural disasters also requires greater involvement of the economic and military means, the alliance also has a growing interest UN in the form of equipment and personnel. In 2012, UN procurement in civil security and peacekeeping missions. These are often carried was worth USD 15.4 billion, involving both peacekeeping operations out in co-operation with the EU and the UN. However, NATO has a and humanitarian efforts. small joint budget and its missions are financed by individual countries. The UN offers a stable and increasingly accessible market for players The ongoing restructuring of NATO and a change in focus, which such as Saab, which operates in the civil and military fields and in the means the end of the long period of missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, grey zone in between. Part of the UN’s peacekeeping work includes will pose new demands on NATO’s capabilities in Europe. delivering logistics solutions. Saab has developed a capability to deliver this type of solution, even in highly complex environments, and has since 2010 been engaged by the UN to operate a service centre with maintenance, training, inventory management etc in East Africa. In order to become a long-term supplier to the UN, Saab will focus on a number of selected niches such as solutions for maintenance, systems of unmanned craft and a number of pure product offerings. source: IHs Jane’s aerospace, Defence & security, Defence budgets annual report 2013 saab annual report 2013 13 VaLUe CreatIOn Saab’s key stakeholders saab’s role Owners Customers in society Society Employees An understanding of the external environment is crucial when selecting the right strategic focus. Awareness of stakeholder expectaSuppliers and tions and the company’s role in society is essential when it comes to partners reducing risk, making investments and being an attractive business partner and employer. Knowledge and safer societies Saab’s defence and security systems contribute to a nologies and solutions. Saab is one of the world’s r&D expenditures safer society. In a time marked by fierce competimost research-intensive defence companies. 2009–2013, % of sales tion and strained national budgets, it boils down to We take an active part in raising societal 28 being smarter and more cost-efficient than other awareness of security needs and defence materiel 25 players. These precise qualities, combined with with initiatives including the Technology and 22 high-tech expertise, are part of Saab’s DNA. Security Forum in Sweden and the 2013 Cyber 20 20 The capacity to make society safer is improved Security Forum in Brussels. per se through knowledge about and insight into Saab is also the initiator of the Swedish-Brazicausality. Saab has long upheld the importance lian Centre for Research and Innovation (CISB). of education – in terms of talent management See picture on next page. and as part of our ambition to truly benefit the countries in which we operate. Security needs are constantly changing, and this 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 requires research and development of new techCollaboration with partners and suppliers high-tech expertise Along with globalisation come opporSaab employs 14,140 people, 2,798 of whom work outside of tunities to initiate collaborations that Sweden. Around 60 nationalities are represented at Saab. Most can improve efficiency and produce growth takes place outside Sweden, meaning that Saab will need smarter solutions. Saab started out to recruit new employees in prioritised geographic markets. as a purely Swedish company with Roughly 70 per cent of Saab’s employees are trained engineers the explicit role of ensuring Sweden’s and work on developing high-tech products and solutions. Saab supply of defence materiel. Saab has Academy offers numerous training programmes to Saab employbecome more international as condiees, including leadership training. tions have changed, and for many years the company has initiated a number of Number of employees in Number of university-trained successful industrial partnerships. And Sweden vs. rest of the World with suppliers in more than 20 countries, Saab is able to focus on its core competencies while at the same time creating job oppor57% tunities and sharing knowledge in many parts of the world. RoW With relationships with partners and suppliers alike are based 20% on internationally agreed business ethics principles and Saab’s Code of Conduct. Saab has zero tolerance for corruption. Sweden 80% 14 saab annual report 2013 CISB, the Swedish Brazilian Centre for Research & Innovation, held its third annual meeting in November 2013. In connection with the annual meeting, there was an awards ceremony for the winners of The Sweden-Brazil Scholarship Challenge. The first prizes in the competition were two scholarships – one to Linköping University and one to Chalmers University of Technology. Both scholarships include paid internship at a leading engineering company, of which Saab was one. Customer relationships spanning the globe Long-term returns Saab’s customers are Saab’s strategy focuses on an overarching Yield in large part national plan to establish trust in Saab as an organisations and ageninvestment alternative. This involves un­ 3.2 3.3 cies responsible for the derstanding and responding to stakehol2.8 procurement of defence ders’ various expectations and creating 2.6 materiel. In 2013, 81 the basis for long-term sustainable value per cent of sales was gedevelopment for our shareholders. 1.9 nerated by defence and Trust also requires a high degree of security operations and transparency. Saab’s ambition is to descri­ 59 by customers outside be its business in a clear way that makes Sweden. Procurement it easy for current and potential investors processes are often to understand the business model and long and are sometimes part of a political decision-making process. evaluate the risks and opportunities the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 A current example of this is the ongoing process in Switzerland company is facing. regarding the potential Gripen purchase from Sweden, which will be settled through a referendum in 2014. In some large deals, Saab may serve as subcontractor or partner to a company with which it competes in other deals. Customer co-operation on product development is becoming increasingly important. Gripen E is one such example, with the customer involved in financing some of the development costs. During 2013 Saab participated in 55 exhibitions in 25 countries, including the Dubai Airshow, Paris Airshow and Defence and Security Equipment International (DSEI) in London. Exhibition participation is an important channel for cost-effective outreach to defence industry customers. saab annual report 2013 15 Market Saab’s offering Market area Business flow driving forces and strengths organisation SAAB’S BUSIneSS MODEL Technologies that meet the needs of the market Market driving forces The driving forces in Saab’s markets are linked to altered threat scenarios and new societal security needs. Defence spending in Western countries has decreased due to the economic trend, while investments are on the rise in other parts of the world. This increases demands for cost-efficiency and the ability to anticipate and respond to changing customer needs. Strained national budgets – an advantage for Convergence of civilian and military sectors cost-efficient products In many ways, the lines dividing civilian and military are being Defence spending has decreased for the past five years, according rubbed out. This is partly due to rapid developments in informato IHS Jane’s Defence & Security. With Western countries’ declition and communication technology (ICT). Defence companies ning defence budgets, the traditional view that the best defence need to utilise their high-tech expertise to win a place in the exand security solutions are the ones that cost the most money panded security industry. Ultimately, technology will be the deis shifting towards demanding more value for the money. This termining factor in terms of who wins the contract when civilian makes it particularly important to incorporate cost-efficiency as and military companies meet in competition. Another key factor a production design parameter. Multifunctional products are one shared by civilian and military strategies is identifying sustainaexample of this, designed as they are to solve several different ble solutions and safeguards against environmental threats. tasks, as opposed to traditional defence products designed to handle only one specific task and offer protection against one Military spending 2008–2017 specific threat. Another key aspect is lead times shorter lead times mean lower development costs, which are reflected in USD product price. billion 2,000 Demand for local presence with regional focus Despite the stagnation of global military spending, some regions such as Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, are expe1,500 riencing growth. Increased defence spending in growth markets is attracting international defence companies competing to sell their products. Local presence and a regional focus are therefore 1,000 necessary elements to ideally adapt the offer to customers’ needs. New co-operation and alliances call for system 500 integration More and more countries are moving away from having armed forces for the primary purpose of safeguarding national borders and territory towards having armed forces able to participate in 0 international operations such as international community pea2008 2013 2017 E cekeeping and economic development missions. When different North America Middle East and North Africa defence forces operate together, their systems need to be coAsia South America ordinated and integrated operationally. There is therefore rising West Europe Oceania demand for open systems and system integration. East Europe Sub-Saharan Africa Increased need to safeguard supply chains and Total global defence expenditure in 2013 totalled USD 1,530 billion, which is 7.1 per make them more efficient cent less than the spending in 2009. Another 1.8 per cent decline is expected by the end of 2015, before global defence spending is predicted to increase again. Growing transnational flows of goods, energy, capital, people and information in an increasingly globalised world heightens the Source: IHS Jane’s Aerospace, Defence & Security, Defence Budgets Annual Report 2013 need for security and efficiency. This applies not only to safeguarding infrastructure for strategic flows from military threats and terrorism, but also to satisfying functional requirements such as making flows more secure and efficient at key hubs. Without exception, strategic flows of goods and resources are playing an increasingly prominent role in the security mind-set of countries and organisations. Added to this is the need to safeguard critical systems from cyber-attacks. 16 saab annual report 2013 Market Saab’s offering Market area Business flow driving forces and strengths organisation Saab’s offering and strengths Saab is world leading within system integration and continues to invest heavily in research and development to meet customer needs. Saab offers products within the air, land, naval, civil security Saab’s strengths and commercial aeronautics categories. Business area Aeronautics – which includes the Gripen fighter and unmanned vehicles – generates the most sales. Gripen is a leading fighter system with large possibilities to continuously integrate new abilities, such as weapons and sensors. The Gripen system was, for instance, the main test Quality r&D platform for the Meteor air-to-air missile that was developed for Gripen, Eurofighter and Rafale. Gripen’s innovative design enables swift and efficient upgrades of the system. System integration is also vital to improving cyber security. Saab offers systems that protect mission-critical solutions and CostLocal saab’s strengths are its key networks in this increasingly relevant area. The products efficiency presence uncompromising focus on are available as stand-alone solutions and as integrated soluquality, substantial investments tions and services for other defence and civilian purposes. in research and development, cost-efficiency on all levels and Being at the forefront of technology development requires a strong local presence. product portfolio that is constantly evolving to adapt to customers’ current and future needs. Saab therefore reinvests about a quarter of its sales in research and development. An ongoing Saab has a strong position in key segments of the market, and dialogue with customers ensures that the right R&D priorities offers products that improve throughput and reduce costs and are set. Opportunities for close customer relationships were environmental impact. further strengthened through the establishment in 2013 of the Another of Saab’s strengths is cost-efficiency. Saab has sucnew market area organisation, with six prioritised markets. ceeded in shortening lead times and improving production effiAnother important driving force that Saab encounters in its ciency, resulting in lower costs for both Saab and its customers. operations is the need for securing supply chains and making Because it operates in an industry characterised by long-term them more efficient. Saab’s civil security offering is focused on contracts, Saab is very aware that time is money–and therefore ensuring efficient flows at airports, ports and along coastlines. always strives to deliver on time, every time. Saab’s markets segments commercial air land naval civil security aeronautics the offerinG inteGrated solutions, includinG c4isr1, traininG & simulation Gripen and unmanned systems Camouﬂage solutions Underwater products Civil security and traffic management systems products Aeronautical sub-systems Training and simulation systems (incl. ATM2) and systems Radar and electronic warfare C4ISR1 systems Missile systems Support weapons services technical consultancy and support and service 1) Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance 2) atM – air traffic Management saab annual report 2013 17 Market Saab’s offering Market area Business flow driving forces and strengths organisation Business flow Saab’s earnings are primarily generated by long-term customer contracts, service assignments and sale of goods. Margins vary depending on the nature of the project. The main focus of Saab’s business is long-term customer contracts Share of revenue, per cent entailing the development and manufacture of complex systems. These account for nearly 60 per cent of Saab’s sales. FMV’s order in February 2013 for the development and modification of 60 26 25 Service assignments Gripen E aircraft is a clear example of this. Saab will be working on this order through 2026. Long-term contracts are continually recognised in revenue, meaning that income and expenses associated with the project are recognised as the project is completed. Cash flows for these contracts depend on the timing of advance 61 58 Long-term customer payments and milestone payments during the order period. contracts Service assignments, which account for around 25 per cent of Saab’s sales, are comprised of consulting and support services. Examples include training and ongoing maintenance associated with previous deliveries. The third part of Saab’s sales model is the sale of products and 13 17 Sale of goods spare parts that Saab manufactures and stocks or purchases on behalf of customers. Examples of this include the Carl-Gustaf and 2014 2013 ammunition for its weapon system. Industrial co-operation – part of our offering One of the cornerstones of Saab’s strategy is to increase local presservices that form the basis of our customer offer. In practical terms, ence in prioritised markets where we see growth opportunities. To industrial co-operations involve financial investments, the hiring of achieve this, and thereby develop Saab as a company, partnerships subcontractors in the market and facilitating local industry participawith local companies, research centres and other social stakeholdtion in new business opportunities. ers are being established or expanded. Requirements for industrial co-operations in defence industry deals Saab’s products and solutions are produced mainly in Sweden, but vary between countries. Some countries have legislation in place, subcontractors and component manufacturers are found in many while other countries do not. In some countries, the customer parts of the world. Saab’s capacity to supply products that combine decides on a case-by-case basis whether or not an industrial cohigh quality with cost-efficiency is made possible through its partoperations will be required under the contract and, if so, how it will nerships with subcontractors beyond Sweden’s borders. be structured. Either way, Saab’s focus is always market-oriented and based on creating long-term profitability. In this way industrial Saab also includes industrial co-operations in its offering when co-operations support Saab’s strategy to become more local and requested to do so by customer-countries. With clear requirement come closer to its clients, for the benefit of all parties involved. specifications and market-oriented terms and conditions, industrial co-operations are a complement to the systems, products and 18 saab annual report 2013 Market Saab’s offering Market area Business flow driving forces and strengths organisation Market area organisation Saab’s new market area organisation, with increased market presence in selected markets, improves our understanding of what customers want and enables us to do more business. In the long term, the new organisation will also have an impact on Saab’s research and development. Saab has most of its operations in Europe. The rest of the world is The new market area organisation represents a big change. Saab is growing in importance since that is where the most growth is ocbetter able to manage business processes and identify new busicurring. A tough, fiercely competitive market climate requires that ness opportunities by having employees in local markets. Through Saab understand its clients, their situation and their needs. its local offices, Saab is closer to its customers and has a better This is the reason behind Saab’s establishment of a new market understanding of their needs. area organisation in January 2013. Two hundred or so Saab Saab’s local managers throughout the world now have greasalespeople who were previously based in Sweden relocated to ter responsibility for running operations. In the long term, the six local offices in the most important markets. The market area market area organisation will also have an impact on Saab’s local head office for the Nordic and Baltic States remains in Stockresearch and development. The creation and maintenance of close holm, while the other offices are located in London, Washington local customer relationships generates opportunities for new R&D D.C., New Delhi, Bangkok and Centurion. collaborations. Nordic & Baltics Covers Sweden, other Nordic countries and the Baltic States. Head office in Stockholm, Sweden. India europe & greater Includes India. Head office in middle east New Delhi. Includes other European countries Americas and parts of the Middle East. Head Covers North and South America. office in London, UK. Head office in Washington, D.C., USA. sub-saharan africa asia pacific Includes countries south of the SaCovers other Asian countries, New hara. Head office in Centurion, South Zealand and Australia. Head office Africa. in Bangkok, Thailand. Market trends Growth in new markets generally offsets losses in old markets. Order bookings from the Americas, for instance, impact budget restraints in North America, which are offset by increased orders from Brazil. The graphs show the Order bookings, per Order backlog, per region Sales, per region distribution of total order region backlog, order bookings Sweden and sales per region. The 11% 6% 16% 19% Europe excl. Sweden agreement with FMV for development of the new 70% 9% 57% 12% 41% Americas Gripen impacts Swedish 1% 13% 2% Asia order bookings, which 11% increased to 57 per cent 18% Africa (27) in 2013. 2% 2% Australia, Other 5% 4% saab annual report 2013 19 Market organisation Increased activity through local presence Local presence in priority markets increases Saab’s visibility, and awareness of our product portfolio. Local presence also enhances Saab’s ability to capitalise on new business opportunities in each region. nordic & baltic europe & greater middle east Saab’s position/offering Saab’s position/offering Nordic & Baltic is the market where Saab has the largest turnover, where Sweden, being Western Europe is Saabs biggest market outside the origin country of Saab, is one of the most important countries for the whole of Saab. the Nordic countries. It’s a mature market with a Having the Swedish customer as a reference is of essence in many projects globally. well developed defence and security industrial Good relations with the Swedish decision makers, customers military as well as civil; base were UK and Germany has been our most authorities and other stakeholders are imperative for our business. In 2013 FMV ordered important markets. This area is also a major marthe development of Gripen E, as well as the production and modification of 60 Gripen E. ket for our civilian aeronautical products. Central and Eastern Europe market is slowly growing and In total we have 11,546 employees in the market area today. Gripen has a strong position in the region. Middle East is still a relatively young market for Saab. In the whole market area Saab have a good base for our civilian air and maritime traffic management solutions. In total we have 678 employees in the market area. Remote tower symposium Saab often meets its customers at trade shows worldwide. Saab and LFV (the Air Navigation Service Provider for Sweden) held a Remote Tower Symposium in In 2013 Saab attended, among others, the Defence Security Järfälla and Sundsvall. The jointly developed operative and technical solution for remote tower services Equipment International (DSEI) show in London. will culminate in the first facility in the world being granted a licence for operations. This is a pioneering, Swedish-developed product for remote air traffic management, ready for launch in the first quarter of 2014. Americas Saab’s position/offering In 2011 Saab strengthened its position in North America through the In Brazil the government announced the selection of Gripen NG acquisition of Sensis Corporation. In 2013 Saab signed a Joint Develas their future fighter jet. Negotiations between Saab and the opment Agreement (JDA) with Boeing to jointly develop and build a Brazilian Air Force are now ongoing aiming at a procurement of ­ new advanced, cost-efficient T-X Family of Systems training solution 36 Gripen NG. for the upcoming competition to replace the US Air Force’s aging An order was also received for the electromagnetic signal-sensor T-38 aircrew training system. The JDA, with Boeing as the prime part of the Brazilian border security program Sisfron. Sisfron is the contractor and Saab AB as primary partner, covers areas including integrated border monitoring system the Brazilian army is developdesign, development, production, support, sales and marketing. ing for its western border, contributing to regional security and Saab also signed an agreement with Boeing on providing the fighting cross-border crimes. Large Cargo Doors, Bulk Cargo Door and Access Doors for the Saab today has 728 employees in the market area. Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner. We were also awarded the first option year of a multi-year contract for the next generation of laser-based training systems for the US Army’s armored combat vehicles. 20 saab annual report 2013 India Saab’s position/offering Saab has supplied ground combat products in India for a long time, but is a new entrant for sale of defence products and solutions. Local presence has increased visibility and awareness of our defence portfolio. Success has been achieved in entering for example, the electronic warfare business. Two ongoing large tender processes where Saab currently are participating include the VSHORAD (Very Short Range Air Defense) and SRSAM (Short Range Surface to Air Missile) with solutions from business areas Dynamics and EDS. In total we have 54 employees in the market area. asia pacific Saab’s position/offering Australia and Thailand are important markets for Saab. In Australia, Saab has operated with local presence in command and control systems market, which shows growth within traffic management and security. Read more about Australia below. Thailand operates 12 Gripen and a Saab Airborne Early Warning System. In 2013, Saab has signed a contract with Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Korea, for development and integration of combat management and radar systems on a new frigate for the Royal Thai Navy. Some parts of the Asian market are not accessible for Saab due to political reasons. In total we have 359 employees in the market area. sub-saharan africa Saab’s position/offering Saab has operations mainly in South Local presence in Australia increases sales Africa, but also smaller operations With the gradual reduction in global defence spendin other countries on the continent. ing Saab Australia reacted early and rapidly diversiSouth Africa operates 26 Gripen. The fied into a highly successful Integrated Security support for operations of the Gripen systems line of business. Now highly regarded in fighter system in South Africa was the security industry with a spread of operational previously handled through short-term reference sites the intention is to grow the integrated interim contracts. In 2013 a steady security business to achieve an order intake compastate support contract for 2013–2016 rable to the defence business in Australia. was signed between Saab and ArmThe diversification strategy has also been extended scor that enables Saab to conduct to capturing international business in both the support operations in a sustainable defence and security domains. Initially work came manner with a long-term horizon, with through supporting larger Saab projects in Canada, high efficiency and availability. Thailand and the Middle East however this is now Saab today has 775 employees in the growing to the point where Saab Australia is taking market area. the lead on new business opportunities in selected countries in Asia. The creation of the Market Area Asia Pacific has further strengthened this strategy and provided further opportunities for Saab Business Areas to base services supporting the region out of Australia. saab annual report 2013 21 traffic management Positioned to expand on the global transportation market Saab Traffic Management provides solutions for The world’s first Remote Tower system is located at the airport efficient flows of people and goods around the world. in Sundsvall, Sweden. It will remotely manage operations at On a strong market there are several opportunities for Örnsköldsvik Airport. Saab’s Remote Tower system is also being growth. deployed by Norway’s ANSP at Værøy Heliport where the system achieved site acceptance testing in 2013 and by Australia’s ANSP Historically, traffic management market growth has exceeded at Alice Springs Airport in central Australia. GDP, and air passenger traffic as well as shipping are expected to Another example from the portfolio is the Integrated Tower Autocontinue to grow. This development is driven by new demand in mation Suite (INTAS). INTAS has been commissioned into service emerging markets, for instance China is to build a large number by Australia’s ANSP. Now deployed at four towers, the integrated air of new airports in the next few years, as well as the need to motraffic control tower platform in use in Australia is a universal, flexible dernise aging systems to accommodate growth and improve capasolution that supports any tower position (local, ground, clearance or city and environmental performance in the West. Nextgen in the supervisor) and is fully scalable to any size tower, from small regional US and SESAR in Europe are modernisation programs directed to airports to major international hubs like Melbourne. improve the respective region’s airspace capacity. Demands for new technology to address growth and modernisaExtending the marine business tion make this a highly attractive market for Saab Traffic ManageTo provide better value to its customers Saab is increasing the ment. Saab Traffic Management provides solutions for safe, secure overall marine portfolio integration, leveraging synergies to and efficient flow on land, in the air and on the seas intending to implement best in class solutions and extending the business promote the unfettered flow of people and goods around the world. to include larger Coastal Surveillance market opportunities. The business unit represents the combination of Saab’s organic traffic Integrating its Vessel Traffic Services solutions with Port Managemanagement business with American Sensis acquired in 2011 and ment solutions allows Saab Traffic Management to capitalise on the Dutch company HITT acquired in 2012. the growing market for Marine supply chain efficiency, safety and security solutions. The world’s first Remote Tower One such solution is the V3000 Vessel Traffic Management InGrowth initiatives within Saab Traffic Management include expanformation System (VTMIS). In Rotterdam many of Saab’s marine sion on emerging markets and of innovative solutions like Saab’s systems come together where the V3000 supports traffic guidance, Remote Tower system, developed together with the Swedish Air Qinsy hydrographics software provides exact waterbed mapping Navigation Service Provider (ANSP) LFV. Saab’s Remote Tower and Qastor navigation software supports marine pilots in safely system offers a possibility to combine a dynamic use of resources, navigating the largest bulk carriers in the world. information sharing and safety enhancement features at a location In conclusion, Saab is building a strong Traffic Management other than a local air traffic control tower. business to address a strong, growing market. The V3000 Vessel Traffic Management Information Services (VTMIS) system is an indispensable tool for the port of Rotterdam, used to maintain safe and efficient traffic flows in all weather conditions. 22 saab annual report 2013 • S aab Air Traffic Management • More than 240 systems deployed • 120 airports, including nine of the 10 busiest • 60 customers in 40 countries • Guides 2 million aircraft movements each month (24 per cent of world air travel) • Saab Maritime Traffic Management • More than 60 systems deployed • Four of the 10 largest container ports, equivalent to 86 million TEUs (Twentyfoot Equivalent Unit ) per year • 108 ports or port districts in 18 countries • 700 customers worldwide, equivalent to 10,000 licences sold Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport is Europe’s fourth largest. Saab Sensis Multilateration improves safety, efficiency and capacity at the airport by giving air traffic controllers an accurate picture of the take-off and landing runways, taxiways and gate areas in all weather conditions. Multilateration is a system that tracks the movements of aircraft and vehicles using their transponder signals. Saab’s Remote Tower system uses a number of video, audio and other sensors to provide a continual, comprehensive view from the air traffic control tower. The data from cameras and other sensors is fed to a flight control centre, where air traffic controllers have complete control of all sensors and all lighting at the airport, along with integrated flight data, electronic flight strips and other air traffic control tools. saab annual report 2013 23 STRATEGIC priorities ACCELERATED FOCUS ­ ON IMPLEMENTATION 1. PROFITABLE GROWTH Activities during the year Outcome/Goal attainment Priorities 2014 A new market area organisation was estabTotal sales were down 1 per cent in 2013 Maintained focus on ensuring desired effects lished on 1 January 2013. Local presence was year-on-year. Acquisitions had a positive from the market area organisation. To evaluate progressively expanded and work procedures impact on sales of 2 per cent, while exchange where the growth potential is, we will continuwere developed during the year. rates had a negative impact of 1 per cent. ally follow up all business opportunities and The operating margin was 5.7 per cent (8.5). measure our success in winning new business. Despite challenging market conditions, order Excluding material non-recurring items, the bookings were up 141 per cent during the One highly significant programme is the operating margin was 6.6 per cent (7.6). year. The increase was due in part to the Gripen E development programme. We will development order for Gripen E and Sweden’s focus on proceeding with development and production order of 60 Gripen E aircraft, Sales, billion SEK EBIT, % delivering milestones according to plan. both of which are part of Saab’s agreement We will also continue to evaluate potential with FMV (signed 15 February 2013) that 12.5 25 24 acquisitions in areas that complement our also includes additional orders related to the 23 24 24 product portfolio and support business in Gripen E. prioritised geographic markets. Saab also received other large and important 8.5 For long-term financial goals and outlook for orders, including several orders for wing spars 2014, see page 44. for Airbus A380, training equipment for the US Army, anti-missile defence systems for Indian 5.6 5.7 Air Force lightweight helicopters, upgrades to 4.0 the Erieye airborne radar system in Brazil, the Arthur weapon locating system and radar and combat management systems for Thailand Navy frigates. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2. PERFORMANCE Activities during the year Outcome/Goal attainment Priorities 2014 Market conditions became continuously more The gross margin decreased to 26.6 per cent Implementation of the efficiency measures challenging in 2013. The decision was made (30.0), mainly due to a change in product and identified in 2013 will continue. The estimate to identify additional efficiency measures project mix. Administrative costs decreased, is that measures implemented in 2013 will in order to ensure further scope to invest in representing approximately 4.7 per cent (5.1) contribute with approx. MSEK 500 in efresearch and development and sales and of sales. Marketing costs decreased slightly ficiencies at the close of 2014. We will also marketing activities. These measures are and corresponded to approximately 8.8 per maintain our continuous efforts to improve aimed at improving our capacity to achieve cent (9.1) of sales. The operating margin was efficiency at every level – from research and our established long-term goals. Efficiency 5.7 per cent (8.5). development to sales. improvements implemented during the year We will continue to focus on strengthening include volume adjustments and increased Administrative Gross margin, % our internal processes and creating a uniform focus on working methods to reduce developcosts, % of sales internal process structure. ment, production and indirect costs through30 For long-term financial goals and outlook for out the entire company. In order to become 29 one of the most cost-efficient companies in 5.2 5.1 27 2014, see page 44. 4.9 5.1 25 the industry, it is imperative that we constantly 4.7 23 adapt our operations. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 24 saab annual report 2013 PERFORMANCE PROFITABLE PORTFOLIO Saab’s four strategic priorities are profitable growth, performance, GROWTH a focused portfolio and people. In 2013, we continued taking several important steps in our strategic priorities to achieve our long-term goals. PEOPLE 3. portfoLio Activities during the year Transactions Priorities 2014 Two minor strategic acquisitions were made • TIKAB Investments in prioritised areas for product in 2013. An agreement was signed in May to development and renewal. • Hydro-Lek Limited acquire Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB), Ongoing mapping of potential acquisitions with 67 employees. The acquisition broadens Co-operations that complement the portfolio and strengthen Saab’s service portfolio and strengthens Saab’s • Boeing the offering. competiveness as a supplier of support solutions. In September Saab acquired the British Continued bilateral co-operation with acacompany Hydro-Lek Limited, with 25 emResearch and Development demia. ployees. The acquisition strengthened Saab’s Total expenditures in research and developproduct portfolio of remote-controlled, autonoment (R&D) in 2013 amounted to MSEK 6,543 mous and hybrid underwater vehicles with the (5,946), representing about 28 per cent of ambition to further grow the company. sales (25). A major part of the development Saab and Boeing signed a co-operation agreeefforts were made in the development of Griment for the joint development and construcpen and in development of radar and sensor tion of an entirely new, advanced and costtechnologies. Of total R&D expenditures, efficient training aircraft for the upcoming US MSEK 1,332 (1,798) was internally funded, Air Force procurement of new training aircraft to of which a total of MSEK 24 (292) was replace their aging fleet of T-38s (the so-called capitalised. T-X programme). 4. peopLe Activities during the year Results 2013 Priorities 2014 Efforts were stepped up this year to develop • Continue to develop a more businessa more performance driven organisation Key HR ratios in Sweden 2013 2012 oriented organisation distinguished by a characterised by a results focus, business unperformance driven culture. employer of choice – externally derstanding and strong leadership. To this we (universum) 8th 25th • Further strengthen leadership by focusing are now adding more clear-cut methodology employer of choice – internally 751) 75 on results and business understanding. to give tangible shape to how our individual goals best fulfil the company’s long-term share of female managers, % 25.1 22.1 • Strengthen and harmonise the HR support business strategies. 1) based on a global employee survey conducted in function based on a global organisation January 2014 that is also close to the market. Alongside our comprehensive management development programme, we are working • Ensure and develop future talent manto further strengthen leadership. Part of this agement by strengthening Saab as an effort is our internal initiative to formulate exemployer. pectations placed on management in a more performance driven organisation and specify in practical terms how these expectations are to be achieved. Saab advanced in two external Employer of Choice rankings in Sweden. We are also nearing achievement of our goal to have at least 30 per cent female managers by 2015. As of the close of 2013, 25.1 per cent (22.1) of Saab managers are women. Read more on page 41 saab annual report 2013 25 PROFITABLE GROWTH MORE INTERNATIONAL co-operations Sweden and other Nordic countries are an important Close co-operation with customers is particularly important base for Saab. But future growth will chiefly take place when it comes to developing new products. in other international markets. Growth will also be generated through acquisitions. As specified by Saab’s acquisition strategy, these will be complementary With Gripen, Saab holds a strong defence market position in acquisitions and will only be made in prioritised areas. The Sweden, the Nordics and other European countries. This position acquisition of Dutch HITT in 2012 is a good example; along with was further strengthened by the order from the Swedish Armed the acquisition of American Sensis in 2011, HITT created the new Forces for the development of Gripen E and production of 60 Traffic Management business unit. Saab also looks for acquisition Gripen Es during 2013, as well as the potential order of 22 Gripen opportunities that may serve as a way in to a selected market. UnEs from Switzerland in 2014. derlying all of this is our ambition to create a more streamlined Despite reduced defence budgets in the US and Europe and the portfolio. We therefore also regularly review the portfolio with tough market situation, Saab has not lost any ground. Sales have reference to the divestment of non-core businesses. risen in the regions where we have worked hard to gain market During the 2010–2013 period, Saab acquired 21 companies for share, such as the Americas and Asia. Sales of smaller projects SEK 2 billion and divested 12 companies for SEK 1.9 billion. Saab and products have been stable for many years. acquired SEK 2 billion in sales, while the divestments generated In order to remain successful and achieve our long-term goal scarcely any reduction in sales since most divestments were of parof annual organic growth of 5 per cent over a business cycle, Saab ticipations in associated companies or sales of small companies. must continue developing new high-tech, cost-efficient solutions. Order backlog trend supports growth target 2013 was a historic year for Saab. Order 70 bookings were at an all time high and we had important breakthroughs and posi60 tive news. Order bookings increased by 141 per cent in 2013 compared to 2012. 50 The increase is mainly attributable to the orders by FMV regarding development 40 and production of Gripen E, but also many other significant orders were received. 30 As an example, Saab received an order for development and integration of the 20 radar and combat management systems on a new frigate for the Royal Thai Navy. 10 Brazil placed orders for an upgrade of the Order backlog airborne radar system Erieye, as well as for 0 Order bookings the electromagnetic signal-sensor part of 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 their border security programme Sisfron. Sales and organic growth 25,000 6 6 5 20,000 4 4 3 15,000 Saab’s organic growth target is for average 10,000 -1 -2 -2 annual growth of 5 per cent over a business cycle. The primary drivers of Saab’s growth are the Gripen, the new marketing organisa5,000 -4 tion, competitive advantages in terms of cost-effective cutting edge technology, and the Sales adaptation of the business model and strategy 0 Organic growth, % to local market requirements. Acquisitions will 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 continue to support growth. 26 saab annual report 2013 Priorities 2013 Due to tougher competition, increased local presence is becoming Boeing and Saab sign Joint Development Agreement more important. Saab’s new market area organisation, fully implemented as of January 2013, is one way of meeting this need. The In December Saab six new market areas are responsible for order bookings and have announced its contact with local market customers. Strong internal co-ordinasigning of a Joint tion between the market areas and product manager is necessary Development to win complex deals. This way of reaching out to customers is in Agreement (JDA) line with Saab’s implementation of a new, more performance driwith Boeing, the ven corporate culture. The market area organisation also enables American defence, space and secuus to pick up on trends at an early stage and to adapt the portfolio rity company, for and offering to the market accordingly. the development Saab’s order backlog increased by SEK 25.7 billion in 2013. Straand production of an advanced, cost-efficient solution for the US tegically important orders include Swedish FMV’s SEK 29,8 billion Air Force procurement of new training aircraft. Gripen E order. The US Air Force current training aircraft, the T-38 Talon, is outSaab also made acquisitions during the year, including Hydrodated and needs to be replaced. Under the Saab-Boeing JDA, the Lek and TIKAB. Alongside the Gripen order, perhaps the most companies will collaborate on the design, development, production, interesting contract was the co-operation agreement with Boeing. support, sales and marketing of a new training aircraft for the US Air Under this collaboration Boeing and Saab are aiming to be the Force procurement. strongest, most cost-efficient industrial partnership participating ”We’ve worked long and hard to get to this point. Saab and Boeing in the American Air Force’s upcoming T-X procurement for together form a strong partnership that we are looking forward to approximately 350 new training aircraft and related systems and working with,” said Lennart Sindahl, Executive Vice President and logistics. head of Aeronautics at Saab. The Boeing-Saab training solution will be an entirely newly develPriorities going forward oped training aircraft that meets US Air Force needs and requireSaab continues to have a successful base of large projects in Nordments. The solution will not be based on the Gripen platform. Boeic and other European countries. Saab also aims to gain market ing is the main supplier under the terms of the JDA, with Saab as share in selected markets. The new market area organisation will the principal partner. The agreement may also include other parties. support large orders (e.g., for the new Gripen) but our main focus Saab and Boeing will utilise their expertise from Gripen, Neuron and is to increase the number of smalland medium-sized orders. Boeing 787 to build cost-efficient, compact aircraft at low cost. To create profitable growth, Saab will focus its research and development investments on the largest, strategically prioritised product areas. Other product areas will be maintained, although with limited resources. Saab has noted increased demand and requirements from many new customers to include industrial partnerships in deals. Industrial partnerships and technology transfer are therefore key skills that are necessary for success in many of the fast-growing markets. At the same time, it is also crucial for Saab to maintain its strategically important core and leading-edge expertise. Saab has extensive experience in successful technology transfer and programmes for industrial partnerships. Examples include an R&D centre in India, a Swedish-Brazilian R&D centre (CISB) and the Sea Gripen Design Centre in Great Britain. Sales trend by geographic market, billion SEK Sales trend by business area, billion SEK 9.8 8.8 6.9 6.1 6.0 5.9 4.8 4.3 4.2 4.6 4.9 3.6 4.3 3.4 3.4 3.9 2.8 3.0 1.4 1.6 1.3 1.2 1.2 0.9 0.4 0.6 Sweden EU excl. Other Americas Asia Africa Australia Aeronautics Dynamics EDS SDS S&S Combitech Sweden Europe 2012 2013 2012 2013 saab annual report 2013 27 PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO SECURE UNIQUE POSITION Saab continues to streamline its operations to create Systems in Gothenburg, 70 employees at Dynamics in Karlskoga uniform business processes and achieve strategic oband 50 employees at Support and Services. The effect of these jectives. It was announced during the year that costs personnel reductions will be reported in 2014. will be reduced an additional MSEK 500 by the close of Another priority during the year was to carry through im2014. plementation of group-wide processes in the new market area organisation. The six new market areas, finalised as of January Saab’s long-term performance target is an operating margin of 10 2013, are focused on creating a stronger local presence in selected per cent on average over a business cycle. To achieve this goal, the markets to improve understanding of customer demand for proentire organisation must be underpinned by a business culture ducts and solutions. Over time, this will make businesses more focused on efficiency. Saab has a strong focus on improving efefficient and reduce marketing and sales costs. ficiency as part of the organisational priorities set in 2010. Among other things, Saab is investing in creating smarter business-wide Priorities going forward processes within product development (read more about this in Saab will continue to work with continuous efficiency initiatives the Portfolio section on page 29). and the creation of uniform global purchase, sales, product and quality processes. Priorities 2013 Saab will further develop the new structure for financial goTo secure financial performance in 2013 and in the future while vernance in 2014. In practice, this entails shifting profit responalso creating scope for R&D investments in prioritised key areas, sibility from the businesses areas down to the business units and Saab announced in conjunction with the presentation of its Q2 improving internal transparency. More people at the management report that efficiency measures of MSEK 500 had been identified, level will have greater profit responsibility, in line with Saab’s over and above the ongoing efficiency improvements. The total performance management strategy. effect of these additional measures will be reported at the close of 2014. Improving efficiency by adjusting volumes, reducing indirect costs and making more focused R&D investments are three areas that will be equally important in achieving our efficiency improvement objectives. Most of the measures were implemented during 2013, including reducing the number of consultants at Electronic Defence Systems and restructurings at Security Defence Solutions in Australia and Sweden. Saab also announced personnel reductions of 150–175 employees at Electronic Defence Operating margin, % Measures taken in 2013 Impact Volume adjustments Cost of goods sold 12.5 Cost reductions Cost of goods sold and operating expenses The operating income amounted to 8.5 MSEK 1,345 (2,050) and the operatMore focused R&D Operating expenses ing margin was 5.7 per cent (8.5). investment 5.7 Excluding non-recurring items the 5.6 operating income amounted to MSEK 4.0 1,576 (1,843), and the operating margin was 6.6 per cent (7.7). A material non-recurring item of Efficiency improvements of MSEK 231 related to a lost legal disMSEK 500 at the close of 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 pute was recognised during the year. 28 saab annual report 2013 PORTFOLIO A MORE MARKET-ADAPTED PORTFOLIO Saab’s strategy is to invest in production innovation same strategy for R&D investments as it has for acquisitions – and strategic acquisitions in its key areas to achieve ­ strengthening the portfolio within prioritised areas. a more focused, market-adjusted portfolio. Priorities 2013 Saab has unique expertise in system integration, distinguished Implementation of the portfolio strategy proceeded in 2013 with not least by the fact that Sweden is one of the few countries in the determination of twelve prioritised product areas. These the world able to deliver complex defence and security solutions. twelve ”key areas” together account for over 80 per cent of Saab’s At the moment, for instance, a new version of the Gripen fighter total sales. Each key area has annual sales of over SEK 1 billion. is under development, a project that brings together Saab’s core Saab has 28 product areas in total, and in 2013 Saab launched competencies and requires the efficient integration of several new product database with over 500 products grouped into the highly complex sub-systems. The new Gripen is being developed 28 product areas. The product database are linked to Saab’s CRM in collaboration with the customer FMV. Read more about the system and provide strong support to the new market area orgaGripen project on page 8. nisation. One key characteristic of the product database is the option of providing bundled offerings to customers, which improves Product management and portfolio process Saab’s ability to steer customers towards cost-efficient solutions Saab’s strategic priority is to create a focused portfolio with that lower risk exposure for the customer and for Saab. a competitive offering that can gain market share in selected During the year Saab continued to work with product developmarkets. This goal has been implemented step by step through a ment through modulisation. Modulisation allows Saab to quickly series of initiatives. The product management process established develop customised solutions with minimal effort, making devein 2010 harmonises the work done in the six business areas and lopment work more cost-efficient and shortening lead times from covers each product’s entire life cycle. Under the product manadevelopment to sale – thereby tying up less capital. gement process, every investment in product innovation requires a thorough analysis of customer value, potential market success Three strategic transactions and profitability. Saab took another step towards a more focused Hydro-Lek Limited – a British manufacturer of remote handportfolio in 2012 by introducing a revised portfolio process for ling systems and tools for underwater vehicles, with European, continuous portfolio evaluation, including prioritisation of potenAmerican and Asian offshore industry customers – was acquired tial investment objects. in 2013. An agreement was also signed to acquire Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB) – a company that produces and suppAcquisition and innovation in prioritised areas lies technical documentation for the civilian and military market. Saab’s overarching acquisition strategy is that an acquisition must Saab also made a strategic investment during the year in the listed strengthen the portfolio within prioritised areas or, alternatively, Indian company Pipavav. strengthen local presence in a selected market. For example, the The strategic acquisition of Hydro-Lek strengthens Saab’s strategic acquisitions of American Sensis in 2011 and Dutch position as the world’s largest manufacturer of remote-controlled HITT in 2012 were joined with Saab’s existing operations to underwater vehicles for the offshore and defence industries. form the new Traffic Management product area. (Read more Remote-controlled underwater vehicles are an attractive niche about Traffic Management on page 22). A review is also underproduct, and Saab’s ambition is to continue to grow the operaway of possible divestments within non-core areas. Saab has the tions. Hydro-Lek is part of business area Dynamics. R&D, % of sales Internally financed R&D, Capitalised development billion SEK costs, MSEK Total R&D expenditures totalled MSEK 6,543 292 27.5 1.8 (5,946). 24.8 Saab will continue to invest in internally funded 21.8 development to strengthen our market-leading 20.5 1.4 1.3 position in cost-efficient cutting-edge technol19.6 1.2 1.2 ogy and secure our future offering. Internally funded research and development totalled MSEK 1,332 (1,798) in 2013, of which a total of MSEK 24 (292) was capitalised. The year-on-year increase in capitalised expendi67 tures is primarily attributable to the develop47 ment of Gripen E. 24 15 Amortisation of capitalised development costs 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 totalled MSEK 454 (590). saab annual report 2013 29 TIKAB is included in the business area Support and Services, Saab Ventures which has a strong position in the global market for integrated Some of Saab’s development projects result in product ideas that support solutions. TIKAB further strengthens Saab’s position in fall outside the core areas. These projects have been consolidated the market. in a corporate portfolio, where Saab Ventures’ role is to initially The alliance with Pipavav strengthens Saab’s local presence drive and develop the businesses together with other co-investors in the important Indian defence and security market. Saab and before finding a natural home for each company. Saab Ventures’ Pipavav signed an MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) back other purpose is to find and invest in small, rapidly growing comin August 2012, specifying that Saab would make a strategic panies that could eventually complement Saab’s core portfolio. investment in Pipavav. A Technical Partnership Agreement (TPA) During 2013 Protarius AB’s soft armour and ballistic protection was signed by the companies on the same date. operations were acquired through an asset acquisition. The acquired operations are now part of Saab Barracuda. New investments Priorities going forward were made in C-leanship Aps, increasing Saab’s ownership inteSaab’s ambition is to create a focused, competitive portfolio. Inrest from 38 per cent to 47 per cent. New investments were also vestments in product development will be focused on the twelve made in several feasibility studies. key product areas. Acquisitions will strengthen the portfolio in these key areas or, alternatively, strengthen Saab’s position in Corporate portfolio selected markets. A stronger presence in important markets will Ownership produce a more market-adapted portfolio and closer customer Company Specialisation interest, % relationships that, in the long term, can lead to research and development opportunities. It will become increasingly important to C-leanship Aps Hull Cleaning Vehicles 47 attract foreign customers early on in the development process. Cold Cut Systems AB Cutting Fire Extinguisher 29 Saab will continue to collaborate with academia on ”exporting Minesto AB Tidal Energy Solution 10 the Swedish innovation system”, including through the establishWrap International AB Spectrum Management 23 ment of bilateral innovation platforms that enable joint activities between countries’ universities, business sectors and public institutions. This type of bilateral collaboration is already in place in Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia and Switzerland. As an example, Saab has joined with Chalmers University of Technology, the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and Linköping University to offer grants to talented young Indonesians to pursue Master’s degrees and perform internships in Sweden. The first group of grant holders is scheduled to arrive in Sweden in August 2014. New generation of Saab’s cutting-edge radar technology Saab is further developing its radar system, including with AESA Due to the convergence of the civilian and military sectors with regard technology, to strengthen its market position and product portfolio. to information and communications technology (ICT), Saab is looking The objective is to improve the competitiveness of land-based, naval for ways to utilise component solutions from the civil market to help and airborne applications by improving functionality, including greater boost development. Saab is also shortening product-to-market lead range and enhanced ability to see small targets in challenging radar times with incremental developments, making adaptations along the environments. way. Development is model-based to quickly achieve good design solutions. The further development is inspired by Saab’s major investments in research and development and its experience with the Giraffe AMB, Sea Giraffe AMB, Arthur and Erieye radar systems. To keep costs down Saab is applying modular development, with which common designs can be reused in multiple products and product areas. There is major focus on making the new systems software-controlled, meaning that the systems are loaded with different software to create different capabilities. In the long run this is a matter of making systems multifunctional – for instance, air surveillance for finding aircraft or drones that can simultaneously detect small projectiles with a ballistic trajectory. In addition to improved performance, resilience is a key customer demand. The new radar systems will therefore be extremely powerful and critical parts will have redundant solutions (i.e., a parallel solution that starts up automatically if the critical part breaks down). 30 saab annual report 2013 Growth through acquisitions Cash flow and income effect of acquisitions and divestments The acquisition strategy is intended to strengthen 2010–2013, MSEK the portfolio in prioritised areas. During the 2010 to 2,000 2013 period Saab conducted a total of 33 transactions, 21 of which were acquisitions and 12 of which were divestments. Divestments of non-core holdings 1,000 generated a total of SEK 1.9 billion in positive cash flow without Saab having lost any substantial sales. 0 Acquisitions corresponding to SEK 2.0 billion in core operations generated approximately SEK 2.0 billion in sales. -1,000 -2,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 2010-2013 Cash flow from divestments of non-core operations Funds invested in core operations Net income effect, completed transactions TRANSACTIONS 2010–2013  cquisitions have strengthened the portfolio in prioritised areas and expanded the reach of prioritised areas in strategiA cally important geographic markets Ongoing divestment of non-core assets Total: 33 transactions 2010 2011 2012 2013 Acquisitions and investSensis HITT TIKAB ments in core operations, Medav Hydro-Lek 21 in total Sörman Information Pipavav Bayes Risk Mgt Divestments of non-core Divestment of several Divestment of sevDivestments of portfoDivestments of portfooperations, 12 in total holdings including eral holdings including lio holdings in Venture lio holdings in Venture portfolio holdings in portfolio holdings in Venture Venture, such as C3 Technologies Smarter doors for Boeing Dreamliner In 2005 Saab signed an agreement with Boeing for the development, industrialisation and supply of all cargo doors and access doors for all models of Boeing’s B787 Dreamliner aircraft. The larger doors are supplied complete with hydraulic, mechanical and electronic systems, making them ready to be mounted in the fuselage and operated immediately – plug & play. In addition, the doors are made of composites rather than sheet metal, which both improves performance and reduces weight. Boeing 787 Dreamliner Production Line saab annual report 2013 31 sustainable innoVations INNOVATIVE WING REDUCES EMISSIONS saab is one of the main suppliers to Clean sky, a Joint technology the project includes saab’s development of a wing that will utilise innoInitiative financed equally by the eu and the industry. Clean sky aims to vative design and construction technology to reduce wind resistance, bring the european aviation industry together to meet the 2020 environthereby cutting fuel consumption by up to eight per cent. Initial producmental goals set by the advisory Council for aeronautic research in tion testing was conducted in 2011 and 2012 and a full-scale test is europe (aCare). this includes reducing Co2 emissions per passenger being prepared. the wing will be tested on an airbus aircraft in the latter km flown in european airspace by 50 per cent, nitrogen oxides by 80 per part of 2015. cent and noise levels around airports by half. the project is now more than halfway complete and the results are beginning to be seen. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY DEVELOPMENT OF AIR TRANSPORT the single european sky is an ambitious eu initiative launched by the european Commission in 2004 to reform the architecture of european air traffic management. as part of the single european sky initiative, sesar (single european sky atM research) represents its technological dimension. It will help create a “paradigm shift”, supported by state-of-the-art and innovative technology. the total estimated cost of the development phase of sesar is eur 2.1 billion. Within sesar saab ab participates in the areas of remotely operated towers, traffic Flow Management, Integrated tower solutions and turnaround efficiency. sesar is targeting a significant enhancement of the european air traffic management system to minimise the following environmental impacts: noise and local air quality at and around airports as well as climate change, which is driven by the release of emissions from aircraft fuel burn. the following high level sesar targets have been established: • By implementing the SESAR concept in 2020, ATM-related CO2 emissions should be reduced by 10% per flight (against a 2005 baseline). • Improve the management of noise emissions and their impacts through better flight paths, or optimised climb and descent solutions. • Improve the role of ATM in enforcing local environmental rules by ensuring that flight operations fully comply with aircraft type restrictions, night movement bans, noise routes, noise quotas, etc. 32 saab annual report 2013 SAAB CONTRIBUTES WITH TENTS AND CLEAN WATER TO THE PHILIPPINES In november 2013 the philippines was hit by typhoon Haiyan, decimating villages, towns and infrastructure. saab contributed with two water purification systems and 150 tents to the disaster relief effort. each water purification system supplies clean water to 4,000 people every day, with the tents providing shelter for a total of 600 people. saab was prepared to send staff from its permanent project relief task force, which provides rapid on-site humanitarian response to disasters. but as red Cross staff in the country was in place to receive the water purification systems and tents, project relief assistance was not necessary. saab’s expertise and experience within services and system solutions for defence, disaster and rescue missions are essential capabilities for helping people and communities in need. previous project relief missions were carried out in pakistan in 2010 and thailand in 2011. C-LEANSHIP LOWERS SHIPPING TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS FOR COMPANIES’ ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRACTIVE CITIES IMPACT saab is running a project for attractive cities in collaboration with the Inter-american Development bank and the swedish energy agency. Fuel consumption and environmental impact are two of the most this is a long-term initiative aimed at using existing skills and technical central issues for the shipping industry. Vessel fuel consumption inproducts to develop a product portfolio with solutions that promote creases 5 to 10 per cent as a result of fouling on the hull, meaning efficient, safe and sustainable urban environments. saab’s system millions of dollars in increased costs. saab is a partner in the Danish solutions can connect various sectors of society and create a platform company C-leanship, which has developed an underwater robot to for efficient decision-making, citizen dialogue and improved resource wash ships hulls. the robot is a modified version of saab’s underutilisation. water robot, the remote operated Vehicle. the project entails setting up a system during 2013 and 2014 in ship owners can wash their vessels during normal port stops, relinköping to demonstrate how the concept can work. the same sysducing energy consumption and environmental impact while also tem will also be demonstrated in the brazilian city of João pessoa. cleaning the vessels in a safe, environmentally friendly way. In addiDemonstration focus areas are energy, traffic, water and environment. tion to reducing fuel consumption, this solution helps reduce the spread of micro-organisms between different marine habitats and, eventually, will offer an alternative to toxic antifouling hull paints through regular washing. During 2013 C-leanship initiated a collaboration with a shipping company in singapore. the robot will be tested in swedish or Danish ports in February 2014 and will be put into use in singapore during the second quarter of 2014. saab annual report 2013 33 SUSTAINABILITY AT SAAB Responsibility is paRt of tHe business Because many of Saab’s projects run for over 30 years, Responsible exports our business is based on long-term thinking. LongAs Saab has developed into a more export-oriented company, it term business practices are closely linked to sustainahas become natural for us to view our exports from a responsibilible business practices. For us, sustainability and longty perspective. This is also something that our stakeholder groups term thinking mean that we run our business in such expect us to do. a way as to maintain stakeholder confidence and that We often encounter, as do other companies, business environments that are very different from the one we are used to in we contribute to the societies in which we operate. Sweden and our area of the world. Our anti-corruption efforts Ultimately, it’s a matter of building a foundation for the and zero tolerance policy for unethical business practices are future and achieving our long-term goals. examples of how we deal with these issues. Saab’s Market Network Management unit is responsible for No company operates in isolation from society and all companies conducting counterparty due diligence and manages Saab’s depend on, and impact, their surroundings. Most of the effects a process for appointing marketing consultants and other business company has are necessary for society – jobs, economic growth, partners. The unit also conducts anti-corruption training for emprovision of products and services, research and development – ployees and marketing consultants and develops anti-corruption but all industries also have areas in which companies burden the tools. Read more on page 37. environment in one way or another. Saab established a new market area organisation in 2013 to For us, being a responsible company is a matter of being aware increase its presence in selected markets. The new organisation of the parts of our business operations that burden society – places Saab employees in local markets, improving Saab’s capacity taking responsibility for them by minimising their impact – while to manage business processes and ensure that they follow Saab’s at the same maximising their beneficial effects. Saab’s goal is to ethical guidelines. form a picture through dialogue with our key stakeholders of our impact on the societies in which we operate, and to create Strict regulations confidence in the company and firmly establish our way forward. When it comes to exports in the broader sense, most people agree Confidence won through demonstrable results is an absolute that international trade generally leads to development and prosprerequisite for Saab’s ability to achieve its long-term goals. perity. The use of weapons represents both the greatest protection against and the greatest threat to peace and security, so it is quite Priority areas natural that the export of defence materiel needs to be surrounThere are four cornerstones in Saab’s overarching corporate reded by restrictions and regulations. To ensure that defence matesponsibility model: Ethics, Society, Environment and Our People. riel is used in accordance with international law, the manufacture We have been working actively in all of these areas for many years. and sale of weapons and other materiel is always done within a Saab established a Corporate Responsibility unit in 2012 to strictly controlled framework. further strengthen its sustainability initiatives. The unit’s main task is to ensure that Saab meets customer expectations. This includes the expectations of customers and partners, employees, owners and society at large. An important tool in this work Saab’s key stakeholders is Saab’s affiliation with the UN’s Global Compact and its ten principles for sustainable business methods. These principles have been incorporated into Saab’s Code of Conduct and guide our employees in their decision-making and daily work. During the past year Saab maintained ongoing dialogue with owners Customers stakeholders and participated in debates on technology and security, defence industry requirements and business ethics. This is one way to share knowledge and jointly discuss solutions in terms of how we can improve our sustainable business practices. Several dialogues between leading Saab representatives were also held this year to establish the future agenda for Saab’s sustainability work. As a result of these discussions, responsible export society employees and our anti-corruption efforts are now even more prioritised sustainability issues. Saab’s societal investments will be focused on suppliers innovation, education and improving development opportunities and partners for young people. In the areas of environment and diversity (in which gender equality plays a significant role), we will continue to work to achieve our ambitious goals. These focus areas have been integrated as an essential part of Saab’s business strategy. 34 saab annual report 2013 Saab strives to be an industry leader by setting an examEthics SAAB’S COMMITMENT ple and following the highest ethical standards. We have defined our responsibilities in a complex world within four areas: Ethics, Society, Environment and Our People. Saab makes a positive contribution to society by making financial and social investments that help young people Society fulfil their potential and by meeting emergency needs caused by disasters. Saab works to reduce the environmental impact of its Environment products, services and operations and, to an even greater extent, identify solutions to environmental issues through Saab’s responsibilities innovation. in a complex world Saab brings together people with a variety of skills, experiOur People ences and ideas to create an inspiring and welcoming workplace and become the most attractive employer. Because these regulations are in place, we are confident that the export of defence materiel promotes security, technological development, job opportu“Responsible export and our nities and growth in both the recipient country and in Sweanti-corruption efforts are den. In Sweden, the Swedish Agency for Non-Proliferation EVEN MORE prioritised sustainand Export Controls (ISP) manages control and compliance ability issues.” of defence materiel on behalf of the government. By international standards Sweden has strict export control regulations that include an assessment of the history – international standards for controlling trade in defence human rights situation in the recipient country. Final decisions materiel and gives the international community an effective tool on these issues are made on the political level through the demofor combatting illegal arms trafficking. All 193 member states cratic process, not by those of us working in the defence industry. participated in the negotiations. In this respect, the Swedish export policy is on solid ground and is firmly anchored in the Swedish Parliament. Focus going forward Saab also conducts its own assessment to evaluate individual Corporate responsibility is a strategic long-term commitment and deals and markets. We also participated in the UN’s work to part of Saab’s business strategy. Our ambition is to set an example develop the international Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), which conwithin business ethics, based on our established policy of zero cerns the negotiation of regulations for producing and exporting tolerance for corruption. Our work with sustainability issues countries as well as for importing countries. Saab believes it is will be more distinctly integrated into operating activities, with essential to develop a clear global regulatory regime for trade in a focus on priority areas: business ethics, education, innovation defence material, aimed at safeguarding human rights and interand established environmental and diversity goals. Saab will also national humanitarian law. continue to set up partnerships with operators that can help Saab The UN negotiations were concluded on 2 April 2013. The actively contribute to a safe and sustainable society. international Arms Trade Treaty provides – for the first time in saab annual report 2013 35 Saab is affiliated with the UN’s and 3,000 non-commercial participants around the Global Compact world have joined the network. The UN’s Global Compact is an initiative with a Saab has been affiliated since 2011 and has strategic and practical framework for companies included the framework in our Code of Conduct. that have undertaken to apply sustainable business The following is a brief summary and some exmethods in their operations through ten generally amples of practices. accepted principles within the areas of human rights, Saab’s Code of Conduct can be found at ­ labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Since www.saabgroup.com. its introduction in 2000, more than 7,000 businesses UN GLOBAL COMPACT SAAB’S POSITION AND MEASURES TAKEN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and reSaab takes a clear position and global responsibility against violations of basic human spect the protection of internationally rights and other abuse of people and the environment. proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit Saab believes that it is important to develop clear, global regulations for trade with dein human rights abuses. fence materiel aimed at safeguarding human rights and international humanitarian law. Saab worked actively on the UN's International Arms Trade Treaty, which entered into force in April 2013. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freeSaab defends the right to organise and participate in trade unions. We respect the freedom of association and the effective dom of association and all employees’ right to organise or join employee organisations, recognition of the right to collective as well as the right of employee organisations to collectively negotiate. bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced Saab takes a clear position against forced and compulsory labour. and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolishment of child Saab takes a clear position against child labour. ­labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in reDecisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation shall be spect of employment and occupation. based on employees’ job knowledge and competence. Such decisions shall not be based on irrelevant factors such as gender, age, ethnic origin, religious belief, physical disability, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. In our work we will demonstrate respect for all individuals we come in contact with, regardless of differences. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precauSaab works actively with minimising environmental hazards and impact. Protecting the tionary approach to environmental environment is a natural aspect of Saab’s everyday operations in the development, manchallenges; ufacture and testing of products and systems. Environmental issues are managed and monitored through processes and routines within the operating systems. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote Saab holds regular training sessions and information activities to increase understandgreater environmental responsibility; ing of environmental problems and improve environment-related skills. Priority issues in and the environmental area are identified and analysed on a continual basis. Principle 9 encourage the development and Saab is researching whether technical solutions used in the aerospace and defence in­diffusion of environmentally friendly dustry can be used to reduce environmental risks and impact in its own operations and technologies. in society in general. Saab participates with universities and other companies in various activities focused on spreading awareness of “green solutions”. Saab also participates in major European development projects such as Clean Sky, which aims to develop solutions that reduce aircraft noise and emissions. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corSaab has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corruption. ruption in all its forms, including exWe neither offer nor accept improper gifts or hospitality. We are committed to conducttortion and bribery. ing ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, based on applicable legislation, our values and ethical rules and branch-wide codes of conduct. Read more about this on page 37. 36 saab annual report 2013 BUSINESS ETHICS ZeRo toleRance foR coRRuption Means HiGH deMands on business etHics Saab’s operations shall be distinguished by correctWe maintain our focus on training ness and a high level of business ethics. Our Code of Saab has during the year continued its training programme for all Conduct specifies the way we are expected to act with marketing and sales organisation employees on current legislation each other as colleagues, in contacts with customers and the use of Saab’s corruption prevention processes and tools. and business partners and in society. We make clear More than 100 people were trained this year in 15 separate sessions. that we have a zero tolerance policy with regard to Since June 2011, over 700 employees have been trained in around 55 sessions. The training programme is now being updated and we violations of any kind. All new Saab employees receive are reviewing the need to expand the target group to include people training on our Code of Conduct. outside the marketing organisation. The Board of Directors and Group Management also receiMany functions involved in Saab’s compliance work ved anti-corruption training in 2013, under the direction of the Overall responsibility for Saab’s compliance programme rests with General Counsel. The training session, approximately three hours the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, which annuin duration, dealt with topics including Swedish and international ally monitors and evaluates the Group’s business ethics. Evaluations legislation, Saab’s risk environment and the company’s internal focus specifically on (i) organisation, (ii) regulations and processes, rules and regulations. (iii) risk analysis and (iv) education and training. At the end of the year Saab rolled out a web-based anti-corA special steering committee, the Ethics and Compliance ruption training programme for all 14,000 Group employees. The Board, was established to lead and draw up guidelines for the programme is designed to specifically reflect the risks that arise in company’s ethics work, evaluate and decide on business ethics Saab’s operations and is available in both English and Swedish. issues and monitor and follow-up violations. The Ethics and Compliance Board meets at least six times per year and is headed Our compliance work never stops by the company’s General Counsel, who reports to the board’s Saab’s compliance programme will never be finished – work is conAudit Committee. tinually being done to monitor how the programme is working and Saab has an Ethics and Compliance unit responsible for to identify areas for improvement. The decision was made during the overseeing, co-ordinating and developing corruption prevention year to strengthen our whistle-blower function by introducing a new efforts and providing expertise in the area. system that allows external reporting via the internet and telepThe Group function Market Network Management (MNM) hone. Work has begun on the new system and our goal is to begin is responsible for ethical business due diligence investigations of implementation during the second quarter of 2014. Other initiatives counterparties and lead the procedures that apply to the engaunderway include the development of additional tools for corruption gement of marketing consultants and other business partners. risk analyses and an improved system for monitoring and auditing MNM are also mandated to provide education and develop tools marketing consultants and other business partners. in anti-corruption. Finally, Saab’s Internal Audit department is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Group’s corruption prevention processes. the Group function Market network Management (MnM) is responsible for ethical business due diligence investigations of counterparties and lead the procedures that apply to the engagement of marketing consultants and other business partners. MnM are also mandated to provide education and develop tools in anti-corruption. saab annual report 2013 37 SOCIETY SOCIETIES GROW THROUGH ­EDUCATION Saab’s education efforts range from homework asUnder this programme, Saab offers trainee posts to young people sistance programmes to bilateral innovation alliances. who have completed upper secondary science and technology Our ambition is to contribute to knowledge that beneprogrammes. The objective is to demonstrate what the engifits society as whole as well as Saab’s operations. neering profession is like so that more young people apply for university level technical programmes. Saab also collaborates with several lower and upper secondary schools to get kids interested Saab wants to make a positive contribution to society. This involin technology. As an example, in 2009 Saab started a national colves everything from supporting children’s homes to developing lege preparatory technology programme in co-operation with the products that help the environment and improve people’s security. Vasa secondary school in Arboga, Sweden aimed at getting more A particular priority is education. One example of this is our supyoung people interested in technology and maths and generating port of the Likii Special Unit boarding school in Nanyuki, in the interest in Saab’s varied high-tech business. Two classes have middle of Kenya, an institution that cares for around 120 orphans graduated so far, the most recent one in June 2013. and disabled children who have been abandoned. Since Saab has operations in the area, we want to contribute to the local comInnovation alliances munity by helping children and young people with education and Based on Sweden’s highly ranked development and innovation the development of various skills. capacity, Saab took the initiative to use bilateral innovation allianAnother example is DEEP (Diploma Employment Enhancement ces to share information on the Swedish innovation system. One Programme), a vocational training programme that Saab operates in example is the Swedish-Brazilian research and innovation centre India. Training is focused on welding and aims to improve students’ CISB, where industry works with universities and public sector employability. The project also includes special education for girls organisations. CISB projects include awarding 100 scholarships with focus areas that include self-esteem improvement. to Brazilian students each year to enable them to travel to Sweden and study the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Chalmers Saab works to foster interest in technology University of Technology and other institutions. Training for Saab supports a variety of initiatives to foster interest in technoBrazilian army officers was also initiated in 2013 under the CISB logy among children and young people. In Sweden, for example, framework, jointly organised by Saab, Linköping University and we support NTA (Science and Technology for All), which gives the Swedish Armed Forces. It is just this type of interplay between teachers the opportunity to do science and technology lab work the public sector, academia and industry that characterises the with their students, who range from preschool age to ninth Swedish innovation system. grade. In South Africa, Saab employees volunteer at Pretoria-area Saab also contributes to knowledge development in the markets schools, helping with homework to improve students’ maths, where we operate by outsourcing parts of research, development science and English skills. The homework assistance programme and production to subcontractors in those countries. This type of helps families unable to afford the extra expense of private tutotechnology transfer is going on in places such as India and Brazil. ring for their children. Saab’s ambition is that our initiatives contribute to knowledge Saab also participates in Tekniksprånget (Technology Leap), an development that spurs the growth of societies. Our efforts also internship programme run by the Royal Academy of Engineering benefit Saab by increasing the supply of skilled labour. Sciences (IVA) in Sweden on behalf of the Board of Education. Collaboration with about 50 universities Saab collaborates with about 50 universities and educational institutions in Sweden and nine other European countries, including Switzerland, Spain, France and Romania. Saab also has a close collaboration with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the US. 38 saab annual report 2013 ENVIRONMENT ALLIANCES FOR SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Saab actively works to reduce its impact on the enviSaab was ranked on the CDP (Climate Disclosure Project) Leadronment and climate. A key component of this work is ership Index for six consecutive years (2006–2011). The index is collaboration with the industry to create sustainable an important component of CDP’s annual Nordic 260 Climate solutions for the future. The most important environChange Report, which highlights the companies on the Nordic mental aspects for us are phasing out hazardous chestock exchanges that have worked most professionally with cormicals, minimising environmental risks and reducing porate governance related to climate reporting issues. Unfortunately, we did not score well enough to make the Leadership Index the environmental impact of our operations and proin 2012, chiefly because our reporting was not sufficiently explicit. ducts. Saab also develops products that help improve We are working to become better at meeting the requirements. the environment (see examples on pages 32–33). Information about CDP and our complete report is available at www.cdproject.net. The use of certain hazardous chemicals is still necessary to meet We have many suppliers around the world. Because we purchasecurity and technical performance requirements in the aerospace se from suppliers a large share of the components and subsystems and defence industry. Over the past ten years, we have greatly used in our products, our suppliers have a great impact on our reduced the use of hazardous substances such as organic solvents, environmental work. We therefore require that our suppliers act trichloroethylene, chromium and cadmium. responsibly and follow our requirements as well as those of the Each year the business areas update their strategy documents EU and our customers. The general environmental requirements and action plans for phasing out hazardous substances, a process imposed on our suppliers are available on our supplier portal, that will proceed for many years. The Environmental Council mowww.saabgroup.com/supplier. In 2013 the routines for imposing nitors this work on a regular basis. and monitoring suppliers’ environmental requirements were Our products are not currently covered by the EU’s RoHS given higher priority, especially since we are introducing uniform directive (Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances procurement and supplier processes for Saab units. in electrical and electronic equipment), although certain products may eventually be covered. We are working to reduce the use of Overall ambition the substances regulated by the directive, and our work with haOur climate objective is to reduce our relative CO2 emissions by zardous substances corresponds well with the requirements of the 20 per cent during the period 2007–2020. The value relates to our EU’s chemicals law – Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation total annual sales in MSEK. of Chemicals (REACH). We are also working to identify and phase out the use of In 2011–2013, Saab acquired and tested an IS/IT tool to manage hazardous chemicals that pose unacceptable risks and substances information on the chemicals contained in its products. Implethat may be subject to regulation. We are analysing the need for mentation will begin in 2014. The tool will also be used to verify hazardous chemicals and communicating our findings internally that the products meet current chemical requirements imposed and to our suppliers. by law and by customers. Environmental issues covered by legislation are reported in Results Note 48. Climate change To lower its CO2 emissions, Saab works continuously to reduce During the period 2007–2013, our relative CO2 emissions energy consumption at its plants and to reduce the amount of decreased from 2.7 to 2.4 tonnes per MSEK. Vehicles, aircraft, business travel and number of test flights. business travel and goods transports account for 58 per cent of THREE QUESTIONS TO Sofie Jönsson, Environmental and How far have you come? Chemical co-ordinator at Business “ At the moment we’re testing and qualifying surface Area Dynamics treatments that are free of hexavalent chromium for all material. Due to the products’ various technical Tell us about the phase-out! requirements, we need to develop different alterna“The Dynamics business area’s environmental tives for different products. When it comes to new goals and long-term strategy determine which products we’ve already ruled out hexavalent chrosubstances we will be phasing out. We’re looking mium.” in the market for alternatives that have fewer health and environmental effects, and in some What are your plans for 2014? cases we’re developing our own products. Since “ We will continue to qualify replacements and we manufacture pyrotechnic substances and phase out hazardous substances. We will develop primers, we can develop our own lead-free materiphase-out plans once we have qualified options.” als and substances. But we’re also working on phasing out chromates, cadmium and trichloroethylene.” saab annual report 2013 39 emissions, with the rest attributable to machinery, processes and 2014 ambitions electricity and heating for our facilities. Climate change An energy saving project was launched in 2009 to cut energy Many measures that reduce CO2 emissions will be implemented as consumption at Saab’s properties in Sweden in half by 2015. So part of our energy saving project. We will also continue to provide far, a 20 per cent reduction has been achieved. Several measures information on climate issues to our employees. have been implemented under this project, including a decrease In terms of climate reporting, our ambition is to regain our poin premises size, more efficient operations and various types of sition in the CDP’s Leadership Index. A project will be launched technological investments. During 2013 several business areas in 2014 to examine options for operating Gripen E on biofuel. published articles on the intranet on the best methods for reduFMV, the US Air Force, General Electric, Saab and a biofuel cing climate impact. We also improved our car-pool portal and manu­facturer are participating in the project. climate-adapted Saab’s Travel Directive. Hazardous chemical substances Hazardous chemicals In most cases, the phase-out efforts made in 2013 will continue Several business areas have decided to avoid using hazardous during 2014. More projects will also be initiated, in accordance substances in new development projects whenever possible. with the business areas’ action plans. Pursuant to business area action plans, several projects to phase out hazardous chemicals were initiated during the year. These mainly concern the phase-out of chromium, lead, cadmium and trichloroethylene. CO2 emissions within the Saab Group Energy consumption in Saab’s operations, GWh 70,000 3.6 173 170 167 166 60,000 157 3.0 141 50,000 130 132 122 2.4 114 40,000 1.8 30,000 20,000 1.2 10,000 0.6 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Electricity Heating Total emissions (tonnes CO2) Saab actively works to improve efficiency in the consumption of Relative target for greenhouse gas emissions, 20% reduction between electricity and thermal energy. The consumption of both electricity 2007 and 2020 and thermal energy has decreased in 2013. Relative emissions (tonnes CO2/MSEK sales) Emissions of volatile organic Consumption of trichloroethylene, CO2 emissions by source within Saab, % solvents (VOCs), tonnes tonnes 50 11 Purchased goods freight, 7 41 38 37 35 Owned heating/processes and accidents, 4 Owned vehicles and aircraft, 16 Purchased electricity, 19 Purchased district heating, 19 Purchased personal travel, 35 2 2 1 1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The decrease in VOC emissions in Trichloroethylene is used within Aeronautics The graph shows that personal travel and purchased 2013 is due to decreased producand Electronic Defence Systems. In recent electricity represent more than 50 per cent of Saab’s tion in Saab Barracuda. Aeronautics years, the consumption of trichloroethylene has total carbon dioxide emissions. and Support & Services produce decreased considerably. the most emissions. 40 saab annual report 2013 EMPLOYEES PERFORMANCE driven ­CULTURE Efforts were stepped up this year to develop a more fies the connection between each employee’s individual development business-oriented organisation characterised by a plan and the company’s business plan. A work procedure was impleresults focus, business understanding and strong mented during the year under which each employee works with his leadership. To this we are now adding more clear-cut or her supervisor to identify relevant individual goals and produce methodology to give tangible shape to how our indivia plan for achieving them. Efforts and goals are systematically foldual goals best fulfil the company’s long-term business lowed up twice per year. strategies. Good leadership is becoming even better Employees are the foundation of Saab as a knowledge-based Skilled, committed leadership is a critical success factor for Saab company. Their skills and proficiencies are essential to our ability to to remain a successful and innovative company – leadership that develop business and achieve set objectives. cultivates a culture that encourages all employees to strive to always Retaining and developing existing employees and strengthening go the extra mile. As a first step, Saab managers identified four focus the organisation with new talent are therefore critical elements of areas where leadership can be strengthened. In the next step, 150 our business strategy. For us this involves a targeted effort to develop Saab managers from various parts of the organisation participated a business-oriented organisation that offers excellent advancement in workshops and were tasked with formulating the expectations opportunities for all employees. placed on management in order to create a more performance driven organisation. The management groups of each business area and Step by step towards a more business-oriented market area then specified in practical terms how these expectations organisation are to be achieved. Competition in the global market is fierce, and at Saab we have a We also continued with our far-reaching leadership developshared responsibility to improve efficiency and sharpen our skills in ment programme during the year. The programme is comprised developing our business and customer relationships. It is essential of various modules dealing with subjects such as strategy, change that we create a more performance driven culture, one which clarimanagement, communication and business culture and individual leadership. TECHNOLOGY WOMEN OF Strategic talent management for the future Crucial reasons that many of our employees rank Saab highly as THE YEAR an employer are a strong belief in the company’s future and pride in working for Saab. Our ambition is to also be the most attractive Saab’s 2013 Technology Woman of the Year awards went to Marie employer externally among current and future talent. We are there­ ­Lagström and Emelie Andrén Meiton for their Womengineer.org website, fore pleased to note that Saab entered the top-10 list of the most which aims to inspire young females to study engineering. The site offers attractive future employers in a 2013 survey of Sweden’s engineering comprehensive information on the various career and vocational courses of study that lead to engineering jobs. Their ambitious goal: students1.This is of paramount importance – competition for techniequal numbers of female and male engineering graduates by 2030. cal expertise is especially fierce, while at the same time Saab places high and specific demands on the talent we recruit. “The prize winners’ goal is well in tune with the work Saab is doing to atNew talent is recruited on an ongoing basis. Currently, the greatract more women to the engineering profession, and is one of the reasons test skill needs are for systems engineers and engineers with a few we organised the Technology Woman of the Year award. Women like this years’ work experience. In addition to collaborating with universities year’s prize winners are highly instrumental in terms of increasing the pace. and colleges and participating in job market days to establish conAt Saab, the share of nections with students, Saab also offers trainee opportunities and salaried female managthesis projects which we view as excellent ways to introduce new ers has risen from 16 to 25 per cent over the employees to the business. past five years,” said Lena Eliasson, Senior Flexible resource balancing provides new Vice President and opportunities Head of Group Human To be able to adapt the organisation based on variable resource reResources at Saab. quirements, we need to have processes in place that provide an overall picture – a picture of the expertise and resources we have in place The awards were preversus what and where the needs are. Measures are then implemensented at the Univerted based on this overall picture – everything from recruitments and sum Talent Excellence Summit & Awards cereindividual solutions to reducing the number of external consultants mony, where Lena Eliand offering exit solutions to redundant personnel. In this we benefit asson also received a from being a large organisation, as reduced resource requirements in special award for the one area are often balanced by increased needs in another area. work she and Saab have done with em1) Företagsbarometern (Swedish Student Survey), Universum’s annual survey in which 20,000 ployer branding. students rank their ideal future employer. In 2013 Saab placed eighth among future engineers, a huge step up from last year’s 25th place. saab annual report 2013 41 Towards greater internationalisation Increasing the share of women requires not only the focus of One key element of our growth strategy is increasing our market ­Group Management – concrete measures and greater awareness presence, which makes our organisation more international by of the target’s importance are also necessary. Possession of the expanding our presence in local markets. 20 per cent of our emrequisite skills is the decisive factor in all recruitments, but we a­ re ployees are now outside of Sweden, representing an increase from adding a structured process to this that widens the recruitment 2,140 people in 2010 to 2,798 at the close of 2013. pool. The global nature of our operations is also reflected in the We also place great emphasis on identifying female talent diversity within the company, with around 60 nationalities reprewithin our internal talent management process and during the sented among our employees. recruiting process, during which, for instance, at least one woman is always called in to interview for each vacant managerial posiMore female managers tion. The gender perspective is a natural part of our leadership For us, it’s a matter of common sense – being a company that offers development training programmes, and managers are evaluated equal opportunities to men and women makes us a more innovative on how well they promote workplace equality. Things are slowly and profitable organisation. Simply put, a gender-equal Saab can perbut surely moving forward, and an additional 43 women were form better, and improving gender equality is therefore part of our hired for management positions throughout the organisation strategy for achieving the company’s growth and profitability targets. during the year. As at the close of 2013, 25.1 per cent of Saab’s Our goal is to have at least 30 per cent female managers by the close managers are women. of 2015. Parallel efforts are underway to improve the gender balance in the organisation as a whole, where the current figure is 22 per cent female employees in total. BETTER BUSINESS WITH MORE POPULAR TRAINEE PROGRAMME WOMEN IN LEADING POSITIONS FOR TOMORROW’S LEADERS Saab’s participation in the year-long Battle of the Numbers (BoN) proSaab’s customised trainee project is based on its conviction that gender equality improves the comgramme targets recent gradupany’s performance and competitiveness. ates and young talent with a few years’ work experience. We are “For Saab, workplace equality isn’t a project – it’s a key component of looking for people who have our strategy. Companies operate to make money, and gender-equal ambition as well as the potential companies are more profitable. This is a fact and is something I expect to become future leaders within all Saab employees to support and promote – just as they do our other the Saab Group. We use a basistrategic objectives,” said Håkan Buskhe, Saab’s President & CEO. cally traditional approach that introduces new employees to Projects like BoN are important for several reasons, including the basic the business so they learn about postulate that measuring something increases significantly the probaits various areas, products and bility that action will be taken. Also, Group Management is now placed services. To increase awareness in charge of promoting efforts to create workplace equality. In Saab’s of what it’s like to work in various case, focus to date has been on attracting more women to manageareas, training is conducted ment positions. Putting workplace equality high on the agenda is a both in Sweden and in other parts of the world. The work is then alterwakeup call for many people and serves as an incentive to dismantle nated with courses, lectures and company visits together with other old recruiting structures to make way for new ones. trainee programme participants. Ten largecap Swedish companies participated in BoN. Together, these The 2012 trainee programme gave engineer Emma Berglund a good companies employ nearly 570,000 people and share a belief that they start at Saab as well as an exciting and unique traineeship in India. do good work with gender equality issues – but want to become even Today, Emma works as project manager for land and marine radar better. systems (EDS). “One great thing about Saab’s trainee programme is that you’re given Trend in percentage of female managers a permanent position right away, which provides a clear focus for structuring all of the various activities. The programme also includes Target many supplementary training courses that are beneficial in terms of 30 30% building business relationships and relationships with colleagues.” 25% Saab’s trainee programme is among the most popular1 among appli25 cants. The next programme will commence in the spring of 2014; recruitments were made during the autumn of 2013. 20 1) TraineeGuiden 15 10 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend female managers, % Trend female employees, % 42 saab annual report 2013 FLEXIBLE RESOURCE BALANCING – HOW IT WORKS IN PRACTICE one positive thing about working in a large organisaWhat do you think is the best thing about this tion with quite similar operations is that there are many approach? opportunities to temporarily change job assignments ”Well, of course it’s a positive thing to be able to be and locations. niklas eriksson at eDs in Gothenburg is where the need is the greatest. It’s also good for eDs a good example of how flexible resource balancing can that we who work in the business area get to know lead to personal development as well as cover tempoeach other. It builds trust, and sharing resources isn’t rary resource requirements. niklas took the opportunity such a big step when the need arises again. We also to work at a different location a few days per week know more about the expertise we have in place and when a resource requirement arose in Järfälla. we make valuable personal contacts.” “I like to work with different things, and I like new challenges. the job in Järfälla deals with automated testing, which I thought made the offer particularly interesting.” Comments on 2013 results the latest employee survey was conducted in January 2014. among other things we measure employees’ views of saab as an attractive employer, which had a result of 75. Key data 2013 2012 2011 HR-related key data for Sweden 2013 2012 Total number of employees 14,140 13,968 13,068 employer of choice – externally 8th 25th (universum) sweden 11,342 11,125 10,321 employer of choice – internally 751) 75 – linköping 5,035 4,768 4,406 share of female managers (se), % 25.1 22.1 – Järfälla 1,314 1,291 1,214 1) Based on a global employee survey conducted in January 2014 – Gothenburg 1,250 1,296 1,205 – Karlskoga 777 772 718 – arboga 560 607 611 – other cities 2,406 2,391 2,167 south africa 729 761 1,064 Educational background, % usa 662 705 652 Natural sciences, 3 australia 297 329 324 Social sciences, 2 Economy, 7 Other, 12 uK 215 184 147 Technology, 76 Holland 133 139 4 Czech republic 123 137 143 Germany 97 85 26 Natur 7 Number of employees in Samhälle 10 norway 95 102 55 Sweden vs. Rest of the World % Teknik 72 switzerland 60 51 46 Övrigt 11 Sweden, 80 Other countries, 20 Denmark 59 67 68 Canada 55 54 14 India 54 37 44 Finland 50 57 74 Sverige 80 Kenya 45 42 34 Utlandet 20 percentage women, total, % 22 22 22 number of consultants 1,376 1,665 1,368 – of which external 884 1,145 1,044 saab annual report 2013 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW 2013 Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556036-0793, has Saab is organised in six business areas: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Elecits registered address in Linköping, Sweden and its head office at tronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, Support Gustavlundsvägen 42, Bromma. The company’s mailing address and Services, and Combitech. Combitech, which provides consulis Box 12062, SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden and its telephone ting services, is an independent, wholly owned subsidiary of Saab. number +46 8 463 00 00. In addition to the business areas, Corporate comprises Group Saab has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since staff and departments and secondary operations. It also includes 1998 and on the Large Cap List since October 2006. The largest the leasing fleet of Saab 340 and Saab 2000 aircraft. shareholder is Investor AB, with 30 per cent of the shares, corresponding to 40 per cent of the votes. The share of the votes was Long-term financial objectives calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury The long-term financial goals as of 2011 consist of goals for shares, at year-end. The total number of shares in the company organic sales growth, operating margin after depreciation and is 109,150,344, distributed between 1,907,123 Series A shares amortisation (EBIT) and the equity/asset ratio. with ten votes each and 107,243,221 Series B shares with one vote each. At year-end, a total of 2,736,200 Series B shares had been reDividend and Dividend Policy purchased to guarantee the Group’s various share matching plans. Proposed 2013 dividend and dividend policy The repurchased shares are held as Treasury shares. Saab’s long-term dividend objective is to distribute to shareholIn accordance with the Swedish Annual Account Act, Saab preders 20–40 per cent of net income over a business cycle. pared its corporate governance report separately from its annual For 2013 the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of report. The corporate governance report, found here on pages SEK 4.50 (4.50) per share, representing 65 per cent (30) of 2013 122–130, includes the Board of Directors’ report on internal connet income. trol of financial reporting, which includes information for both the Parent Company and the Group. See pages 126–127. Outlook 2014 In 2014, we estimate that sales will be in line with 2013. Operations The operating margin in 2014, excluding material non-recurAs one of the world’s leading high technology companies, Saab ring items, is expected to be somewhat higher than the operating offers products, solutions and services for military defence and margin 2013, excluding material non-recurring items. civil security. In 2013 the Group had customers in over 100 countries, with research and development conducted mainly in For further comments concerning the Group’s result, financial Sweden. Most of our employees work in Europe, South Africa, position and cash flow please see pages concerning the Business the US and Australia, but we also have people on site in offices Areas, 45–50, as well as comments on the financial statements on in more than 30 countries around the world. pages 59–69. Long-term Financial Growth Performance in 2013 Growth Result: Sales during 2013 decreased by Comment on results: We saw a lower Goal: Organic sales growth averaging 1 per cent compared to 2012. Acquisitions activity level primarily within the busi5 per cent per year over a business cycle. contributed to the increase in sales by ness area Dynamics which was affected 2 per cent, however offset by a negative by budget constraints and delays in impact from currency effects of 1 per cent. customers’ investment processes. This was compensated by growth in the business areas Aeronautics and Combitech. Operating margin Result: Reported operating income Comment on results: Additional efficiency Goal: Saab’s margin goal – operating maramounted to MSEK 1,345 (2,050) and measures were implemented during the gin after depreciation and amortisation the operating margin was 5.7 per cent year in all business areas. The purpose is (EBIT) of at least 10 per cent – is formula(8.5), including a non-recurring item of to maintain and strengthen the efficiency ted as an average over a business cycle. MSEK 231 related to a lost legal dispute in in current market conditions. The efDenmark related to DACCIS. Excluding ficiency improvements are expected to material non-recurring items the operaamount to MSEK 500 by the end of 2014. ting income amounted to MSEK 1,576 The business area Electronic Defence (1,843) and the operating margin was Systems made continuous investments 6.6 per cent (7.7). in product development throughout the year to strengthen the product portfolio, moreover cost for efficiency improvements also impacted the result, leading to a loss for the business area. Equity/Assets ratio Result: The equity/asset ratio, at year-end Comment on results: Revaluation of net Goal: Saab’s goal is an equity/assets ratio 2013, amounted to 43.8 per cent (39.0). pension obligations had a positive impact exceeding 30 per cent. on equity, which led to a strengthened equity/asset ratio. 44 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS aeronautics Aeronautics offers a product portfolio that includes the Gripen fighter and Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). Aeronautics also manufactures aircraft components for Saab’s own aircraft as well as passenger aircraft produced by others. Products include Gripen, Skeldar and Neuron. 27% Order bookings, SEK billion 29.7 Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Key figures MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales 7.6 6.7 6.9 6.6 6.4 Order bookings 29,677 4,289 5.9 6.0 Order backlog 34,113 11,305 5.2 Sales 6,869 6,076 EBITDA 603 592 EBITDA margin, % 8.8 9.7 2.8 Operating income 456 359 6.9 Operating margin, % 6.6 5.9 3.4 3.8 4.3 Operating cash flow -314 -425 0.1 No. of employees 3,219 2,997 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions Order bookings also included new orders of about SEK 2.9 bil• Aeronautics offer the Gripen fighter – extremely cost-efficient, lion for deliveries to the Boeing 787 programme and the Airbus offering continuous upgrades and a level of performance that A350, A380 and A320 programmes. This included a contract with meets the stringent requirement of armed forces. Airbus to become a supplier for the A350-1000 regarding design, • The Skeldar unmanned helicopter system with modular design. development and manufacturing of the flap support structures. • Aeronautics is also subcontractor to commercial aircraft producA first contract was signed with the Spanish Navy regarding the ers and, because we deliver mainly composite parts, our experuse of the unmanned aircraft system Skeldar UAS during the EU tise in handling this material is a key factor. mission in the Gulf of Aden. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, Aeronautics includes the following business units: Aerostructures, represented 98 per cent (77) of total order bookings. Gripen E, Gripen C/D, TUAS and System & Technology. Sales, income and margin Driving forces Sales increased in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of a higher Growth within military aviation is driven by governments looking to activity level related to the development of Gripen E. The operatprocure combat aircraft offering better performance, greater flexiing margin in 2013 increased compared to 2012, mainly due to bility and improved overall economy. The civil aircraft manufacturefficient project execution and decreased amortisations. At the ing industry is driven by the growth of passenger traffic, the need to same time, costs of rationalisation measures were recognised. The upgrade existing fleets and the need for new aircraft. Growth in the rationalisations mainly consist of a competence shift programme. civil aviation sector fluctuates more with the economy than the deMarkets outside Sweden accounted for 29 per cent (39) of sales. fence materiel industry does. Cash flow O  perating cash flow was negative during 2013 mainly due to timOrders received ing differences in milestone payments related to the development Order bookings in 2013 included orders from the Swedish of Gripen E and upgrades of the Gripen C/D system. Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) for the development of Gripen E and serial production of 60 Gripen E for Sweden, of Employees which about SEK 25.4 billion was related to Aeronautics. FMV The number of FTE’s increased in 2013, as a result of a higher also ordered upgrades of the current Gripen C/D fleet and reserve activity level in the Gripen E development. materiel for the years 2014–2016. An order was received for integration of the weapon system Meteor on Gripen E. saab annual report 2013 45 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS Dynamics Dynamics offers a product portfolio with ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles and signature management systems for armed forces, as well as unmanned underwater vehicles for the offshore industry. Products include Carl-Gustaf, RBS 70 and RBS 15. 14% Order bookings, SEK billion Sales, SEK billion 4.8 Operating margin, % Key figures MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales 4.7 4.6 4.3 13.0 4.2 4.1 Order bookings 3,350 4,095 3.6 Order backlog 4,549 4,769 3.3 3.4 11.2 3.1 Sales 3,572 4,779 9.1 EBITDA 386 794 EBITDA margin, % 10.8 16.6 5.9 6.8 Operating income 324 621 Operating margin, % 9.1 13.0 Operating cash flow 394 498 No. of employees 1,544 1,529 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions weapon system, two orders for delivery of AUV62, the latest Products and services have been sold to more than 60 countries version of the advanced target training for Anti Submarine Wararound the world and includes ground combat weapons, missile fare (ASW) training, one order for long-term maintenance and systems, camouflage, torpedoes and unmanned underwater support of the AUV62, and one order for the delivery of explosive ­vehicles. training artillery ammunition. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, • Ground combat weapons including NLAW, AT4, Carl-Gustaf and represented 47 per cent (54) of total order bookings. Bill 2. • Land-based air defence systems including RBS 70, RBS 70 NG Sales, income and margin and BAMSE. Sales decreased in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of lower • The RBS 15 air-to-surface missile and missile programmes order bookings. including Meteor, Taurus and IRIS-T. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 85 per cent (88) of sales. • Underwater systems including AUV62, Seaeye Falcon and The operating margin was lower during 2013 compared to Double Eagle. 2012, as a result of decreased sales. Despite lower sales during the • Camouflage systems including Barracuda MCS, ULCAS and fourth quarter 2013, the operating margin was on par with the SOTACS. fourth quarter 2012, as a result of a different product mix. Dynamics includes the following business units: Ground Combat Cash flow Systems, Missile Systems, Underwater Systems and Barracuda. Operating cash flow decreased in 2013 compared to 2012, mainly due to a lower activity level. Driving forces Today’s conflicts are waged increasingly in urban environments. Employees This calls for new materiel systems and new technology in key I n September, union negotiations were initiated to reduce headareas: system integration, interoperability, efficiency and tactical count at the production unit in Karlskoga, Sweden. The redunflexibility. Heightened national security requirements combined dancy notice affects 70 positions. with shrinking defence budgets require solutions that combine high performance, precision and cost-efficiency. Orders received Order bookings in 2013 were lower than in the same period 2012 due to a challenging market situation with postponements of customers’ investments. Large orders received during 2013 included orders for missile components, components for the Carl-Gustaf man-portable 46 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS electronic defence systems Electronic Defence Systems offers a product portfolio comprising airborne early warning systems as well as airborne, land-based and naval systems in radar, signals intelligence and self-protection. The business area also supplies civil and military customers with avionics that improve flight mission efficiency and flight safety. Products include Giraffe AMB, Erieye, Arthur, BOL and IDAS. 16% Order bookings, SEK billion 7.6 Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Key figures MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales 6.5 Order bookings 7,620 2,739 4.7 4.6 4.4 4.3 4.2 Order backlog 8,764 5,442 5.5 Sales 4,161 4,276 2.3 2.7 EBITDA 287 538 3.2 0.5 EBITDA margin, % 6.9 12.6 2.6 2.7 Operating income -201 117 Operating margin, % -4.8 2.7 Operating cash flow 213 -238 -4.8 No. of employees 2,620 2,620 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions for signal-sensor equipment for the Brazilian border security The operation meets customer demand for solutions for surveilprogramme Sisfron. lance and detecting, localising and protection against various Three orders were received for self-protection equipment for types of threat. The product portfolio includes airborne, land-based the German Air Force’s Tornado fleet. Two orders were received for and naval systems in radar, signals intelligence and self-protection. the serial production of an integrated electronic warfare self-proThe operations also comprise avionics that improve flight mission tection system for installation on the Indian Army’s and Air force’s efficiency and flight safety. Advanced Light Helicopter. A contract was signed with Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine • Sensor systems Erieye, Carabas, Arthur and Giraffe AMB. Engineering Korea, for development and integration of combat • Electronic warfare systems, including IDAS, Camps, BOL and management and radar systems on a new frigate for the Royal LEDS. Thai Navy. • Avionics, including surveillance, display and digital recording Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, represystems. sented 70 per cent (37) of total order bookings. • Flying surveillance systems, including AEW&C (Airborne Early Warning & Control). Sales, income and margin • Saab Sensis expertise in various types of radar upgrades. The main reason for the decrease in sales in 2013 compared to 2012 was a low level of order bookings in 2011 and 2012. Electronic and Defence Systems includes the following business Markets outside Sweden accounted for 69 per cent (76) of sales. units: Surface Radar Systems, Avionic, Airborne Surveillance The operating loss in 2013 was mainly attributable to increased Systems, Electronic Warfare Systems, Sourcing and Production investments in product development projects, costs for rationaliand Future Sensor Systems. sation measures and a different project mix compared to 2012. During 2012, a reduction in the potential earn-out liability related Driving forces to the acquisition of Sensis in 2011 contributed with MSEK 154 to Multinational missions and new technology drive the need for open the operating income. architecture, system integration and interoperability. Interest is increasing in sustainable solutions that prioritise sensors and comCash flow mand and control capabilities. F  inal payments related to the completion of projects, as well as timing differences in milestone payments had a positive impact on operating cash flow in 2013. Orders received Orders bookings included orders from FMV for the development Employees of Gripen E and serial production of 60 Gripen E for Sweden. The In September, Saab announced its intention to reduce headcount total order value related to Electronic Defence Systems amounted by 150–175 employees in Gothenburg, Sweden. This will be to approximately SEK 3.2 billion. FMV also ordered an upgrade of achieved through a competence shift programme. The reducSweden’s ground based air defence. tions are the result of decreased business volumes and the current Two orders were received regarding upgrades of the Erieye technology shift. AEW&C Mission System in Brazil. An order was also received saab annual report 2013 47 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS security and defence solutions Security and Defence Solutions offers a product portfolio comprising defence reconnaissance systems, training and simulation, air traffic management, maritime security, security and monitoring systems, and solutions for safe, robust communications. Products include the 9LV combat management and countermeasure system, the Remote Tower air traffic management system and the Tacticall communication integrations system. 23% Order bookings, SEK billion 6.6 Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Key figures MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales 6.2 7.3 6.0 6.0 5.9 7.0 5.8 5.7 Order bookings 5,429 5,307 6.9 5.3 5.4 Order backlog 6,529 7,150 4.6 Sales 5,891 5,976 EBITDA 556 555 4.8 EBITDA margin, % 9.4 9.3 Operating income 428 417 Operating margin, % 7.3 7.0 Operating cash flow -255 -191 2.2 No. of employees 2,882 3,079 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions management and radar systems on a new frigate for the Royal • Operations are concentrated on C4IS (Command, Control, ComThai Navy. puting Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) systems, An order was received from the US Army for radio systems WISR solutions, flying surveillance systems (e.g., AEW&C Airwhich are used in data communications for live training. Also, a borne Early Warning & Control), security solutions and training framework contract was signed with the Swedish Defence Maand simulation. teriel Administration (FMV), for maintenance and upgrades of • Remote air traffic control uses cameras and sensors installed mobile airbase solutions for the Swedish Airforce. around airports. All recorded information is linked in real time to A contract was signed with ASC Pty Ltd (Australian Submarine the air traffic control centre and projected onto a 360-degree Corporation) to update and modernise the Integrated Ship Conview. This cost-effective solution allows several airports to be trol Management and Monitoring System on the Royal Australian monitored from a single location. Navy’s Collins Class Submarines. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, Security and Defence Solutions includes the following business represented 44 per cent (44) of total order bookings. units: Command and Control Systems, Critical System and Communication Solutions, Airborne Surveillance Solutions, Traffic ManSales, income and margin agement and Training & Simulation. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 81 per cent (76) of sales. The operating income in 2013 was affected positively by an efDriving forces ficient project execution. During 2012, a reduction in a potential Multinational missions and new technology drive the need for soluearn-out liability contributed with MSEK 53 to the operating tions that give high priority to command and control capabilities income. Also, such reductions had a positive impact on the opeand interoperability. Investments in national security are on the rise rating income for 2013, while at the same time restructuring costs throughout the world. were recognised. With greater security threats and new technological developments, Cash flow there is also an increasing need for training. Operating cash flow was negative in 2013 due to timing differences in milestone payments in some large projects. Order bookings Employees A large order was received for support of an airborne surveilThe number of FTE’s was reduced, mainly as a result of the new lance system totalling SEK 1.1 billion, of which approximately market organisation implemented on 1 January 2013 and general MSEK 700 was related to Security and Defence Solutions. resource adjustments. An order was received from Watpac Construction Pty Ltd for the installation and commissioning of electronic security systems for the Australian Department of Defence. A contract was signed with Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Korea, for development and integration of combat 48 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS support and services Support and Services delivers support solutions to customers in the defence, civil security and civil aircraft operating industries. The solutions include technical maintenance, Life Cycle Logistics, spare parts, and products and services that make it easier for customers to operate in remote locations with limited infrastructure. Products and solutions include 340 MSA reconnaissance aircraft, the CBRN warning system and mobile camps and field hospitals. 13% Order bookings, Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Key figures SEK billion MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales 4.5 12.4 Order bookings 3,942 4,540 4.1 4.1 3.9 12.0 Order backlog 6,186 5,678 3.6 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.2 11.5 Sales 3,419 3,411 EBITDA 383 429 EBITDA margin, % 11.2 12.6 10.6 10.3 Operating income 364 410 Operating margin, % 10.6 12.0 Operating cash flow -17 387 No. of employees 1,781 1,791 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions is a further option under an earlier agreement with FMV for • Integrated service solutions for businesses in the air, land, marine performance-based support and maintenance of Gripen (PBL – and civil security industries. Performance-Based Logistics). • Package solutions for equipment maintenance and service, techA five-year contract was signed with the airline British Midland nical training, spare parts, logistics solutions and field support, Regional Ltd (BMI Regional) for component maintenance and and round-the-clock service centres. the repair of BMI Regional’s fleet of Embraer aircraft. • Flexible, scalable, adaptable and upgradable solutions. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, • Operations are global and comprise Saab systems as well other represented 47 per cent (41) of total order bookings. OEM systems and equipment. • Support and service of a large part of the Saab 340s and Saab Sales, income and margin 2000s operating globally today, with 400 aircraft flown by 75 opMarkets outside Sweden accounted for 34 per cent (29) of sales. erators in 37 countries. Total of around 1,400 flights per day. The operating margin in 2013 decreased compared to 2012, due to costs for rationalisation measures and a change in project mix. Support and Services includes the following business units: Air, Land Maintenance Repair Operations and Life Cycle Logistics. Cash flow In 2013, the operating cash flow was lower compared to 2012 Driving forces partly as a result of a continued build-up of working capital in Increased demand for efficient solutions, with customers instructsome projects. ing the supplier to e.g., maintain a system. Employees Saab announced in November that the headcount should be reOrder bookings duced by about 50 people within Support and Services. The measOrder bookings in 2013 decreased compared to 2012 due to ures affect an additional 50 people within the business area and ­tougher market conditions. are carried out through restructuring and individual solutions. During 2013 orders were received from FMV for the development of Gripen E and serial production of 60 Gripen E for Sweden. The total order value for Support and Services related to these orders amounted to approximately SEK 1.3 billion. A large order was received for support of an airborne surveillance system totalling SEK 1.1 billion, of which about MSEK 300 was related to Support and Services. An order was received from FMV to provide technical system support to the Swedish Armed Forces during 2014. The order saab annual report 2013 49 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS combitech Combitech, an independent subsidiary within the Saab Group, is one of Sweden’s largest technology consulting companies. Combining technology with cutting-edge expertise in the environment and security areas, we create solutions for our clients’ specific needs. 6% Order bookings, Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Key figures SEK billion MSEK 2013 2012 share of sales Order bookings 1,634 1,436 1.6 1.6 1.4 Order backlog 483 446 1.4 9.2 Sales 1,598 1,410 1.1 1.0 EBITDA 148 130 1.0 0.9 8.9 0.9 0.9 8.8 EBITDA margin, % 9.3 9.2 8.9 8.7 Operating income 140 122 Operating margin, % 8.8 8.7 Operating cash flow 159 -43 No. of employees 1,344 1,287 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Services and solutions Operating income • Combitech is active in the aviation, defence, telecom and other The operating income increased during 2013, due to higher sales industries as well as the public sector. compared to 2012. The operating margin was on par with 2012. • Combitech offers services in systems development, systems integration, information security, systems security, communiCash flow cations, mechanics, technical product information and logistics. The operating cash flow was at a higher level in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to acquisitions made during 2012. Driving forces Many customers are cutting back on the number of consultants they Employees use, preferring to work with larger, more comprehensive consulting  e number of FTE’s increased slightly as Combitech saw a contiTh firms. The market for turnkey projects is therefore expected to innued high demand in several market segments. crease. There is intense pressure on the market for technical consultants, especially in terms of hourly-billed assignments. Sales Operations within the aircraft and engineering industries and the public sector showed the highest sales growth during 2013. The telecommunication segment has shown a lower demand during the year. Overall, we see a somewhat cautious industrial economy. Sales attributable to customers outside the Saab Group increased in 2013 compared to 2012. The share of sales attributable to the Saab Group amounted to 46 per cent (42). Markets outside Sweden accounted for 5 per cent (3) of sales. 50 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Saab’s business generally entails significant investments, tain long-term customer relationships is a key issue for Saab, as projects delivered over long periods of time, and highsome projects extend over decades. Because the Swedish state – tech product development or refinement. Operations through the Armed Forces and FMV – has traditionally accouninvolve customer and supplier relationships, joint ventuted for a large proportion of Saab’s product renewal, our business res and other corporate alliances as well as Saab’s own is particularly affected by Sweden’s defence policy. business activities in many countries. Another type of risk are market risks that can affect customers’ inability to fulfil current contracts due to economic, political or All businesses entail risk. A risk can be specific to the company other circumstances such as natural disasters, an economic crisis, or related to a certain industry or market. Certain risks can be a shift in power or an embargo. fully managed by the company, while others are out of its control. Saab’s operations primarily involve the development, production Managing political and market risks and supply of technologically advanced hardware and software to Saab manages political and market risks through various types of customers around the world. export guarantees, insurance solutions and other instruments. It Our operations entail significant risk-taking in various respects. is impossible, however, to avoid losing business opportunities or The key risk areas are political, financial and operational risks. See incurring damage if political and market risks are realised. this spread for information on the political and financial risks. See pages 52–54 for more information on the operating risks. Financial risks In its operations, Saab is exposed to various financial risks. Managing risks Management of financial risks is governed by the Group Treasury Significant identified risks are managed continuously at all levels Policy established by the Board of Directors. Saab also has an of the organisation and in strategic planning. Various guidelines, extensive pension obligation managed by Saab’s Pension Fund. policies and instruments govern the management of significant Detailed directives and processes are in place for the operational risks. In addition, Saab has an internal audit unit that serves as a management of each area. Overarching responsibility for manadedicated resource to independently audit the effectiveness of a ging financial risks lies with Group Treasury. selection of internal control processes. Risks are also managed by procuring insurance. Saab has a Group-wide programme where Pension obligations insurance is obtained on the market or through the Group’s own The Group’s pension obligations are substantial, as indicated in insurer, Lansen Försäkrings AB. Note 37. In the calculation of pension obligations, future pension obligations are discounted to present value. The size of the liabiRisk analysis and activities 2013 lity is dependent on the choice of discount rate: a low interest rate In 2013 we worked with training and following up the introducproduces a high liability, and vice versa. tion of the harmonised risk evaluation process implemented at Saab. Focus has been on the operating processes and project Management of pension liability execution. Risk management work was expanded in 2013, compaThe predominant plan in Sweden is the itp plan under collective red to 2012, to cover additional areas within line operations and agreements adopted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise support processes. and the Negotiation Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Business Sector (ptk). Saab Sweden has three different ways of sePolitical and market risks curing the defined-benefit plans. They are secured as liabilities in Saab supplies, among other things, systems and equipment that the balance sheet, in pension funds or funded through insurance are classified as strategic products, the sale of which is regulated with mainly Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, that secured part of by national laws and ordinances that also include international the itp plan, had assets of msek 4,595 (4,346) as of 31 December agreements. Access to vital components and systems may be sub2013, compared to an obligation of msek 5,793 (6,492) according ject to export restrictions and various types of regulations, which to ias 19, or a solvency margin of 79 ­per cent (67). are exposed to political risks. To manage the pension liability, the Saab Pension Fund was Regulations are amended on an ongoing basis, and this impacts established in 2006 and capitalised with the corresponding PRI Saab’s business opportunities. The ability to establish and mainliability. The Group’s obligations are calculated on an actuarial FOCUS FOR RISK MANAGEMENT 2012–2014 2012 2013 2014 Training, follow-up and completed inInternal focus on increasing underContinued implementation of meastroduction of the harmonised risk manstanding of the requirements of local ures to streamline development proagement process. Efficiency improvemarkets. Also ongoing provision of cesses, including through the use of ments to the production development training for Saab employees and partthe product database that was introprocess. ners about our anti-corruption work. duced in 2013. Strengthen our whistleAlso continuous improvement of the blowing function and increase the overall risk assessment process. general security awareness among all employees. saab annual report 2013 51 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT basis each year, after which a comparison is drawn with the fund’s years. Future business opportunities are periodically reassessed, assets. Deficits according to such calculations may require Saab which can lead to impairment losses. Capitalised development to contribute additional funds. The Saab Pension Fund’s objective costs are shown in Note 16. is a real annual return of at least 4 per cent on invested capital. The fund invests in interest-bearing securities, equities and hedge Long-term customer projects funds. Management of long-term customer projects involves risks. Saab’s operations entail complex development projects on the leading Operating risks edge of technology where the competitive situation is complex. A number of significant areas have been identified with respect Our success depends on the ability to offer cost-effective high to operating risks, which are important in assessing the Group’s technology solutions, and also in some cases on participation in results and financial position. the customer-country’s economy through various forms of industrial co-operation. Developing and introducing new systems and products The risk in managing long-term customer projects is that Saab The Group invests heavily in the research and development of its will be unsuccessful in meeting customer requirements, as a result own products and systems as well as acquisitions of technology. of which the commitment is not fulfilled or the costs run signifiIts own products are mainly radar systems, command and control cantly higher. systems, tactical weapons, UAV systems and electronic warfare systems. One example of acquired technology is the radar techManagement of long-term customer projects nology obtained through the acquisition of Ericsson Microwave A majority of all long-term customer projects include significant Systems AB in 2006. Investments in new systems and products development work, which is associated with risk. Every contract are made after a strategic and financial analysis and assessment of with a customer to supply a product, solution or service is always future business opportunities. preceded by a thorough analysis of the conditions and risks assoRisks associated with developing and introducing new systems ciated with the delivery, based on an internal process established and products are the failure of self-developed products to meet within Saab for customer contracts, the ”Winning Business” promarket demands, thereby failing to yield the return estimated at cess. This process includes a comprehensive analysis of the risks the time the decision was made. in the project and demands for management of risks that occur. During 2013 we have continuously worked to improve the proManagement of development and introduction of new systems cess. The process has been adapted to changes in Saab’s internal and products governance and to new external demands. The Winning Business Implementation of measures to further improve the efficiency of process has also been adapted to the market area organisation that our development processes continued during 2013. The further was introduced in January 2013. developed portfolio management process was used actively on Regular project reviews are conducted during the project an overall level during 2013 to take decisions on investment implementation stage using various types of reviews, e.g., design prioritisation from both the market and profitability perspectives. reviews, project reviews, decision reviews, etc. An important Product roadmaps (i.e., plans for further development of product) element of this is to identify risks and assess them along with are now being established for the full life-cycle of all products. measures taken to mitigate risks with the help of our uniform risk This provides greater opportunities for internal governance and assessment process. The Group applies the percentage of compleprioritisation of product development. During 2013, Saab’s new tion method to recognise revenue from long-term customer product database with more than 500 products grouped in proprojects. An estimation of total costs is critical to revenue recogniduct areas, was launched. The product database is linked to Saab’s tion and provisions for onerous contracts as well as the valuation CRM system and provide strong support for the new market area of inventories. The outcome of technical and commercial risks organisation. Saab also continued to work in 2013 with streamlimay affect income. We are working continuously to improve ning product development through modulisation, allowing new this process and ensure its implementation. In 2013 we worked customer demands to be met more quickly and less expensively. continuously to secure the implementation of the process through Early identification of a launch customer is an essential element supportive education and ongoing improvements. These process to reducing the risks associated with the development of new proimprovements will continue in 2014, including adaptation to new ducts. To improve business case precision, heightened demands external and internal demands. now require clear identification of a launch customer at the time the investment decision is made. Environmental risks and liabilities Certain development costs are capitalised in accordance with The most significant environmental risks are the improper manaestablished accounting principles. Amortisation of capitalised gement of hazardous chemicals, fires in buildings and plants, and development costs is scheduled over the estimated production soil contamination. For more information on environmental risks volume or an estimated period of use, though not more than ten and liabilities, see Note 48. FINANCIAL RISKS RISK Foreign currency risk Pension obligations Interest rate risk Refinancing risk Credit and counterparty risk Commodity risk MANAGEMENT Management of financial risks is governed by the Group Treasury Policy established by the Board of Directors. Read more about financial risks in Note 41. See above 52 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Management of environmental risks and liabilities is to begin implementation during the first quarter of 2014. We are The operations in Linköping and Karlskoga are subject to Europe’s also updating our teacher led anti-corruption training and evaluate Seveso law, which is designed to reduce risks in connection with whether the target group should be extended to include people out­ the large-scale use of chemicals. We apply strict routines for risk side the marketing organisation. Other initiatives underway include assessment, supervision and control of chemicals in relevant busithe development of additional tools for corruption risk analyses and ness areas. Well-established routines are also applied to purchases an improved system for monitoring and auditing marketing consulof chemical products. Health and environmental information tants and other business partners. on chemical products is available in the Group’s chemical data system. In 2013, several activities have been initiated to meet the Information security risk anticipated prohibition on the use of certain hazardous chemicals, Saab develops and produces high technology products to custoaccording to the REACH chemicals legislation. mers world-wide. We continuously handle information that is Saab works actively to assess and minimise fire risks in its critical to the security of our customers. In many cases the inforoperations. Since a fire in a production facility can cause extensive mation also is critical for the security of nations. We also handle environmental damage to the local area, effective fire prevention is very sensitive information regarding the protection of critical an important part of the efforts to reduce environmental risks. infrastructure. More frequently, Saab’s information systems are We analyse our operations and properties around the world to being attacked by external actors trying to access data. The aim assess Saab’s risk exposure resulting from soil contamination. If of such actors can for example be to try to get hold of classified a contaminated area is identified, liability is determined and an information. We also are exposed to other forms of espionage overall risk assessment is conducted. Information on contaminaattempts. ted areas is documented as it is received. An insurance solution As a defence and security company, it is evidently very imto manage soil contamination cases has been in place since 2009. portant that we handle sensitive information correct. If we do Overall risk assessments are made to determine how operations not succeed with this it would have serious consequences for our are affected by climate change. These risks are reported within the brand and reputation as well as hurting the relationship with our framework of reporting for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). customers. Compliance risks Management of information security risk Saab has clear guidelines on how to act in contact with customers Saab, like other international companies, are constantly exposed and society. We do business all over the world and have relationsto risks when handling information. Saab has a systematic, riskbahips with customers and other stakeholders on all continents. Our sed and processoriented view on how to handle information with commitment is to act in an ethically correct manner in all that we very clear rules and routines for all levels in the organisation. do, based on current legislation, our own Code of Conduct and In order to secure that all employees handle information in common industry standards. We shall be a long-term and reliable accordance with our rules all employees take a security course in business partner that promotes an open and transparent market. connection with joining Saab. When joining Saab all employees The risk involved when doing business involves the breaking of also sign a confidentially agreement. our commitment. We systematically work with identifying, analysing and handling security risks within our Business Winning Process. This Management of compliance risks enables security issues to become a natural part of our business. Our Code of Conduct is based on OECD guidelines and the UN The result of the analysis is thereafter used as basis for decisions Global Compact. All employees receive Code of Conduct training. about how for example the IT-infrastructure or other security A cornerstone of our compliance work is that every business should be adapted in order to guarantee an acceptable risk level. transaction and market activity shall be preceded by a corruption The measurement for management of security risks are folanalysis. To facilitate the analysis, Saab has developed a Corruplowed up by a systematic focus on quality, continuous training tion Risk Assessment Tool that helps single out factors that typiof personnel supplemented with for example elementary advises cally are designed to influence corruption. All employees within regarding how to handle information in connection with business the marketing and sales organisation are trained in the signifitravel, meetings and communication. cance of the requirement that every business manager perform a In 2013 Saab expanded the security organisation and also an corruption assessment in connection with every business transacexternal audit of our systematic security work was performed. In tion. The training also includes knowledge of existing legislation, addition an internal policy for the work with security issues for rules and regulations and Saab’s processes for hiring consultants the Group was introduced. and other advisors. In 2014 Saab is aiming at preparing a long-term strategy and Use of marketing consultants and other advisors is custoaction plan aiming at reaching our target to become recognised mary in a complex world. At Saab, every such co-operation shall as world leading within business security and risk management. be tested, evaluated and motivated centrally. There is a clear In addition we will also strengthen and intensify the communicadecision-making process to be followed, and every decision shall tion with all employees about how to increase the general security be preceded by a thorough analysis. Saab also offers training for level. The risk management process within our Winning Business the marketing consultants it retains. Undergoing this training and process will also be further development and strengthened. signing a commitment to follow Saab’s guidelines are prerequisites Our goal is that every employee shall have a strong awareness of for further co-operation. security and that this shall be a natural part of our culture, procesIn 2013 the current training programme was supplemented ses and brand. with web-based anti-corruption training, which is mandatory for all Saab employees. The programme is designed to specifically reflect the risks that arise in Saab’s operations and is available in both English and Swedish. In 2014 we intend to strengthen our whistle-blower function by introducing a new system that allows external reporting via the internet and telephone. Work has begun on the new system and our goal saab annual report 2013 53 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATING RISKS RISK Develop and introduce Management of longEnvironmental risks Compliance risks Information security risk new systems and term customer projects and liabilities ­products SIGNIFIThe risk is a failure by The risk is a failure by In its operations, Saab The risk is a failure by A large business risk exists CANCE Saab to achieve the Saab to meet customer handles a wide variety Saab to comply with its if we are not able to handle levels of business rerequirements, as a reof chemical products commitment to act in an sensitive information in a quired for its products sult of which the comthat are classified as ethically correct manner in correct manner. If we do to be profitable. mitment is not fulfilled. harmful to humans and all that we do, based on not succeed with this it the environment. The current legislation, our would have serious consemost significant enviown Code of Conduct and quences for our brand and ronmental risks involve common industry standreputation as well as hurthazardous chemicals, ards. ing the relationship with building and plant fires, our customers. and soil contamination. MANAGEThe Group takes an acEvery contract with a Saab has introduced Our Code of Conduct is Saab has a systematic, MENT tive approach to prodcustomer to supply a strict routines for ascomplemented by deriskbased and processoriuct management. A product, solution or sessment, supervision tailed directives and poliented view on how to hanhigh degree of moduservice is always preand control of various cies within relevant areas. dle information with very larisation in project ceded by a thorough environmental risks. Our compliance proclear rules and routines for management allows analysis of the condigramme also includes exall levels in the organisaSaab to reuse product tions and risks associtensive internal training tion. The measurement for solutions in its offerated with delivery, and clear management management of security ings. based on an internal structures with special risks are followed up by a process established compliance functions dessystematic focus on qualwithin Saab for the ignated to manage operity, continuous training of management of cusating risks and the further personnel supplemented tomer contracts. development and imwith for example elemenprovement of existing regtary advises regarding ulations and processes. how to handle information Saab has also established in connection with busia whistle-blower system. ness travel, meetings and communication. 2013 During 2013, the impleIn 2013 we continued Health and environIn 2013, we continued In 2013 Saab expanded mentation of various our efforts to ensure the mental information on training business managthe security organisation measures to further enimplementation of the chemical products is ers in conducting corrupand also an external audit hance our development project management available in the Group’s tion risk assessments for of our systematic security processes continued. process. The process chemical data system. each deal. The training work was performed. In The portfolio managehas been adapted to In 2013, several activiprogramme for all employaddition an internal policy ment system has also changes in Saab’s inties have been initiated ees on anti-corruption isfor the work with security been actively used on a ternal governance and to meet the anticipated sues was supplemented issues for the Group was general level to aid deto new external deprohibition on the use with mandatory webintroduced. cision-making on inmands. The Winning of certain hazardous based training for all emvestment prioritisation Business process has chemicals, according to ployees. from both the market also been adapted to the REACH chemicals and profitability perthe market area organilegislation. spectives. In 2013, sation that was introSaab also launched its duced in January 2013. product database with more than 500 products grouped in product areas. The product database is linked to Saab’s CRM system to support the new market area organisation. 2014 The introduction of In 2014 we will continuMany measures that reWe will strengthen our In 2014 Saab is aiming at Saab’s new product daously improve the produce CO2 emissions whistle-blower function in preparing a long-term tabase continues. It will cess by adapting to will be implemented. A 2014 by introducing a new strategy and action plan also support our efforts new external and interproject will be launched system that allows exteraiming at reaching our tarto make product develnal demands. in 2014 to examine opnal reporting via internet get to become recognised opment more efficient tions for operating and telephone. Work has as world leading within through modulasation. Gripen E on biofuel. begun on the new system business security and risk This means that cusFMV, the US Air Force, and our goal is to begin management. In addition tomer needs can be met General Electric, Saab implementation during the we will also strengthen faster and at a lower and a biofuel manufacfirst quarter. Other initiaand intensify the commucost. turer are participating in tives underway include the nication with all employthe project. The phasedevelopment of additional ees about how to increase out of hazardous chemtools for corruption risk the general security level. ical substances will analyses and an improved The risk management procontinue. system for monitoring and cess within our Winning auditing marketing conBusiness process will also sultants and other busibe further development ness partners. and strengthened. 54 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT> OTHER INFORMATION other information Corporate Variable remuneration Corporate reported operating income of MSEK -166 (4). Saab’s operations are characterised primarily by the development of During 2013 and 2012 reversal of risk provisions, attributable complex products and systems. The products are marketed, further to the remaining risks related to Saab’s lease fleet of turboprop developed, produced and maintained over long periods – in some aircraft, contributed positively to the operating income. The posicases, three or four decades – and normally involve significant tive impact was smaller during 2013 than 2012. investments and long-term relationships with customers in all parts In 1997 Saab discontinued the manufacturing of turboprop of the world. It is therefore vital that senior executives have a longaircraft. As of 31 December 2013, Saab has a lease fleet consisting term view and a long-term commitment to the company’s operations of 49 (61) turboprop Saab 340 and Saab 2000 aircraft. Of the fleet, and profits. Long-term incentives are thus particularly well suited 35 (42) are financed through US leverage leases. Rents from these to Saab and its shareholders, and Saab offers a share-based incentive leases are insured through The Swedish Export Credits Guarantee programme. Board, EKN. 14 (19) aircraft are financed internally and recognised The President and CEO and senior executives are entitled to as assets in the balance sheet. Provisions in the balance sheet relaparticipate in the long-term incentive programmes adopted by ted to the leasing portfolio are deemed sufficient for the remaining the Shareholders’ Meeting. risks. Saab estimates that the leasing portfolio will be phased out in One-off agreements for variable cash remuneration may be 2015. made in extraordinary circumstances, provided that such agreThe operating income was also impacted by a capital gain attriements are made solely on an individual basis for recruitment or butable to divestment of property. retention purposes, or as compensation for extraordinary efforts A payment, amounting to MSEK 314 related to a lost legal above and beyond the individual’s ordinary work duties. Such dispute regarding the command and control system DACCIS, was remuneration shall never exceed the amount of the fixed annual made. The payment Saab made includes repayment of damages, salary and shall not be paid more than once a year per individual. payments received under the previous contract, as well as interest Resolutions on such cash remuneration shall be made by the and court costs. Of the MSEK 314, MSEK 231 was reported as Board based on a proposal from the Remuneration Committee. operating income and MSEK 83 as interest cost in the financial net. Variable cash remuneration shall not be paid under any circumstances. Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives 2013 Other benefits Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Directors All members of the Group Management may be entitled to other shall propose guidelines to the Annual General Meeting for benefits in accordance with local practice. The benefits shall remuneration for the company’s senior executives. The 2013 Ancontribute to facilitating the executive’s discharge of his or her nual General Meeting adopted the Board’s proposed guidelines duties. These benefits shall not constitute a material part of the for such remuneration as described below. total compensation and shall be equivalent to what is considered The senior executives comprise the President and CEO and reasonable in relation to market practice. Examples of such other other members of the Group Management. The members of this benefits are a company car, travels, overnight accommodation group are presented on the company’s website (www.saabgroup. and medical insurance. com). In some special cases, these guidelines may also apply to Saab AB Board Members, as described below. Pension Saab shall offer market terms, enabling the company to recruit The retirement age is 62 under pension agreements entered into after and retain senior executives. To the greatest extent possible, 1 January 2005. In addition to the ITP agreement, the pension is part remuneration structures shall be characterised by predictability of a defined premium based contribution plan and provisions are with respect to both the cost for the company and the benefit for made annually. For the President and CEO, the provision is equivathe employee. They shall be based on factors such as position, lent to a maximum of 35 per cent of the fixed salary. For other senior competence, experience and performance. Benchmarking against executives the percentage is based on ”Saab Plan” regulations, which comparable industries and markets shall be practiced regularly. stipulate that the percentage is to be based on the number of years The guidelines are based primarily on agreements in effect remaining until retirement age upon joining the plan. The aggregate between Saab AB and individual executives. No board fees are insurance balance should cover a targeted pension from 65 years of paid to members of the Group Management for participation on age of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 the boards of the business areas or Saab subsidiaries. The Remubasic income amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments neration Committee is responsible for developing and reviewing above 30 basic income amounts. remuneration and other employment terms for the Group ManaAll senior executives may also be entitled to enhanced disabigement. The Board is entitled to divert from the guidelines in the lity pension and survivors’ pension. event there are reasonable grounds to do so in any specific case. These guidelines apply as from the 2013 Annual General Miscellaneous terms Meeting. All Group Management executives, including the President and CEO, may terminate their employment with six months’ notice. Fixed remuneration If the employment is terminated by Saab the notice period is also Cash remuneration shall consist of fixed salary. The fixed salary six months, after which a severance payment equal to one year’s shall be reviewed annually as per 1 January for all members of the salary is paid. An additional year’s salary may be paid in the event Group Management. The fixed salary shall be at market terms and no new employment has been obtained for 18 months from the based on factors such as position, competence, experience and time notice of termination was served. performance. With respect to employment agreements made after 1 January saab annual report 2013 55 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > OTHER INFORMATION 2005 that are terminated by Saab, a maximum severance payment of The Remuneration Committee has recommended the Board of 18 months is payable following a six-month notice period. Directors to propose that the Annual General Meeting adopt In both cases, any income from termination and/or severance pay remuneration guidelines with terms and conditions identical to will be deducted against income from other employment during the those that were adopted by the 2013 Annual General Meeting. corresponding period. In light of the above, the Board of Directors proposes that the 2013 Annual General Meeting adopt guidelines for remuneration Consultant fees to Board Members and other terms of employment for senior executives with terms Saab AB’s shareholder-elected Board Members may in special and conditions identical to those resolved at the 2013 Annual cases receive a fee for services performed within their respective General Meeting (please see above). areas of expertise, separately from their Board duties and for a limited period of time. Compensation for these services shall be Incentive programmes proposed to the Annual General Meepaid at market terms. ting 2014 The Board of Directors proposed that the Annual General MeeIncentive programmes proposed to the 2013 Annual General ting resolved on the implementation of a Share Matching Plan Meeting 2014 and a Performance Share Plan 2014. The Board of Directors proposed that the Annual General The terms and estimated costs for the Share Matching Plan Meeting resolve to adopt the 2013 Share Matching Plan and 2013 2014 and the Performance Share Plan 2014 are presented in the Performance Share Plan. The Annual General Meeting resolved in Board of Director’s complete proposal to the Annual General accordance with the Board’s proposal. Meeting. Note 37 of the Annual Report includes a description of existing remunerations for senior executives, including fixed and variable Saab’s long-term incentive programmes and authorisation to compensation, long-term incentive programmes and other benefits. repurchase own shares In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer Board of Directors proposal for guidelines for remuneration employees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary share and other terms of employment for senior executives, matching plan under which they can purchase Saab Series B applicable as of the next Annual General Meeting shares over a 12-month period. Purchases are made through The Remuneration Committee has evaluated the application of the deductions of between 1 and 5 per cent of the employee’s monthly guidelines for remuneration for Saab AB senior executives resolved salary. If the employee retains the purchased shares for three years at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and the current remuneration after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, structures and remuneration levels in the company. The Remunerathe employee will be allotted a corresponding number of Series B tion Committee deems that the guidelines resolved in 2013 achieve shares free of charge. their purposes of facilitating the recruitment and retention of senior The plan was introduced in autumn 2007 in Sweden and Norexecutives. way. In 2008 it was expanded to include employees in Denmark, other significant events in 2013 • On February 15th, the Swedish Defence Ma• In April Saab announced that the Danish SuKarlskoga production division and was due to terial Administration (FMV) and Saab entered preme Court had ordered it to repay the Dandeclining order intake resulting from reduced into agreement regarding development and ish Defence Materiel Administration (FMT) modification of the Gripen E for Sweden and to reimburse FMT’s court costs. The disglobal defence spending. through the period 2013–2026 as well as a pute was based on a cancelled contract conpotential order for production of Gripen E for cerning the DACCIS command and control • Saab announced in September that it had Switzerland. The agreement comprises posystem. The judgment amount comprised reacquired Hydro-Lek Limited, a British manutential orders of SEK 47.2 billion in total. payment of the damages awarded Saab by facturer of remote handling systems and tools the Danish Maritime and Commercial Court for underwater vehicles, with 25 employees. • Lena Olving, formerly Saab AB’s Executive in 2010, payments received under the DACThe acquisition strengthens Saab’s product Vice President and Chief Operating Officer CIS contract and interest and court costs. portfolio of remote-controlled, autonomous (COO), stepped down at the end of the secThe expense amounting to MSEK 314 was ond quarter 2013 to become President and and hybrid underwater vehicles. Saab’s amcharged to earnings during the second quarCEO of the listed technology company Mibition is to continue to grow the company. ter of 2013. cronic Mydata AB. • Saab AB held its Annual General Meeting in • Saab announced in May that it had acquired • In September Saab announced that the workStockholm on 17 April 2013. In accordance TIKAB (Teknikinformation i Krokom AB). The force would be reduced by 150-175 employwith the Nomination Committee’s proposal, acquisition broadens Saab’s service portfolio ees within business area Electronic Defence Håkan Buskhe, Johan Forssell, Sten Jakobsand enables Saab to offer a more complete Systems in Gothenburg. This was accomson, Per-Arne Sandström, Cecilia Stegö range of technical services that further plished through a skills exchange programme Chilò, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenstrengthen the company’s competitiveness as and was the result of reduced business volberg and Joakim Westh were re-elected as a supplier of support solutions. umes and the ongoing technology shift. board members. Sara Mazur was elected as a new board member. Marcus Wallenberg was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. At • In September Saab opened union negotia• Saab announced the shareholder representathe statutory board meeting following the tions to reduce the number of employees in tives who, together with the Chairman of the AGM, Sten Jakobsson was elected Vice business area Dynamics in Karlskoga. The Board, constitute the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Board. layoff notice applied to 70 positions at the for the 2014 Annual General Meeting: 56 saab annual report 2013 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > OTHER INFORMATION Germany, the UK, the US, Switzerland and Australia. Share Plan. The mandate is in force through the close of the 2014 South Africa was included in 2009, Finland in 2010, the Czech Annual General Meeting. Repurchases may be effected over the Republic in 2011, India in 2012 and Thailand, Holland and Canastock exchange or through offerings to shareholders. During 2013 da in 2013. In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved the Board did not elect to utilise its repurchase authorisation; acto introduce a performance-based plan for senior executives and cordingly, no shares were repurchased in 2013. key employees entitling them to 2–5 matching shares depending In 2007, Saab repurchased 1 million shares, in 2008 and 2009 it on the category to which the employee belongs. In addition to the repurchased 1,340,000 shares per year, and in 2010 it repurchased requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after th838,131 shares to hedge the plans. No shares were repurchased in ree years, there is a requirement that earnings per share grow in the 2011, 2012 or 2013. range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. Participants in this programme may allocate a maximum Share repurchase of 7.5 per cent of their fixed gross salary to purchase Saab Series B Saab held 2,736,200 Treasury shares as at 31 December 2013, as shares. All Annual General Meetings held from 2009–2013 have compared to 3,219,515 at year-end 2012. resolved to renew the Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Saab’s Pension Fund held no Saab shares as at 31 December 2013. Plan. As of 2011 the Share Matching Plan covers all employees, including senior executives and key persons. The Performance Share Dividend Plans for 2011, 2012 and 2013 (directed solely to senior executives The Board of Directors proposes that shareholders receive a diviand key persons) entitle participants to 1–4 matching shares, dend of SEK 4.50 per share (4.50), or a total of MSEK 479 (477). depending on the category to which the employee belongs. This has been calculated based on the number of outstanding shaThe Annual General Meeting held on 17 April 2013 renewed res at 31 December 2013 amounting to 106,414,144 (105,930,829). the Board of Directors’ mandate to repurchase up to 10 per cent 11 April 2014 has been proposed as the record day for the diviof the company’s shares, of which 1,340,000 shares to hedge the dend, which is expected to be paid on 16 April 2014. Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. The purpose of the authorisation is to provide the Board with Significant events after the conclusion of the year greater scope in working with the company’s capital structure No significant events have occurred after the conclusion of the and enable acquisitions when considered appropriate, as well year. as to secure the Group’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman of the Board, • In November, Saab issued a five-year loan, • On 18 December the Brazilian government Saab AB Petra Hedengran, Investor AB fixed interest rate bonds of MSEK 250 and announced its selection of Gripen NG. NePeter Wallenberg Jr, Knut and Alice Floating Rate Notes (FRN) of MSEK 750 gotiations with the Brazilian Air Force for the Wallenberg Foundation Tomas Hedberg, under the existing Medium Term Note proacquisition of 36 Gripen NGs were initiated Swedbank Robur Funds Anders Algotsson, gramme (MTN). The total size of the profollowing the announcement. Saab’s offering AFA Insurance. The Nomination Committee gramme amounted to SEK 3 billion. The purto the Brazilian government includes Gripen represents approximately 55 per cent of the pose of the transaction is to refinance loans NG and associated systems, a comprehentotal voting rights in Saab AB pursuant to the of SEK 1.1 billion maturing in the beginning sive technology transfer package, a financownership structure as at 31 August 2013. of December 2013. Saab previously had an ing solution and a long-term bilateral co-opSaab AB’s Annual General Meeting will be unused Swedish commercial paper proeration between the Brazilian and Swedish held on Tuesday, 8 April 2014. gramme of SEK 5 billion. governments. An order for Gripen NGs may be placed when the negotiations are con• In November Saab announced that the • In December Saab and Boeing signed a cocluded and when an agreement is made beworkforce would be reduced by approxioperation agreement for the joint developtween Saab and Brazil. mately 50 employees within business area ment and construction of an entirely new, Support & Services in 2013. The restructuradvanced and cost-efficient training aircraft ing measures affected around 50 additional for the upcoming US Air Force procurement people within the business area. Measures of new training aircraft to replace their aging were taken in several locations, particularly fleet of T-38s (the “T-X programme”). The coÖstersund, Nyköping and Linköping and operation agreement covers development, were done to adapt operations to prevailing production, support, marketing and sales. market conditions. This was accomplished Boeing is the main supplier under the terms through reorganisation and individualised of the contract, with Saab as the principal solutions. partner. saab annual report 2013 57 financial information > financial statements Financial statements and Notes Income Statement, Consolidated 59 Income Statement, Parent Company 65 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated 60 Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 65 Statement of Financial position, Consolidated 61 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 66 Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 63 Statement of Changes in Equity, Parent Company 68 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 64 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 69 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting principles 70 21 Shares in associated companies 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 98 2 Assumptions in the application of consolidated according to the 36 Liabilities to credit institutions 98 the accounting principles 78 equity method 93 37 Employee benefits 98 3 Revenue distribution 78 22 Shares in joint ventures consoli38 Provisions 105 dated according to the 4 Segment reporting 79 39 Other liabilities 105 proportional method 94 5 Other operating income 81 40 Accrued expenses and deferred 23 Parent Company’s shares in 6 Other operating expenses 81 associated companies and joint income 106 7 Government grants 81 ventures 95 41 Financial risk management and 8 Business combinations 81 24 Receivables from Group financial instruments 106 9 Employees and staff costs 82 companies, associated 42 Assets pledged and contingent companies and joint ventures 95 liabilities 114 10 Auditors’ fees and compensation 83 25 Financial investments 95 43 Transactions with related parties 114 11 Operating expenses 83 26 Other long-term securities holdings 95 44 Group companies 114 12 Depreciation/amortisation and impairments 83 27 Long-term receivables and other 45 Untaxed reserves 115 receivables 95 46 Statement of cash flows, 13 Financial income and expenses 84 28 Inventories 96 supplemental information 116 14 Appropriations 84 29 Accounts receivable 96 47 Information on Parent Company 117 15 Taxes 84 30 Prepaid expenses and accrued 48 Environmental report 118 16 Intangible fixed assets 88 income 97 49 Exchange rates used in financial 17 Tangible fixed assets 89 31 Liquid assets 97 statements 118 18 Lease assets and lease agreements 91 32 Assets held for sale 97 50 Definitions of key ratios 118 19 Biological assets 92 33 Shareholders’ equity 97 20 Investment properties 92 34 Earnings per share 98 58 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements cONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 1 January – 31 December orders Order bookings in 2013 were on a much higher level than in MSEK Note 2013 2012 2012. The increase was mainly due to orders received during the year from FMV, for the development and serial production of Sales 3, 4 23,750 24,010 Gripen E, totalling SEK 29.8 billion. Cost of goods sold -17,422 -16,802 In all, 87 per cent (76) of order bookings were attributable to defence-related operations and 30 per cent (57) were attributable to Gross income 6,328 7,208 customers outside Sweden. Other operating income 5 204 338 During 2013, index and price changes had a positive effect on Marketing expenses -2,082 -2,191 order bookings of MSEK 97 compared to MSEK 148 in 2012. Administrative expenses -1,111 -1,215 Orders received, where the total order value exceeded Research and development costs -1,762 -2,096 MSEK 100, represented 80 per cent (52) of total order bookings. Other operating expenses 6 -257 -19 The order backlog at the year-end amounted to MSEK 59,870, compared to MSEK 34,151 at the beginning of the year. Share in income of associated companies 21 25 25 Order backlog duration : Operating income 10, 11, 12 1,345 2,050 2014: SEK 17.4 billion Share in income of associated companies 21 2 2015: SEK 10.8 billion Financial income 62 153 2016: SEK 8.1 billion Financial expenses -428 -202 2017: SEK 11.1 billion Net financial items 13 -366 -47 After 2017: SEK 12.5 billion Income before taxes 979 2,003 Taxes 15 -237 -443 Net income for the year 742 1,560 Attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 741 1,585 Non-controlling interest 1 -25 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 34 6.98 15.00 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 34 6.79 14.52 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) sales by market region sales by market segments sales Sales during 2013 decreased by 1 per cent compared to Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec 2012. MSEK 2013 2012 MSEK 2013 2012 Acquisitions contributed to the increase in sales by 2 per cent, Sweden 9,814 8,765 Air 10,693 9,283 however offset by a negative impact from currency effects of EU excluding Sweden 3,933 4,640 Land 6,462 7,997 1 per cent. Rest of Europe 621 390 Naval 2,292 2,569 Sales in markets outside Sweden amounted to MSEK 13,936 Americas 2,987 2,780 Civil Security 1,979 1,837 (15,245), or 59 per cent (64) of total sales. Asia 4,311 4,886 Commercial ­Aeronautics 1,615 1,477 81 per cent (82) of sales were related to the defence market. Africa 930 1,345 Other 709 847 Australia, etc. 1,154 1,204 Total 23,750 24,010 Total 23,750 24,010 saab annual report 2013 59 financial information > financial statements cONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF comprehensive income 1 January – 31 December During 2013 and 2012, reversal of risk provisions related to Saab’s leasing fleet of turbo prop aircraft (SAL), contributed positively to the operating inMSEK 2013 2012 come. The positive contribution was less in 2013 than in 2012. During 2012, the operating income was positively impacted by a significant Net income for the year 742 1,560 reduction of the potential earn-out liability related to the acquisition of Saab Sensis during 2011, of MSEK 207. The result for 2013 was also positively Other comprehensive income: impacted by such reductions as well as by a capital gain attributable to a divestment of property. At the same time, the operating income for 2013 was Items that will not be reversed in the income negatively impacted by the ongoing efficiency programme. In total, the costs statement: were somewhat higher than the sum of the reductions and the capital gain. Revaluation of net pension obligations 1,255 -385 A material non-recurring item of MSEK 231 related to a lost legal dispute was recTax attributable to revaluation of net pension ognised during the year, see more in Note 42. obligations -285 85 Total 970 -300 FINANCIAL NET Items that may be reversed in the income statement: MSEK Jan–Dec 2013 Jan–Dec 2012 Translation differences -132 -181 Financial net related to pensions -74 -73 Net gain/loss on cash flow hedges: Net interest items 23 124 Change in value -174 45 Project interest from unutilised Reversed through profit and/or loss -81 15 advance payment -3 -15 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash flow hedges 59 14 Currency gains/losses -26 15 Total -328 -107 Other net financial items -286 -98 Total -366 -47 Other comprehensive income 642 -407 Financial net related to pensions is based on the current net pension liability. Net interest items refer to return on liquid assets and short-term investments Net comprehensive income for the year 1,384 1,153 as well as interest expenses on short and long-term interest-bearing liabilities. of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ Project interest is the return on unutilised advance payments from customers interest 1,399 1,184 that are received in connection with some orders. The return generated from this advance financing is recognised in gross income and reduces financial net. of which non-controlling interest -15 -31 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) Currency gains/losses reported are related to hedges of the tender portfolio which are valued at fair value. income, margin and profitability Other net financial items consist of cost attributable to the programme for The gross margin in 2013 decreased to 26.6 per cent (30.0), compared to sales of accounts receivables and unrealised results from market valuation 2012, mainly as a result of a different product and project mix. of short-term investments and other currency effects, for example changes related to liquid assets in currencies other than SEK. Also reported here, Total depreciation, amortisation and write-downs amounted to were two non-recurring items; MSEK 83 related to a lost legal dispute and MSEK 1,047 (1,189). Depreciation and write-downs of tangible fixed assets a write-down of the value of shareholding in the Indian company Pipavav. amounted to MSEK 398 (403), while depreciation of the leasing fleet ­During the second quarter, Saab invested MSEK 247 in Pipavav through a, amounted to MSEK 25 (53). to Saab, directed new share issue. A combination of negative currency Total expenditures in research and development amounted to MSEK 6,543 effects and share price development resulted in a value decline totalling ­ (5,946). Of total research and development expenditures, MSEK 1,332 MSEK 133, of which MSEK 116 was recognised in Other comprehensive (1,798) was internally funded, of which a total of MSEK 24 (292) was capitalincome/loss up to and including the third quarter. Following a continued ised. A large part was investments in development of radar and sensor value decline during the fourth quarter, Saab has, in accordance with IFRS, technologies. reclassified the value decline for the whole year to financial net. At year-end, Amortisation of intangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 624 (733), of the valuation of the Indian currency, rupie, showed a decline of 15 per cent which amortisation of capitalised development expenditures amounted to and Pipavav’s share price had dropped 46 per cent, since the investment MSEK 454 (590). was done. This led to a write-down and reclassification in accordance with accounting standards. The share of income in associated companies amounted to MSEK 25 (25). The operating income amounted to MSEK 1,345 (2,050) with an operating margin of Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -237 (-443), equivalent to 5.7 per cent (8.5). Excluding material non-recurring items, the operating income an effective tax rate of 24 per cent (22). amounted to MSEK 1,576 (1,843), with an operating margin of 6.6 per cent (7.7). The pre-tax return on capital employed was 9.1 per cent (14.6) and the after-tax return on equity was 6.3 per cent (12.8), both measured over a rolling 12-month period. 60 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements cONSOLIDATED statement of financial position As of 31 December statement of financial position At the end of December 2013, the net liquidity amounted to Opening MSEK 1,013, a decrease of MSEK 983 compared to year-end MSEK Note 2013 2012 Balance 2012 2012. Assets Cash flow from operating activities amounted to MSEK -682. Intangible fixed assets 16 6,340 6,849 6,699 The lower provisions for pensions, excluding special employer’s contribution at 31 December 2013 of MSEK 1,389 comTangible fixed assets 17 3,239 3,162 3,272 pared to MSEK 2,420 in December 2012, had a positive imLease assets 18 197 304 771 pact of MSEK 1,031 on net liquidity. The decrease in Biological assets 19 296 306 305 provisions was mainly due to the increase in discount rate used in the valuation of pension obligations from 3.00 per cent Investment properties 20 31 33 224 to 4.00 per cent during the year. Shares in associated companies 21 338 300 288 For more information about the Group’s defined benefit plans, Financial investments 25 295 193 197 see Note 37. Long-term receivables 27 129 138 125 Net liquidity was negatively impacted during 2013 by net investments amounting to approximately MSEK 798 and paid Deferred tax assets 15 239 213 86 dividend of MSEK 477. Net investments included investments Total fixed assets 11,104 11,498 11,967 in tangible fixed assets of MSEK 543, investments in intangible Inventories 28 4,563 4,420 4,334 assets of MSEK 68, divestment of fixed assets of MSEK 127 and acquisitions of MSEK 314. Derivatives 41 396 514 520 Currency exchange rate differences in liquid assets as well as Tax assets 62 39 23 unrealised results from financial investments had a negative Accounts receivable 29 3,314 3,454 3,153 impact of MSEK 57 on net liquidity. Other receivables 27 3,823 2,548 3,579 In 2009, Saab changed its view on the application of accountPrepaid expenses and accrued ing principles for development costs. As a result of this more income 30 877 886 829 conservative view, development costs are capitalised at a later stage in all projects and all capitalised development costs are Short-term investments 25 2,002 3,963 4,555 amortised over maximum ten years. Capitalised development Liquid assets 31 1,764 1,616 1,918 costs have been reduced from MSEK 3,628 at the end of 2008 to MSEK 1,338 at the end of December 2013. Total current assets 16,801 17,440 18,911 Inventories are recognised after deducting utilised advances. Other receivables increased compared to year-end 2012 as a Assets held for sale 32 result of the increase of accrued revenue from customers due to higher activity level in some large projects, mainly related to TOTAL ASSETS 27,905 28,938 30,878 the development of Gripen E. 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) saab annual report 2013 61 financial information > financial statements cONSOLIDATED statement of financial position As of 31 December Opening Balance MSEK Note 2013 2012 2012 Equity 33 Capital stock 1,746 1,746 1,746 Other capital contributions 543 543 543 Other reserves 4 316 457 Retained earnings 9,843 8,563 7,770 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 12,136 11,168 10,516 Non-controlling interest 91 112 119 Total equity 12,227 11,280 10,635 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 1,095 105 1,218 Other liabilities 39 179 315 439 Provisions for pensions 37 1,680 2,874 2,427 Other provisions 38 1,043 1,286 1,728 Deferred tax liabilities 15 501 184 110 Total long-term liabilities 4,498 4,764 5,922 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 614 1,637 520 Advance payments from customers 828 553 1,022 Accounts payable 1,918 1,904 1,785 Derivatives 41 316 254 628 Tax liabilities 61 228 244 Other liabilities 39 839 760 747 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 5,945 6,993 8,629 Provisions 38 659 565 746 Total current liabilities 11,180 12,894 14,321 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 32 Total liabilities 15,678 17,658 20,243 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 27,905 28,938 30,878 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see Note 42. 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) 62 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF changes in equity Other reserves Total equity Net result attributable of cash to Parent NonCapital Other c­apital flow Translation R­evaluation Retained Company’s controlling Total MSEK stock c­ontributions hedges reserve reserve earnings shareholders interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2012 1,746 543 457 -51 51 10,204 12,950 119 13,069 Effects of change in accounting principles -2,434 -2,434 -2,434 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2012 1,746 543 457 -51 51 7,770 10,516 119 10,635 Net comprehensive income for 74 -175 1,285 1,184 -31 1,153 the year Reallocation of revaluation reserve -40 40 Adjustment due to change of accounting principles for pensions attributable to change in tax rate in Sweden -104 -104 -104 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 46 46 46 Dividend -474 -474 -474 Acquisition and sale of 24 24 non-controlling interest Closing balance, 31 December 2012 1,746 543 531 -226 11 8,563 11,168 112 11,280 Opening balance, 1 January 2013 1,746 543 531 -226 11 8,563 11,168 112 11,280 Net comprehensive income for -185 -127 1,711 1,399 -15 1,384 the year Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 46 46 46 Dividend -477 -477 -1 -478 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -5 -5 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 1,746 543 346 -353 11 9,843 12,136 91 12,227 For a definition of other reserves, see Note 33. 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) saab annual report 2013 63 financial information > financial statements consolidated statement of cash flows 1 January – 31 December capital expenditures Gross capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment, MSEK Note 2013 2012 amounted to MSEK 543 (328). Investments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 68 (343), Operating activities of which MSEK 24 (292) related to capitalised product develIncome after financial items 979 2,003 opment and MSEK 44 (51) to other intangible assets. Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 46 1,224 1,082 cash flow Income tax paid -368 -574 Operating cash flow amounted to MSEK -1,480 (-396). The Cash flow from operating activities before lower level of operating cash flow in 2013 compared to 2012 is changes in working capital 1,835 2,511 mainly attributable to timing differences in milestone payments and investments in Corporate, Dynamics and Support and Cash flow from changes in working capital Services. Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories -147 -199 The operating cash flow was distributed between cash flow Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in current receivables -1,370 707 from operating activities of MSEK -682 (350) and cash flow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investIncrease(+)/Decrease(–) in advance payments ments and other interest-bearing financial assets of from customers 287 -459 MSEK -798 (-746), of which acquisitions and divestments Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in other current liabilities -1,010 -1,701 amounted to MSEK -68 (-394). Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in provisions -277 -509 A payment of MSEK 314 related to a lost legal dispute regardCash flow from operating activities -682 350 ing the DACCIS command and control system was made, which had a negative effect on cash flow from operating activiInvesting activities ties. The amount Saab has paid includes repayments of damInvestments in intangible fixed assets -44 -51 ages and payments received under the previous contract, as Capitalised development costs -24 -292 well as interest and court costs. Investments in tangible fixed assets -543 -328 Saab has an established programme to sell accounts receivable to strengthen its financial position and increase financial Investments in lease assets -1 flexibility. As of 31 December 2013, net receivables of Sale of tangible fixed assets 46 10 MSEK 555 were sold, compared to MSEK 852 at 31 December 2012. Hence, it had a negative impact on operating cash Sale of lease assets 81 312 flow of MSEK 297 in 2013. Sale of and investments in short-term investments 1,936 585 During the year, an investment was made in the publicly traded Sale of and investments in other financial assets -14 26 Indian company Pipavav, amounting to MSEK 247. The investInvestments in operations and associated ment was reported as acquisition of other financial assets. companies, net effect on liquidity 8, 46 -68 -568 For more detailed information about the operating cash flow, Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, see Note 46. net effect on liquidity 46 174 Cash flow from investing activities 1,370 -133 Financing activities Repayment of loans -1,100 -19 Raising of loans 1,071 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -477 -474 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -1 Cash flow from financing activities -507 -493 Cash flow for the year 46 181 -276 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,616 1,918 Exchange rate difference in liquid assets -33 -26 Liquid assets at year-end 46 1,764 1,616 2012 is restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS19) 64 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements parent company income statement 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2013 2012 Sales 3, 4 16,521 15,338 Cost of goods sold -12,556 -10,723 Gross income 3,965 4,615 Marketing expenses -1,368 -1,385 Administrative expenses -680 -716 Research and development costs -1,088 -1,549 Other operating income 5 87 77 Other operating expenses 6 -254 -11 Operating income 662 1,031 Result from financial items: 13 Result from shares in Group companies 875 835 Result from shares in associated companies and joint ventures 8 12 Result from other securities and receivables held as fixed assets -180 -29 Other interest income and similar items 195 281 Interest expenses and similar items -191 -185 Income after financial items 1,369 1,945 Appropriations 14 -284 -481 Income before taxes 1,085 1,464 Taxes 15 -200 -499 Net income for the year 885 965 sales and income The Parent Company includes units within the business areas Aeronautics, Net financial income and expenses was MSEK 707 (914). After appropriaElectronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions and Support tions of MSEK -284 (-481) and taxes of MSEK -200 (-499), net income for and Services. Group staff and Group support are included as well. The Parthe period amounted to MSEK 885 (965). ent Company’s sales in 2013 amounted to MSEK 16,521 (15,338). Operating income was MSEK 662 (1,031). parent company COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2013 2012 Net income for the year 885 965 Other comprehensive income Net comprehensive income for the year 885 965 saab annual report 2013 65 financial information > financial statements parent company balance sheet As of 31 December MSEK Note 2013 2012 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 16 1,392 1,661 Tangible fixed assets 17 2,279 2,126 Financial fixed assets Shares in Group companies 44 6,471 6,482 Receivables from Group companies 24 747 861 Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 23 137 565 Other long-term securities holdings 26 136 21 Other long-term receivables 27 22 49 Deferred tax assets 15 182 168 Total financial fixed assets 7,695 8,146 Total fixed assets 11,366 11,933 Current assets Inventories, etc. 28 3,653 3,385 Current receivables Accounts receivable 29 1,489 1,598 Receivables from Group companies 2,183 2,090 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 15 63 Other receivables 27 2,315 1,294 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 736 733 Total current receivables 6,738 5,778 Short-term investments 1,990 3,926 Cash and bank balances 1,268 949 Total current assets 13,649 14,038 TOTAL ASSETS 25,015 25,971 liquidity, financing, capital expenditures and number of employees The Parent Company’s net debt amounted to MSEK 984 at 31 December Gross capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment amounted to 2013 compared to MSEK 38 at 31 December 2012. MSEK 387 (185). Investments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 63 (48). At the end of the period, the Parent Company had 8,781 employees, compared to 8,737 at the beginning of the year. 66 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements parent company balance sheet As of 31 December MSEK Note 2013 2012 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 33 Restricted equity Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Revaluation reserve 700 707 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings 4,107 3,566 Net income for the year 885 965 Total equity 7,981 7,527 Untaxed reserves 45 1,560 1,276 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 37 219 334 Other provisions 38 832 835 Total provisions 1,051 1,169 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 36 1,000 1,100 Liabilities to Group companies 5,827 6,834 Advance payments from customers 393 291 Accounts payable 1,390 1,437 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 33 47 Tax liabilities 28 88 Other liabilities 39 933 629 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 4,819 5,573 Total liabilities 14,423 15,999 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 25,015 25,971 Assets pledged 42 10 10 Contingent liabilities 42 3,992 4,244 saab annual report 2013 67 financial information > financial statements STATEMENT OF changes in equity for the parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Net comprehensive Revaluation Statutory Retained income for MSEK Capital stock ­reserve ­reserve ­earnings the year Total ­equity Opening balance, 1 January 2012 1,746 713 543 3,988 6,990 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income for the year 965 965 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -474 -474 Share matching plan 46 46 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 1,746 707 543 3,566 965 7,527 Opening balance, 1 January 2013 1,746 707 543 4,531 7,527 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -7 7 Net comprehensive income for the year 885 885 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -477 -477 Share matching plan 46 46 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 1,746 700 543 4,107 885 7,981 68 saab annual report 2013 financial information > financial statements parent company statement of cash flows 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2013 2012 Operating activities Income after financial items 1,369 1,945 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 46 614 -397 Income tax paid -283 -463 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,700 1,085 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories -146 -21 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in current receivables -1,175 576 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in advance payments from customers 103 -185 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in other current liabilities -775 -1,429 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in provisions -216 -249 Cash flow from operating activities -509 -223 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid -27 -32 Investments in intangible fixed assets -70 -48 Investments in tangible fixed assets -386 -188 Sale of tangible fixed assets 36 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 1,936 585 Sale of and investments in financial assets -137 50 Investments in subsidiaries -29 -482 Sale of subsidiaries 191 Cash flow from investing activities 1,323 76 Financing activities Change in receivables from Group companies -763 -495 Change in labilities to Group companies and repayment of loans -754 -412 Dividend paid to shareholders -477 -474 Group contributions and dividends received 1,499 1,240 Cash flow from financing activities -495 -141 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 319 -288 Liquid assets at beginning of year 949 1,237 Liquid assets at year-end 46 1,268 949 saab annual report 2013 69 financial information > notes NOTE 1 Accounting Principles Operations Application of new and revised accounting rules Saab ab is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in iasb and ifric have issued and the eu has adopted the following new and Linköping. The company’s shares are listed on the nasdaq omx Stockholm’s revised standards, which apply as of the fiscal year 2013: large cap list. The operations of Saab ab with its subsidiaries, joint ventures • ias 1 “Presentation of financial statements”. Changes related to other and associated companies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) are comprehensive income with regard to what items can and cannot be divided into six business areas: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence reversed in the income statement. Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and • ias 19 “Employee benefits”. Changes relate to the treatment of actuarCo­mbitech. The operations in each business area are described in Note 4. ial gains and losses: Expected return on assets under management Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the large part of its sales are (calculated using the same interest rate as that used for discounting generated in Europe, in addition to which Saab has a local presence in South pension liabilities) and the cost of past services are recognised immeAfrica, Australia, the US and other selected countries. diately. On 13 February 2014, the Board of Directors and the President approved • ifrs 7 “Financial instruments: Disclosures”. Disclosures related to net this annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and they will be accounting of assets and liabilities. presented to the Annual General Meeting on 8 April 2014 for adoption. • ifrs 13 “Fair value measurement”. Simplifications of the measurement of fair value. Conformity to standards and laws The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the InternaEffects of amendments to IAS 19 were reported in the 2012 annual report and tional Financial Reporting Standards (ifrs) issued by the International Accountin Note 37 of this Annual Report. Other new and amended standards and ing Standards Board (iasb) and the interpretations of the International Financial interpretations have not had any significant effect on the Group’s financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (ifric) as approved by the eu. The consolreports for 2013. idated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation rfr 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules New and amended standards and interpretations that have not yet for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure requirements for Swedentered into force ish consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with ifrs. iasb has issued the following new and amended standards that have not yet The annual report for Saab ab has been prepared according to the Annual entered into force and ifric has published the following new and amended Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation rfr 2 interpretations that have not yet entered into force: Reporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied Will apply to financial by Saab ab and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to Standards years beginning: apply ifrs by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the Act on Safeguarding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax Amendments to transitions rules for 1 January 2014* rules. Significant differences are described below under “Significant differifrs 10, 11 and 12 (adopted by eu) ences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” ifrs 10 “Consolidated financial statements” 1 January 2014* (adopted by eu) Assumptions in the preparation of the financial reports The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (sek), which is ifrs 11 “Joint arrangements” 1 January 2014* also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The (adopted by eu) financial reports are presented in sek. All amounts, unless indicated otherifrs 12 “Disclosures of interests in other entities” 1 January 2014* wise, are rounded off to the nearest million. (adopted by eu) Assets and liabilities are carried at historical cost, with the exception of certain financial assets and liabilities, investment properties and biological ias 28 (amended 2011) “Investments in Associ1 January 2014* assets, which are carried at fair value or amortised cost. Derivatives are carates and Joint Ventures“ (adopted by eu) ried at fair value. ias 32 “Financial instruments: Presentation”. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are carried at the Changes relate to net accounting of assets and 1 January 2014 lower of their carrying amount and fair value less selling expenses at the time liabilities (not adopted by eu) they were classified as held for sale. The preparation of the financial reports in accordance with ifrs requires Amendments to ifrs 10, 12 and ias 27. For the 1 January 2014 the Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions consolidation of investment entities (adopted by eu) that affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying ias 36 “Impairmen of assets”. Relates to recover1 January 2014 amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumpable amount disclosures (not adopted by eu) tions are based on historical experience and knowledge of the industry that ias 39 “Financial instruments: Recognition and Saab operates in, and under current circumstances seem reasonable. The measurement”. Change relating to novation of 1 January 2014 result of these estimates and assumptions is then used to determine the carryderivatives (not adopted by eu) ing amounts of assets and liabilities that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates and ifric 21 “Levies” 1 January 2014 assumptions. (not adopted by eu) Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of * Earlier application permitted changed estimates is recognised in profit or loss. Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying Effects of amendments to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements the accounting principles in compliance with ifrs that may have a significant During 2013 Saab had a joint arrangement to which the proportional method impact on the financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate was applied. This holding will be classified as a joint venture as of 2014 and significant adjustments in financial reports in subsequent years are described will be reported in accordance with the equity method. If the standard had in more detail in Note 2. been applied as of 31 December 2013, the Group’s total assets would have been The accounting principles described below for the Group have been msek 116 lower than reported in 2013. The Group’s liquid assets would have applied consistently for all periods presented in the Group’s financial reports, been msek 201 lower. See Note 22 for additional information. unless otherwise indicated below. Other standards and interpretations are not expected to have any material effect on the Group’s financial reports. 70 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Operating segments company’s identified assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operatinterests are recognised as transactions affecting the owners’ equity. ing segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s The financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolichief operating decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive dated accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises Officer as its chief operating decision maker, while the internal reports used (acquisition date) until this influence ceases. When decisive influence over by the ceo to oversee operations and make decisions on allocating resources the Group company ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, serve as the basis of the information presented. The segments are monitored the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that at the operating income level. The accounting principles for reportable segarises is recognised in profit or loss. ments conform to the principles applied by the Group as a whole. Associated companies The Group had six reportable segments in the year: Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant • Aeronautics (but not decisive) influence over operating and financial controls, usually • Dynamics through a shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. From the • Electronic Defence Systems point in time when the significant influence arises, the shares in the associ• Security and Defence Solutions ated company are recognised according to the equity method in the consoli• Support and Services dated accounts. The equity method is applied until the point in time when the • Combitech significant influence ceases. The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in the associated company corresponds to the Group’s Complementing the six segments is Corporate, which comprises Group staffs share of the company’s equity based on an application of the Group’s accountand departments as well as other non-core operations. ing principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group surplus or Sales of goods and services between segments are made on market terms. deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies” in the income stateA detailed description of the segments, together with the factors used to ment comprises the Group’s share of the net income after tax and the nonidentify segments, can be found in Note 4 and on pages 45–50. controlling interest in associated companies adjusted for any depreciation, impairment loss or dissolution of acquired surplus and deficit values deterClassification of assets and liabilities mined in the same way as for operating acquisitions. Dividends received Current assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be from the associated company reduce the carrying amount of the investment. recovered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company liabilities are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of the shares is reduced to nil. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollateralised finanConsolidation principles cial balances that in their economic significance represent part of the ownerGroup companies company’s net investment in the associated company. Subsequent losses are not Group companies are companies in which Saab ab has a decisive influence recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts as long as the Group has through a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more than 50 per not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company. cent of the votes, other than in exceptional circumstances where it can be When decisive influence over the associated company ceases but the Group clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute a decisive retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially recoginfluence. Decisive influence also exists when the parent owns not more than nised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. half of the voting power of an entity but otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting rights or the power to govern the company’s Joint ventures financial and operating policies under a statute or agreement. When deterCompanies in which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one mining whether a decisive influence exists, potential voting shares that can be of more parties, shares a decisive influence over operating and financial conexercised or converted without delay are taken into account. trols are recognised in the consolidated accounts according to the proporSubsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recogtional method. For joint ventures, this means that the Group’s share of the nised according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a busicompanies’ revenue and expenses and their assets and liabilities is recognised ness combination is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position acquires the business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilbased on application of the Group’s accounting principles. This is done by ities. The Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with combining Saab’s share of revenue and expenses and assets and liabilities in regard to the acquisition of operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the joint venture with the corresponding items in the consolidated accounts. the fair value of what of is paid in cash on the acquisition date through the When a joint venture is terminated but the Group retains an interest in the assumption of liabilities or shares issued. Contingent consideration is company, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain included in cost and recognised at its fair value on the acquisition date. The or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities are iniEliminated transactions tially recognised at their acquisition-date fair value. The exceptions to this Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or principle are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee benefits, share-based losses that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated payment and assets held for sale, which are valued in accordance with the in their entirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. principles described in the sections below for each item. Exceptions are also Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint made for indemnification assets and repurchased rights. Indemnification ventures are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership assets are valued according to the same principle as the indemnified item. interest in the company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but Repurchased rights are valued based on the remaining contractual period only to the extent there that is no impairment loss. regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities for contract extensions in connection with valuations. Recognised goodwill consists of the difference between, on the one hand, the cost of Group company’s interests, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition analysis. Goodwill is recognised according to the section on intangible fixed assets. Non-controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the acquired saab annual report 2013 71 financial information > notes Foreign currency gible and tangible fixed assets. Customer-financed research and develFunctional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environopment is recognised in cost of goods sold. ment where units of the Group conduct their operations. • Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, Group Management and staff functions. Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency • Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at sales organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. the exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are • Research and development costs are recognised separately and comtranslated to the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate prise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development then in effect. Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations as well as amortisation of capitalised development costs; see below. are recognised in profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recog• Other operating revenue and expenses relate to secondary activities, exnised at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect change rate differences on items of an operating nature, changes in the at the time of valuation at fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recvalue of derivatives of an operating nature and capital gains/losses on ognised in the same way as other changes in value of the asset or liability. the sale of tangible fixed assets. Also included at the Group level are capital gains/losses on the sale of subsidiaries and associated companies. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to sek Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than sek Government grants are translated to sek at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses Government grants are recognised in the statement of financial position as in foreign operations are translated to sek at the average rate. Translation difprepaid or accrued income when there is reasonable certainty that the grant ferences that arise through currency translations are recognised directly in will be received and that the Group will meet the conditions associated with other comprehensive income. The amount is recognised separately as a transthe grant. Grants are systematically recognised in the income statement in lation reserve in equity. the same way and over the same periods as the expenses for which the grants are intended to compensate. Government grants related to assets are recogRevenue nised in the statement of financial position as a reduction in the asset’s carryRevenue is measured at the fair value of what is received or will be received ing amount. after deducting sales tax, returns, discounts or other similar deductions. In Saab, revenue is referred to as sales in the financial reporting. Financial revenue and expenses Financial revenue and expenses consist of interest income on bank balances, Sales of goods receivables and marketable securities, interest expenses on loans, dividends, Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in profit or loss when the signifiexchange rate differences, unrealised and realised gains on financial investcant risks and benefits associated with ownership have transferred to the buyer, ments and derivatives used in financial operations as well as financial revenue when it is considered likely that payment will be received and the revenue and and expenses related to pensions. related expenses can be calculated reliably. Intangible fixed assets Service assignments Goodwill Revenue from service assignments is recognised when the services are renGoodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for dered. Revenue from services rendered as part of fixed-price contracts is recimpairment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of ognised in accordance with the principles that apply to long-term customer associated companies is included in the carrying amount of the shares in the contracts; see below. Revenue is recognised only if it is likely that the ecoassociated company. nomic benefits will accrue to the Group. In acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost of the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in Long-term customer contracts the acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, A large part of the Group’s operations comprises long-term customer conon the other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities tracts. Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manuin the acquisition analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit facture of complex systems that stretch over several reporting periods. When or loss. such contracts concern development and hardware that can be reliably calculated, revenue and expenditures attributable to the assignment are recognised Research and development in the consolidated income statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of Expenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or completion, i.e., according to the percentage of completion method. technological knowledge are expensed when incurred. The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowlbetween expenditures incurred for services rendered as of the closing day edge is applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as and estimated total expenditures. Of the estimated total revenue for an an asset in the statement of financial position from the time when the prodassignment, the portion corresponding to the stage of completion is recoguct or process in the future is expected to be technically and commercially nised in each period. The stage of completion can also be determined in cerusable, the company has sufficient resources to complete development and tain cases based on milestones or deliveries. With regard to orders that are subsequently use or sell the intangible asset, and the product or process is financed to a significant extent with advance payment from customers, the likely to generate future economic benefits. The carrying amount includes effect on interest of advance financing is recognised in gross income. The expenditures for material, direct expenditures for salaries and, if applicable, interest amount that affected gross income is indicated in Note 13. other expenditures that are considered directly attributable to the asset. An anticipated loss is recognised in profit or loss as soon as it is identified. Other expenditures for development are recognised in profit or loss as an Recognised subcontracting revenue for which the customer has not yet expense when they arise. Development expenditures are recognised in the been invoiced is recognised as a receivable from that customer. All projects in statement of financial position at cost less accumulated amortisation and any progress from customers for whom invoiced amounts exceed project impairment losses. Customer-financed research and development is recogexpenses and reported profits are recognised as liabilities to those customers. nised in cost of goods sold rather than capitalised. Operating expenses Other intangible fixed assets The income statement is classified according to function as follows: Other acquired intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as • Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufactrademarks and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated turing costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, amortisation and any impairment losses. premises, and the depreciation/amortisation and impairment of intan72 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Amortisation Depreciation Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less estimated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. Intangiestimated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s estible fixed assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with mated period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is indeterminate periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available applied, which means that fixed assets consisting of various components or for use. Estimated periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: where significant parts have different periods of use are depreciated as sepa• Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: rate assets based on their periods of use. 5-10 years on a straight line basis Estimated periods of use: • Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development • Operating properties: 20–90 years costs are amortised based on estimated production volume, but over a • Plant and machinery: 5–10 years maximum period of 5 years. Production volume is set using future • Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years sales projections according to a business plan based on identified • Aircraft: 20–25 years business opportunities. Acquired development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a maximum of 10 years. Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. Periods • Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maxiof use are unchanged compared with the previous year. mum 20 years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. Lease assets Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested Lease assets mainly refer to 14 aircraft owned by legal entities within Saab for impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminAircraft Leasing and leased out via operating leases. Saab Aircraft Leasing’s ished value. fleet consists of 49 Saab 340, of which 35 aircraft are leased in through operating leases and leased out through operating leases. Tangible fixed assets Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial operating leasing. Finance leasing exists when the economic risks and beneposition if it is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the fits tied to ownership are essentially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. operating leasing. Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated For anticipated or established deficits according to current leases with depreciation and any impairment. Cost includes the purchase price and costs respect to aircraft financing in Saab Aircraft Leasing, provisions are allocated directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utiat an amount corresponding to the obligation. See also Note 18. lised in accordance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable expenditures included in cost are delivery and handling, installaSaab as lessor tion, title and consulting services. At the end of the year, Saab only had operating leases. Leasing revenue is recThe cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for mateognised on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. Direct expenditures rial, expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other producthat arise by entering into an operating lease are expensed on a straight-line tion costs considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. basis over the leasing period. The cost of tangible fixed assets includes estimated costs for disassembly and removal of the assets as well as restoration of the location or area where Biological assets these assets are found. Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value after deducting The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the stateestimated selling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an indement of financial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no pendent appraiser. future economic benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises on the sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price Investment properties and the asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and Investment properties are properties held to earn rental income, for capital losses are recognised as other operating income/expenses. appreciation or a combination of both. Investment properties are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value. Fair value has been deterIncremental expenditures mined by calculating net rental income, which then serves as the basis of a Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future valuation of fair value. economic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the Group and the expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental Assets held for sale expenditures are recognised as costs in the period they arise. When an asset is classified as held for sale, it means that its carrying amount The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to will be recovered primarily through a sale rather than through use. In order cost is whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or to classify a fixed asset as an asset held for sale, the asset must be available for parts thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Even in cases where a new comimmediate sale and it has to be highly likely that a sale will take place. ponent is created, the expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carImmediately before classification as held for sale, the recognised value of rying amount of replaced components, or parts of components, is disposed the assets is determined according to the Group’s accounting principles. of and expensed in connection with the replacement. Repairs are expensed Upon initial classification as held for sale, assets are recognised at the lower of as incurred. their carrying amount and fair value less selling expenses. Assets are not depreciated/amortised after they are classified as held for sale. Borrowing costs Impairment Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construcThe carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets stated at fair tion or production of an asset and takes a substantial period of time to prevalue, is tested on each closing day for any indication of impairment. If an pare for its intended use or sale is capitalised as part of the asset’s cost when indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. A description of it is likely that they will lead to future economic benefits for the Group and impairment principles for available-for-sale financial assets is provided below. the expenditures can be measured reliably. Other borrowing costs are For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate expensed in the period in which they arise. period of use and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable values are calculated annually in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future saab annual report 2013 73 financial information > notes cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate recognise at fair value through profit or loss. A financial asset is classiof interest plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated fied as held for trading if it is acquired for the purpose of selling in the with the specific asset. near term. Derivatives are always recognised at fair value through If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual profit or loss, unless hedge accounting is applied. assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independ• Held-to-maturity investments: ent cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss Financial assets in this category relate to non-derivative assets with preis recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit determined or determinable payments and scheduled maturities that exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the the company intends and has the ability to hold to maturity. They are valincome statement. ued at amortised cost. Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) • Loans receivable and accounts receivable: are mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial among other assets in the unit (the pool of units). assets with fixed payments which are not listed on an active market. Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses from other Receivables arise when the company provides money, goods or serassets are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as vices directly to the debtor without the intent to trade its claim. The the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to category also includes acquired receivables. Assets in this category are the extent the carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not recognised after acquisition at amortised cost. exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be rehad not been recognised, taking into account the depreciation or amortisaceived based on an individual valuation. Accounts receivable have a tion that would have been recognised. short maturity, due to which they are recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. Impairment losses on accounts receivaFinancial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments ble are recognised in operating expenses. Saab has an accounts receivFinancial instruments recognised in the statement of financial position able sales programme with an independent party. When a receivable include, on the asset side, liquid assets, accounts receivable, shares, loans is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, because receivable, bonds receivable, derivatives and part of accrued income and of which the proceeds received are recognised as liquid assets. other receivables. Liabilities include trade accounts payable, loans payable, Other receivables are receivables that arise when the company proderivatives and certain accrued expenses and other liabilities. Financial assets vides money without the intent to trade its claim. are recognised as of their settlement date. • Available-for-sale financial assets: Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to Available-for-sale financial assets are those assets that are available for the instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses for all financial instrusale or are not classified in any of the other categories of financial asments with the exception of those in the category financial assets at fair value sets. These assets are measured at fair value. Changes in value are recthrough profit or loss. The instruments are subsequently recognised at fair ognised directly in other comprehensive income. When assets are sold value or amortised cost, depending on how they have been classified as folthe cumulative value changes are reversed to the income statement. lows. The fair value of listed financial assets and liabilities is determined using Unrealised decreases in value are recognised in other comprehensive market prices. Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the income unless the decrease in value is significant and has lasted for a fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded on an inactive market or long period, when the value is impaired through the income stateunlisted holdings. These valuation methods are based on the valuation of ment. If the impairment relates to equity instruments, such as shares, similar instruments, discounted cash flows or accepted valuation models the impairment is not reversed through the income statement. such as Black-Scholes. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective • Other financial liabilities: interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. Liabilities classified as other financial liabilities are initially recogA financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the statement of nised at the amount received after deducting transaction expenses. financial position when the company becomes party to the instrument’s conAfter acquisition, the loans are carried at amortised cost, according to tractual terms. Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of finanthe effective rate method. cial position when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when Trade accounts payable are classified in the category other financial lithe counterparty has performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, abilities. Trade accounts payable have a short expected maturity and even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts payable are recognised are carried without discounting at their nominal amount. when an invoice is received. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position Calculation of recoverable value when the rights in the agreement are realised, expire or the company loses The recoverable value of financial assets in the categories held-to-maturity control over them. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial investments, loans receivable and accounts receivable measured at amortised liability is removed from the statement of financial position when the obligacost is calculated using the present value of future cash flows discounted by tion in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The the effective interest rate in effect when the asset was initially recognised. same applies to part of a financial liability. Assets with a maturity of less than one year are not discounted. On each reporting date, Saab evaluates whether there are objective indiImpairment of held-to-maturity investments and loans receivable and cations that a financial asset or pool of financial assets is in need of impairaccounts receivable recognised at amortised cost is reversed if a subsequent ment. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net amount increase in recoverable value can objectively be attributed to an event occurin the statement of financial position when there is a legal right to a set-off ring after the impairment. and when the intent is to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. Exceptions are made for derivaLiquid assets tives where derivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible derivatives with negative values are recognised as liabilities. balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments with a maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which Financial assets and liabilities are classified in one of the following categories: are exposed to no more than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. • Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Assets and liabilities in this category are carried at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. This category consists of two subgroups: financial assets and liabilities held for trading and other financial assets and liabilities that the company initially chose to 74 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Financial investments Fair value hedges Financial investments comprise either financial fixed assets or short-term Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) investments, depending on the intent of the holding. If the maturity or the entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements for currency and anticipated holding period is longer than one year, they are considered finaninterest rate risk are accounted for according to the rules for fair value hedgcial fixed assets, and if it is shorter than one year they are short-term investing. These hedges are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial ments. position with regard both to the derivative itself and the future receipt or disWith recognition at fair value through profit or loss, changes in value are bursement (hedge item) for the risk being hedged. The change in fair value of stated in financial revenue and expenses. the derivative is recognised in operating income together with the change in value of the hedged item. Valuation principles The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. Hedge of currency exposure in assets and liabilities Furthermore, Saab applies various valuation methods to determine the fair Currency exposure from an asset or liability is hedged with forward exchange value of financial assets that are traded on an inactive market or unlisted contracts. No hedge accounting is applied, due to which both the hedged holdings. These methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, item and hedging instrument are recognised with respect to currency risk at discounted cash flows or customary valuation methods such as Blackfair value with changes in value through profit or loss. Changes in the value of Scholes. See Note 41. operations-related receivables and liabilities are recognised in operating income, while changes in the value of financial receivables and liabilities are Derivatives and hedge accounting recognised in financial revenue and expenses. Derivatives include forward exchange contracts, options and swaps utilised to cover risks associated with changes in exchange rates and exposure to Inventories interest rate risks. Derivatives are recognised on their acquisition date at cost Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisand subsequently at fair value. able value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deductDerivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives ing estimated expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. with negative values are recognised as liabilities under the heading derivaCost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (fifo) or the tives in the statement of financial position. Gains and losses on a derivative weighted average method and includes expenses to acquire inventory assets arising due to a change in fair value are recognised in profit or loss if the and bring them to their present location and condition. For finished and derivative is classified among financial assets and liabilities at fair value semifinished goods, cost consists of direct manufacturing expenses and a through profit or loss. reasonable share of indirect manufacturing expenses as well as expenses to In hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges or cash customise products for individual customers. Calculations take into account flow hedges. The recognition of these hedging transactions is described below. normal capacity utilisation. Cash flow hedges Dividends Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors reduces earnings available entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency for distribution and is recognised as a liability when the Annual General risks are accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. DerivaMeeting has approved the dividend. tives that protect future receipts and disbursements are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised Employee benefits in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge The Group has two types of pension plans: defined-contribution and definedreserve in equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, benefit pension plans. at which point the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit or loss to meet and match the effects on earnings of the Defined-contribution plans hedged transaction. In defined-contribution plans, pensions are based on the premiums paid. Interest rate exposure from future variable-rate liabilities is hedged with Obligations with regard to defined-contribution plans are expensed in the interest rate swaps. In its reporting, Saab applies cash flow hedging, which income statement. means that the change in value of the interest rate swap is recognised in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in Defined-benefit plans equity. The change in value is recognised in financial revenue and expenses In defined-benefit plans, pensions are based on a percentage of the recipient’s when transferred to profit or loss. salary. Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. The preWhen the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capidominant plan is the itp plan, which accounts for 90 per cent (91) of the total talised in the statement of financial position, the net gain or loss on cash flow obligation. hedges in equity is dissolved when the hedged item is recognised in the stateThe Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated sepament of financial position. If the hedged item is a non-financial asset or a nonrately for each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees financial liability, the reversal from the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in have earned through employment in present and previous periods. This comequity is included in the original cost of the asset or liability. If the hedged item pensation is discounted to present value. Saab has secured main part of the is a financial asset or financial liability, the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges obligation through provisions to a pension fund, and the fair value of the in equity is gradually reversed through profit or loss at the same rate that the fund’s assets is offset against the provision for the pension obligation at prehedged item affects earnings. sent value in the statement of financial position. The discount rate to calculate When a hedging instrument expires, is sold or is exercised, or the comthe commitment at present value has been determined based on the interest pany revokes the designation as a hedging relationship before the hedged rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage bond with a maturity corretransaction occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to occur, the sponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is made by a qualified recognised cumulative gain or loss remains in the net gain or loss on cash actuary using the projected unit credit method. flow hedges in equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the When the compensation terms in a plan improve, the portion of the transaction occurs. increased compensation attributable to the employees’ services in previous If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging periods is expensed through the income statement. instrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit The obligation is estimated on the closing day, and if the calculated or loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. amount deviates from the estimated commitment an actuarial gain or loss arises. All actuarial gains and losses as of 1 January 2013, the date of transition to revided ias 19, are recognised in equity and other items in the statement of saab annual report 2013 75 financial information > notes financial position. Actuarial gains and losses after 1 January 2012 are recogRestructuring nised directly in other comprehensive income. The same interest rate is used A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restructo calculate projected returns on assets under management as in discounting turing plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or pension liabilities. been publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. If pension obligations are lower than assets under management and actuarial losses, this amount is recognised as an asset. Onerous contracts When there is a difference in how the pension cost is determined for a A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when anticipated benefits legal entity and the Group, a liability or receivable for the special employer’s are less than the unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the concontribution arises based on this difference. tract. Severance Guarantees A provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying the company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary products or services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be time, e.g., when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termimade. The provision is based on historical data on guarantees for the prodnation offer. In cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed ucts or similar products and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relaplan is drafted containing at the minimum the workplaces, positions and tion to the likelihood associated with these outcomes. approximate number of individuals affected as well as compensation for each personnel category or position and a schedule for the plan’s implementation. Soil remediation In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and Share-based payment applicable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligaShare-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including tions to restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted senior executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or to present value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. other equity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value at the time these plans were issued and the consideration received. This Contingent liabilities remuneration is recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from extent the vesting conditions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as events whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future the price of the company’s shares), they are taken into consideration in deterevents and there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or provimining the fair value of the plan. Other conditions (such as earnings per sion because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required or the share) affect staff costs during the vesting period by changing the number of size of the obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Informashares or share-related instruments that are expected to be paid. tion is provided as long as the likelihood of an outflow of resources is not extremely small. Share matching plan for employees Saab has a Global Share Matching Plan where all employees are entitled to Taxes participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recogIncome taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The nised in profit or loss unless the underlying transaction is recognised in other employees pay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the comprehensive income, whereby the related tax effect is also recognised in investment date. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted other comprehensive income. as many shares as they purchased three years earlier provided that they are Current tax is the tax paid or received for the current year, applying the still employees of the Saab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In tax rates that have been set or essentially set as of the closing day to taxable certain countries, social security expenses are paid on the value of the income and adjusting for current tax attributable to previous periods. employee’s benefit when matching takes place. During the vesting period, Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on provisions are allocated for these estimated social security expenses. Share temporary differences that constitute the difference between the carrying repurchases to fulfil the commitments of Saab’s share matching plans are recamount of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. Deductible ognised in equity. temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial reporting of In addition, a plan was introduced for senior executives entitling them to assets and liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination and 2–5 matching shares depending on the category the employee belongs to. In which, at the time of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxaddition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after able result. Moreover, temporary differences are not taken into account if they three years, there is also a requirement that earnings per share grow in the are attributable to shares in subsidiaries and associated companies that are not range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. See expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of also Note 37. deferred tax is based on how the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax Provisions rates and tax rules that have been set or essentially are set as of the closing day. A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss Group has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred carry forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be and it is likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle utilised. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer conthe obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is sidered likely that they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by deferred tax liabilities when the receivable and liability refer to the same tax discounting projected cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current authority. market estimates of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks associated with the liability. Significant differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles Regional aircraft The Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group A provision for an aircraft lease is recognised when future lease receipts are with the following exceptions. less than unavoidable lease disbursements. 76 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Business combinations Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. Associated companies and joint ventures Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the Parent Company according to the acquisition value method. Revenue includes dividends received. Intangible fixed assets All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. All leases are recognised according to the rules for operating leasing. Borrowing costs The Parent Company recognises borrowing costs as an expense in the period in which they arise. Investment properties Investment properties are recognised according to acquisition cost method. Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less impairment and financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for impairment has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives that are not used for hedging are carried by the Parent Company according to the lowest value principle. For derivatives used for hedging, recognition is determined by the hedged item. This means that the derivative is treated as an off balance sheet item as long as the hedged item is recognised at cost or is not included on the balance sheet. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency hedged with forward contracts are valued at the forward rate. Employee benefits The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. Untaxed reserves The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary differences. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred tax liability is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, to the extent impairment is not required. Group contributions received are recognised through profit or loss in financial income and expenses. Group contributions paid are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the parent, to the extent impairment is not required. saab annual report 2013 77 financial information > notes NOTE 2 Assumptions in the Application of the NOTE 3 Revenue Distribution Accounting Principles Revenue by significant source The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the following areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the Group Parent Company accounting principles may have a siginificant impact on the accounting of the MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group’s results of operations and financial position and may result in signifiSale of goods 3,964 4,147 2,221 2,412 cant adjustments in subsequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored continuously by Group Management and the Board of Long-term customer ­contracts 13,891 13,965 10,231 8,764 Directors’ audit committee. Service assignments 5,891 5,893 4,068 4,162 Royalties 4 5 1 UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Total 23,750 24,010 16,521 15,338 Long-term customer contracts A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed Sale of goods with a customer on delivery of a product, solution or service, a thorough The sale of goods includes sales of goods manufactured by Saab and goods analysis is always made of the prerequisites and risks of the delivery through purchased for resale, e.g., spare parts and other equipment which is sold a project management process established within Saab. In the execution ­separately. stage, continuous reviews are then made of the work in the project according to the same process. An important aspect is to identify risks and assess Long-term customer contracts them and the measures that are taken to mitigate the risks with the help of a Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manufacture of risk assessment method. complex systems that stretch across several accounting periods. The Group applies the percentage of completion method to recognise For long-term customer contracts on development and hardware that ­revenue from long-term customer contracts. An estimation of total costs is can be calculated reliably, income and expenditures attributable to the assigncritical in revenue recognition and provisions for onerous contracts as well as ment are recognised as revenue and expenses in the consolidated income inventory valuations, and the outcome of technical and commercial risks statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of completion, i.e., according may affect income. to the percentage of completion method. In February 2013, an agreement was signed with fmv regarding development and production of Gripen E for Sweden and Switzerland. The total Service assignments value of possible orders under the agreement amounts to sek 47.2 billion, of Service assignments refer to the performance of a service on behalf of a cuswhich Saab has received orders of sek 29.8 billion. The agreement includes tomer during a contractual period, e.g., consulting and support services. rights for fmv to, conditional to certain prerequisites, to make cancellations. If so, Saab has, to a certain extent, the right to compensation for costs Royalties incurred and costs for discontinuation. Royalties include revenue from outside parties for the use of Saab’s assets such as patents, trademarks and software. Recovery of value of development costs The Group has invested significant amounts in research and development. The reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to development projects relating to Gripen, electronic warfare systems, Air Traffic Management (atm), radar and sensors. Capitalised development costs amount to msek 1,338 (1,751). The recognition of development expenditures as an asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the product is expected to be technically and comercially usable in the future and that future economic benefits are likely. Capitalised development costs are amortised over the estimated production volume or period of use, up to a maximum of 5 years, with the exception of acquired development costs, where the maximum period of use is 10 years. Projected production volumes and periods of use may later be reassessed, which could necessitate impairment. Impairment testing of goodwill In the calculation of cash-generating units to determine whether there is a need for impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with regard to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projections. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of goodwill. The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to msek 4,605 (4,581). Pensions Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to msek 6,413 (7,164). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a number of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly increase or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Due to the revisions to the reporting standard ias 19, which entered into force in 2013, the possibility to use the so-called corridor approach will be removed. This means that changes in actuarial gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s financial position. See Note 37 for further information. 78 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 4 Segment Reporting Saab is a leading high-technology company, with its main operations in Security and Defence Solutions defence, aviation and civil security. Operations are primarily focused on wellThe operations comprise products and solutions in the area of command, defined areas in defence electronics and missile systems as well as military control, airborne early warning, training and simulation, air traffic manageand commercial aviation. Saab is also active in technical services and maintement, maritime security, security and surveillance and secure robust comnance. Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the main part of sales is genmunication. erated in Europe. In addition Saab has a local presence in South Africa, Australia, the us and other selected countries globally. Saab’s operating and Support and Services management structure is divided into six business areas which also represent Support and Services offers reliable, cost-efficient service and support for all operating segments; Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, of Saab’s markets. This primarily includes integrated support solutions, techSecurity and Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and Combitech. Comnical maintenance and logistics, and products, solutions and services for milplementing them is Corporate, which comprises Group staff and departitary and civil missions in locations with limited infrastructure. ments as well as other non-core operations. Combitech Aeronautics Combitech, an independent company in the Saab Group, is one of Sweden’s Aeronautics engages in advanced development of military and civil aviation largest technology consulting firms. Combitech combines technological technology. The product portfolio includes the Gripen fighter and excellence with deep industry knowledge, comprehensive understanding and Unmanned Aerial Systems (uas). Aeronautics also manufactures aircraft a particular focus on environment and security. components for Saab’s own aircraft as well as for passenger aircraft produced by others. Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow in 2013 is a nonDynamics recurring item of msek -133, related to the write-down of the value of shareDynamics offers a highly competitive product range comprising ground holding in Pipavav. combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles In 2012 a non-recurring item of msek 207, pertaining to a reduced liability and signature management systems for armed forces as well as niche prodfor a contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Sensis in 2011, was ucts for the civil and the defence market, such as unmanned underwater reported. vehicles for the offshore industry and 3d-mapping for the defence market. Information on major customers Electronic Defence Systems Saab has one customer, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (fmv), These operations are based on Saab’s close interaction with customers requirwhich accounts for 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenue. fmv is a cusing efficient solutions for surveillance and for threat detection, location and tomer of every business area, generating total revenue of msek 7,814 (6,524) in protection. This has created a unique competence in the area of radar and 2013. electronic warfare, and a product portfolio covering airborne, land-based and naval radar, electronic support measures and self-protection systems. For Information on geographical areas increased flight mission efficiency and flight safety we supply avionics for External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, both civil and military customers. while fixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographically located. Seasonal variation A major part of our business is related to large projects where the revenue is recognised by using the percentage of completion method. The costs incurred in these projects are normally lower during the third quarter compared with the other quarters. The fourth quarter is also usually affected by a higher number of deliveries, mainly within Dynamics. saab annual report 2013 79 financial information > notes Note 4, cont. Electronic Security and Defence Defence Support and Group Aeronautics Dynamics Systems Solutions Services Combitech Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 External revenue 6,703 5,876 3,434 4,667 3,651 3,652 5,800 5,852 3,208 3,172 869 819 85 -28 23,750 24,010 Internal revenue 166 200 138 112 510 624 91 124 211 239 729 591 -1,845 -1,890 Total revenue 6,869 6,076 3,572 4,779 4,161 4,276 5,891 5,976 3,419 3,411 1,598 1,410 85 -28 -1,845 -1,890 23,750 24,010 Operating income before share in i­ncome of associated companies 457 359 313 614 -201 118 428 417 364 410 140 122 -181 -15 1,320 2,025 Share in income of associated companies -1 11 7 -1 15 19 25 25 Operating income 456 359 324 621 -201 117 428 417 364 410 140 122 -166 4 1,345 2,050 Share in income of associated companies 2 2 Financial income 22 49 7 9 3 2 20 39 1 3 1 131 208 -123 -157 62 153 Financial expenses -88 -83 -31 -23 -43 -45 -50 -56 -30 -22 -4 -3 -305 -127 123 157 -428 -202 Income before taxes 390 325 300 609 -241 74 398 400 335 391 137 119 -340 85 979 2,003 Taxes 1) -22 -78 -164 78 122 -51 -41 -51 -21 -33 -33 -102 -284 -237 -443 Net income for the year 390 303 222 445 -163 196 347 359 284 370 104 86 -442 -199 742 1,560 Assets 5,358 5,587 3,604 3,865 7,144 7,445 6,945 6,812 2,773 2,468 777 762 16,267 16,838-14,963-14,839 27,905 28,938 Of which shares in associated companies 2 69 62 4 10 263 228 338 300 Liabilities 4,952 5,269 2,035 2,321 3,682 3,519 4,454 4,205 2,124 1,710 431 431 5,712 7,683 -7,712 -7,480 15,678 17,658 Operating cash flow -314 -425 394 498 213 -238 -255 -191 -17 387 159 -43 -1,660 -384 -1,480 -396 Capital employed 2,447 2,285 2,007 2,284 4,199 4,690 4,225 3,879 1,596 1,301 508 493 7,629 7,867 -7,251 -7,357 15,360 15,442 Investments 88 330 55 61 92 93 48 56 16 5 3 10 309 117 611 672 Depreciation and amortisation 147 233 62 173 475 404 128 138 19 19 8 8 195 197 1,034 1,172 Impairments 13 17 13 17 1) Current taxes in the Parent Company are reported in Corporate Geographical areas EU excluding Group Sweden Sweden Rest of Europe North America Latin America MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 External revenue 1) 9,814 8,765 3,933 4,640 621 390 2,611 2,609 376 171 as % of revenue 41 36 17 19 3 2 11 11 2 1 Fixed assets 8,318 8,397 571 540 40 43 1,597 1,794 5 5 Group Asia Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 External revenue 1) 4,311 4,886 930 1,345 1,154 1,204 23,750 24,010 as % of revenue 18 20 4 6 5 5 100 100 Fixed assets 41 31 320 449 212 239 11,104 11,498 1) External sales are distributed according to the market where the customer is domiciled. 80 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 4, cont. Revenue by operating segment NOTE 6 Other Operating Expenses Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 Group Parent Company Aeronautics 6,708 5,896 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Electronic Defense Systems 3,013 3,361 Cost related to lost legal dispute -231 -231 Security and Defence Solutions 3,752 3,045 Change in fair value of biological assets -10 Support and Services 3,048 3,036 Exchange rate losses on o­perating Total 16,521 15,338 receivables/ l­iabilities and change in value of derivatives -8 -2 -10 -8 Revenue by geographical market Revaluation of investment properties -2 -1 Parent Company Loss from other operating ­activities -1 -4 MSEK 2013 2012 Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets -1 -3 -1 -3 Sweden 8,732 7,494 Loss on sale of Group ­companies -2 EU excluding Sweden 2,501 2,324 Other -4 -7 -12 Rest of Europe 249 142 Subtotal -257 -19 -254 -11 North America 1,288 1,175 Change in fair value of derivatives -9 Latin America 198 101 Change in value of contracted flows 9 Asia 3,002 3,150 Subtotal Africa 356 570 Australia, etc. 195 382 Total -257 -19 -254 -11 Total 16,521 15,338 Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core operations. NOTE 5 Other Operating Income NOTE 7 Government Grants Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from eu related to Group Parent Company research and development projects. For 2013, msek 74 (85) has been received. MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 msek 83 (87) has been recognised through profit or loss by reducing research and development expenditures and as other operating income. In the statement Gain from reversal of earn out liability 106 207 of financial position at year-end, msek 34 is recognised as prepaid income. Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have Gain on sale of intangible and tangible fixed assets 37 4 37 3 reached an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in the Airbus a380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royTrading result 21 31 21 31 alty loan maximised at msek 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty Government grants 12 21 9 20 on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2013, the National Debt Office has paid Gain from other operating out msek 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2013 amounts to msek 177 activities 4 34 16 16 (192), which reduces inventory in the financial statements. Exchange rate gains No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. on operating ­receivables/ liabilities and change in NOTE 8 Business Combinations value of ­derivatives 1 9 2 Gain on sale of associated In May 2013, Saab announced the signing of an agreement to acquire Teknicompanies 11 kinformation i Krokom ab (tikab), a company that produces and supplies Change in fair value of technical documentation for the civilian and military market and has biological assets 1 67 employees. The acquisition expands Saab’s service portfolio in technical Gain on sale of Group services, further strengthening the company’s competitiveness as a supplier ­companies 1 of support solutions. The company is included in the Group’s consolidated Other 23 19 2 7 accounts from 1 May 2013. In September 2013, Saab announced the acquisition of Hydro-Lek LimTotal 204 338 87 77 ited, a uk manipulator and tooling manufacturer for underwater vehicles with 25 employees. The acquisition strengthens Saab Seaeye’s product portfoTrading result refers to the result in Saab Treasury from trading in currency lio of remotely operated, autonomous and hybrid underwater vehicles with and money market instruments according to the risk mandate approved by the ambition to make the company grow further. The company is included in the Board of Directors; see Note 41. the Group’s consolidated accounts from 1 September 2013. Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outThe total consideration of these acquisitions amounted to msek 50 of side core operations and net rental income from property rentals. which msek 47 was paid in cash and msek 3 in an earn-out liability that may be paid out based on future earnings. Acquired assets primarily consist of intangible assets, working capital and operating properties, and amount to msek 31. Goodwill from the acquisitions amounts to msek 19 and is mainly attributable to the combined workforce and future synergies. The effect on liquid assets amounts to msek -43. Sales from the acquired entities amount to msek 36. No other significant acquisitions were made in 2013. saab annual report 2013 81 financial information > notes NOTE 9 Employees and Staff Costs Average number of employees of whom of whom 2013 men 2012 men 2013 of whom men 2012 of whom men Parent Company Group companies Sweden 8,568 80% 8,063 80% Sweden 2,576 76% 2,892 78% United Arab Emirates 14 100% 16 100% South Africa 820 74% 858 72% Pakistan 12 100% 9 100% USA 690 74% 677 73% Norway 10 100% 3 100% Australia 300 80% 327 78% Kenya 8 63% 2 100% UK 211 81% 170 82% South Korea 7 71% Czech Republic 136 79% 140 80% Somalia 6 100% Netherlands 129 91% 119 91% Thailand 6 83% 7 86% Norway 89 75% 88 76% Saudi Arabia 4 100% 3 100% Germany 89 87% 88 82% Belgium 4 50% 3 67% Denmark 58 86% 68 85% France 3 100% 3 100% Switzerland 54 94% 48 100% Turkey 3 67% 3 67% Canada 54 87% 53 85% Canada 3 100% 2 100% Finland 52 77% 54 74% Switzerland 3 67% 1 100% India 39 69% 33 70% Croatia 2 50% 2 50% Kenya 37 95% 32 100% UK 2 100% 1 100% Hongkong 15 73% 14 71% Czech Republic 2 50% 3 100% Thailand 11 73% Brazil 2 100% 9 67% Croatia 9 78% Finland 2 50% Brazil 7 43% Indonesia 2 100% Poland 4 75% India 1 100% 4 75% United Arab Emirates 4 75% Malaysia 1 100% 3 67% Malaysia 3 67% Denmark 1 100% Chile 2 100% 1 100% Japan 1 100% South Korea 1 100% 5 80% South Africa 11 82% Greece 1 100% 1 100% USA 9 100% Singapore 1 1 Poland 5 80% Bulgaria 1 Australia 1 100% Japan 1 100% Germany 1 100% Group companies, total 5,393 77% 5,670 77% Parent Company, total 8,667 80% 8,164 80% Group total 14,060 79% 13,834 79% The average number of employees has been calculated as the average of the number of full-time equivalents. The term full-time equivalents excludes long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationers are however included in the calculation. Gender distribution of corporate management Share of women, per cent 2013 2012 Parent Company Board of Directors 33 22 Other senior executives 30 36 Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses 2013 2012 Salaries and Social Salaries and Social other security other security MSEK remuneration ­ xpenses remuneration e e ­ xpenses Parent Company 4,534 2,027 4,223 1,719 of which pension costs 628 442 1) Group companies 2,767 828 2,867 983 of which pension costs 3) 402 513 Group, total 7,301 2,855 7,090 2,702 of which pension costs 1,030 955 2) 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 10 (18) refers to the Parent Company’s Board and President, i­ncluding deputies and Executive Vice President. The company’s oustanding pension obligations for these individuals, amount to MSEK 24 (62), of which MSEK 24 (62) refers to former Board members and Presidents, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. 2) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 19 (29) refers to the Group’s boards and Presidents, including Group companies. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amount to MSEK 28 (68), of 82 saab annual report 2013 which MSEK 24 (62) refers to former board members and Presidents. 3) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding defined-benefit plans between Parent Company and Group. See also Note 1. financial information > notes note 9, cont. Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, NOTE 11 Operating Expenses President and Vice Presidents and other employees 2013 2012 Group Board, Board, MSEK 2013 2012 President President and Vice Other and Vice Other Raw materials, materials and consumables 4,836 5,059 MSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees Subsystems and equipment 847 961 Parent Company 24 4,510 19 4,204 Purchased services 1,976 1,990 of which variable remuneration Change in inventory of finished goods and work in progress, excluding write down -409 119 Group companies 74 2,693 57 2,810 of which variable remuneration Personnel costs 10,156 9,792 3 4 Depreciation and amortisation 1,009 1,119 Group total 98 7,203 76 7,014 Impairments 50 29 of which variable remuneration 3 4 Other expenses 3,912 3,235 Of the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, Total 22,377 22,304 msek 36 (40) refers to senior executives other than Board members and the President. For information on post-employment compensation and share-related Operating expenses refer to cost of goods sold, marketing expenses, adminiscompensation, see Note 37. trative expenses and research and development costs. Depreciation and amortisation in the leasing operations (Saab Aircraft Leasing) are not included in depreciation and amortisation above. NOTE 10 Auditors’ Fees and Compensation NOTE 12 Depreciation/Amortisation and Impairments Parent Group Company MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group MSEK 2013 2012 PwC Depreciation/amortisation Audit assignments 16 15 9 9 Capitalised development costs -454 -590 Audit work in excess of the audit assignment 1 1 1 1 Other intangible fixed assets -170 -143 Tax advice 2 2 Operating properties -96 -95 Other services 1 3 4 Plant and machinery -175 -193 Other audit firms Equipment, tools and installations -114 -96 Audit assignments 2 2 Leasing aircraft -25 -53 Total 22 23 10 14 Other lease assets -2 Total -1,034 -1,172 Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that was necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with the audit assignment. Impairments Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opinPlant and machinery -13 -17 ions and other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and Total -13 -17 which are normally performed by the external auditor, including consultations on advisory and reporting requirements, internal control and the review of interim reports. In 2013, impairments of msek 13 were recognised on plant and machinery Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignwith regard to radar operations in the us. ments, audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. In 2012, impairments of msek 17 were recognised on plant and machinery with regard to a demonstrator system within Electronic Defence Systems. Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 Depreciation/amortisation Capitalised development costs -200 -200 Goodwill -39 -39 Other intangible fixed assets -100 -86 Buildings -64 -65 Plant and machinery -103 -105 Equipment, tools and installations -66 -53 Total -572 -548 saab annual report 2013 83 financial information > notes NOTE 13 Financial Income and Expenses NOTE 14 Appropriations Group Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 MSEK 2013 2012 Interest income on loans receivable 65 168 Buildings and land 14 16 Less project interest applied to gross income -3 -15 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, tools and installations 24 17 Financial income 62 153 Total difference between tax depreciation and depreciation according to plan 38 33 Interest expenses on loans and financial liabilities -42 -44 Tax allocation reserve -322 -514 Interest expense, lost legal dispute -83 Total -284 -481 Financial expense from revaluation of financial assets available-for-sale -133 Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal of NOTE 15 Taxes financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss -51 -20 Tax recognised through profit or loss Financial expenses related to pensions -74 -73 Net tax is comprised of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated Other financial expenses -45 -65 based on applicable tax laws in the countries in which parent company and Financial expenses -428 -202 subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences; i.e., differences Share in income of associated companies 2 between, on the one hand, the value of assets and liabilities for tax purposes and, on the other, their carrying amounts in the consolidated accounts and Net financial income and expenses -366 -47 tax loss carry forwards. The company recognises deferred tax assets in those Figures presented for 2012 are restated due to changed categorisation. cases in which the company deems it likely that the amounts may be offset against future taxable surpluses. Result from shares Result from shares in in Group compaassociated compaGroup Parent Company nies nies/joint ventures MSEK 2013 2012 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Dividends 654 55 430 Taxes for the year -324 -557 Group contributions ­received 310 847 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 134 -14 Capital gain on sale of shares 38 -3 Total -190 -571 Impairments -69 -47 -430 Other -20 -58 8 15 Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Total 875 835 8 12 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 13 83 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss Result from other carry forwards capitalised during the year 33 39 ­securities and Other interest ­receivables held ­income and similar Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously Parent Company as fixed assets profit/loss items capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -7 -17 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Deferred tax related to previous years -86 23 Interest income, Group companies 124 127 Total -47 128 Other interest income 74 169 Impairment -133 -2 Total recognised tax in the Group -237 -443 Translation differences -14 33 Net change in value from revaluaTax recognised in profit or loss for 2012 has been restated in accordance with tion of financial assets/liabilities -12 -39 the changed accounting principles for pensions (ias 19). The Group’s overall deferred tax amounts to msek -47 (128) and current Less project interest applied to gross income -3 -15 tax expense for the year amounts to msek -190 (-571), producing a total recognised tax of msek -237 (-443) in the consolidated income statement. The Other -21 -21 table “Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forTotal -180 -29 195 281 wards” for the Group, on page 87, specifies how deferred tax affects income. Interest expenses and Parent Company similar profit/loss items MSEK 2013 2012 Interest expenses, Group companies -51 -110 Other interest expenses -140 -75 Total -191 -185 84 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes note 15, cont. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Parent Company Deferred Deferred tax MSEK 2013 2012 Group tax assets ­liabilities Net Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2013 Taxes for the year -216 -411 Intangible fixed assets 6 -398 -392 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 2 -23 Tangible fixed assets 10 -371 -361 Total -214 -434 Lease assets -40 -40 Biological assets -42 -42 Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Long-term receivables 8 -25 -17 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 14 -88 Inventories 195 -8 187 Deferred tax related to previous years 23 Accounts receivable 7 7 Total 14 -65 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 21 Long-term liabilities 48 -1 47 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -200 -499 Provisions for pensions 404 -13 391 Other provisions 306 -22 284 Reconciliation of effective tax Tax allocation reserves -264 -264 Group Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 MSEK 2013 (%) 2013 2012 (%) 2012 Accrued expenses and deferred income 108 108 Income before taxes 979 2,003 Other 25 -105 -80 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -215 -26.3 -527 Tax loss carry forwards 188 188 Effect of other tax rates for foreign Tax assets/liabilities, total 1,326 -1,588 -262 operations -0.5 -5 -0.1 -2 Set-off -1,087 1,087 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden 4.5 90 Tax assets /liabilities, net 239 -501 -262 Non-deductible expenses -16.1 -158 -5.3 -106 Tax-exempt income 7.4 72 6.2 124 Deferred Deferred tax Tax on additional, non-capitalised Group tax assets ­liabilities Net tax loss carry forwards -0.4 -4 -0.3 -7 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2012 Tax on utilisation of previously noncapitalised tax loss carry forwards 0.7 7 Intangible fixed assets 6 -527 -521 Capitalisation of tax loss carry forTangible fixed assets 21 -392 -371 wards attributable to previous years 1.9 19 Lease assets -62 -62 Tax related to previous years 4.9 48 -0.7 -14 Biological assets -44 -44 Other -0.1 -1 -0.1 -1 Long-term receivables -14 -14 Reported effective tax -24.2 -237 -22.1 -443 Inventories 205 -2 203 Accounts receivable 6 6 The reduction in a liability for a conditional consideration and operations divested during the year has affected tax-exempt income with msek 146 (233). Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 -2 24 Long-term liabilities 54 -1 53 The reconciliation for 2012 has been restated taking into account the changed Provisions for pensions 651 -12 639 accounting principles for pensions (ias 19). Other provisions 450 -24 426 Parent Company Tax allocation reserves -193 -193 MSEK 2013 (%) 2013 2012 (%) 2012 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Income before taxes 1,085 1,464 Accrued expenses and deferred income 122 122 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -239 -26.3 -385 Other 56 -158 -102 Tax allocated to foreign operations -0.1 -1 -0.2 -3 Tax loss carry forwards 162 162 Tax related to previous years 0.2 2 Tax assets/liabilities, total 1,759 -1,730 29 Non-deductible expenses -20.2 -219 -7.3 -107 Set-off -1,546 1,546 Tax-exempt income 23.7 257 2.0 29 Tax assets /liabilities, net 213 -184 29 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden -2.3 -33 2012 has been restated in accordance with the changed accounting principles Reported effective tax -18.4 -200 -34.1 -499 for pensions (ias 19). saab annual report 2013 85 financial information > notes note 15, cont. Expiration of recognised and unrecognised tax loss carry forwards Deferred Deferred tax MSEK Recognised tax loss Unrecognised tax Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities Net Expiration carry forwards loss carry forwards MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2012 Unlimited expiration 247 103 Tangible fixed assets -197 -197 2021 32 Inventories 84 84 2024 22 Accounts receivable 3 3 2029 6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1 2030 68 Provisions for pensions 80 80 2031 166 Other provisions 155 155 2032 7 Accrued expenses and deferred income 42 42 Total tax loss carry forwards 548 103 Tax assets/liabilities, total 365 -197 168 Set-off -197 197 Recognised deferred tax asset 188 Tax assets/liabilities, net 168 168 At the close of 2013 Saab’s unrecognised tax loss carry forwards totalled The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, msek 103 (151). Tax loss carry forwards attributable to the us operations can Saab ab, has been recognised in profit or loss. be utilised through 2032, but expire in part as of 2021. Deferred Deferred tax Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax assets Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities Net MSEK Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2013 Deferred tax assets expected to be Tangible fixed assets -196 -196 recovered within one year 58 9 Inventories 93 93 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after one year 1,268 369 Accounts receivable 2 2 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax liabilities Provisions for pensions 93 93 MSEK Group Parent Company Other provisions 152 152 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment within Accrued expenses and deferred income 37 37 one year 40 10 Tax assets/liabilities, total 378 -196 182 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment after one year 1,548 186 Set-off -196 196 Tax assets/liabilities, net 182 182 86 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 15, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Group Opening balance Recognised in Recognised in the Acquisition/divestTranslation Closing balance MSEK 1 Jan 2013 profit or loss comprehensive income ment of operations difference 31 Dec 2013 Intangible fixed assets -521 133 -4 -392 Tangible fixed assets -371 10 -361 Lease assets -62 23 -1 -40 Biological assets -44 2 -42 Long-term receivables -14 -3 -17 Inventories 203 -11 -5 187 Accounts receivable 6 1 7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 -3 21 Long-term liabilities 53 -6 47 Provisions for pensions­ 639 37 -285 391 Other provisions 426 -142 284 Tax allocation reserves -193 -71 -264 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Accrued expenses and deferred income 122 -14 108 Other -102 -29 59 -8 -80 Tax loss carry forwards 162 26 188 Total 29 -47 -226 -4 -14 -262 The Group’s total deferred tax expense/income in the 2013 income statement deferred tax on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, msek 33, and amounted to msek -47. The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value in statement of comprehensive income amounted to msek -226. The closing baltax loss carry forwards, msek -7. ance on 31 December 2013, msek -262, consisted of deferred tax assets of Other numbers in the ”Recognised in profit or loss” column in the table msek 239 and tax liabilities of msek -501, see table on page 85. above total msek -73, which is the amount of deferred tax related to tempoThe net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisirary differences and deferred tax attributable to previous years. tion/divestment of operations, totals msek 26, which is the amount of Recognised in the Acquisition/­ Adjustment due Group Opening balance Recognised in comprehensive divestment of to change of a Translation Closing balance MSEK 1 Jan 2012 profit or loss income operations ccounting principles difference 31 Dec 2012 Intangible fixed assets -645 188 -57 -7 -521 Tangible fixed assets -484 88 25 -371 Lease assets -100 58 -20 -62 Biological assets -52 8 -44 Long-term receivables -38 24 -14 Inventories 241 -38 203 Accounts receivable 6 6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 -3 24 Long-term liabilities 89 -39 3 53 Provisions for pensions­ 611 59 82 1 -104 -10 639 Other provisions 603 -177 426 Tax allocation reserves -94 -99 -193 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -357 58 -299 Accrued expenses and deferred income 169 -47 122 Other -142 26 14 -102 Tax loss carry forwards 142 22 4 -6 162 Total -24 128 99 -27 -104 -43 29 The Group’s total deferred tax expense in the 2012 income statement Tax items recognised directly against other comprehensive income amounted to msek 128. The Group’s total deferred tax income in the stateGroup ment of comprehensive income amounted to msek 99. The closing balance MSEK 2013 2012 on 31 December 2012, msek 29, consisted of deferred tax assets of msek 213 and tax liabilities of msek -184, see table on page 85. Provisions for pensions -285 85 Cash flow hedges 59 14 Total -226 99 saab annual report 2013 87 financial information > notes NOTE 16 Intangible Fixed Assets Other intangible assets Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Goodwill 4,605 4,581 493 532 Acquisition value Capitalised development costs 1,338 1,751 662 856 Opening balance, 1 January 1,879 1,749 1,473 1,426 Other intangible assets 397 517 237 273 Acquired through business acquisitions 5 96 Total 6,340 6,849 1,392 1,661 Investments 44 51 64 48 Goodwill Disposals and reclassifications­ -275 -2 -276 -1 Group Parent Company Translation differences -2 -15 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Closing balance, 31 December­ 1,651 1,879 1,261 1,473 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 5,278 4,920 784 784 Amortisation and impairments Acquired through business acquisitions 37 421 Opening balance, 1 January -1,362 -1,223 -1,200 -1,115 Divestments -9 Amortisation for the year -170 -143 -100 -86 Translation differences -13 -54 Acquired through business acquisitions -3 Closing balance, 31 December­ 5,302 5,278 784 784 Disposals and reclassifications­ 276 2 276 1 Translation differences 2 5 Amortisation and impairments Closing balance, 31 December­ -1,254 -1,362 -1,024 -1,200 Opening balance, 1 January -697 -697 -252 -213 Amortisation for the year -39 -39 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 397 517 237 273 Closing balance, 31 December­ -697 -697 -291 -252 Acquired through business acquisitions 2013 relates to Teknikinformation i Carrying amount, 31 December­ 4,605 4,581 493 532 Krokom ab (tikab). Acquired through business acquisitions 2012 relates primarily to hitt n.v., medav gmbh and Bayes Risk Management as and comprises order backlog, patents and customer relations. Acquired through business acquisitions in the Group 2013 relates to Hydro-Lek Limited and Teknikinformation i Krokom ab (tikab) as well as an adjustment related to the acquisition of medav gmbh. Acquired through business acquisiAmortisation is included in the following lines in the income statement tions 2012 relates to hitt n.v., medav gmbh, Täby Displayteknik ab, Sörman Group Parent Company Intressenter ab and Bayes Risk Management as. MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Capitalised development costs Cost of goods sold 168 141 139 125 Group Parent Company Marketing expenses 2 2 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Research and development­costs 454 590 200 200 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 5,895 5,551 2,000 2,000 Development costs The significant items in total capitalisation are development costs for radar Acquired through business acquisitions 17 144 10 and sensors, electronic warfare systems, air traffic management (atm), and Internally developed assets 24 292 Gripen. Disposals and reclassifications­ -14 -66 Development costs are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In Translation differences -24 -26 legal units, all costs for development work are expensed. Capitalised development costs in the Parent Company relate to acquired development costs. Closing balance, 31 December­ 5,898 5,895 2,010 2,000 Other intangible fixed assets Amortisation and ­impairments Significant items in the carrying amount are attributable to the acquisitions Opening balance, 1 January -4,144 -3,601 -1,144 -944 of Ericsson Microwave Systems, Sensis and medav and relate to expenses incurred for customer relations, trademarks, patents and values in the order Amortisation for the year -454 -590 -200 -200 backlog. Of the carrying amount, msek 397, msek 297 is attributable to acAcquired through business acquisitions -27 -4 quired values and msek 100 to licenses for operating systems etc. Disposals and reclassifications­ 14 59 Impairment tests for goodwill Translation differences 24 15 In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cashClosing balance, 31 December­ -4,560 -4,144 -1,348 -1,144 generating units that are expected to obtain future economic benefits in the form, for example, of synergies from the acquisition. Saab’s business areas have been identified as separate cash-generating units. The following cashCarrying amount, 31 December­ 1,338 1,751 662 856 generating units have significant recognised goodwill values in relation to the Group’s total recognised goodwill value. Goodwill in every cash-generating Acquired through business acquisitions 2013 relates primarily to Hydro-Lek unit has been tested for impairment. Limited. Acquired through business acquisitions 2012 relates to hitt n.v., medav Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purgmbh, Täby D ­ isplayteknik ab och Sörman Intressenter ab. chase of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. 88 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 16, cont. MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 NOTE 17 Tangible Fixed Assets Dynamics 585 570 Group Parent Company Electronic Defence Systems 2,337 2,335 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Security and Defence Solutions 1,177 1,172 Operating properties/ Support and Services 246 240 buildings and land1) 1,888 1,981 1,340 1,357 Combitech 260 264 Plant and machinery 651 730 445 481 Total goodwill 4,605 4,581 Equipment, tools and ­installations 349 312 197 173 Impairment testing for cash-generating units is based on the calculation of Construction in progress 351 139 297 115 value in use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according Total 3,239 3,162 2,279 2,126 to the units’ business plans. For Electronic Defence Systems, forecast cash 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported flows have exceeded the outcome of the last two years. amount refers to buildings and land. Variables used to calculate value in use Operating properties/buildings and land 1) Volume/growth Group Parent Company Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expecMSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 tations with regard to development in each market area and previous experiAcquisition value ence. The first five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated by Group Management and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five Opening balance, 1 January 4,917 4,899 1,881 1,872 years, the annual growth rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. Investments 43 15 41 9 Reclassifications -13 30 6 Operating margin The operating margin is comprised of the units’ operating income after Divestments -36 -1 depreciation and amortisation. The units’ operating margin is calculated Translation differences -30 -26 against the backdrop of historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard Closing balance, 31 December­ 4,881 4,917 1,928 1,881 to the future development of markets where the units are active. The business areas Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems and Security and Defence Solutions have a substantial order backlog of projects that stretches over a Depreciation and impairments­ number of years. The risks and opportunities affecting the operating margin Opening balance, 1 January -2,936 -2,849 -1,421 -1,359 are managed through continuous cost forecasts for all significant projects. Depreciation for the year -96 -95 -64 -65 Capitalised development costs Reclassifications 24 In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional investDivestments 13 3 3 ments in development considered necessary for certain units to reach the growth targets in their respective markets. Translation differences 2 5 Closing balance, 31 December­ -2,993 -2,936 -1,485 -1,421 Discount rate Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (wacc). The wacc rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years Revaluations adjusted for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line Opening balance, 1 January 897 897 with the external requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the Closing balance, 31 D­ecember 897 897 market. All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and support solutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their Carrying amount, business risk in this respect is considered equivalent. However, units with a 31 D­ecember 1,888 1,981 1,340 1,357 significant share of the business plan’s invoicing in the order backlog have 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount been discounted at an interest rate that is slightly lower than for units with a refers to buildings and land. short order backlog. Operating properties include a property leased by Saab Sensis in the us The following discount rates have been used (pre-tax): through a financial lease. The financial lease extends through 2025. The carryPre-tax discount rate (WACC) ing amount is msek 89. The property is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period of use through 2025. Per cent 2013 2012 Total future minimum lease fees amount to msek 113, of which msek 9 is Dynamics 11 11 due within one year, msek 37 after one year but within five years, and msek 67 Electronic Defence Systems 11 11 after five years. The present value of future minimum lease fees is msek 93. Security and Defence Solutions 11 11 Support and Services 13 13 Combitech 13 13 Sensitivity analysis Group Management believes that reasonable possible changes in the above variables would not have such a large impact that any individually would reduce the recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount. saab annual report 2013 89 financial information > notes Note 17, cont. Plant and machinery Equipment, tools and installations Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Acquisition value Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 3,264 2,962 2,308 1,893 Opening balance, 1 January 1,797 2,081 1,093 1,271 Acquired through business Acquired through business acquia­cquisitions 8 26 sitions 2 1 Acquisitions from Acquisitions from companies within the Group 104 companies within the Group 48 Investments 98 100 59 39 Investments 146 133 82 79 Reclassifications 26 281 10 296 Reclassifications 15 -242 8 -237 Divestments -60 -63 -47 -24 Sales -95 -163 -56 -68 Translation differences -26 -42 Translation differences -24 -13 Closing balance, 31 December­ 3,310 3,264 2,330 2,308 Closing balance, 31 December­ 1,841 1,797 1,127 1,093 Depreciation and impairments Depreciation and impairments Opening balance, 1 January -2,534 -2,163 -1,827 -1,433 Opening balance, 1 January -1,485 -1,789 -920 -1,122 Depreciation for the year -175 -193 -103 -105 Depreciation for the year -114 -96 -66 -53 Impairments for the year -13 -17 Acquired through business acquisitions -2 Acquired through business acquisitions -4 -20 Acquisitions from companies within the Group -39 Acquisitions from companies within the Group -86 Reclassifications -2 233 226 Reclassifications -10 -229 -1 -224 Sales 90 157 56 68 Divestments 57 57 46 21 Translation differences 21 10 Translation differences 20 31 Closing balance, 31 December­ -1,492 -1,485 -930 -920 Closing balance, 31 December­ -2,659 -2,534 -1,885 -1,827 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 349 312 197 173 Carrying amount, 31 December 651 730 445 481 Acquired through business acquisitions relates to Teknikinformation i In 2013, impairments of msek 13 were recognised on plant and machinery Krokom ab (tikab) for 2013 and Täby Displayteknik ab for 2012. with regard to radar operations in the us. In 2012, impairments of msek 17 Construction in progress were recognised with regard to a demonstrator system within Electronic Defence Systems. Acquired through business acquisitions 2013 relates to Group Parent Company Teknikinformation i Krokom ab (tikab) as well as Hydro-Lek Limited and MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 2012 to hitt n.v. and medav gmbh. Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 139 131 115 118 Investments 256 80 205 58 Reclassifications -40 -72 -23 -61 Divestments -2 Translation differences -2 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 351 139 297 115 Collateral On 31 December 2013 property with a carrying amount of msek 0 (0) was pledged as collateral for bank loans. 90 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 18 Lease Assets and Lease Agreements As the former manufacturer of the regional aircraft Saab 340 and Saab 2000, Leasing fees for aircraft obtained/leased via operating leases Saab has a great interest in ensuring that these aircraft maintain high capacity Payments Payments utilisation. Over 500 aircraft have been delivered and 49 are included in Saab’s Payments from from leasing fleet, of which 14 aircraft are owned by Saab. Leasing operations are MSEK to lessors ­air­lines1) ­air­lines2) carried out in the global market. Operating lease terms conform to customary Outcome terms in the international aircraft leasing market, which may entail the right to 2012 248 72 20 early termination, purchases and extensions, as well as security, geographical and tax-related limitations on the allocation of the aircraft in question. No air2013 235 79 16 craft are held via finance leases, nor is Saab the lessor in any finance leases. The operations are carried out in usd. Contracted Owned aircraft are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 20–25 years. The leasing fleet is expected to be divested around 2015. 2014 94 38 15 2015 15 2016 15 Leasing aircraft obtained for leasing purposes 2017 15 MSEK 2013 2012 2018 5 Acquisition value 2019 and forward Opening balance, 1 January 942 2,336 Total contracted 94 38 65 Sales -323 -1,342 1) Receipts from airlines for aircraft held via operating leases and leased out via operating leases. Translation differences -1 -52 2) Receipts from airlines for owned aircraft leased out via operating leases. Closing balance, 31 December 618 942 The leasing fleet is periodically valuated in terms of the present value of the future payments it is expected to generate. The inflow is represented by proDepreciation jected receipts from customers and the Export Credits Guarantee Board (ekn) in Sweden. Disbursements consist of fees to the lessee and for technical, Opening balance, 1 January -543 -1,373 legal and administrative activities directly related to management of the fleet. Sales 195 841 Insurance protection limits Saab’s risk. However, the internal distribution Depreciation for the year -25 -53 between expected receipts from customers and those from ekn will be Translation differences 42 affected in each instance by current projections. Closing balance, 31 December -373 -543 Leasing fees for other assets obtained via operating leases1) Impairments Other leasing fees refer to premises, computers and cars. Opening balance, 1 January -97 -195 Group Premises­ Machinery­ Sales and revaluations 49 97 and and equipMSEK buildings­ ment­ Translation differences 1 Closing balance, 31 December -48 -97 Outcome 2012 232 146 Total 197 302 2013 240 155 Other lease assets Contracted Opening balance, 1 January 2 3 2014 242 135 Acquisitions 1 2015 222 98 Depreciation for the year -2 2016 194 57 Translation differences -2 2017 161 31 Closing balance, 31 December 2 2018 143 4 2019 and forward 524 4 Total contracted 1,486 329 Carrying amount, 31 December 197 304 saab annual report 2013 91 financial information > notes Note 18, cont. Parent Company Premises­ Machinery­ outside tenants. Leases on offices and production space are normally signed and and equipfor an initial period of 2–6 years. Prior to expiration, renegotiations are held MSEK buildings­ ment­ with the tenant on the rent level and other terms of the agreement, provided Outcome the lease has not been terminated. Fair values have been determined by analysing rental income and expenses 2012 170 114 for each property, thereby producing a net rental income figure. Net rental 2013 173 126 income has then served as the basis for a valuation of fair value with a yield of 8 per cent. The yield requirements correspond to the risk in net rental income. Fair value is not based on the valuation of an independent appraiser. Contracted 2014 185 113 Group 2015 174 83 MSEK 2013 2012 2016 161 51 Effect on net income/net rental income 2017 145 26 Rental income 4 4 2018 133 Direct costs for investment properties that 2019 and forward 517 generated rental income during the year -2 -2 Total contracted 1,315 273 Effect on net income /net rental income 2 2 1) The Group has a finance lease on a building; see Note 17. Information on fair value of investment properties in the Parent Company In the Parent Company, investment properties are recognised as buildings NOTE 19 Biological Assets according to the acquisition cost method. Investment properties in the ­Parent Company are mainly leased out to other companies in the Group and are Group therefore classified as operating properties in the Group. MSEK 2013 2012 Parent Company Living forest MSEK 2013 2012 Carrying amount, 1 January 306 305 Fair value Change in fair value 4 10 Opening fair value, 1 January 164 165 Less fair value logging -14 -9 Revaluation -1 Carrying amount, 31 December 296 306 Closing fair value, 31 December 164 164 Of which fixed assets 296 306 Parent Company On 31 December 2013, biological assets consisted of approximately MSEK 2013 2012 389,000 m³ of spruce, 644,000 m³ of pine and 72,000 m³ of hardwood. Forest growth is estimated at 40,000 m³ timber per year. During the year, approxiEffect on net income/net rental income mately 42,700 m³ of timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, Rental income 25 24 after deducting selling expenses, of msek 14 on the felling date. Direct costs for investment properties that The valuation of forests has been done with the help of independent generated rental income during the year -8 -8 appraisers. The forestry property has been valued according to the market comparison method. In the valuation according to the market comparison Effect on net income /net rental income 17 16 method, the environmental impact on the firing range has not been taken into account. An adjustment for the environmental impact has therefore been Information on carrying amount of investment properties in the made by reducing fair value by an amount corresponding to the market value P­arent Company­ of the size of the firing range (4,457 hectares) less the value of the timber. Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 NOTE 20 Investment Properties Accumulated acquisition value Information on fair value of investment properties in the Group Opening balance, 1 January 128 127 In the Group, investment properties are reported according to the fair value Acquisitions 1 method. Closing balance, 31 December 128 128 Group Accumulated depreciation according to plan MSEK 2013 2012 Opening balance, 1 January -94 -91 Carrying amount, 1 January 33 224 Depreciation according to plan for the year -4 -3 Divestment -190 Closing balance, 31 December -98 -94 Revaluation -2 -1 Carrying amount, 31 December 31 33 Accumulated revaluations Opening balance, 1 January 66 66 Investment properties are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value, while changes in the value of these properties are recognised in Closing balance, 31 December 66 66 the income statement; see also Note 1. Investment properties comprise a number of rental properties leased to Carrying amount, 31 December 96 100 92 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 21 Shares in Associated Companies Consolidated According to the Equity Method Group Share in associated MSEK 2013 2012 2012 companies’ Carrying amount, 1 January 300 288 MSEK Country Sales income Acquisition of associated companies 3 Associated companies Sale of associated companies -7 Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd Hong Kong 694 4 Share in associated companies’ income 1) 25 27 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 19 2 New share issues 20 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 26 8 Reclassifications 11 3 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 18 -1 Translation differences and internal gains -11 -9 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB Sweden 35 -1 Dividends -10 -2 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd South Africa 24 -1 Carrying amount, 31 December 338 300 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 21 1 1) Share in associated companies’ net income and non-controlling interests. FFV Services Private Limited India 11 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 72 19 The Group’s associated companies are held for operating purposes; i.e., they Other associated companies, mainly in are related to operations of the business areas or in the venture portfolio and the venture portfolio 15 -4 are therefore recognised in operating income. In previous years, results from Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd. were recognised as financial income and expenses Total 935 27 through profit or loss. Saab has not made any significant acquisitions or sales of shares in associated Carrying companies during 2013. amount, Shares in associated companies as of 31 December 2013 include goodwill of shares in msek 60 (58). 31-12-2013 associated Ownership MSEK Assets Liabilities companies interest, % The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities and the carrying amount of shares in associated companies is as follows. Associated companies Share in Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd 332 227 105 32.3 associated 2013 companies’ Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 34 7 27 27.2 MSEK Country Sales income Taurus Systems GmbH 126 120 6 33.0 Associated companies S.N. Technologies SA 15 5 10 50.0 Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd Hong Kong 510 -2 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB 19 9 10 33.0 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 22 4 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 13 7 6 40.0 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 28 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB 121 115 6 50.0 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 24 1 FFV Services Private Limited 25 6 19 49.0 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB Sweden 35 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 142 34 108 36.6 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd South Africa 22 1 Other associated companies, Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 20 mainly in the venture portfolio 42 1 41 FFV Services Private Limited India 16 7 Total 869 531 338 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 102 23 Other associated companies, Carrying mainly in the venture portfolio 11 -9 amount, shares in Total 790 25 31-12-2012 associated Ownership MSEK Assets Liabilities companies interest, % Associated companies Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd 299 191 108 32.3 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 33 8 25 27.2 Taurus Systems GmbH 37 28 9 33.0 S.N. Technologies SA 13 4 9 50.0 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB 18 8 10 33.0 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 13 7 6 40.0 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB 125 119 6 50.0 FFV Services Private Limited 14 1 13 49.0 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 115 21 94 36.6 Other associated companies, mainly in the venture portfolio 25 5 20 Total 692 392 300 saab annual report 2013 93 financial information > notes NOTE 22 Shares in Joint Ventures Consolidated According to the Proportional Method The Group has a 50 per cent holding in the joint venture Gripen InternaEnd of second quarter 2013 tional kb. Group holdings were reported using the proportional method through 2013; however, application of ifrs 11, Joint Arrangements, results in Financial position 30-06-2013 Adjustment 30-06-2013 MSEK Actual IFRS 11 Restated holdings being reported using the equity method as of 2014. The Group’s remaining holdings in joint ventures are of an insignificant amount. Fixed assets 11,406 -1 11,405 The Group’s financial reports include the following items that constitute Shares in joint ventures 459 459 the Group’s ownership interest in the joint venture’s sales, income, assets and Current assets 15,815 -305 15,510 liabilities. Total assets 27,221 153 27,374 Gripen International KB Total equity 11,616 11,616 MSEK 2013 2012 Long-term liabilities 3,719 3,719 Sales 28 Current liabilities 11,886 153 12,039 Total liabilities 15,605 153 15,758 Net income 25 Total equity and liabilities 27,221 153 27,374 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 End of first quarter 2013 Fixed assets 8 2 Financial position 31-03-2013 Adjustment 31-03-2013 Current assets 248 689 MSEK Actual IFRS 11 Restated Total assets 256 691 Fixed assets 11,282 -2 11,280 Shares in joint ventures 459 459 Current liabilities 227 232 Current assets 17,153 -362 16,791 Total liabilities 227 232 Total assets 28,435 95 28,530 Total equity 11,829 11,829 Long-term liabilities 4,408 4,408 Net assets 29 459 Current liabilities 12,198 95 12,293 Total liabilities 16,606 95 16,701 Effects of application of ifrs 11 on shares in joint ventures are reported in Total equity and liabilities 28,435 95 28,530 accordance with the equity method. The change has not had a significant effect on the Group’s income statement. Opening balance 2013 Year-end 2013 Financial position 01-01-2013 Adjustment 01-01-2013 Financial position 31-12-2013 Adjustment 31-12-2013 MSEK Actual IFRS 11 Restated MSEK Actual IFRS 11 Restated Fixed assets 11,498 -2 11,496 Fixed assets 11,104 -8 11,096 Shares in joint ventures 459 459 Shares in joint ventures 29 29 Current assets 17,440 -344 17,096 Current assets 16,801 -137 16,664 Total assets 28,938 113 29,051 Total assets 27,905 -116 27,789 Total equity 11,280 11,280 Total equity 12,227 12,227 Long-term liabilities 4,764 4,764 Long-term liabilities 4,498 4,498 Current liabilities 12,894 113 13,007 Current liabilities 11,180 -116 11,064 Total liabilities 17,658 113 17,771 Total liabilities 15,678 -116 15,562 Total equity and liabilities 28,938 113 29,051 Total equity and liabilities 27,905 -116 27,789 End of third quarter 2013 Financial position 30-09-2013 Adjustment 30-09-2013 MSEK Actual IFRS 11 Restated Fixed assets 11,167 -8 11,159 Shares in joint ventures 459 459 Current assets 15,351 -343 15,008 Total assets 26,518 108 26,626 Total equity 11,877 11,877 Long-term liabilities 3,541 3,541 Current liabilities 11,100 108 11,208 Total liabilities 14,641 108 14,749 Total equity and liabilities 26,518 108 26,626 94 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 23 Parent Company’s Shares in Associated Companies NOTE 25 Financial Investments and Joint Ventures Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 MSEK 2013 2012 Financial investments held as fixed assets Accumulated acquisition value Financial assets available-for-sale measured at fair value: Opening balance, 1 January 565 552 Shares and participations 114 Acquisitions 2 Financial assets measured at fair value through Divestments -3 profit or loss: Reclassifications -9 Shares and participations 40 49 Write-downs -430 Investments held to maturity: Share of net income for the year in joint ventures 25 Interest-bearing securities 141 144 Closing balance, 31 December 137 565 Total 295 193 Carrying amount, 31 December 137 565 Short-term investments classified as current assets Financial assets measured at fair value through Specification of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings profit or loss: of shares in associated companies and joint ventures Interest-bearing securities 2,002 3,963 2013 % of votes Carrying Total 2,002 3,963 MSEK and capital amount Associated companies Investments in interest-bearing securities consist of mortgage and governHawker Pacific Airservices Ltd, Hong Kong 32.3 22 ment bonds, corporate and bank commercial paper as well as Floating Rate Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, Notes. The fair value of interest-bearing securities held to maturity amounts 556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 to msek 139 (143). AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 2 NOTE 26 Other Long-Term Securities Holdings Joint ventures Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 29 Parent Company Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 4 MSEK 2013 2012 Total 137 Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 38 38 2012 % of votes Carrying Acquisitions 248 MSEK and capital amount Closing balance, 31 December 286 38 Associated companies Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd, Hong Kong 32.3 22 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, Accumulated impairments 556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Opening balance, 1 January -17 -14 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Impairments for the year -133 -3 Closing balance, 31 December -150 -17 Joint ventures Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 459 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 4 Carrying amount, 31 December 136 21 Total 565 Acquisitions 2013 relate to Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Co Ltd and Biogeneration Ventures b.v. Impairments for 2013 relate to Pipavav. NOTE 24 Receivables from Group Companies, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures NOTE 27 Long-Term Receivables and Other Receivables Receivables from Receivables from associated companies Group Parent Company Group companies and joint ventures MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Long-term receivables held as fixed assets Accumulated acquisition value Receivables from associated companies, interest-bearing 59 62 Opening balance, 1 January 861 911 17 Receivables from associated companies, Divestments -114 -1 -17 non interest-bearing 2 2 Exchange rate differences -49 Receivables attributable to pension, interest-bearing 36 Closing balance, 31 December 747 861 Other interest-bearing receivables 24 47 Other non interest-bearing receivables 8 27 Total 129 138 saab annual report 2013 95 financial information > notes Note 27, cont. Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 MSEK 2013 2012 Other receivables held as current assets Long-term receivables Receivables from associated companies, Accumulated acquisition value interest-bearing 2 Opening balance, 1 January 49 34 Receivables from associated companies, non interest-bearing 41 79 Incremental receivables 17 Receivables from joint ventures, non interest-bearing 6 14 Deductible receivables -27 -2 Advance payments to suppliers 147 84 Closing balance, 31 December 22 49 Other interest-bearing receivables 119 326 Other non interest-bearing receivables 435 321 NOTE 28 Inventories Subtotal 750 824 Group Receivables from customers MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Assignment revenue 4,257 2,255 Raw materials and consumables 2,048 2,314 Less utilised advance payments -1,184 -531 Work in progress 1,722 1,489 Subtotal 3,073 1,724 Finished goods and goods for resale 793 617 Total 4,563 4,420 Total 3,823 2,548 Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications Assignment revenue refer to assignment costs incurred and reported gross have reached agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised participation in the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a advance payments amount to msek 828 (553). royalty loan maximised at msek 350. Repayment will take the form of a royCosts attributable to assignment revenue amounted to msek 3,506 (1,873). alty on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2013, the National Debt Office has Reported gross income amounted to msek 751 (382). paid out msek 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2013 amounts to msek 177 (192), which reduces inventory in the financial statements. Parent Company The Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory impairments of msek 130 (31). The reversal of previous impairments amounts to msek 93 (19). MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts Other long-term receivables to msek 128 (93). Of inventories, msek 162 is expected to be realised more Interest-bearing receivables 16 42 than twelve months after the closing day. Non interest-bearing receivables 6 7 Parent Company Total 22 49 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Raw materials and consumables 1,574 1,633 Parent Company Work in progress 1,267 1,190 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Finished goods and goods for resale 671 520 Other receivables held as current assets Advance payments to suppliers 141 42 Interest-bearing receivables 25 Total 3,653 3,385 Non interest-bearing receivables 308 195 Subtotal 333 195 Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory impairments Receivables from customers of msek 128 (27) after the reversal of previous impairments of msek 92 (11). Assignment revenue 3,165 1,631 The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts to msek 128 (93). Of the Parent Company’s inventories, msek 37 is expected to Less utilised advance payments -1,183 -532 be realised more than twelve months after the closing day. Subtotal 1,982 1,099 NOTE 29 Accounts Receivable Total 2,315 1,294 Accounts receivable in the Group amount to msek 3,314 (3,454). As part of the Assignment revenue refer to assignment costs incurred and reported gross sales programme arranged in 2009, Saab sold receivables in 2013 in order to income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised strengthen its financial position and increase financial flexibility. The sales advance payments amount to msek 394 (291). programme was reduced by one customer during the year. Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to msek 2,672 (1,370). The receivables were sold in their entirety which reduced the receivables Reported gross income amounted to msek 493 (261). by msek 555 (852), at year-end and also had a negative impact on cash flow of msek -297 (-20). During the year, accounts receivable were written down by msek 15 (5). Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to msek 3 (1). Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amount to msek 1,489 (1,598). During the year, receivables were written down by msek 12 (5). Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to msek 2 (0). See also Note 41. 96 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 30 Prepaid Expenses and Accrued Income Change in number of outstanding shares 2013 Series A Series B Total Group Parent Company Number of outstanding shares at 1 January 1,907,123 104,023,706 105,930,829 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Early share matching 20,665 20,665 Prepaid expenses 489 426 507 377 Share matching plan 462,650 462,650 Accrued service income 106 145 2 59 Number of outstanding shares at Other accrued income 282 315 227 297 31 December 1,907,123 104,507,021 106,414,144 Total 877 886 736 733 In 2013 no Series b shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Prepaid expenses primarily relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. During the year, 483,315 insurance. shares were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. Transferred shares correspond to 0.4 per cent of the share capital. A total of 2,736,200 shares are held in treasury. NOTE 31 Liquid Assets The dividend to shareholders amounted to msek 477 (474), or sek 4.50 (4.50) per share. Group Management of the Group’s capital MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital Cash and bank balances 651 622 management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain Bank deposits 1,113 862 prepared to capitalise on business opportunities. The long-term equity/asset goal is at least 30 per cent. Funds in escrow accounts 131 Deposits held on behalf of customers 1 Net result of cash flow hedges Total according to statement of financial position 1,764 1,616 The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet taken place. Total according to statement of cash flows 1,764 1,616 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, the large part of which has a the translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their maturity of less than one month. Funds in escrow accounts relate to cash reports in a currency other than the currency of the Group’s financial reports. deposited with independent third parties until contractual terms are met. The Parent Company and the Group present their financial reports in sek. The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility amounted to msek 87 (107) The translation reserve at year-end amounts to msek -353 (-226). Of the at year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facilities, refer to Notes 36 translation reserve msek 0 (0) has been reclassified to gains/losses. and 41. Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and carNOTE 32 Assets held for Sale rying amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. Of the revaluation reserve, msek 0 (40) has been transferred to retained earnings The Group holds no assets or liabilities for sale. upon the sale of investment properties. PARENT COMPANY NOTE 33 Shareholders’ Equity Restricted reserves Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, a and b. Both classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series a share Revaluation reserve is entitled to ten votes and each Series b share one vote. The shares have a When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount quota value of sek 16. is allocated to a revaluation reserve. Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of Statutory reserve 31 December 2013 shares shares votes Provisions to the statutory reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 Series A 1,907,123 1.8 15.4 per cent of net income for the year, until the statutory reserve corresponded Series B 104,507,021 98.2 84.6 to at least 20 per cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are voluntary and the Parent Company makes no provisions to the Total 106,414,144 100.0 100.0 s­tatutory reserve. Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of Consists of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit distribution and 31 December 2012 shares shares votes Group contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income for Series A 1,907,123 1.8 15.5 the year comprise unrestricted equity, i.e., the amount available for distribuSeries B 104,023,706 98.2 84.5 tion to the shareholders. Total 105,930,829 100.0 100.0 saab annual report 2013 97 financial information > notes NOTE 34 Earnings per Share NOTE 36 Liabilities to Credit Institutions 2013 2012 Parent Company Net income for the year attributable to MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 741 1,585 Current liabilities Weighted average number of common shares outstanding­: Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 87 107 before dilution (thousands) 106,125 105,633 Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -87 -107 after dilution (thousands) 109,150 109,150 Utilised credit amount Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 6.98 15.00 Short-term borrowing from credit institutions 1,100 Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 6.79 14.52 Total 1,100 The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to Long-term liabilities the total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 4,000 4,000 treasury shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after Long-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -4,000 -4,000 dilution refers to the total number of shares in issue. Utilised credit amount Long-term borrowing from credit institutions 1,000 NOTE 35 Interest-bearing Liabilities Total 1,000 Group Total liabilities to credit institutions 1,000 1,100 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 In 2009, Saab established a Medium Term Note (mtn) programme with a Long-term liabilities limit of msek 3,000 or an equivalent value in eur. The mtn programme proLiabilities to credit institutions 1,000 4 vides access to financing for up to 15 years, which is an element in diversifying Other interest-bearing liabilities 95 101 loan maturities. During 2013, msek 1,000 out of maturing msek 1,100 was refinanced. Total 1,095 105 Current liabilities NOTE 37 Employee Benefits Liabilities to credit institutions 1 1,100 Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribuLiabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 139 378 tion. In defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a Other interest-bearing liabilities 474 159 percentage of the recipient’s salary. In defined-contribution plans, pensions Total 614 1,637 are based on the premiums paid and return on assets. Sweden Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,709 1,742 The predominant plan in Sweden is the itp plan under collective agreements adopted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation Terms and repayment schedules Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Business Sector (ptk). Saab SweCollateral for bank loans amounts to msek 0 (3). Of the long-term liabilities, den has three different ways of securing the defined-benefit plans. They are msek 1,036 (24) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and secured as liabilies in the balance sheet, in pension funds or funded through msek 59 (81) later than five years of the closing day. insurance with mainly Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, that secured part of Liabilities to credit institutions mainly consist of Medium Term Notes the itp plan, had assets of msek 4,595 (4,346) as of 31 December 2013, com(mtn). For more information on financial risk management, see Note 41. pared to an obligation of msek 5,793 (6,492) according to ias 19, or a solvency The fair value of mtns exceeds book value by msek 5 (16). Saab otherwise margin of 79 ­per cent (67). does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and fair To the portion of the defined-benefit plans secured through insurance value. with Alecta, the following applies. According to a pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, ufr 3 Classification of itp plans financed by insurance in Alecta, this is a deifined benefit-plan that comprises several employers. For fiscal year 2013, Saab did not have access to information to report it’s proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, assets under management and cost, that would make it possible to report this plan as a defined-benefit plan. The itp 2 pension plan, which is secured through insurance with Alecta, is therefore reported as a defined-contribution plan. No premiums regarding defined-benefit plans are paid to Alecta. The collective funding ratio is of the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions. which do not conform to ias 19. The collective funding ratio should normally be allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. At year-end 2013, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio amounted to 148 per cent (129). 98 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 37, cont. USA Cost reported in the income statement The us has a defined-benefit plan which includes some employees and moreGroup 2013 over there is a supplementary plan for certain senior Executives. The plans MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total are company-specific from an agreement in 1986 between the employees and the company and the plans include retirement and survivor’s pension. The Costs for employment during the current year 147 14 5 166 pension is not vested during the first five years of employment and the retirement age is 65. Payments corresponding to accrued pensions are made yearly Net interest expense 74 74 to an external trustee in order to secure the pension commitment. Cost of defined-benefit plans in the i­ncome statement 221 14 5 240 Switzerland Switzerland has a defined-benefit plan that includes all employees and where Cost of defined-contribution plans 580 minimum benefits are prescribed by law. The company is affiliated to a collecPayroll tax 210 tive foundation for the purpose of insuring its employees’ old age and surviTotal cost of post-employment compensation 1,030 vor’s pension and payments are made anually. Provisions for pensions are made by both employer and employees. The employee may elect to receive Group 2012 the full pension as a lump sum at retirement. MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Other countries Costs for employment during the current The pension plans in other countries are not of significant amounts and are year 150 14 6 170 therefore reported together with Sweden below. Costs for employment during previous years -3 -3 Disclosures regarding defined-benefit plans Net interest expense 72 1 73 Cost of defined-benefit plans in the Group 2013-12-31 i­ncome statement 222 15 3 240 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Cost of defined-contribution plans 545 Wholly or partially funded obligations Payroll tax 170 Present value of defined-benefit Total cost of post-employment compensation 955 obligations 6,080 233 100 6,413 Fair value of assets under management -4,658 -269 -97 -5,024 Items included in the statement of cash flows Present value of net obligation 1,422 -36 3 1,389 Group 2013 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Share funded 77% 115% 97% 78% Deposit to pension fund and other funding -4 -26 -5 -35 Average duration of pension obligation 17 10 15 Payments -216 -12 -3 -231 Total impact on cash flow -220 -38 -8 -266 The net amount is reported in the following items in the statement of financial position Group 2012 Provisions for pensions 1,422 3 1,425 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Provisions for pensions related to special Deposit to pension fund and other funding -5 -2 -5 -12 employer’s contribution 255 255 Payments -212 -8 -4 -224 Long-term receivables 36 36 Total impact on cash flow -217 -10 -9 -236 Group 2012-12-31 Estimated payments during 2014 amount to approximately msek 250. MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Wholly or partially funded obligations Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. Acturial gains related to pensions amounted to msek 1,017 primarily due Present value of defined-benefit obligations 6,825 251 88 7,164 to the following. The return on assets under management was higher than expected at 5.7 per cent, compared to an anticipated 3.0 per cent, which proFair value of assets under management -4,450 -220 -74 -4,744 duced an actuarial gain of msek 158. The actuarial gain on pension obligaPresent value of net obligation 2,375 31 14 2,420 tions amounted to msek 859, which was due to a 100 basis points higher discount rate and to experience adjustments. Changes in demographic assumptions has had no significant effect. Share funded 65% 88% 84% 66% Actuarial gains related to special employer’s benefits amounted to Average duration of pension obligation 17 10 15 msek 234 during 2013. The net amount is reported in the following items in the statement of financial position Provisions for pensions 2,375 31 14 2,420 Provisions for pensions related to special employer’s contributions 454 454 saab annual report 2013 99 financial information > notes Note 37, cont. Changes in net obligation for defined-benefit plans reported Sensitivity analysis (excluding special employer’s contribution) in the statement of financial position Group Group MSEK Change Change in obligation MSEK 2013 2012 Discount rate 0.25 % -258 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 1 January 2,420 2,095 -0.25 % 274 Compensation paid -231 -224 Inflation 0.25 % 274 Deposits to pension fund and other funding -35 -12 -0.25 % -259 Cost reported in the income statement 240 240 Salaries 0.25 % 55 Income (-) /cost (+) reported in total comprehensive income -1,017 303 -0.25 % -50 Settlement/Translation difference -5 2 Life span +1 year 253 Withdrawals from pension funds 17 16 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 31 December 1,389 2,420 Return on assets under management Group Change in pension obligation MSEK 2013 2012 Group Actual return on assets under management 301 325 MSEK 2013 2012 Financial income on assets under management -143 -156 Fair value, 1 January 7,164 6,541 Actuarial result from assets under management Benefits vested during the year 166 173 during the year 158 169 Benefits vested previous years -3 Interest expense 215 229 Governance Defined-benefit pensions and pension plan assets are governed by the PenPension disbursements -231 -224 sion Board, which resumes 4-5 times per year and has the following responsiSettlement -45 -12 bilities: Actuarial gain (-) /loss (+) -859 472 • Appoint the members of and authorise the Investment Committee • Appoint and authorise the Fund Manger Translation differences 3 -12 • Annually establish and approve the Investment Policy Fair value, 31 December 6,413 7,164 • Decide on strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) asset allocation and allow deviations in accordance with the terms of the saa and taa Change in assets under management m­andate Group • Annually approve the benchmark indices for follow up of the pension fund assets MSEK 2013 2012 • Annually approve the stop loss limit Fair value, 1 January 4,744 4,446 Financial income 143 156 Investment strategy and risk management The Pension fund manages the allocation and investment of assets with the Withdrawals -17 -16 aim to increase the consolidation level over time, assets versus pension liabilSettlement -47 -9 ities. This means that certain risks are accepted in order to increase the Contributions 35 12 return. The investment horizon is long-term and the allocation ensures that the investment portfolio is well diversified. Actuarial gain 158 169 The Fund is subject to a number of restrictions and limitations followed Translation differences 8 -14 up by Middle Office. Middle Office reports directly to the Board of Directors Fair value, 31 December 5,024 4,744 and to the Head of the Investment Committee. On an over-all level, a stop loss limit and alarm levels aim at assuring a maximum loss of the assets of the Fund. The cost is reported on the following lines in the income statement: Group Assets under management divided by asset class MSEK 2013 2012 Group Cost of goods sold 757 669 of which listed of which listed Marketing expenses 85 81 on an active on an active Procent 2013 market 2012 market Administrative expenses 62 53 Interest-bearing assets 48 100 49 100 Research and development costs 52 79 Share-related assets 36 100 36 100 Financial expenses 74 73 Hedge funds 14 13 Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,030 955 Property 1 1 Liquid assets 1 1 Interest expense less the assumed return on assets under management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by function Total assets 100 84 100 85 in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to the various functions. 100 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 37, cont. Assumptions for defined-benefit obligations Income statement Group 2012 Adjustment 2012 Per cent 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Significant actuarial assumptions EBIT 2,032 18 2,050 as of closing day (expressed as weighted averages)1) Financial net -126 79 -47 Discount rate, 31 December 4.00 3.00 3.50 4.80 4.00 Taxes -367 -76 -443 Future salary increase 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 Net income 1,539 21 1,560 Future increase in pensions 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 EPS before dilution, SEK 14.81 0.19 15.00 Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 EPS after dilution, SEK 14.33 0.19 14.52 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all defined-benefit plans are in Sweden Other comprehensive income after tax -107 -300 -407 The following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s Net comprehensive income 1,432 -279 1,153 pension liability: Parent Company’s pension obligations Discount rate: The valuation is based on covered Swedish mortgage bonds Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to (aaa). Each assumed cash flow is discounted using an interest rate for the the net present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are corresponding maturity. secured by Saab’s pension fund. Long-term salary increase assumption: Assumed to be as high as the increase in the basic income amount. This means that Saab expects the same salary MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 increases as the national average. Long-term increase in basic income: Data from Statistics Sweden on current ITP and the book reserve method 81 197 wage increases in the private sector provide an historical average during the Other pensions 63 50 period 1974–2000 of approximately 1 per cent above inflation. Other provisions for pensions 75 87 Long-term rate of inflation: Based on the Riksbank’s inflation target of 2 per cent. Total 219 334 Mortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial Of which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 141 268 Supervisory Authority (fffs 2007:31), based on Makeham formulas for men and women. MSEK 2013 2012 Marriage: Marriage is the same assumption recommended by the Financial Amount of provision ­expected to be settled after more Supervisory Authority (fffs 2001:13). than 12 months 55 182 Employee turnover: The likelihood that an individual ends his/her employment is assumed to be 3 per cent per year. Long-term incentive programme Effects of amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits In April 2007 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer employees the The statement of financial position 2012 has been adjusted for netting of opportunity to participate in a Global Share Matching Plan. The Board condeferred tax assets and liabilities compared to the summarised statement of siders it important that Saab’s employees share a long-term interest in the financial position presented in the annual report of 2012. appreciation of the company’s shares. Employees who participate in the plan The adjusted statement of financial position and the adjusted income can have up to 5 per cent of their gross base salary withheld to purchase statement for 2012 are as follows. Series b shares on the nasdaq omx Stockholm during a twelve-month period. If the employee retains the purchased shares for three years after the Statement of financial position investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the employee will be 31-12-2012 Adjustment 31-12-2012 allotted a corresponding number of Series b shares gratuitously. MSEK actual IAS 19R restated In April 2008 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a Performance-Based Plan for senior Executives and key employees entitling them Fixed assets 12,026 -741 11,285 to 2-5 matching shares, depending on the employee category to which they Deferred tax assets 213 213 belong. Up to 286 employees, including the President, may allocate a maxiCurrent assets 17,440 17,440 mum of 7.5 per cent of their gross fixed salary for the purchase of Saab Total assets 29,679 -741 28,938 Series b shares. In addition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after three years, an additional requirement calls for earnings per share to grow in the range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year durEquity 14,097 -2,817 11,280 ing the three-year period for allocation of matching shares under the Performance Share Plan. The 2011 Annual General Meeting amended the terms of the Performance Share Plan, as compared to previous years’ programmes, to Provision for pension 11 2,863 2,874 allow those eligible for the programme to also participate in Saab’s Share Deferred tax liabilities 981 -797 184 Matching Plan and entitling Performance Share Plan participants to Other long-term liabilities 1,696 10 1,706 1-4 matching shares, depending on employee category. The Board may reduce the number of shares to be matched if the Board considers it reasonable in Current liabilities 12,894 12,894 relation to the company’s financial results and position, conditions on the Total liabilities 15,582 2,076 17,658 stock market and other circumstances. 2009 Share Matching Plan Total equity and liabilities 29,679 -741 28,938 In April 2009, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer a third Share Matching Plan with terms comparable to the previous years’ plans. Matching Equity/assets ratio 47.5% 39.0% took place on three occasions in 2013 and once in January 2014. The plan is therefore closed. saab annual report 2013 101 financial information > notes Note 37, cont. 2010 2012 Share Matching Plan Share Matching Plan 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total For the 2010-2012 period Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to renew Number of matching shares the Share Matching Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. 417,022 289,257 399,999 1,106,278 at ­beginning of the year Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Allotted during the year (treasury shares) 80,607 422,831 503,438 Share Matching Plan, 2009-2012 Share Matching Plan Number of shares Number of p­articipants Early share matching -6,060 -6,026 -7,331 -1,248 -20,665 2009 462,877 2,841 Ordinary share matching -350,502 -350,502 2010 303,033 2,315 -6,083 -4,362 -9,471 -9,595 -29,511 Forfeited matching shares 2011 495,874 2,970 Number of matching shares eligible at year-end 54,377 278,869 463,804 411,988 1,209,038 2012 422,831 3,475 Number of participants, 31 December 2013 2,335 2,110 2,825 3,386 2009 Performance Share Plan In April 2009 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, % of total number of employees 17 15 19 23 second Performance Share Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. Average remaining maturity, years 0.0 0.7 1.7 2.7 Following the close of the measurement period on 31 December 2012 it was determined that the requirement of annual average earnings per share growth of 5 to 15 per cent during the three-year period had been achieved and Performance Share Plan 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total totalled approximately 35 per cent. Accordingly, participants ahve received a Number of matching shares maximum matching award. Matching took place on three occasions in 2013 at ­beginning of the year 52,440 45,019 57,774 155,233 and once in January 2014. Allotted during the year (treasury shares) 13,850 53,109 66,959 2010 Performance Share Plan Ordinary share matching -44,223 -44,223 For 2010 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, third Performance Share Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. FolForfeited matching shares -971 -1,175 -2,896 -5,042 lowing the close of the measurement period on 31 December 2013 it was Number of matching shares determined that the requirement of annual average earnings per share eligible at year-end 7,246 43,844 68,728 53,109 172,927 growth of 5 to 15 per cent during the three-year period had been achieved and Number of participants, totalled approximately 77 per cent. Accordingly, participants will receive a 31 December 2013 110 103 167 177 maximum matching award. Matching will take place on three occasions in Average remaining maturity, 2014 and once in January 2015. years 0.0 0.7 1.7 2.7 2011 Performance Share Plan Total number of shares For 2011 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, fourth eligible at year-end 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Performance Share Plan with revised terms as described above. At the end of Share Matching Plan 54,377 278,869 463,804 411,988 1,209,038 2013 it was found that the requirement for earnings per share growth in the Performance Share Plan 7,246 43,844 68,728 53,109 172,927 range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year is not likely to be achieved during the three-year period. Less: Shares included in both plans -68,728 -53,109 -121,837 2012 Performance Share Plan Total 61,623 322,713 463,804 411,988 1,260,128 For 2012 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, fifth Performance Share Plan with terms comparable to the 2011 Share Plan. Recognised expense for above-mentioned plan, ­including social security expenses 2013 2012 Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, 13 Share Matching Plan 2008 Performance Share Plan, 2009-2012 Share Matching Plan Number of shares Number of p­articipants Share Matching Plan 2009 17 20 2009 62,633 138 Share Matching Plan 2010 16 15 2010 46,972 115 Share Matching Plan 2011 20 8 2011 82,007 176 Share Matching Plan 2012 10 2012 53,109 177 Performance Share Plan 2009 5 5 Performance Share Plan 2010 5 5 2013 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan 2011 -3 3 In April 2013 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer employees a Performance Share Plan 2012 3 new Share Matching Plan and a new Performance Share Plan. The Share Total 73 69 Matching Plan for 2013 covers all employees. The Performance Share Plan, which covers senior executives and key employees, entitles participants to 1-4 matching shares, depending on employee category. The plans commence The fair value of the services rendered is based on the share price of the in January 2014 and continue through the calendar year of 2014. The maximatching shares that are expected to be allotted. The share price is determum number of matching shares in these two plans is 1,040,000. mined at the time of the participants’ investment adjusted by the dividend that does not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. The expense for the share plans is included in operating income and is recognised in the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social security expenses). Administrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to msek 6 (6) in 2013. 102 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 37 cont. SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS Head of Group Corporate Investments Peter Sandehed (1 March) and Deputy Remuneration to Board members ceo and coo Lena Olving (11 June). At the turn of 2013/2014 Group ManageIn accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees ment was therefore comprised of 10 persons, including the ceo. During 2013, paid to members of the Board, for the term April 2013 April 2014, amount to Head of Business Area Lennart Sindahl and Senior Vice President and cfo sek 4,435,000 (4,345,000), consisting of sek 1,185,000 (1,165,000) to the ChairMagnus Örnberg were appointed Executive Vice Presidents. man, sek 490,000 (480,000) to the Deputy Chairman and sek 460,000 The salaries paid to other senior executives consist of a fixed salary. The (450,000) to each of the other members elected by the Annual General Meetprevious short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in according, with the exception of the President. ance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. Compensation issues For audit committee work, during the term April 2013 April 2014, comregarding the other senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group mittee chairman Per-Arne Sandström also received a fee of sek 150,000 Human Resources and presented to the President, who makes a decision (150,000) and committee members Johan Forssell and Joakim Westh each pending the approval of the Compensation Committee and the Board. received a fee of sek 100,000 (100,000). Of the other senior executives, one individual has received cash settlements For remuneration committee work, during the term April 2013 April of sek 1,144,569 for extraordinary work. Also two individuals received cash set2014, committee chairman Lena Treschow Torell also received a fee of tlements of a non-recurring nature upon recruitment according to a resolution sek 135,000 (135,000) and committee members Marcus Wallenberg and Sten 2012. An amount totalling sek 1,990,000 will be paid during a period of 36 Jakobsson each received a fee of sek 80,000 (80,000). Remuneration to months from the start of employment. The payments are made monthly in the Board members and committee members recognised as cost for fiscal year form of pension premiums and are conditional upon the recipients not giving 2013 is shown in the table below. notice of termination of employment. sek 663,336 has been paid during 2013. Since November 2008, all eligible executives have participated in the Remuneration to the President P­erformance Share Plans approved by the Annual General Meetings in 2009, The salary paid to the President and ceo consists of a fixed salary. The previ2010, 2011 and 2012 and in the Share Matching Plans 2011 and 2012. The Perforous short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in accordance mance Share Plan 2009 was concluded in January 2014. Outstanding matching with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The preparation process rights in the Performance Share Plan 2009 amount to sek 306,491 (3,032,384) for compensation issues regarding the President is handled by the Board’s as of 31 December 2013 at estimated outcomes and in the Performance Share Remuneration Committee according to the principles laid down by the Plan 2010 to sek 1,637,726 (2,037,447) as of 31 December 2013 at estimated outAnnual General Meeting and then voted on by the Board. comes. Corresponding figures for the Performance Share Plans and the Share Håkan Buskhe has participated since 1 September 2010 in the PerforMatching Plans 2011 and 2012 amount to sek 357,831 (681,877) and sek 548,191, mance Share Plans approved by the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Annual respectively, at estimated outcomes. G­eneral Meetings and in the Share Matching Plans 2011 and 2012. In 2013, the other senior executives received salaries and other benefits Outstanding matching rights in the Performance Share Plan 2009 amount to totalling sek 41,886,223 (45,334,496), of which other benefits, including share sek 372,168 (510,265) as of 31 December 2013 at estimated outcomes and in the Perrelated plans, amounted to sek 3,975,317 (6,021,072). formance Share Plan 2010 to sek 2,114,977 (1,191,681) at estimated outcomes. Corresponding figures for the Performance Share Plans and the Share Matching Plans 2011 Pension terms and 2012 are sek 188,588 (347,060) and 334,391 respectively, at estimated outcomes. As of 1 January 2005, a pension age of 62 years applies to new executives. Among During the period 1 January through 31 December 2013, Håkan Buskhe other senior executives, one individual has a retirement age of 60 years. received salary and other benefits totalling sek 11,584,583 (10,749,306), of which In addition to itp, 9 members of the group (13) are affiliated with the Saab other benefits, including share related plans, amounted to sek 1,701,415 (1,539,935). plan, which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pension benefits in addition to itp or its equivalent on salary levels between Pension terms 20 and 30 basic amounts as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The retirement age for the President is 62 years. The President has a definedThe individuals themselves can decide on the payment term, though this must contribution pension plan. He may decide himself on the payment term, fall within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. Moreover, an insurance though this must fall within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The policy finances the period between the ages of 60 or 62 years and 65 years. pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums amounting to 30 per cent The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based of the fixed salary until the President turned 50, after which the pension preon a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by mium amounts to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. Pension premiums are paid as each executive’s time remaining until the pension age, 60 or 62 years, when long as the President remains an employee of the company, but not beyond the joining the plan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted age of 62. During his first five years of employment, the President also receives pension from 65 years of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between an extra pension contribution of sek 440,000, payment of which is made 20 and 30 basic amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over annually and is conditional on Håkan Buskhe remaining an employee. 30 basic amounts of qualifying salaries. Premium payments continue as long To this is added the cost of pension premiums according to the itp plan. as the individuals remain in their positions or as employees of the company. The pension commitment is vested. Pension obligations are vested. In 2013, pension costs for other senior For 2013, the cost of Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including itp, was executives, including itp and its equivalent, amounted to sek 13,533,737 sek 3,594,269 (3,420,807). (16,677,569). Other senior executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to retire on pension as of the age of 60 or 62 years. Severance terms If terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension Severance terms benefits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive If terminated by the company, the group of other senior executives will receive severance pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed sala salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter ary. If the President does not obtain new employment, he will receive an addithey will receive severance pay equivalent to 18 months of salary, based on tional six months of severance pay. The salary during the period of notice and their fixed salary. Severance is paid monthly with the first payment in the severance will be deducted from income received from other employment durmonth after employment has ended. Severance is not paid for the period that ing the same period. If the President resigns voluntarily, there is a six-month falls after the contractual pension age. Employees hired before 1 January 2005 period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. The who have reached the age of 55 are entitled to another six months of severance. President’s agreement includes a non-compete clause. The salary during the period of notice and severance will be deducted from income received from other employment during the same period. If they Remuneration to other senior executives resign voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and penThe group of other senior executives included 13 (13) individuals at year-end sion benefits, but no severance pay. 2012/2013; specifically, Executive Vice Presidents, Heads of the Business Areas and Heads of Group staffs. During 2013 the following senior executives have Other benefits left Group Management or the company: Marketing Director Jonas Hjelm (1 All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. Several senJanuary), Head of Group Communications Carina Brorman (18 February), ior executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing and travel. saab annual report 2013 103 financial information > notes Note 37, cont. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2013 Base salary/ Outstanding matching Board and Variable rights in share related plans SEK Committee fee compen­sation Share related plans 7) Other ­benefits 3) Pension cost Total at estimated outcomes 7) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,260,000 1,260,000 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 567,500 567,500 Other Board members Sara Mazur 345,000 345,000 4) Åke Svensson 112,500 112,500 6) Johan Forssell 557,500 557,500 Per-Arne Sandström 607,500 607,500 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 457,500 457,500 Lena Treschow Torell 592,500 592,500 2) Joakim Westh 557,500 557,500 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 9,883,168 1,644,736 56,679 3,594,269 15,178,852 3,010,124 Other senior executives 36,103,001 5) 1,807,905 1) 2,018,173 1,957,144 13,533,737 55,419,960 2,850,239 Total 51,043,669 1,807,905 3,662,909 2,013,823 17,128,006 75,656,312 5,860,363 1) Including remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to a resolution in 2012, is paid in the form of pension premiums during a period of 36 months from the start of employment and cash settlements to one senior executive, according to a resolution in 2013. 2) Social security costs must be added since parts of the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice the amount for board and committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add an amount for social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the incoiced amount do not exceed the employer’s contribution the company otherwise would have paid. 3) Including compensation for the additional costs the benefits lead to. 4) Was elected to the Board in April 2013 and has received remuneration for the period April-December. 5) Including estimated remuneration allocated for senior executives who left Group Management in 2013. 6) Left the Board of Directors in April 2013, after informing that he had declined re-election, and has received remuneration for the period January-March. 7) Share related plans relate to both Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2012 Base salary/ Outstanding matching Board and Variable rights in share related plans SEK Committee fee compen­sation Share related plans 4) Other ­benefits 3) Pension cost Total at estimated outcomes 4) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,245,000 1,245,000 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 560,000 560,000 Other Board members 1) Åke Svensson 450,000 450,000 Johan Forssell 550,000 550,000 Per-Arne Sandström 600,000 600,000 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 450,000 450,000 Lena Treschow Torell 585,000 585,000 2) Joakim Westh 550,000 550,000 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe) 9,209,371 1,513,359 26,576 3,420,807 14,170,113 2,049,006 Other senior executives 39,313,424 358,056 1) 3,535,145 2,485,927 16,319,513 62,012,065 5,751,708 Total 53,512,795 358,056 5,048,504 2,512,503 19,740,320 81,172,178 7,800,714 1) Including remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to a resolution in 2012, will be paid in the form of pension premiums during a period of 36 months from the start of employment. 2) Social security costs must be added since parts of the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice the amount for board and committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add an amount for social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount do not exceed the employer’s contribution the company otherwise would have paid. 3) Including compensation for the additional costs the benefits lead to. 4) Share related plans relate to both Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. 104 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes NOTE 38 Provisions Other provisions MSEK Group Parent Company Group Opening balance, 1 January 2013 632 237 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Provisions allocated during the year 138 83 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Amount utilised during the year -135 -71 Obligations related to regional aircraft 515 684 Reversal of unutilised amount -63 -12 Expenditures for restructuring measures 84 66 Reclassification 31 -1 Onerous contracts 161 229 Translation differences and other -20 -1 Other 283 307 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 583 235 Total 1,043 1,286 Total provisions Provisions that are current liabilities MSEK Group Parent Company Obligations related to regional aircraft 100 10 Opening balance, 1 January 2013 1,851 835 Expenditures for restructuring measures 137 52 Provisions allocated during the year 449 340 Onerous contracts 122 178 Amount utilised during the year -497 -317 Other 300 325 Reversal of unutilised amount -52 -1 Total 659 565 Reclassification -24 -24 Translation differences and other -25 -1 Parent Company Closing balance, 31 December 2013 1,702 832 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Regional aircraft Obligations related to regional aircraft 270 278 Commitments regarding regional aircraft refer to anticipated deficits and Expenditures for restructuring measures 164 54 other obligations related to the termination of the leasing portfolio. Saab Onerous contracts 163 266 e­xpects the leasing portfolio to be completely divested 2015. Other 235 237 Restructuring Total 832 835 Structural costs primarily relate to the costs to adapt resources and change­ over costs. The expenditure is expected to fall in 2014–2015. Obligations related to regional aircraft Project losses MSEK Group Parent Company Provisions for project losses on the closing day primarily relate to HelicopOpening balance, 1 January 2013 694 278 ter 14, command and control projects and certain other military projects. Amount utilised during the year -79 -8 The provisions are utilised in pace with the project’s completion. Closing balance, 31 December 2013 615 270 Other provisions Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for guarantees and remaining Expenditures for restructuring measures costs in projects as well as for environmental commitments. MSEK Group Parent Company No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production of civil aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. Opening balance, 1 January 2013 118 54 Provisions allocated during the year 206 177 NOTE 39 Other Liabilities Amount utilised during the year -96 -63 Reversal of unutilised amount -4 -4 Group Reclassification -3 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 221 164 Other long-term liabilities Long-term prepaid revenue 20 Onerous contracts Other 179 295 MSEK Group Parent Company Total 179 315 Opening balance, 1 January 2013 407 266 Provisions allocated during the year 105 80 Other current liabilities Amount utilised during the year -187 -175 Liabilities to associated companies 5 5 Reversal of unutilised amount 15 15 Value-added tax 165 136 Reclassification -52 -23 Preliminary tax 205 177 Translation differences and other -5 Deposits in leasing operations 34 17 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 283 163 Other 430 425 Total 839 760 Liabilities due for payment more than five years after closing day 72 32 saab annual report 2013 105 financial information > notes note 39, cont. Parent Company NOTE 41 Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Value-added tax 81 81 Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to Preliminary tax 148 116 financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial instruments. Other 704 432 Total 933 629 Financial risk management The Board of Directors of Saab has approved a Group Treasury Policy, which provides an overall description of the management of financial risks and Liabilities due for payment more than five years after closing day 43 12 treasury operations. The goal is to identify and actively manage financial risks in order to reduce the negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive Other liabilities in the Parent Company include both interest-bearing and strength and financial flexibility. non-interest-bearing liabilities. For a comparison with the Group, see also Note 35. The financial risks are defined as follows: Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book • Foreign currency risk and fair value. • Interest rate risk • Liquidity and financing risk • Commodity risk NOTE 40 Accrued Expenses and Deferred Income • Credit and counterparty risk Group Parent Company Saab uses derivatives primarily to: • convert anticipated commercial cash flows in foreign currency to sek MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 • convert the fixed interest periods in leases to coincide with leasing revAccrued expenses enue and the desired fixed interest rates for other assets and liabilities Accrued project costs 916 1,227 563 679 Responsibility for managing the Group’s financial risks and developing methVacation pay liability 914 877 698 672 ods and principles to manage financial risks is centralised in Group Treasury. Expected invoices 267 333 192 262 The operating business areas have directives and processes that describe how Social security expenses 435 463 324 348 financial risks shall be managed. Furthermore, Group Management has Personnel liabilities 247 204 178 131 issued detailed directives and guidelines for Group Treasury’s operations. Management of insurance is centralised in the Group’s insurance company, Accrued leasing costs 9 79 Lansen Försäkrings ab, where external transactions are handled as well. CusClaims reserve 101 78 2 29 tomer finance, guaranty and finance issues are also managed by Group Treasury. Royalties and commissions 134 121 114 107 The Group’s internal bank, Saab Treasury, is responsible for the Group’s cash management, financing, management of interest rate and currency risks Accrued interest 14 16 14 16 and also electricity risks. Saab has an agreement with an external party to manOther 291 277 218 231 age the Group’s electricity risks through discretionary management. Other Total accrued expenses 3,328 3,675 2,303 2,475 commodity risk is managed primarily through contractual clauses. To a limited extent, the Group Treasury Policy allows proprietary trading in currency and fixed income derivatives. The main purpose of this trading is Deferred income to gain access to qualitative market information and maintain a high level of Liabilities to customers 2,586 3,039 2,162 2,711 market expertise. Saab Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as VaR (Value at Risk) of msek 50 (50), which is divided between management of economic Prepaid insurance compensation 244 risks in the Tender to Contract portfolio, trading and electricity derivatives. During the year, approximately msek 15 was allocated to the trading portfolio, Retained project interest 8 8 approximately msek 1 to electricity derivatives and approximately msek 34 to Capitalised changes in value the Tender to Contract portfolio. VaR is a probability-based method based on related to forward contract historical price fluctuations and correlations and is considered a standard in rollovers 330 362 the financial industry. The method provides an estimation of the maximum Other 31 27 24 17 loss over a specific number of days, with a certain probability. Saab uses three Total deferred income 2,617 3,318 2,516 3,098 days and a 99-per cent probability. The Treasury Risk Analysis unit reports each portfolio’s risk defined according to established risk measures to Group Management on a daily basis. Total 5,945 6,993 4,819 5,573 Financial instruments Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and Financial assets in the Group mainly comprise accounts receivable, accrued fair value. income, interest-bearing receivables, liquid assets, fixed income investments and derivatives with positive market values. Saab’s financial liabilities mainly comprise interest-bearing liabilities, accounts payable, accrued expenses and derivatives with negative market values. The following tables show a subdivided statement of financial position categorised and classified according to ias 39. A more detailed description of the categories can be found in Note 1, Accounting principles. 106 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. Fair value through other DesigFair value comprenated as at Loans DerivaDerivaTotal through hensive infair value Held-toreceivable tives identives idenfinancial profit and come as through maturity and tified as tified as assets Measured Classification and categorisation of loss for availableprofit investaccounts Financial cash flow fair value and at fair financial assets and liabilities trading for-sale and loss ments receivable ­liabilities hedges hedges ­liabilities value 31-12-2013 Financial assets Financial investments 114 40 141 295 293 Long-term receivables 129 129 129 Derivatives1 Forward exchange contracts 24 347 5 376 376 Currency options 8 8 8 Interest rate swaps 6 6 6 Electricity derivatives 6 6 6 Total derivatives 38 353 5 396 396 Accounts receivable and other receivables 7,378 7,378 7,378 Short-term investments 2,002 2,002 2,002 Liquid assets 1,764 1,764 1,764 Total financial assets 38 114 2,042 141 9,271 353 5 11,964 11,962 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 1,709 1,709 1,714 Derivatives1 Forward exchange contracts 11 269 1 281 281 Currency options 12 12 12 Interest rate swaps 5 5 5 Electricity derivatives 7 11 18 18 Total derivatives 35 280 1 316 316 Other liabilities 5,300 5,300 5,300 Total financial liabilities 35 7,009 280 1 7,325 7,330 31-12-2012 Financial assets Financial investments 49 144 193 192 Long-term receivables 879 879 879 Derivatives1 Forward exchange contracts 30 440 16 486 486 Currency options 24 24 24 Interest rate swaps 1 1 1 Electricity derivatives 3 3 3 Total derivatives 55 443 16 514 514 Accounts receivable and other receivables 6,361 6,361 6,361 Short-term investments 3,963 3,963 3,963 Liquid assets 1,616 1,616 1,616 Total financial assets 55 4,012 144 8,856 443 16 13,526 13,525 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 1,742 1,742 1,758 Derivatives1 Forward exchange contracts 4 191 3 198 198 Currency options 15 15 15 Interest rate swaps 24 24 24 Electricity derivatives 17 17 17 Total derivatives 43 208 3 254 254 Other liabilities 5,848 5,848 5,848 Total financial liabilities 43 7,590 208 3 7,844 7,860 1) Refers to reported values, market value excluding premiums and accrued interest. Otherwise no significant differences between reported and fair value. saab annual report 2013 107 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2013 Fair value 2012 Nominal Nominal Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to one year EUR -287 57 74 -17 -264 122 53 69 USD -531 88 39 49 -511 111 41 70 Other 41 49 -8 46 43 3 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 186 162 24 279 137 142 Maturity one to three years EUR -125 51 69 -18 -80 66 40 26 USD -394 94 35 59 -217 63 12 51 Other 11 13 -2 5 5 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 156 117 39 134 57 77 Maturity three to five years EUR -17 9 6 3 -66 27 6 21 USD -242 26 2 24 -125 51 3 48 Other 1 -1 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities of three to five years, total 35 9 26 78 9 69 Maturity over five years EUR -15 5 3 2 -26 16 16 USD -14 2 2 -21 2 1 1 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities over five years, total 7 3 4 18 1 17 Currency derivatives, total1) 384 291 93 509 204 305 1) Retained premiums on open currency option contracts amount to MSEK 3 (9). Interest derivatives Fair value 2013 Fair value 2012 Nominal Nominal Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to one year SEK 303 8 -8 668 1 9 -8 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 8 -8 1 9 -8 Maturity one to three years SEK 453 21 -21 USD 5 2 -2 16 7 -7 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 2 -2 28 -28 Maturity three to five years SEK 967 5 4 1 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities of three to five years, total 5 4 1 Interest derivatives, total2) 5 14 -9 1 37 -36 2) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -9 (-13) and retained premiums on open contracts of MSEK 0 (0). Electricity derivatives Fair value 2013 Fair value 2012 MegaMillion Megawatt Asset SEK Liability SEK Net watt Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to one year 19 6 16 -10 14 4 13 -9 Outstanding electricity derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 6 16 -10 4 13 -9 Maturity one to three years 14 2 -2 17 4 -4 Outstanding electricity derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 2 -2 4 -4 Electricity derivatives, total 6 18 -12 4 17 -13 Total derivatives Fair value 2013 Fair value 2012 Million Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Asset SEK Liability SEK Net DerivatIVES, total 395 323 72 514 258 256 (of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges) 74 235 Accrued interest and retained premiums, see footnotes 1 and 2 above -6 -6 -4 -4 Netting accrued interest and premiums 1 -1 2 DERIVATIVES ACCORDING TO GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION 396 316 80 514 254 260 108 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. Foreign currency risk The VaR for tender hedge portfolio amounted to msek 15 (7) at year-end. The Group hedges the entire order backlog with the help of currency derivaHedge accounting is not applied to the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the tives. As a result, changes in exchange rates do not affect the Group’s future Group’s results are affected by the outcome of the tenders and the exchange results with respect to the current order backlog. Future order bookings are rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s effect on the Group’s exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates in terms of competitive strength. result in 2013 was msek -26 (15). This is managed partly by Group Treasury, which hedges the economic exposure in fixed price tenders. Transaction exposure Future cash flows in foreign currency from the order backlog and framework Definitions agreements are hedged to safeguard gross margins. In 2013, countries outside Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will Sweden accounted for 59 per cent (64) of Saab’s sales. Since a large part of negatively affect income. Exchange rate fluctuations affect Saab’s income and production takes place in Sweden with expenses denominated in sek, Saab equity in various ways: has large net flows in foreign currency. • Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold The order backlog contains contracted flows and therefore constitutes are in currencies other than the functional currency (economic and a transaction exposure. The predominant contract currencies in the order transaction exposure) backlog of sek 59.9 billion (34.2) are sek, usd, eur and gbp. Of the total • Income is affected when the income of foreign Group companies is order backlog, 46 per cent (68) is in fixed prices with or without indexing, translated to sek (translation exposure) while the remaining 54 per cent (32) contains variable prices with index • Income or equity is affected when the assets and liabilities of foreign and/or currency clauses. Group companies are translated to sek (translation exposure) Netting is applied at the Group level to minimise the transaction exposure • Income can be affected by impairment tests of non-hedged future in foreign currencies, which means incoming currency is utilised to pay cash flows in foreign currency in unprofitable contracts (impairment for purchases in the same currency. Currency clauses or transactions in the testing) currency market with forward exchange contracts as hedging instruments are used as well. Hedges are normally arranged for each specific contract. The Saab separates the above-mentioned types of exposure in risk management. average forward rate is then used as the contract’s rate of revenue recognition. Policy descriptions are provided under each exposure. The currency sensitivity of the market value of outstanding external Framework agreements, which contain both transaction and economic hedges for the order backlog and framework agreements; i.e., the effect of a exposures, are in place mainly for the various civil aeronautics programmes. change in exchange rates in the net result of cash flow hedges in equity (pretax) where the sek depreciates (making foreign currency more expensive) Economic exposure or appreciates, is shown in the following table. Fixed-price tenders in foreign currency entail a foreign currency risk that constitutes an economic exposure. This risk is limited primarily through Market value­ SEK depreciation SEK appreciation contract formulations (foreign currency clauses) or by bidding in the same 31-12-2013 of 10% of 10% currency as the Group unit’s expenses. Market value in MSEK 82 -856 1,020 In cases where fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency, the net exposure is usually hedged with financial instruments. The foreign currency Change -938 938 risk that arises for tenders is managed by Saab Treasury within the framework of the Tender to Contract portfolio. The purpose of the portfolio is to The currency sensitivity in the order backlog; i.e., the effects of a change in minimise the Group’s foreign currency risk during the tender period and exchange rates when the sek depriciates or appreciates in value, is shown in reduce hedging costs. The following table shows outstanding nominal net the table below. In the table, the order backlog for foreign subsidiaries has hedges by currency as of year-end. been restated in msek. Forward contracts1) Options2) Total hedge Order backlog SEK depreciation SEK appreciation Net hedges 31-12-2013 of 10% of 10% (million) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Order backlog, MSEK 59,870 60,351 59,389 USD -119 -189 -138 -162 -257 -351 Change 481 -481 EUR -40 -31 -68 -43 -108 -74 GBP -6 -16 -4 -3 -10 -19 Hedge accounting according to ias 39 is applied to derivatives intended to AUD 4 4 hedge the transaction exposure. The inefficiency in the cash flow hedges that CZK 50 50 affected net income for the year amount to msek 2 (0). 1) Also contains sold call and put options. 2) Refers to the net of purchased call and put options. The tender insurance portfolio is governed by a risk measure based on a probability-weighted VaR measure consisting of two parts. One part is the cumulative VaR measure of the external hedge for each tender hedge. The other part is the cumulative VaR measure of the benchmark hedge for each tender hedge. The benchmark hedge is the hedge to be used externally based on Group Treasury policy. If the external hedges for the portfolio’s tender hedges correspond with the portfolio’s pre-defined benchmark hedges, the tender insurance portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e., its VaR measure will be zero. saab annual report 2013 109 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. The table below shows the cash flows corresponding to the derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges in 2013 and 2012 expressed in millions in local currency. Cash flow hedges by currency CZK EUR GBP NOK THB USD ZAR Million Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net < 90 days -37 59 22 -30 109 79 -25 39 14 -3 4 1 -179 421 242 -74 246 172 -19 -19 91-180 days -50 21 -29 -13 31 18 -1 29 28 -4 -4 -74 278 204 -39 59 20 181-210 days -12 3 -9 -13 73 60 -1 15 14 -4 -4 -2 847 845 -29 59 30 -4 -4 211-360 days -12 -12 -11 17 6 -2 7 5 -3 -3 -66 213 147 -32 52 20 2015 -26 69 43 -3 4 1 -3 -3 -47 830 783 -51 205 154 -4 -4 2016 -16 70 54 -3 3 -1 -1 -16 162 146 -13 -13 2017 -4 11 7 -2 2 -7 115 108 2018 -3 6 3 -1 2 1 -1 99 98 2019 and forward -3 15 12 71 71 Total flows 2013 -111 83 -28 -119 401 282 -38 101 63 -17 4 -13 -369 2,589 2,220 -249 1,068 819 -40 -40 Total flows 2012 -77 90 13 -117 432 315 -42 116 74 -1 11 10 -408 3,984 3,576 -244 740 496 -43 16 -27 Translation exposure Impairment tests The translation exposure in the Group relates to the operations of foreign Long-term contracts, primarily in usd, in commercial aircraft programmes subsidiaries. Saab Aircraft Leasing’s operations in Sweden have their ecoconsist of a hedged order backlog and estimated future orders (business case) nomic environments in usd (functional currency) and are translated from with cash flows. Cash flows from the latter are normally hedged when they the functional currency to sek. The translation exposure comprises net assets become confirmed orders. In connection with impairment tests of onerous in foreign currency and arises in connection with acquisitions and divestcontracts, income is affected by the revaluation of future cash flows at spot ments. The value of equity subject to translation exposure amounted to rates. Larger changes in exchange rates, primarily in usd against sek, have a msek 3,460 (3,443) at year-end; see the table below. significant impact on income. This exposure is not hedged. Net assets translated to SEK Interest rate risks MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes in interest rate levels. USD 1,552 1,581 EUR 601 533 Interest rate risk has been identified in the following areas: AUD 442 434 • Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the statement of financial position is affected by changes in ZAR 289 440 underlying interest rates. Large items of this type refer to pension obOther currencies 576 455 ligations and leasing operations. Total 3,460 3,443 • Saab’s net financial items are affected by changes in market rates. Interest rate effects on advance financing affect gross income. The effect on net assets of a change in exchange rates where the sek depreciInterest rate risks in the Group’s financial investments are managed based on ates or appreciates is shown in the table below. high liquidity and a duration of 12 months, with the option of deviating by Sensitivity analysis of net assets +/– 12 months. As of year-end, the duration for investments was 7 months (17). Interest rate risks in the Group’s funding must not exceed 60 months Net assets SEK appreciation SEK depreciation MSEK 31-12-2013 of 10% of 10% duration. As of year-end, the duration for financing was 55 months (8). Interest rate futures and swaps are used for interest risk management to USD 1,552 1,397 1,707 achieve the desired duration in the financing. For a sensitivity analysis, see EUR 601 541 661 also the section on liquidity and financing risk. Lending to subsidiaries in AUD 442 398 486 foreign currency is normally financed in sek, which is converted to the subsidiary’s currency through swaps. Interest rate swaps in usd are used mainly ZAR 289 260 318 for interest risk management in the leasing portfolio, where the interest rate Other currencies 576 518 634 risk is fully matched. Total 3,460 3,114 3,806 The pension liability, the present value of future pension obligations, is the largest interest rate risk due to the liability’s long duration; see also the Change -346 346 Pension Fund section. The foreign currency risk to the Group’s income and equity from translation Liquidity and financing risks effects (the translation exposure ) is not hedged, pursuant to the Group Liquidity and financing risk refers to the risk that the company will not be Treasury Policy. able to meet its payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity or difficulty raising external loans on acceptable terms. According to the Group Treasury Policy, Saab must always maintain unutilised credit facilities or liquid assets corresponding to msek 3,000, adjusted for loans with maturity date within 12 months (“Free Cash”). 110 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. Free Cash shall however never amount to less than the lowest of: MSEK Note 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 • 10 per cent of sales (total sales) Liabilities • 50 per cent of outstanding on-demand guarantees for the three largest commitments Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 614 1,637 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 1,095 105 Liquidity and financing risks are minimised by diversifying financing sources Provisions for pensions 37 1,425 2,420 and maturities. Saab’s policy is to insure on-demand guarantees for major projects against Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,134 4,162 unauthorised use. This applies to contracts where the counterparty is classified as a developing country according to the definition of the Export Credits Net liquidity 1,013 1,996 Guarantee Board (ekn). Insurance can be obtained from state guarantee institutions or the private insurance market. As of 31 December 2013, net liquidity amounted to msek 1,013 (1,996) with an Saab has access to the following credit facilities: average during the year of msek 1,331 (2,685). The net of interest income Loan facilities received and interest expenses paid amounted to msek -85 (117). Of the liquid MSEK Facility Utilised Available investments of msek 3,766 (5,579), msek 10 (10) was pledged as trading secuClub loan (matures 2016) 4,000 4,000 rity to omx. The sensitivity analysis below shows the effect on income of an increase in market interest rates and in the credit margin of 1 percentage Total confirmed credit facilities 4,000 4,000 point for Saab’s investments. Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Placements in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits Medium Term Notes (MTN) 3,000 1,000 2,000 Sensitivity analysis of financial risk Receivables financing 1,475 555 920 Effect of Effect of Total loan programmes 9,475 1,555 7,920 market incredit Effect on MSEK Fixed terest rate, Tied-up spread, financial Maturities interest 1) 1% capital 1% costs Total loan facilities 13,475 1,555 11,920 1 year 2,328 23.3 1,761 17.6 40.9 2 years 150 1.5 225 2.3 3.8 The club loan is a credit facility with an equivalent value of msek 4,000 evenly 3 years 320 3.2 595 6.0 9.2 divided between eight banks and maturing in 2016. No financial covenants are attached to the club loan or the other credit facilities. 4 years 233 2.3 450 4.5 6.8 A commercial paper programme with a limit of msek 5,000 is available as 5 years and forward well. Neither the commercial paper programme nor the club loan was utilised Total 3,031 30.3 3,031 30.4 60.7 in 2013. In 2009, Saab established a Medium Term Note (mtn) programme with a Adjustment 2) 84 limit of msek 3,000 or an equivalent value in eur. The mtn programme proTotal 3,115 vides access to financing for up to 15 years, which is an element in diversifying 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. loan maturities. 2) Adjustment of nominal value compared to book value due to market valuation at a premium or discount. During 2013 msek 1,000 out of maturing msek 1,100 was refinanced. Current interest-bearing liabilities amount to msek 614 (1,637). Long-term Net liquidity interest-bearing liabilities amount to msek 1,095 (105) and mainly consist of a Net liquidity excluding interest-bearing receivables and provisions for penrefinanced mtn programme of msek 1,000 which was reported as a shortsions amounted to msek 2,057 (3,837) on 31 December 2013. Liquidity varied term interest-bearing liability in 2012. Of the long-term interest-bearing liaduring the year, and liquidity was placed as per the Group Treasury Policy. At bilities, msek 1,036 (24) matures within 1-5 years and msek 59 (81) in more year-end, placements in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits than 5 years. amounted to msek 3,115 (4,825). The maturity structure of liabilities to credit institutions is indicated in Net liquidity the tied-up capital column of the “Sensitivity analysis of financial risk” table. The volume of tied-up capital includes interest rate swaps. For the interest MSEK Note 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 rate swaps that refers to adjustment of the fixed interest for the financing, Assets hedge accounting is applied. No inefficiency has affected the net income for Liquid assets 31 1,764 1,616 the year. The sensitivity analysis below shows the effect on income of an increase in market interest rates and in the credit margin of 1 percentage Short-term investments 25 2,002 3,963 point for Saab’s refinancing of credits. Total liquid investments 3,766 5,579 Financing (refers to utilised credit facilities) Sensitivity analysis of financial risk Short-term interest-bearing receivables 27 121 326 Effect of Effect of Long-term interest-bearing receivables 27 83 109 market incredit Effect on Long-term receivables attributable to pensions 27 36 MSEK Fixed terest rate, Tied-up spread, financial Maturities interest 1) 1% capital 1% costs Long-term interest-bearing financial investments 25 141 144 1 year 555 5.5 555 5.5 11.0 Total interest-bearing assets 4,147 6,158 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years and forward 1,000 10.0 1,000 10.0 20.0 Total 1,555 15.5 1,555 15.5 31.0 1) In the fixed interest effects of derivative agreements entered are included. saab annual report 2013 111 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. Commodity risks The following table shows an age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables: : Price risks are divided into two parts: MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 • Commodity price risk refers to the risk that purchasing costs for material will rise. <30 days 329 412 • Electricity price risk refers to the risk that Saab could be negatively af30 to 90 days 443 169 fected by changes in electricity prices. 91 to 180 days 109 196 According to the Group’s policy, commodity risk is minimised and managed >181 days 263 124 primarily through contract clauses with customers/suppliers. To minimise Accounts receivable overdue 1,144 901 the risk to Saab’s operating margin, future electricity consumption is hedged. Accounts receivable not overdue 2,170 2,553 This is done by hedging projected consumption according to a model where Total accounts receivable 3,314 3,454 100 per cent of the next quarter’s consumption is hedged. The hedging level then drops on a straight-line basis to 0 per cent in quarter 13. Swedish units consume around 138 gwh per year (142) with a spot price risk of msek 1.4 Since accounts receivable are largely secured via bank or insurance guaran(1.4) per every time the price of electricity changes by sek 0.01. Electricity tees or are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low despite directives are managed through a discretionary management mandate, under overdue receivables. which the manager has the mandate to accept risks in relation to benchmarks (hedging strategy) at the equivalent of msek 1 (1) expressed in VaR. The marAdvances paid to suppliers ket value of electricity derivatives as of year-end was msek -12 (-13). Since Advances paid to suppliers constitute a credit risk, since the counterparty’s 1 January 2010, electricity derivatives are used as cash flow hedges for the services have not been fully rendered. As of 31 December 2013, the Group had Stockholm price area (se3). Inefficiency affecting net income for the year paid its suppliers advances of msek 152 (89). As the Group’s policy is to mainamounted to msek 0 (-3). tain bank-guaranteed security for any advances it pays, the commercial supplier credit risk is considered low. Credit and counterparty risks Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to Financial credit risks fulfil the financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day Financial credit risk consists of exposures to banks through deposits, securioperations, Saab is exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with ties investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. counterparties in the form of customers, suppliers and financial players. The Group’s aggregate credit risks consist of commercial credit risks and financial The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to: credit risks. • Ensure that all financial counterparties have a long-term credit rating of no lower than a from Standard and Poor’s or a 3 from Moody’s Commercial credit risks • Assign each financial counterparty a credit limit based on its longCommercial credit risks consist of outstanding accounts receivable and term credit rating advances paid to suppliers. According to the Group’s policy, commercial • Enter into isda master agreements with financial counterparties to credit risks are identified and actively managed on a case-by-case basis. net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives, Credit risks that arise in customer contracts are managed by utilising availasee tables below. ble banking, insurance or export credit institutions. According to the policy, credit risks that arise through advances paid to suppliers are managed by Market value of financial assets and liabilities subject to n­etting always maintaining bank-guaranteed security for any advances. arrangements Net Master Collateral Accounts receivable amount in netting received/ On 31 December 2013, the Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted Gross balance arrangeassets Net 2013 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount to msek 3,314 (3,454). The Receivables Financing Programme reduced accounts receivable at year-end by 555 (852). Defence-related sales accounted Currency derivatives 384 384 -158 226 for 80 per cent (82) of total sales, where the counterparties in most accounts Interest rate derivatives 5 5 -5 receivable are nations with high creditworthiness. The Group’s receivables are Electricity derivatives 6 6 6 mainly in the eu, which accounted for 50 per cent (56) of the total. Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance Assets 395 395 -163 232 guarantees or guarantees from ekn are secured. In connection with cash transactions, Saab generally requires that a letter Currency derivatives 291 291 -158 133 of credit is opened in its name to ensure that payment is received. Impairments of accounts receivable amounted, as of 31 December 2013, to Interest rate derivatives 14 14 -5 9 msek 19 (13), corresponding to 0.5 per cent (0.3) of total accounts receivable. Electricity derivatives 18 18 18 Impairments of accounts receivable have changed as follows. Liabilities 323 323 -163 160 MSEK 2013 2012 Impairments, 1 January -13 -19 Impairments for calculated losses -15 -5 Reversal of previous impairments 3 1 Actual credit losses 5 10 Translation differences 1 Impairments, 31 December -19 -13 112 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. Net Master Collateral amount in netting received/ The following instruments were valued at fair value according to listed Gross balance arrangeassets Net (unadjusted) prices on an active market on the closing date (Level 1): 2012 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount • Bonds Currency derivatives 509 509 -181 328 • Electricity derivatives Interest rate derivatives 1 1 -1 • Interest derivatives Electricity derivatives 4 4 4 The following instruments were valued at fair value according to accepted Assets 514 514 -182 332 valuation models based on observable market data (Level 2): • Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and Currency derivatives 204 204 -181 23 valued to sek at year-end exchange rates Interest rate derivatives 37 37 -1 36 • Options: The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used in the marElectricity derivatives 17 17 17 ket valuation of all options • Interest swaps: Future variable interest rates are calculated with the Liabilities 258 258 -182 76 help of current forward rates. These implicit interest payments are discounted on the valuation date using current market rates. The market value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted Credit risk is calculated on established and anticipated risks pursuant to the variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed recommendations of the Bank of International Settlements (bis I). On interest payments 31 December 2013, counterparty risks amounted to msek 3,617 (5,356), of which deposits with banks, mortgage institutions, companies and the SwedUnlisted shares and participations: Valued according to accepted principles; ish state totalled msek 3,118 (4,916). e.g., for venture capital firms (Level 3). As of 31 December 2013, the Group had the following financial assets and Trading liabilities at fair value: The Board has given Saab Treasury a risk mandate for trading in currency and money market instruments. During the year, msek 15 was allocated to Assets at fair value trading expressed as VaR. If the cumulative result for the year is negative, the MSEK 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 mandate is reduced correspondingly. In 2013, trading income was msek 21 Bonds and interest-bearing (31), which is reported as other operating income. The average utilised risk securities 2,002 2,002 mandate (VaR) during the year amounted to msek 2 (3). Forward exchange contracts 376 376 Hedge accounting Currency options 8 8 Hedge accounting to fair value is applied to foreign exchange contracts and Interest rate swaps 6 6 currency swaps. The market value of currency derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges (hedging instruments) amounts to msek 4 (13), market Electricity derivatives 6 6 value of currency risk in order backlog (hedged items) amounts to msek -4 Shares and participations 154 114 40 (-13). For information on the impact on net income for the year of gains and Total 2,552 2,122 390 40 losses on derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges, see Note 6, Other operating expenses. Liabilities at fair value Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) MSEK 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency Forward exchange contracts 281 281 risks are accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. These Currency options 12 12 cash flow hedges relate primarily to contractual sales volumes. Derivatives that protect future receipts and disbursements are recognised Interest rate swaps 5 5 in the statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recogElectricity derivatives 18 18 nised in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge Total 316 18 298 reserve in equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, at which point the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit or loss to meet and match the effects on earnings of the Pension fund hedge transaction. The hedge reserve before tax amounted to msek 440 (681), The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the of which the unrealised value of derivatives was msek 91 (235) and the realGroup’s pension obligation and is not consolidated in the Group. ised effects arising from rollovers of derivatives was msek 349 (446). The fund has a long-term real yield requirement of 3 per cent per year. The change in the hedge reserve in 2013 of msek 241 consists of a reversal The investment policy requires an asset distribution of a maximum of 50 per to profit or loss of msek -81, the change in the value of existing derivatives of cent equities/alternative investments (hedge funds) and 50-100 per cent msek -62, the market value of hedges obtained during the year of msek -16, interest-bearing instruments. Investments are made in interest-bearing secuand the change that arose due to the rollovers of derivatives of msek -82. For rities from issuers with a credit rating of no lower than bbb according to information on the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, see Standard & Poor’s and baa according to Moody’s. Of the fund’s capital at yearconsolidated net comprehensive income. end, 50 per cent (50) was invested in interest-bearing assets and the remainThe inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year ing 50 per cent (50) in equities and alternative investments. The market value amounted to msek 2 (-3). of the fund’s assets as of 31 December 2013 was msek 4,595 (4,346) and the annual return was 6 per cent (8). In 2013, the fund was capitalised by Valuation methods for financial assets and liabilities msek 0 (0) and msek 0 (2) in refunds were paid. The table below shows the The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. solvency margin for the pension fund. Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial assets that are traded on an inactive market or are unlisted holdings. These valuation methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, discounted cash flows or customary valuation methods such as Black-Scholes. saab annual report 2013 113 financial information > notes Note 41, cont. MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2010 The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent contingent liabilities and a distribution by category and issuer. Fair value of assets under management 4,595 4,346 4,050 3,969 per cent of per cent of Present value of definedMSEK 31-12-2013 total 31-12-2012 total benefit ­obligations1) 5,785 6,485 5,866 4,675 Parent Company guarantees 1,562 22 1,339 22 Solvency margin 79% 67% 69% 85% Bank guarantees 5,437 78 4,668 78 Pension obligation Total guarantees 6,999 100 6,007 100 according to PRI 4,736 4,615 4,489 4,042 Solvency margin 97% 94% 90% 98% Bank guarantees: 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. On demand 4,769 88 3,974 85 Proprietary 668 12 694 15 Total bank guarantees 5,437 100 4,668 100 NOTE 42 Assets Pledged and Contingent Liabilities Type of guarantee: Group Parent Company Advances 3,298 47 2,146 36 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Completion 3,079 44 3,080 51 Assets pledged for own Tenders, credits and other 622 9 781 13 liabilities and provisions Total guarantees 6,999 100 6,007 100 Bonds and other securities 10 10 10 10 With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments Other assets 29 110 to customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small Total 39 120 10 10 and, as a result, no value is recognised in the table of contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities Guarantees to insurance NOTE 43 Transactions with Related Parties company, FPG/PRI 95 92 95 92 Guarantees for Group The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. Saab have ­companies’ commitments not had any significant transactions with Investor, Board members or memto customers 3,825 4,067 bers of Group Management. For information on remuneration, see Note 37. Sureties for joint ventures 6 6 Of the Parent Company’s sales, 5 per cent referred to sales to Group companies, while 17 per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Sureties for associated Group companies. companies 6 8 72 85 Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies amounted Total 107 106 3,992 4,244 to approximately msek 52 (42) and msek 132 (72), respectively. In the ordinary course of business, Saab is occasionally involved in disputes and legal proceedings arising as a result of the company’s operations world NOTE 44 Group Companies wide. These disputes and legal proceedings are not expected, either individually or collectively, to have any significant negative effect on Saab’s financial Significant Group company holdings result or position. Ownership Saab currently has a legal dispute concerning interpretation of an agreeGroup company’s share, ­per cent ment, where a negative outcome is not probable and consequently no provi­registered office, sion has been recognised. Should however, against expectations, the dispute Group company country 2013 2012 result in a negative outcome for Saab, it cannot be ruled out that the financial Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 effect would not be non-material. HITT N.V. The Netherlands 100 98.9 Saab has had a legal dispute with the Danish Defence Acquisition and Logistics Organization, Forsvarets Materialtjeneste (fmt). The context of the MEDAV GmbH Germany 100 100 dispute is the termination of an agreement regarding the command and conSaab Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 trol system, daccis. On 25 April 2013, the Danish Supreme Court ruled that Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 Saab should pay fmt msek 314. The payment includes the repayment of damages ruled by the Maritime and Commercial Court in Copenhagen 2010, Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 payments received under the daccis contract, as well as court costs amountSaab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 ing to msek 231 and interest amounting to msek 83. Saab Defense and Security USA LLC USA 100 100 In 2012 Saab received a claim for alleged patent infringement in the us. A settlement has been reached. No material amounts have been paid. Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 Saab Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 71 71 Saab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 Saab Sensis Corporation USA 100 100 Saab Systems Oy Finland 100 100 114 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 44, cont. Specification of Parent Company’s holdings of shares Parent Company in Group companies MSEK 2013 2012 31-12-2013 Accumulated acquisition value Carrying No. of Share, amount, Opening balance, 1 January 17,208 17,086 Group company/Corp. ID no./Reg. office shares per cent MSEK New issues/shareholders’ contributions 26 27 Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100.0% 144 Acquisitions 32 540 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm, Sweden 1,720,000 100.0% 518 Sales and liquidations -454 Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö, Sweden 100,000 100.0% 1,039 Reclassifications 9 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal, Sweden 2,000 100.0% 3 Closing balance, 31 December 17,266 17,208 Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping, Sweden 20,000 100.0% 4 Accumulated impairments Fastighets AB Odengatan Jönköping, 556378-6226, Opening balance, 1 January -10,726 -10,679 Järfälla, Sweden 2,000 100.0% Impairments for the year -69 -47 Fastighets AB Stensholm-Huskvarna, 556030-2746, Jönköping, Sweden 150,000 100.0% 42 Closing balance, 31 December -10,795 -10,726 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga, Sweden 100,000 100.0% 10 HITT N.V., The Netherlands 100.0% 290 Carrying amount, 31 December 6,471 6,482 Kockums Holdings AB, 556036-4100, Linköping, Sweden 48,000 100.0% 5 Impairment reversals and impairments for the year are reported in the Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, Linköping, income statement on the line “Result from shares in Group companies.” Sweden 500,000 100.0% 51 MEDAV GmbH, Germany 100.0% 235 NOTE 45 Untaxed Reserves Saab d.o.o., Slovenia 100.0% Saab Aerospace Overseas AB, 556628-6448, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Parent Company Saab Aircraft Leasing Holdings AB, 556124-3170, MSEK 2013 2012 Linköping, Sweden 30,000 100.0% 1,500 Tax allocation reserve: Saab Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100.0% 3 Opening balance, 1 January 864 350 Saab Asia Pacific Co., Ltd, Thailand 100.0% 12 Provision for the year 322 514 Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik, S­weden 200,000 100.0% 92 Closing balance, 31 December 1,186 864 Saab Czech s.r.o., Czech Republic 100.0% 24 Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100.0% 103 Accumulated accelerated depreciation Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga, S­weden 500,000 100.0% 357 Buildings and land: Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100.0% Opening balance, 1 January 32 48 Saab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm, Under depreciation for the year -14 -16 Sweden 50,000 100.0% 13 Closing balance, 31 December 18 32 Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100.0% Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, Mölndal, Sweden 300,000 100.0% 49 Machinery and equipment: Saab North America, Inc., USA 100.0% 1,141 Opening balance, 1 January 380 397 Saab Precision Components AB, 556627-5003, Under depreciation for the year -24 -17 Jönköping, Sweden 2,000 100.0% 8 Closing balance, 31 December 356 380 Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100.0% 194 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 95.0% 443 Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 1,560 1,276 Saab Surveillance Solutions AB, 556627-1929, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% 1 Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Saab Systems Oy, Finland 100.0% 56 Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100.0% 1 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100.0% Saab Training Systems B.V., The Netherlands 100.0% 6 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100.0% 3 Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Teknikinformation i Krokom AB, 556317-4043, Krokom, Sweden 1,600 100.0% 18 Dormant companies etc. 106 Carrying amount at year-end 6,471 saab annual report 2013 115 financial information > notes NOTE 46 Statement of Cash Flows, Supplemental Information The Group’s operating cash flow and a reconciliation between operating cash Operating cash flow versus CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR IN statement flow and cash flow for the year are shown below. Operating cash flow differs of cash flows in the following respect from the statement of cash flows on page 64: MSEK 2013 2012 • Investments in or sales of short-term investments and other interestOperating cash flow -1,480 -396 bearing financial investments as well as interest-bearing receivables Investing activities – interest-bearing: are not included in investing activities Short-term investments 1,936 585 Operating cash flow Other financial investments and receivables 232 28 Financing activities: Group Repayment of loans -1,100 -19 MSEK 2013 2012 Raising of loans 1,071 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,835 2,511 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -477 -474 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest -1 Working capital Cash flow for the year 181 -276 Inventories -147 -199 Current receivables -1,370 707 Supplemental information on statement of cash flows Advance payments from customers 287 -459 Liquid assets Other current liabilities -1,010 -1,701 Group Provisions -277 -509 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Change in working capital -2,517 -2,161 The following components are included in liquid assets: Cash and bank balances 651 622 Cash flow from operating activities -682 350 Bank deposits 1,113 862 Funds in escrow account 131 Investing activities Deposits on behalf of customers 1 Investments in intangible fixed assets -68 -343 Total according to the statement of financial position 1,764 1,616 Investments in tangible fixed assets -543 -328 Investments in lease assets -1 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,764 1,616 Sale of tangible fixed assets 46 10 Sale of lease assets 81 312 Parent Company Investments in operations and associated companies, net effect on liquidity -68 -568 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, net effect The following components are included on liquidity 174 in liquid assets: Investments in and sale of financial assets -246 -2 Cash and bank balances 155 87 Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in Bank deposits 1,113 862 short-term investments and other interest-bearing financial assets -798 -746 Total according to balance sheet 1,268 949 Operating cash flow -1,480 -396 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,268 949 Comparative figures presented for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (ias 19). Interest paid and dividends received Group Parent Company MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dividends received 10 2 652 291 Interest received 98 218 181 342 Interest paid -183 -101 -200 -169 Total -75 119 633 464 116 saab annual report 2013 financial information > notes Note 46, cont. Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Acquisitions of associated companies Group Parent Company Group MSEK 2013 2012 2013 2012 MSEK 2013 2012 Depreciation and amortisation­ 1,034 1,172 572 548 Acquired assets and liabilities Impairments 13 17 Financial fixed assets 21 Changes in the value of biological assets 10 -1 Total assets 21 Changes in the value of investment properties 2 1 Purchase price paid 21 Share of profits in associated companies -25 -27 Effect on Group’s liquid assets 21 Dividends from associated companies 10 2 Dividends and Group ­contributions Acquisitions in 2013 relate to acquisitions in the venture portfolio. from/to Group companies -653 -902 Capital gains/losses from sales of Group companies, associated companies and Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies other shares -10 -33 Group Capital gains/losses on sales of MSEK 2013 2012 tangible fixed assets -12 -1 -36 Divested assets and liabilities Impairment of shares and receivables 133 4 632 47 Tangible fixed assets 190 Provisions 124 -57 190 50 Financial fixed assets 7 Provisions for pensions 29 79 -115 -150 Current receivables 1 Other -94 -97 24 43 Total assets 198 Total 1,224 1,082 614 -397 Investments in operations and subsidiaries Deferred tax liability 25 Group Total liabilities 25 MSEK 2013 2012 Acquired assets and liabilities Sales price 174 Intangible fixed assets 40 631 Purchase price received 174 Tangible fixed assets 4 7 Deferred tax assets 4 Less: Liquid assets in divested operations Inventories 9 62 Effect on the Group’s net liquidity 174 Current receivables 17 254 Of which liquid assets 174 Liquid assets 25 Total assets 70 983 Divestments in 2012 relate to an investment property and the shares in Sörman Intressenter ab, parent company of Sörman Information ab. Provisions 2 Deferred tax liability 4 56 NOTE 47 Information on Parent Company Interest-bearing liabilities 3 47 Saab ab (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered Current liabilities 13 180 office in Linköping. The Parent Company’s shares are registered on the Total liabilities 20 285 ­nasdaq omx Stockholm. The address of the head office is Saab ab, Box 12062, SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden. The consolidated accounts for 2013 comprise the Parent Company and its Purchase price paid 51 593 Group companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -4 -25 the holdings in associated companies and joint ventures. Effect on the Group’s liquid assets 47 568 Saab ab also operates a small business in a South Korean branch. Effect on the Group’s net liquidity 44 521 Acquisitions in 2013 mainly relate to Teknikinformation i Krokom ab (tikab) and the British company Hydro-Lek Limited. Acquisitions in 2012 mainly relate to the Dutch company hitt n.v., the German company medav gmbh, Sörman Intressenter ab (parent company of Sörman Information ab), Täby Displayteknik ab, and 70 per cent of the shares in the Norwegian company Bayes Risk Management as. saab annual report 2013 117 financial information > notes NOTE 48 Environmental Report NOTE 49 Exchange Rates used in Financial Statements Operations subject to licensing in the Parent Company Year-end rate Average rate Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent Company, Country 2013 2012 2013 2012 Saab ab, in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping is subject to licensing pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code due to aeroAustralia AUD 1 5.76 6.77 6.30 7.02 nautics operations, surface treatment processes, manufacturing of composite Denmark DKK 100 119.86 115.52 115.99 116.96 materials, handling of chemical substances and the size of the manufacturing Euro EUR 1 8.94 8.62 8.65 8.71 facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from emissions of volatile organic compounds (vocs) and aircraft emissions into India INR 100 10.49 11.88 11.17 12.71 the atmosphere and of metals into waterways, the generation of industrial Canada CAD 1 6.07 6.55 6.33 6.78 wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. The manufacturing operaNorway NOK 100 105.80 116.72 110.95 116.41 tions predominantly entail operations subject to licensing. The National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence for aircraft Switzerland CHF 1 7.29 7.13 7.03 7.22 manufacture in 1990. The supervisory authorities and the Land and EnvironUK GBP 1 10.73 10.49 10.19 10.73 ment Court imposed additional terms for these operations in 2006 and 2007, South Africa ZAR 100 62.13 76.61 67.73 82.75 respectively, against the backdrop of the eu’s ippc directive. In Järfälla, Saab ab has operations involving the manufacture of advanced Czech Republic CZK 100 32.60 34.36 33.33 34.64 command and control systems, among other things, which are also subject to USA USD 1 6.51 6.52 6.51 6.78 licensing under to the Environment Code. The licensing requirement is due to surface treatment processes and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from voc NOTE 50 Definitions of Key Ratios emissions into the atmosphere and of metals into waterways. The National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence in 1990. Capital employed Total capital less non-interest-bearing liabilities. With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab ab did not exceed any conditions in its permits or injunctions in 2013. Capital turnover Sales divided by average capital employed. Operations subject to licensing in subsidiaries Cash flow from operating activities per share Cash flow from operating acThe operations carried on by Saab Airport ab are subject to licensing under tivities divided by the average number of shares after dilution. the Environment Code and are covered by the permit issued by the National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection in 1990 for Saab ab’s collecEarnings per share Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company tive operations in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of shareholders’ interest­, divided by the average number of shares before and Linköping. This permit also covers the operations of Saab Dynamics ab in after full dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. the area, despite the fact that they are not subject to licensing and notification requirements under the Environment Code. EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation, amortisation and Saab Dynamics ab and Saab Bofors Test Center ab run operations in impairments less depreciation and impairments of lease aircrafts as a perKarlskoga that are subject to licensing under the Environment Code. In addicentage of sales. tion, Saab Barracuda ab runs operations subject to licensing in Gamleby. The environmental impact from subsidiaries subject to licensing primarEquity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. ily consists of emissions of vocs and emissions from aircraft into the atmosphere, emissions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the In 2013, none of Saab’s subsidiaries exceeded any conditions of their peryear. mits or injunctions. Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. Operations subject to notification requirements Saab ab has operations in Arboga, Huskvarna, Ljungbyhed, Malmslätt, Interest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by Nyköping and Östersund which are subject to notification requirements purfinancial expenses. suant to the Swedish Environment Code. Permits in Arboga and Malmslätt still apply. These were granted by the county boards in 1993 and 1994, respecNet liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interesttively. The Group also has operations subject to notification requirements in bearing receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for penthe subsidiaries Saab Dynamics ab in Motala and Saab Precision Composions, excluding special employer’s contribution. nents ab in Jönköping. Permit in Motala still applies. The environmental impact of these operations is extremely limited. Operating cash flow per share Operating cash flow divided by the average number of shares after dilution. Operating margin Operating income as a percentage of sales. Profit margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. 118 saab annual report 2013 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > DIVIDEND MOTIVATION dividend motivation The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB Saab is one of the world’s leading high-technology companies, Saab’s gross capital expenditure in 2013 amounted to MSEK 543, because of which its operations are distinguished by complex develwhich is considered a good estimation of annual future investments opment assignments on the cutting edge of technology. Over the in tangible fixed assets. Investments are also made in research and years, Saab has conducted significant development projects and development, which in 2013 amounted to MSEK 1,332, of which managed the associated risks with great success. See also risks and MSEK 24 was capitalised in the balance sheet. uncertainties in the annual report. At year-end, Saab had a net liquidity, which includes liquid assets, The Board of Directors’ proposed dividend amounts to SEK 4.50 short-term investments and interest-bearing receivables less interper share, corresponding to a total dividend of MSEK 479. Unreest-bearing liabilities, including provisions for pensions, amounting stricted equity amounts to MSEK 4,992 in Saab AB and profit to MSEK 1,013. Saab’s ability to carry out its commitments is not carried forward in the Group before the dividend paid amounts to expected to be affected by the proposed dividend either on a shortMSEK 9,843. or a long-term basis. Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders amounted to MSEK 741 for the Group and MSEK 885 for the The proposed dividend is considered justifiable with regard to what is Parent Company. stated in chapter 17, § 3, paragraphs two and three of the Companies After paying the dividend to the shareholders, the Group’s equity/ Act (2005:551): assets ratio amounts to 42.8 per cent, compared to the long-term 1. The demands that the company’s nature, scope and risks place on objective of 30 per cent. Since the ipo in 1998, the equity/assets ratio the size of its equity, and has risen from 22 per cent to 44 per cent in 2013. 2. The company’s consolidation needs, liquidity or financial position in other respects. The Board of Directors Saab AB saab annual report 2013 119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS 2013 proposed disposition of earnings 2013 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unapproAfter the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will priated earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual be as follows: General Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Retained earnings 4,106,201,831 Capital stock 1,746,405,504 Net income for the year 885,193,911 Statutory reserve 542,471,135 Total 4,991,395,742 Revaluation reserve 700,404,106 Retained earnings 4,512,532,094 Be disposed as follows: Total 7,501,812,839 To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.50 per 478,863,648 share The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net income over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the PresiFunds to be carried forward 4,512,532,094 dent propose that MSEK 479 (477), or SEK 4.50 per share (4.50) be Total 4,991,395,742 issued as a dividend. This has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2013, of 106,414,144. Saab’s equity/ assets ratio is currently 43.8 per cent (39.0) and after the proposed disposition of earnings will be 42.8 per cent (38.0). The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping, 13 February 2014 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Johan Forssell Sten Jakobsson Sara Mazur Board member Deputy Chairman Board member Per-Arne Sandström Cecilia Stegö Chilò Lena Treschow Torell Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Stefan Andersson Catarina Carlqvist Conny Holm Board member Board member Board member Håkan Buskhe President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and board member Our audit report was submitted on 21 February 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Håkan Malmström Anna-Clara Af Ekenstam Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge 120 saab annual report 2013 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > AUDIT REPORT auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB, corporate identity number 556036-0793 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts tory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Saab AB for the year 2013. The annual accounts and consolidated We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholdaccounts of the company are included in the printed version of this ers adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent document on pages 44–120. company and the group. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Report on other legal and regulatory requirements for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of and consolidated accounts in accordance with International FinanDirectors and the Managing Director of Saab AB for the year 2013. cial Reporting Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriapreparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are tions of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the Managing Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and peraccordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. form the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from material appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the misstatement. Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evievidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in dence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and accordance with the Companies Act. consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the audiAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in tor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and cirwhether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the cumstances of the company in order to determine whether any auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparamember of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director is liable tion and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated to the company. We also examined whether any member of the accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, in any other way, the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also Act or the Articles of Association. includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Opinions We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of DirecOpinions tors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordfinancial year. ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2013 and of its financial performance and its cash flows Stockholm 21 February 2014 for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance PricewaterhouseCooopers AB with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2013 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then Håkan Malmström Anna-Clara Af Ekenstam ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting StandAuthorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant ards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statuAuditor in charge saab annual report 2013 121 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company and the comvalue per share is SEK 16. The series B shares are listed on NASDAQ pany’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. OMX Stockholm on the Large Cap list. The series A shares are not Saab’s corporate governance is based on Swedish legislation, prilisted. All series A shares are owned by Investor AB. marily the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Rules for Issuers – which also Largest shareholders, 31 December 2013 includes the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance – and other Share of Share of relevant Swedish and foreign laws and guidelines. According to SIS Ownership Service capital, % votes, %1) Saab has a Code of Conduct with ethical guidelines in a number of areas for how the employees are expected to act in contacts with cusInvestor AB, Sweden 30.0 40.4 tomers, business partners and in the society and with each other as Wallenberg Foundations, Sweden 8.7 7.7 colleagues. Saab’s Code of Conduct is a part of the governance of Saab. For further information, please refer to page 37 of the Annual Report. Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 4.8 4.2 AFA Insurance, Sweden 4.6 4.0 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance The Saab shares are admitted to trading at NASDAQ OMX StockUnionen, Sweden 2.7 2.3 holm and Saab must therefore follow good practices in the securiNorwegian Bank Investment Mgt, Norway 2.2 1.9 ties market, which also includes an obligation to comply with the SEB Funds, Sweden 2.1 1.9 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (“the Code”). The Code is available at www.bolagsstyrning.se SHB funds, Sweden 2.0 1.7 Saab applies the Code and strives to maintain a high standard in Fourth AP Fund, Sweden 1.5 1.3 its corporate governance. This Corporate Governance Report is in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and Nordea Funds, Sweden 1.4 1.2 describes how Saab applied the Code during the financial year 2013. Total 60.0 66.6 Moreover, the Annual General Meeting 2013 was planned and car1) Share of votes, % is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end. ried out in accordance with the Code and the Annual General Meeting in 2014 will also be planned and carried out pursuant to the proAt the end of December 2013, Saab held 2,736,200 own shares of series visions of the Code. Saab’s website has a special area for corporate B shares, corresponding to approximately 2.5 per cent of the share capgovernance issues, which is updated in accordance with the Code. ital. For additional information about the ownership structure, see The Board annually issues a report on how the internal control pages 132-134 . The Board of Directors has an authorisation from the of financial reporting is organised, which can be found at the end of Shareholders’ Meeting to repurchase shares, see page 57 for further this report. information. This Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditor pursuant to the Annual Accounts Act, see the 2 Nomination Committee Auditor’s Report attached to the Corporate Governance Report. According to the Nomination Committee process, which was Saab has not deviated from the provisions of the Code during adopted at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and applies until fur2013. ther notice, Saab shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of one representative of each of the four shareholders or groups of share1 Shareholders’ Meeting and ownership structure holders with the greatest number of votes, along with the Chairman Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Board. The names of the four shareholder representatives and is the highest decision-making body within a company. At a Sharethe shareholders they represent shall be announced at least six holders’ Meeting, the shareholders are given the possibility to exermonths prior to the Annual General Meeting based on known voting cise their voting rights. The Annual General Meeting shall be held rights as per the last business day in August the year before the within six months after the end of each financial year. At the Annual Annual General Meeting. The nomination committee process General Meeting, resolutions are made relating to matters such as includes procedures, where necessary, to replace a member who the annual report, dividend, election of Board members, Board fees leaves the committee before its work has been completed. and auditors fees as well as adoption of principles for remuneration According to the nomination committee process, the Nominaof senior executives and, when applicable, election of external audition Committee shall provide proposals regarding the following tor and other matters stipulated in the Companies Act. The Annual issues, to be presented to the Annual General Meeting for resolution: General Meeting of Saab was held on the 17 April 2013 in Stockholm. (a) the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Meeting, 517 shareholders were represented at the meeting, corresponding to (b) the Board of Directors, approximately 68 per cent of the total voting rights in the company. (c) the Chairman of the Board, This year the Annual General Meeting will be held on the 8 April (d) the remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated 2014 in Stockholm. For further information please see page 131. between the Chairman and other members of the Board, and Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 remuneration for committee work, December, 2013 and consisted of 1,907,123 series A shares and (e) election of auditors, if applicable, and 107,243,221 series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, (f) fees to Saab’s auditors. while series B shares have one vote each. One series A share may, on demand of the owner, be converted into one series B share. The Before the Annual General Meeting of Saab AB on 8 April 2014, it was Saab shares are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The quota announced through a press release on 4 October 2013 that, in addition 122 saab annual report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT Governance and reporting 2013 Nomination Committee 2 Shareholders’ Meeting 1 Auditor 7 Representatives of each of the four shareholders or groups of shareholders ation PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Elected with the greatest number of votes, alu in 2011 for the term until the Annual Ev along with the Chairman of the Board. General Meeting 2015. Auditor in charge is Håkan Malmström Remuneration Committee 5 Board of Directors 3 Audit Committee 4 President and CEO 6 Internal Audit 8 Group Management Internal Boards Finance Board Strategy Board Ethics and Compliance Board Business Areas Group Functions Brand Council Aeronautics Finance Dynamics HR The internal boards handle and resolve isElectronic Defence Systems Communications sues within their respective areas on Security and Defence Solutions ICT Group level and prepare certain issues to Support and Services Quality and Environment Reports be resolved by the Group Management. Combitech Legal affairs Procurement Appoints Strategy All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standardised routine. to Chairman of the Board, Marcus Wallenberg, the following share3 The Board of Directors holder representatives had been appointed to Saab’s Nomination ComComposition of the Board mittee (shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra Hedengran (Investor According to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors AB), Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation), shall, in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least Tomas Hedberg (Swedbank Robur Funds) and Anders Algotssix and not more than twelve members. According to resolution at son (AFA Insurance). Petra Hedengran is the Chairman of the Nomthe Annual General Meeting on April 17, 2013, Saab’s Board of ination Committee. Directors shall consist of nine members elected by the Shareholders’ These persons represent in the aggregate approximately 55 per cent Meeting, with no deputies. In addition, the employee organisations of the votes in Saab based on the ownership structure as of 31 August appoint three Board members, with an equal number of deputies. 2013. At the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2013, Håkan Buskhe, The proposal of the Nomination Committee will be presented not Johan Forssell, Sten Jakobsson, Per-Arne Sandström, Cecilia Stegö later than in connection with the notice of the Annual General MeetChilò, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenberg and Joakim Westh ing 2014. were re-elected. At the Annual General Meeting Sara Mazur was elected as new member of the Board. Åke Svensson had informed Members of the Nomination Committee for Annual General that he declined re-election. Meeting 2014 Marcus Wallenberg was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors. At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual General Meet% of votes % of capital Member Representing 31-8-2013 31-8-2013 ing Sten Jakobsson was elected Deputy Chairman of the Board. In the Board only Håkan Buskhe, President and CEO of Saab, is employed Petra Hedengran Investor AB, Sweden 39.5 30.0 by the company. Information on the remuneration to the members of the Board Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut och Alice Wallenbergs Foundation 7.6 8.7 as resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2013 is set forth in the Annual Report, Note 37. Tomas Hedberg Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 4.5 5.3 Members of the Board elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting Anders Algotsson AFA Insurance, Sweden 3.6 4.2 Marcus Wallenberg Sten Jakobsson Cecilia Stegö Chilò Marcus Wallenberg Chairman of the Board, Håkan Buskhe Sara Mazur Lena Treschow Torell Saab AB – – Johan Forssell Per-Arne Sandström Joakim Westh saab annual report 2013 123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT The Board Members’ other significant professional commitments, Meeting are independent of the company and the management of work experience, holding of shares etc. are set forth in the presentathe company, and that at least two of them are independent of the tion of the Board of Directors. See pages 128–129. major shareholders. Employee representatives Work of the Board Regulars Deputies According to the Board’s rules of procedure, six ordinary meetings shall normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson The Board may also meet whenever circumstances demand. During Catarina Carlqvist Jan Kovacs 2013, the Board held one statutory meeting, six ordinary meetings Conny Holm Nils Lindskog and two extraordinary meetings, totalling nine meetings. All of the Board meetings during 2013 were held in Stockholm. In December Independence requirement 2013 the Board visited the subsidiary Saab Seaeye in Great Britain. The following table sets forth the members of the Board elected by the The Board annually adopts rules of procedure, an instruction on Shareholders’ Meeting who, according to the provisions of the Code, are the allocation of work between the Board and the President and considered independent in relation to the company and the management CEO, as well as an instruction on financial reporting to the Board. of the company, as well as in relation to the company’s major shareholders. The rules of procedure contain, i.a. provisions on the number of board meetings to be held, a list of matters to be considered at the Composition and independence of the Board in 2013 meetings, reporting from the auditor and special decisions to be taken at the statutory meeting. The rules of procedure and special Independent of Independent of instruction for the CEO set forth the delegation of responsibilities the company/ major shareBoard member Elected management holders between the Board and its two committees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, including the role of the chairman Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No 1) of the Board as well as between the Board and the CEO. The instruction for the CEO sets out the CEO’s duties and authority, including Håkan Buskhe 2011 No 2) Yes which matters that requires a Board resolution. The instruction also Johan Forssell 2010 Yes No 3) includes policies on investments, financing and reporting. Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes During the course of the year, the Board was assisted by the SecSara Mazur 2013 Yes Yes retary of the Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, who is not a member of the Board. Per-Arne Sandström 2005 Yes Yes The Board of Directors’ meetings follow an agenda. Prior to the Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes meetings the Board Members receive documentation and supportLena Treschow Torell 2005 Yes No 4) ing material for the issues on the agenda. At each Board meeting, the CEO presents a Market and Operations Report. A financial Joakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes report is presented at each Board meeting and particularly detailed 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board before the quarterly reports and year-end report. Financial reports 2) President and CEO of Saab 3) Employed by Investor AB are also put together in between the Board meetings and sent to the 4) Member of Investor AB’s Board Board. The Board regularly reviews and considers investments, matters on research and development, organisational issues as well Accordingly, the company fulfils the requirements of the Code that as mergers and acquisitions, and divestments of companies. a majority of the Board Members appointed by the Shareholders’ Included in the Board’s annual work is to decide on the company’s Attendance and Board remuneration Attendance Fees kSEK Audit Remuneration Board Committee Audit Remuneration Total Name Committee Committee meetings1) meetings2) Board3) Committee Committee kSEK Marcus Wallenberg X 9 6 1,185 80 1,265 Håkan Buskhe 9 Johan Forssell X 9 5 460 100 560 Sten Jakobsson X 9 6 490 80 570 Sara Mazur 4) 5 460 460 Per-Arne Sandström X 9 5 460 150 610 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 9 460 460 Åke Svensson 5) 2 Lena Treschow Torell X 9 6 460 135 595 Joakim Westh X 9 5 460 100 560 1) Of a total of 9 meetings during 2013. 2) Of a total of 5 meetings for Audit Committee and 6 meetings for Remuneration Committee during 2013. 3) Refers to the by the Annual General Meeting 2013 agreed fee for the period until the Annual General Meeting 2014. The President and CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive a fee. 4) Elected 2013, thereafter 5 meetings in total. 5) Left the Board of Directors in connection with the Annual General Meeting 2013, when he declined re-election. He received fees for the period January-March 2013 amounting to SEK 112 500 and participated in 2 of 4 meetings until the Annual General Meeting 2013. 124 saab annual report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT Saab’s Board of Directors visiting Saab Seaeye in the UK during 2013 business plan and strategy, which is normally resolved by the Board in June. Every year in December the Board meeting considers the company’s budget for the coming year. During 2013 the Board has particularly worked on the agreement with Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) concerning development and modification of Gripen E to Sweden as well as a possible order of new productions of Gripen E from Switzerland and other questions related to Gripen E. Furthermore, the Board has worked on a joint development agreement with Boeing on a new T-X Family of Systems training solution, part of an procurement process to the US Air Force. During the year, the Board has also worked with essential export pany’s business ethical standards, including “whistle-blower”and marketing strategies, the company’s business ethical standards reports, through regular reporting from the Ethics and Compliance as well as efficiency measures within the Group. Board. The company’s external auditor is co-opted to the meetings The Board of Directors and Group Management also received of the Audit Committee. During 2013, the Audit Committee anti-corruption training in 2013, under the direction of the General focused particularly on the financial reporting, the budget, quarCounsel. The training session, approximately three hours in duraterly audits, internal control, questions related to the company’s tion, dealt with topics including international legislation, Saab’s risk business ethical standards as well as questions concerning risk environment and the company’s internal rules and regulations. exposures. Committee work represents an important part of the Board’s The Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are work. After each meeting of the Auditand Remuneration Compromptly distributed to the other members of the Board. mittees, the issues that have been handled are reported by respecIn 2013, the Committee held 5 meetings. tive Chairman of the committees to the Board, and resolutions are thereafter adopted on issues where the committees have prepared 5 Remuneration Committee matters for resolution by the Board. The Board of Directors has in accordance with principles set out in the Code appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three Board of Directors’ committee work members: Marcus Wallenberg, Sten Jakobsson and Lena Treschow 4 Audit Committee Torell. Lena Treschow Torell is Chairman of the committee. All of The Board of Directors has, in accordance with the principles set out the members are independent of the company and the management in the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, appointed an Audit of the company. The General Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was secreCommittee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit tary to the committee during 2013. Committee is mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e., it prepares matters The Remuneration Committee’s assignment is to prepare Board for the ultimate resolution by the Board. However, the Audit Commatters concerning principles for remuneration, remunerations mittee has certain limited decision-making power. The Audit Comand other terms of employment for the Group Management, monimittee has e.g. established guidelines for services other than audittor and evaluate programmes for variable remuneration for the ing that the company may procure from the company’s auditors. Group Management, both ongoing and those that have ended durThe Audit Committee consists of the following members: Pering the year, and monitor and evaluate the application of the guideArne Sandström (Chairman of the Committee), Johan Forssell and lines for remuneration of senior executives that the Annual General Joakim Westh, of whom Per-Arne Sandström and Joakim Westh are Meeting has adopted as well as the current remuneration structures independent of the company and the management of the company and levels in the company. The Remuneration Committee shall also as well as of the major shareholders. All members of the committee propose guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to be subhave accounting competence or auditing competence. The General mitted to the Annual General Meeting following resolution by the Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was Secretary to the Audit Committee Board of Directors. Matters concerning employment terms, comduring 2013. pensation and other benefits for the CEO are prepared by the The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s Remuneration Committee and adopted by the Board. It is the rules of procedure. Among other things, the Audit Committee shall Remuneration Committee who is responsible for the interpretation monitor the company’s financial reporting, monitor the efficiency and application of the guidelines of remuneration for senior execuof the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk control in tives. The Remuneration Committee has no decision-making powrespect of the financial reporting, keep itself informed about the ers of its own. During 2013, the Remuneration Committee was paraudit of the annual report and the group accounts, review and monticularly involved in the revision of the long-term incentive itor the auditor’s neutrality and independence, and assist the Nomiprogram – Performance Share Plan 2014 – for the company’s senior nation Committee in preparing proposals for the Shareholder executives and strategic key employees as well as an overview of the Meeting’s decision on election of auditors. The Audit Committee guidelines for the senior executives. has during 2013 been given the task to annually review, monitor and The Remuneration Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, evaluate the effectiveness and appropriateness of the company’s which are promptly distributed to the other members of the Board. compliance program for business ethical conduct and keep itself In 2013, the Committee held 3 ordinary meetings and 3 extraordiinformed of material deviations or non-compliance with the comnary meetings. saab annual report 2013 125 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT Evaluation The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the indeThe Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the pendent position of the auditor is maintained, i.a. by staying quality of the Board’s work and possible improvements in order to informed of ongoing consulting assignments. The Audit Commitdevelop the forms and efficiency of the Board work. The evaluation tee has also established guidelines for the services other than auditis made by the Board members responding to a questionnaire on ing that the company may procure from its auditors. their opinions of how well the Board is functioning. The result is then compared with previous years. The questionnaire consists of Audit fees five parts covering the breadth of competence represented in the Saab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as Board, the manner in which its work is performed, the Chairman, resolved by the Annual General Meeting. the Board’s composition and the co-operative atmosphere. The purPwC has during 2013 carried out services on behalf of the company pose of the evaluation is to understand the Board Members’ opinin addition to their audit assignments, consisting of consultations ion about the Board’s work. The results are then discussed by the closely associated with the audit, including accounting and tax issues. Board. The Chairman of the Board does not participate in this evaluation. No external consultants are involved in the evaluation. Auditors’ fees for the Group, 2012–2013 The Nomination Committee is also informed of the results of the evaluation in connection with its analysis, evaluation and develMSEK 2013 2012 opment of proposals to the composition of the Board. The Board continuously evaluates the CEO’s work by monitorAudit assignments: ing business results in relation to established objectives. During PwC 16 15 2013 the Board Members have also evaluated the CEO’s work by Others 2 2 responding to a questionnaire about the CEO within the areas of strategy, performance, organisation, people and leadership. The Other assignments: CEO does not participate in this evaluation. PwC 4 6 6 President and CEO The Board’s report on internal control of the financial reporting The President and CEO of Saab, Håkan Buskhe, is also a member of Under the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board. His significant professional commitments outside the the Board of Directors is responsible for internal control. This company, earlier positions and holding of shares are set forth in the report on internal control of financial reporting has been prepared presentation of the Board of Directors and the Group Management, pursuant to the provisions of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. see pages 128 and 130. Håkan Buskhe does not own shares, nor is he a partner, in any company with which Saab has material business ties. Financial reporting The Board of Directors documents the manner in which it ensures Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior the quality of the financial reports and how it communicates with executives the company’s auditor. The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior execThe Board of Directors ensures the quality of financial accounting utives can be found in the administration report. through its Audit Committee, according to the report submitted above. The Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting 7 Auditor questions and the financial reports presented by the company, but On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws also matters of internal control, regulatory compliance, potential and regulations, the external auditor examines the financial statematerial uncertainty in reported values, post-statement events, ments, group accounts, annual report and administration and changes in assessments and evaluations and other circumstances that management of the company by the Board of Directors and the may affect the quality of the financial statements. The auditor has CEO and also carry out statutory audit of the Corporate Governparticipated in all meetings with the Audit Committee during 2013. ance Report. In addition, the Q1 interim report, the Q2 interim The entire Board of Directors reviews the interim reports before report as well as the Q3 interim report have been reviewed by the they are published. auditor. The auditor also presents an Auditor’s Report to the Annual The Board of Directors has met with the auditor to discuss their General Meeting. review of the company for the financial year 2013. The Board of DirecThe Shareholders’ Meeting elects the auditors. The firm that was tors has also met on one occasion with the auditor without the preselected as new auditor by the Annual General Meeting 2011 is the ence of the CEO or any other members of the Group Management. registered accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Internal control over financial reporting PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Saab’s system of internal control is designed to assist the business in • Elected in 2011 for the term until the Annual General Meeting achieving its goals and managing associated risks. Internal control 2015. over financial reporting is a part of all internal control processes • Håkan Malmström, Authorised Public Accountant, Auditor in within Saab, the framework for which is developed by the Committee charge. Other audit assignments: Axel Johnson, Karo Bio, NCC, of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Nordstjernan. Internal control over financial reporting aims to provide reasonable • Anna-Clara Af Ekenstam, Authorised Public Accountant. Other assurance of the reliability of external financial reporting and to audit assignments: Svenska Cellulosa SCA AB and Knowit AB. ensure that it is prepared in accordance with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network with operations in around 150 countries. PwC has competence and Control environment experience in areas important to Saab: auditing of large and listed Delegation of responsibilities is based on the Board of Directors’ companies, accounting issues, industry experience and experience rules of procedure and a directive which sets forth the roles, in international business. responsibilities and activities of the Board and the CEO. 126 saab annual report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > REPORT The annual assessment process of internal financial controls Independent review of Preparation of Corporate Q1 risk Remediation of issues identified Q3 risk risk self-assessment Governance report self-assessment during Q1 risk self-assessment self-assessment results Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Continuous Risk Assessment Status of financial controls reported to Group Management on monthly basis. Self-Assessments communicated to Audit Committee, Internal Audit and External Auditors. Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating Monitoring and evaluation responsibilities and powers are delegated to business areas and All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a ­support units, which are also supported and supervised by Group standardised routine. functions with specific competencies. These Group functions issue Quarterly reports are the basis of Saab’s external financial Group guidelines that clarify responsibilities and powers and conreporting. In operating reports, each business area’s measures of stitute part of the internal control in specific areas such as finance, profitability and financial position are consolidated to measure the accounting, investments and tenders. Group’s total profitability and financial position. Accounting managers and controllers are in regular contact with Group Finance Risk assessment concerning any questions related to finance and accounting. Saab’s operations are mainly characterised by the development, proTo assist in evaluating internal control in each business area, duction and supply of technologically advanced hardware and softSaab uses an annual self-assessment. In addition to the processes ware for customers around the world. The major parts of sales are that form the basis of financial reporting, these assessments cover generated from countries outside of Sweden. As a rule, projects operating risks, reputational risks and compliance with laws, reguentail considerable sums of money, stretch over long periods of time lations and internal rules. This is also reported to the Audit Comand involve technological development or refinement of products. mittee. Based on Saab’s operations, the material risk areas in financial 8 The Internal Audit department, part of the internal control reporting are project accounting, acquisitions and goodwill, develstructure, is a dedicated resource for independent review of the opment costs, hedging and other financial transactions, leasing effectiveness of internal control processes. At the same time, Interoperations, taxes and accounting for pensions. In addition to businal Audit supports locally-applied internal controls and the central ness risks and risks of inaccurate financial reporting, the processes controller staff. Together these serve as a resource for monitoring are also assessed on the basis of the risk of exposure to any improfinancial reporting routines. Internal Audit’s assignments are initiprieties. Group Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk ated by the Audit Committee, Group Management and its memassessment of financial reporting. This process involves self-assessbers, and on its own initiative. ments by Group functions and business areas. The current risk assessment is reviewed with Saab’s Internal Audit, which adjusts its Activities in 2013 annual audit plan accordingly. Information on developments in During 2013, risk self-assessments were conducted on a regular essential risk areas as well as a report on planned and executed basis in the Swedish, Danish and Australian operations. One indeactivities in these areas are communicated regularly to Saab’s Audit pendent evaluation was conducted on one occasion in these counCommittee. Saab’s risk assessment is also communicated regularly tries. Implementation of the self-assessment process was concluded to Saab’s external auditors. in Saab’s operations in in South Africa and the US during 2013. The focus on internal control increased throughout the year since the Information, communication and control activities Business Areas and Group functions have been reporting the status Internal control within Saab is based on clearly defined areas of of their risk self-assessments on a quarterly basis to Group Finance. responsibility and authority, issued Group guidelines, processes In addition a simplified process of the risk self-assessment has been and controls. Uniform handling of financial reporting is assured implemented in the various Market Areas, i.e. the Nordic region, by adopting and issuing Group guidelines approved by the CEO or Americas, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa, Europe and Middle East by function managers appointed by the CEO. All Group directives & North Africa. are updated on an ongoing basis, are clearly communicated and are available on the internal website. Focus in 2014 Each business area designs its risk management routines and In 2014 a minimum of two self-assessments will be performed in all structure for internal control based on overall routines and Group Saab business areas and the Group functions. At least one indeguidelines. pendent evaluation will be conducted. The implementation of the The most significant risks identified as regards financial reportrisk self-assessment process will be finalised in Germany, the Czech ing are managed through control structures within the business Republic and the Netherlands. At the same time, improvements to areas and Group functions and are based on Saab’s minimum existing control systems are continuously being made. requirements for good internal control in significant processes. saab annual report 2013 127 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOARD OF DIRECTORS tHe Board of direCtors MARCUS WALLENBERG HÅKAN BUSKHE JOHAN FORSSELL STEN JAKOBSSON SARA MAZUR Chairman of the Board since 2006 Member of the Board since April 2011 Member of the Board since 2010 Member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Board since 2013 Deputy Chairman of the Board 1993– President and CEO of Saab AB Member of Saab’s Audit Committee and Deputy Chairman since 2010 Vice President and Head of Ericsson 2006 and Member of the Board since Born 1963 Member of the Management Group Member of Saab’s Remuneration Research, Ericsson AB 1992 M.S.c., Licentiate of Engineering Investor AB, Head of Core Investments Committee Born 1966 Member of Saab’s Remuneration (transport and Logistics) Born 1971 Born 1949 Ph.D, Electrical Engineering, KTH Committee Employed 2010 M.Sc. in Finance, Stockholm School M.Sc. in Engineering Royal Institute of Technology Born 1956 Shares in Saab: 27,477 of Economics Shares in Saab: 5,500 M.Sc, Electrical Engineering, KTH B.Sc. of Foreign Service Shares in Saab: 7,000 Royal Institute of Technology Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Naval Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Shares in Saab: 500 Academy Board member of Vattenfall AB Other board commitments: Chairman of Power Wind Partner, Shares in Saab: 100,000 Board member of the Association of Board Member of Atlas Copco Board member of LKAB, Board Other board commitments: Swedish Engineering Industries member of Stena Metall AB, Member of the Strategic Advisory Other board commitments: (Teknikföretagen) Former employment and Board member of FLSmidth A/S, Board of the School of Electrical Chairman of SEB, Electrolux AB, positions: Board member of Xylem Inc Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of LKAB and Foundation Asset ManFormer employment and Head of Research Core Investments Technology, Member of the Royal agement AB, Board member of Aspositions: at Investor AB, Head of Capital Former employment and Swedish Academy of Engineering traZeneca PLC, Stora Enso Oyj, InPresident and CEO of E.ON Nordic AB Goods and Healthcare Sector at Inpositions: Sciences (IVA), Division XI – Educavestor AB, Temasek Holding Ltd, and E.ON Sverige AB, Executive Vice vestor AB, Head of Capital Goods President and CEO, ABB Sweden tion and Research EQT Holdings AB and the Knut and President E.ON Sverige AB, Senior Sector at Investor AB, Analyst Core Executive Vice President, Asea Alice Wallenberg Foundation Vice President E.ON Sverige AB, Holdings at Investor AB Brown Boveri AB, Sweden, Former employment and Chairman of the Board of Directors Business Area Manager, Business positions: Former employment and Green Cargo, CEO Land Operations, Area Cables, President, ABB Cables Vice President System Management, positions: Schenker AG, CEO of Schenker AB, President, Asea Cylinda Business Unit Networks, Ericsson AB, President and CEO, Investor AB North, CEO Schenker-BTL AB, Production, Manager, Asea Low Director Wireless Access Networks Director, Stora Feldmühle AG, CEO Storel, CEO Carlsberg and Voltage Division Asea central staff – Research, Ericsson Research, EricsDüsseldorf, Skandinaviska Enskilda Coca-Cola Distribution AB Production Production, Asea trainee son AB, Member of the Board of the Banken, Stockholm and London Director Carlsberg Sverige School of Electrical Engineering, KTH Citicorp (Hong Kong) Citibank N.A. Royal Institute of Technology (New York) Member of the Board of the Wireless@KTH, Royal Institute of Technology The shares held by Board members include any holdings by closely affiliated persons. 128 saab annual report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOARD OF DIRECTORS PER-ARNE SANDSTRöM CECILIA STEGö CHILÒ LENA TRESCHOW TORELL JOAKIM WESTH Member of the Board since 2005 Member of the Board since 2010 Member of the Board since 2005 Member of the Board since 2010 Chairman of Saab’s Audit Committee Adviser to management of corporaChairman of Saab’s Remuneration Member of Saab’s Audit Committee Born 1947 tions and organisations Committee Born 1961 Upper secondary engineering school Born 1959 Professor in Physics M.Sc. in Aeronautics, (KTH) Royal Shares in Saab: 3,000 Studies in political science and Born 1946 Institute of Technology economics B.Sc. and Ph.D. in Physics M.Sc. in Aerospace Engineering, Other board commitments: Shares in Saab: 600 Shares in Saab: 5,400 (MIT) Massachusetts Institute of Board Member of Telia Sonera AB Technology Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Shares in Saab: 8,000 Former employment and Chairman of Fortum Värme AB, Vice Chairman of ÅF AB, Board mempositions: Chairman of Gotlands Bryggeri AB, ber of Investor AB and SKF AB, Other board commitments: Deputy CEO and COO of TelefonBoard member of Spendrups BrygChairman of the Chalmers University Chairman of EMA Technology AB, aktiebolaget L M Ericsson President geri AB, Board member of Linköping of Technology Chairman of the FounBoard member of CGI Group Inc., and CEO, Ericsson Inc., USA, Vice University Holding AB, Board member dation for Strategic Environmental Board member of Absolent AB, President and General Manager, GSM of Investment AB Spiltan, Board Research (MISTRA) Board member of Swedish Match AB, Business Unit, Ericsson Radio SysMember of the Expo Foundation, Board member of Intrum Justitia AB tems AB, Executive Vice President Board member of the Yump Former employment and and Managing Director, Cellular SysFoundation Sweden positions: Former employment and positions: tems, Ericsson Ltd, UK Vice President President and Chairman of the Royal Chairman of Absolent AB and General Manager, GSM Western Former employment and Swedish Academy of Engineering Board member of Rörvik Timber AB Europe, Ericsson Radio Systems AB, positions: Sciences (IVA) Board member of GetBoard member of Telelogic AB and Vice President and General Manager, Board member of AMF Fonder, inge AB, Telefonaktiebolaget L M EricVKR Holding A/S Deputy Board Airborne Radar Division, Ericsson Länsförsäkringar Liv, and Marginalen sson, Gambro AB and Micronic member of Sony Ericsson Mobile Microwave Systems AB, Department Kredit och Finans AB CEO of the Free Mydata AB Chairman of European Communications AB Senior Vice Manager, Naval Command and ConEnterprise Foundation of Sweden Council of Applied Sciences TechnolPresident, Group function Strategy & trol Systems, Ericsson Microwave and of the think tank Timbro Cabinet ogy and Engineering (Euro-CASE) Operational Excellence, Ericsson, Systems AB member and Head of the Ministry of Director, Joint Research Centre, Euroand member of the Group ManageCulture Editorial writer and foreign pean Commission (Brussels) Vice ment Team, Ericsson J Westh politics commentator at Svenska President, Chalmers, Gothenburg Företagsutveckling AB Group Vice Dagbladet Commentator at Sveriges Professor of Material Physics, ChalmPresident and member of the ExecuRadio, Swedish Employer’s Confeders, Gothenburg, Professor of Solid tive Management Group, Assa Abloy eration Swedish Conservative Party State Physics, Uppsala University AB Partner McKinsey & Co. Inc Deputies, Employee Representatives GöRAN GUSTAVSSON JAN KOVACS Deputy Board member since 2008 Deputy Board member since 2008 President of the Local Trade Union IF President of the Local Salaried EmMetall at Saab AB, Linköping ployees’ Union Unionen at Saab, Born 1953 Linköping Shares in Saab: 1,408 Born 1960 Upper secondary technical school Shares in Saab: 1,632 NILS LINDSKOG Auditors Deputy Board member since 2007. PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AB Member of the Local Swedish HÅKAN MALMSTRöM STEFAN ANDERSSON CATARINA CARLQVIST CONNY HOLM Association of Graduate Engineers Authorised Public Accountant, at Saab AB, Gothenburg Auditor in charge Member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Board since 2008 and Born 1955 President of the Local Salaried EmSaab Vice Chairman of the Local Deputy Board member 1995–2008 M.S.E.E. from Chalmers University ployees’ Union Unionen at Saab Swedish Association of Graduate EnPresident of the Local Trade Union IF ANNA-CLARA AF of Technology Dynamics AB, Linköping gineers, Saab Dynamics AB, Karlskoga Metall at Electronic Defence Systems, EKENSTAM Shares in Saab: 613 Born 1974 Born 1964 Saab AB, Jönköping Authorised Public Accountant B.Sc. Luleå University of Technology Born 1947 Shares in Saab: 1,977 Shares in Saab: Upper secondary engineering education Shares in Saab: 1,181 saab annual report 2013 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT > GROUP MANAGEMENT group management HÅKAN BUSKHE LENNART SINDAHL MAGNUS öRNBERG GöRGEN JOHANSSON President and Chief Executive Deputy CEO, Senior Executive Executive Vice President and Chief Senior Vice President and Head of Officer (CEO) Vice President and Head of Financial Officer (CFO) Business Area Dynamics Member of the Board of Saab AB Business Area Aeronautics Born 1965, MBA Born 1964, MBA since April 2011 Born 1956, M.Sc. in Engineering Employed 2012 Employed 2004 Born 1963, M.Sc., Licentiate Employed 1986 Shares in Saab: 2,597 Shares in Saab: 2,353 of Engineering (Transportation and Shares in Saab: 13,181 Logistics) Employed 2010 Shares in Saab: 27,477 Other board commitments: Board member of Vattenfall AB Board member of the Association of Swedish Engineering Industries (Teknikföretagen) Former employment and positions: President and CEO of E.ON Nordic AB and E.ON Sverige AB, Executive Vice President E.ON Sverige AB, Senior Vice President E.ON Sverige AB, Chairman of the Board of Directors Green Cargo, CEO Land Operations, Schenker AG, CEO of Schenker MICAEL JOHANSSON GUNILLA FRANSSON LARS-ERIK WIGE North/, CEO Schenker-BTL AB, Senior Vice President and Head of Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head CEO Storel, CEO Carlsberg and Business Area Electronic Defence of Business Area Security and of Business Area Support and Coca-Cola Distribution AB, ProducSystems Defence Solutions Services tion Director Carlsberg Sverige Born 1960, B.Sc. Born 1960, M.Sc. and Ph.D. Born 1954 Employed 1985 (Tec. Lic.) Employed 2001 Shares in Saab: 4,254 Employed 2008 Shares in Saab: 3,194 Shares in Saab: 4,412 Carina Brorman, Senior Vice President and ANNIKA BÄREMO DAN JANGBLAD LENA ELIASSON Head of Group Communications was a part Senior Vice President and Head of Senior Vice President and Chief Senior Vice President and Head of of Group Management up to 13 February Group Legal Affairs, General Strategy Officer (CSO), Head of Group Human Resources 2013 when she left her position. Peter SandeCounsel, Secretary of the Board of Group Strategy Born 1967, M.Sc. in Engineering hed, Senior Vice President and Head of Directors Born 1958, M.Sc. in Engineering Employed 2012 Group Corporate Investments, left his posiBorn 1964, LLB Employed 2000 Shares in Saab: 2,921 tion in Group Management 1 March 2013. Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 17,863 Shares in Saab: 1,622 130 saab annual report 2013 corporate governance report AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB Corporate identity number 556036-0793 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Corporate different approach and is of a significantly lesser scope than an audit Governance Report for 2013 on pages 122–130 and for ensuring that according to the International Standards on Auditing and accepted it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. auditing standards in Sweden. We have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on this In our opinion, a Corporate Governance Report has been prereading and our knowledge of the company and the group are of the pared and its statutory content is consistent with the Annual Report opinion that we have a sufficient basis for our statement. This means and the consolidated accounts. that our statutory review of the Corporate Governance Report has a Stockholm, 21 February 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Håkan Malmström Anna-Clara Af Ekenstam Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Right to participate The Annual General Meeting will be held at 3:00 pm (cet) on Only shareholders recorded in the share register maintained by Wednesday, 8 April 2014 at Annexet, Stockholm Globe Arenas, Euroclear Sweden AB on Wednesday, 2 April 2014 are entitled to Entrance 2, Globentorget 10, Stockholm, Sweden. participate in the meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through the Notification trust department of a bank or a brokerage firm must temporarily reShareholders must notify the company of their intention to particiregister their shares in their own names to participate in the meetpate in the meeting not later than Wednesday, 2 April 2014. ing. To ensure that this re-registration is recorded in the share register by Wednesday, 2 April 2014, they must request re-registration • by telephone +46 13 18 20 55 with their nominees several business days in advance. • by mail with separate invitation • by mail: Saab Annual General Meeting, Box 7839, Dividend 103 98 Stockholm, Sweden The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share • online: www.saabgroup.com/arsstamma and 11 April 2014 as the record day for the dividend. With this record day, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to distribute the dividend on Please indicate your name, personal ID number (Swedish citizens), 16 April 2014. address and telephone number. If you are attending by power of proxy, registration certificate or other authorisation, please submit Distribution of the annual report your documentation well in advance of the meeting. The informaThe annual report will be available on Saab’s website, tion you provide will be used only for the Annual General Meeting. www.saabgroup.com, approximately four weeks prior to the Annual Shareholders or their proxies may be accompanied at the Annual General Meeting on 8 April. It can also be ordered from Saab’s head General Meeting by a maximum of two people. They may only office, Investor Relations. A printed version of the annual report will attend, however, if the shareholder has notified Saab AB as indicated be distributed to those who became shareholders in December 2013, above. January and February 2014, as well as other shareholders who request a printed version. saab annual report 2013 131 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE THE SAAB SHARE Capital stock and number of shares shares during a 12-month period. Purchases are made through Saab’s capital stock amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 December deductions of between 1 and 5 per cent of the employee’s monthly 2013, comprised of 1,907,123 unlisted Series A shares and 107,243,221 salary. If the employee retains the purchased shares for three years listed Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, while after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the Series B shares have one vote each. The quota value per share is employee will be allotted free of charge a corresponding number of SEK 16. The Series B share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s Series B shares. Large Cap list. The plan was introduced in autumn 2007 in Sweden and Norway. Saab’s Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. In 2008 it was expanded to include employees in Denmark, GerSaab’s market capitalisation was SEK 18.5 billion at year-end 2013. many, the UK, the US, Switzerland and Australia. South Africa was The price of the Series B share increased 28 per cent during the year, included in 2009, Finland in 2010, the Czech Republic in 2011, India to compare with the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm General Index in 2012 and Thailand, Holland and Canada in 2013. which increased by 25 per cent. The total return on Saab’s Series B In April 2008 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introshare – i.e., the dividend plus the change in share price – has been duce a performance-based plan for senior executives and key 156 per cent over the last five years. employees entitling them to 2–5 matching shares depending on the category to which the employee belongs. In addition to the requireTrading volume and statistics ment that the employee remain employed by Saab after three years, A total of 28,169,862 Series B shares (32,962,432) were traded on there is a requirement that earnings per share grow in the range of 5 NASDAQ OMX Stockholm in 2013, representing approximately 69.5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. Parper cent of Saab’s Series B shares. In 2013, approximate trade ticipants in this programme may allocate a maximum of 7.5 per cent amounts for Saab’s Series B shares were 6 per cent on BATS, 0.1 per of their fixed salary for the purchase of Saab Series B shares. Each cent on Burgundy, 13 per cent on CHI-X and 11.4 per cent on TurAnnual General Meeting during the period 2009-2013 has resolved quoise. The share price reached a high of SEK 179.5 on 23 December to renew the share matching plan and performance share plan. and a low of SEK 115 on 8 August in NASDAQ OMX trading. As of 2011 the share matching plan comprises all employees, including senior executives and key persons. The performance share Ownership structure plans for the period 2011-2013, directed to senior executives and key Saab had 30,352 shareholders (28,833) at year-end 2013. Swedish persons, entitle participants to 1–4 matching shares, depending on investors accounted for 76.9 per cent (74.0) of the capital stock and the category to which the employee belongs. 79.6 per cent (77.5) of the votes. The Annual General Meeting of 17 April 2013 renewed the Board of Directors’ mandate to repurchase up to 10 per cent of the CompaDividend and dividend policy ny’s shares, of which 1,340,000 shares to hedge the share matching Saab’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 20–40 per cent of plan and performance share plan. income after tax over a business cycle. For 2013 the Board of DirecThe purpose of the authorisation was to provide the Board with tors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share (4.50). This would greater scope in working with the company’s capital structure and correspond to 65 per cent (30) of net income for 2013. enable acquisitions when considered appropriate, as well as to secure the Group’s share matching plan and performance share plan. The Saab’s long-term incentive programme and authorisation to mandate is in effect through the 2014 Annual General Meeting. repurchase shares Repurchases may be effected over the stock exchange or through In April 2007 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer perofferings to shareholders. During 2013 the Board did not elect to utimanent employees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary lise its repurchase authorisation; accordingly, no shares were repurshare matching plan, under which they can purchase Saab Series B chased in 2013. Equity per share, SEK Earnings per share after dilution, SEK Dividend per share, SEK 4.50 4.50 4.50 123 20.38 114 108 105 100 3.50 14.52 86 2.25 6.28 6.79 1.75 3.97 -2.31 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2103 1 1) Proposed by the Board of Directors. 132 saab annual report 2013 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE Saab B, 1 January 2009–31 December 2013 Share of capital, % 400 20,000 Swedish owners according to SIS Ägarservice 30 december 2013 Investor AB 30.0 300 15,000 Wallenberg Foundations 8.7 Swedbank Robur funds 4.8 AFA Insurance 4.6 200 10,000 Unionen2.7 SEB funds 2.1 SHB funds 2.0 Other Swedish owners 22.0 100 5,000 Foreign owners The Norwegian Bank Investment Mgt 2.2 0 0 DFA Funds, US 1.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lazard Frères Gestion Funds, B share, SEK OMX Stockholm_PI, SEK France0.9 Thousands of shares traded (incl. off-floor trading) Fidelity funds, US 0.7 Other foreign owners 18.3 Data per Share 2008–2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Closing prices 1) at year-end, SEK 172.50 135.10 142.40 123.00 118.00 71.50 high for the year, SEK 179.50 150.30 155.00 128.75 118.00 180.00 low for the year, SEK 115.00 101.00 104.20 84.10 50.50 51.00 Market capitalisation, MSEK 2) 18,499 14,489 15,543 13,425 12,879 7,804 Average daily turnover, no. of shares1) 112,679 131,850 186,060 192,507 234,069 255,782 Yield, % 2.6 3.3 3.2 2.8 1.9 2.4 Price/equity, % 151 128 116 114 118 83 P/E ratio, multiple (after full dilution) 25.4 9.3 7.0 31.0 18.8 -32.2 P/EBIT, multiple (after full dilution) 14.0 7.2 5.3 13.8 9.4 47.0 Sales before dilution, SEK 223.8 227.3 223.8 232.2 231.8 221.33 after full dilution, SEK 217.6 220.0 215.3 223.9 225.8 218.01 Net income for the year (attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders) before dilution, SEK 6.98 15.00 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 after full dilution, SEK 6.79 14.52 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.313) Equity per share, SEK 114.0 105.4 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 Cash flow from operating activities before dilution, SEK -6.43 3.31 22.78 42.65 15.95 8.87 after full dilution, SEK -6.25 3.21 21.91 41.11 15.54 8.74 Dividend (2013 proposal), SEK 4.50 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 Dividend /net income, % 65 30 21 85 35 Total dividend, MSEK 479 477 474 367 237 187 Dividend growth, % 0.5 0.6 29 55 27 Number of shareholders 30,352 28,833 29,059 31,125 32,555 32,164 Share of foreign ownership, capital, % 23 26 26 27 40 40 Share of foreign ownership, votes, % 20 23 24 24 35 34 Average number of shares before dilution 106,125,107 105,632,911 104,982,315 105,217,786 106,335,553 107,515,049 Number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end 106,414,144 105,930,829 105,331,958 104,717,729 105,511,124 106,829,893 Number of shares after full dilution 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 1) Saab B on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. 2) At full dilution. 3) No dilution effect if net income is negative. saab annual report 2013 133 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE Shareholders Distribution of shareholders Per cent Number Per cent Per cent of As of 31 December 2013 Number of share Per cent of shareof shareNumber of share according to SIS Ägarservice of shares capital of votes1) Number of shares holders holders shares capital Investor AB, Sweden 32,778,098 30.0 40.4 1–500 25,173 82.9 2,989,094 2.6 Wallenberg foundations, Sweden 9,468,700 8.7 7.7 501–1,000 2,798 9.2 2,153,393 2.0 Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 5,213,752 4.8 4.2 1,001–5,000 1,989 6.6 3,595,332 3.3 AFA Insurance, Sweden 5,003,125 4.6 4.0 5,001–10,000 126 0.4 937,887 0.9 Unionen, Sweden 2,900,828 2.7 2.3 10,001–20,000 76 0.3 1,059,997 1.0 The Norwegian Bank Investment 20,001–50,000 66 0.2 2,069,146 1.9 Management, Norway 2,375,098 2.2 1.9 50,001– 124 0.4 96,345,495 88.3 SEB Funds, Sweden 2,343,546 2.1 1.9 Total1) 30,352 100.0 109,150,344 100.0 SHB Funds, Sweden 2,157,363 2.0 1.7 1) Including 2,736,200 repurchased B shares Fourth AP-Fund, Sweden 1,595,144 1.5 1.3 Nordea Funds, Sweden 1,538,517 1.4 1.2 DFA Funds, US 1,107,191 1.0 0.9 Shares and votes, 31 December 2012 Lazard Frères Gestion funds, France 970,300 0.9 0.8 Number of Per cent of Number of Per cent of Svolder AB, Sweden 950,000 0.9 0.8 Share class shares total shares votes votes Foundation Asset Management, 926,853 0.8 0.8 Series A 1,907,123 1.7 19,071,230 15.4 Sweden Series B 107,243,221 98.3 104,507,021 84.6 SEB Trygg Liv, Sweden 832,560 0.8 0.7 Total1) 109,150,344 100.0 123,578,251 100.0 Fidelity Funds, US 756,907 0.7 0.6 1) The number of votes excludes 2,736,200 shares which were repurchased to secure the Group’s Share RAM One Fund, Sweden 604,463 0.6 0.5 Matching Plan. The repurchased shares are kept as Treasury stock. Catella Funds, Sweden 391,774 0.4 0.3 Länsförsäkringar Fund Management, 372,338 0.3 0.3 Sweden Share issues, etc. AMF Insurance & Funds, Sweden 365,126 0.3 0.3 Paid-in Increase in share amount Subtotal, 20 largest shareholders 72,651,683 66.7 72.6 capital, MSEK MSEK Other Swedish shareholders 13,702,297 12.5 11.2 2002, Conversion1) 50,699 shares 0.8 4.6 Other international shareholders 20,060,164 18.3 16.2 2003, Conversion 1) 7,189 shares 0.1 0.7 Repurchased shares 2,736,200 2.5 2004, Conversion1) 2,632,781 shares 42.1 239.6 Total 109,150,344 100 100 1) 1998 convertible debenture loan 1) Per cent of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end. Analysts who cover Saab erik pettersson, erik.pettersson@abgsc.se CHRIS HALLAM, chris.hallam@gs.com ABG sundal collier, Stockholm GOLDMAN SACHS, UK Mikael Laséen, mikael.laseen@carnegie.se SANDY MORRIS, sandy.morris@jefferies.com Carnegie, Stockholm JEFFERIES, UK björn enarson, bjorn.enarson@danskebank.se Mats Liss, mats.liss@swedbank.se Danske MARKETS Equities, stockholm Swedbank, Stockholm Stefan Cederberg, stefan.cederberg@enskilda.se Enskilda Securities, Stockholm 134 saab annual report 2013 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > QUARTERLY INFORMATION QUARTERLY INFORMATION January–March April–June MSEK 2013 Operating margin 2012 Operating margin 2013 Operating margin 2011 Operating margin Sales Aeronautics 1,765 1 419 1 717 1 704 Dynamics 877 1 035 971 1 359 Electronic Defence Systems 1,038 1 181 931 1 108 Security and Defence Solutions 1,271 1 323 1 503 1 354 Support and Services 822 779 838 844 Combitech 410 311 410 361 Corporate – – – – Internal sales -321 -475 -484 -498 Total 5,862 5 573 5 886 6 232 Operating income Aeronautics 116 6.6% 78 5.5% 121 7.0% 84 4.9% Dynamics 72 8.2% 108 10.4% 115 11.8% 175 12.9% Electronic Defence Systems -45 -4.3% 91 7.7% -80 -8.6% 210 19.0% Security and Defence Solutions 22 1.7% 60 4.5% 120 8.0% 89 6.6% Support and Services 88 10.7% 67 8.6% 107 12.8% 94 11.1% Combitech 44 10.7% 39 12.5% 31 7.6% 21 5.8% Corporate 99 – -40 – -265 – 57 – Total 396 6.8% 403 7.2% 149 2.5% 730 11.7% Net financial items -42 -10 -138 2 Income before taxes 354 393 11 732 Net income for the period 262 283 1 558 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 269 297 2 572 Earnings per share after dilution 2.46 2.72 0.02 5.24 No. of shares after dilution, thousands 109,150 109,150 109,150 109,150 July-September October–December MSEK 2013 Operating margin 2012 Operating margin 2013 Operating margin 2012 Operating margin Sales Aeronautics 1,391 1,275 1,996 1,678 Dynamics 536 873 1,188 1,512 Electronic Defence Systems 900 805 1,292 1,182 Security and Defence Solutions 1,189 1,280 1,928 2,019 Support and Services 732 697 1,027 1,091 Combitech 322 299 456 439 Corporate – – – – Internal sales -347 -330 -608 -615 Total 4,723 4,899 7,279 7,306 Operating income Aeronautics 117 8.4% 72 5.6% 102 5.1% 125 7.4% Dynamics -46 -8.6% 105 12.0% 183 15.4% 233 15.4% Electronic Defence Systems 24 2.7% -78 -9.7% -100 -7.7% -106 -9.0% Security and Defence Solutions 80 6.7% 59 4.6% 206 10.7% 209 10.4% Support and Services 70 9.6% 34 4.9% 99 9.6% 215 19.7% Combitech 14 4.3% 18 6.0% 51 11.2% 44 10.0% Corporate 7 – 52 – -7 – -65 – Total 266 5.6% 262 5.3% 534 7.3% 655 9.0% Net financial items -12 -15 -174 -24 Income before taxes 254 247 360 631 Net income for the period 192 169 287 550 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 189 167 281 549 Earnings per share after dilution 1.73 1,53 2,57 5,03 No. of shares after dilution, thousands 109,150 109,150 109,150 109,150 saab annual report 2013 135 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW multi-Year overvieW MSEK, unless otherwise indicated 2013 2012 5) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Order bookings 49,809 20,683 18,907 26,278 18,428 23,212 20,846 27,575 17,512 Order backlog at year-end 59,870 34,151 37,172 41,459 39,389 45,324 47,316 50,445 42,198 Sales 23,750 24,010 23,498 24,434 24,647 23,796 23,021 21,063 19,314 Foreign market sales, % 59 64 63 62 69 68 65 65 56 Defence sales, % 81 82 84 83 83 83 81 79 82 Operating income (EBIT) 1,345 2,050 2,941 975 1,374 166 2,607 1,745 1,652 Operating margin, % 5.7 8.5 12.5 4.0 5.6 0.7 11.3 8.3 8.6 Operating income before depreciation/ amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 2,367 3,186 4,088 2,187 2,598 1,515 3,685 2,519 2,182 EBITDA margin, % 10.0 13.3 17.4 9.0 10.5 6.4 16.0 12.0 11.3 Income after financial items 979 2,003 2,783 776 976 -406 2,449 1,693 1,551 Net income for the year 742 1,560 2,217 454 699 -242 1,941 1,347 1,199 Net income attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 741 1,585 2,225 433 686 -248 1,921 1,300 1,189 Total assets 27,905 28,938 31,799 29,278 30,430 32,890 33,801 32,771 30,594 of which advance payments, net 828 553 1,022 643 442 897 2,558 3,642 3,528 of which total equity 12,227 11,280 13,069 11,444 10,682 9,330 11,008 10,025 9,493 of which equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 12,136 11,168 12,950 11,274 10,542 9,240 10,981 9,802 9,179 equity per share, SEK 1) 114.04 105.43 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 101.53 89.80 84.10 Net liquidity/Net debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and after deduction of provisions for 2,057 3,837 4,735 2,382 -1,631 -3,061 -2,802 -261 5,144 pensions Net liquidity/ debt 1,013 1,996 5,333 3,291 -634 -1,693 -1,627 605 2,856 Cash flow from operating activities -682 350 2,392 4,487 1,696 954 -1,304 969 2,541 Operating cash flow -1,480 -396 2,477 4,349 1,447 659 -1,603 -1,900 2,645 Average capital employed 15,401 15,131 13,987 13,743 13,775 13,994 13,430 12,789 12,925 Return on capital employed, % 9.1 14.6 22.2 7.9 10.3 1.4 19.4 14.5 14.6 Return on equity, % 6.3 12.8 18.1 4.1 7.0 -2.4 18.5 13.8 13.5 Profit margin, % 5.92 9.18 13.21 4.47 5.78 0.82 11.40 8.83 9.73 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.54 1.59 1.68 1.78 1.79 1.70 1.71 1.65 1.49 Equity/assets ratio, % 43.8 39.0 41.1 39.1 35.1 28.4 32.6 30.6 31.0 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 3.29 10.91 9.58 3.20 3.16 0.35 21.40 13.47 6.08 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 2) 6.98 15.00 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 17.68 11.91 10.89 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 3) 6.79 14.52 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.31 17.60 11.91 10.89 Dividend, SEK 4.50 4) 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 4.50 4.25 4.00 Gross capital expenditures for tangible fixed assets 543 328 325 262 197 386 395 433 296 Research and development costs 6,543 5,946 5,116 5,008 4,820 4,141 4,523 3,537 3,546 Number of employees at year-end 14,140 13,968 13,068 12,536 13,159 13,294 13,757 13,577 12,830 1) Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2013: 106,414,144, 2012: 105,930,829, 2011: 105,331,958, 2010: 104,717,729, 2009: 105,511,124, 2008: 106,829,893, 2007: 108,150,344 och 2006/2005: 109,150,344. 2) Average number of shares 2013: 106,125,107, 2012: 105,632,911, 2011: 104,982,315, 2010: 105,217,786, 2009: 106,335,553, 2008: 107,515,049 , 2007: 108,668,700 and 2006/2005: 109,150,344. 3) Average number of shares 2013/2012/2011/2010/2009: 109,150,344, 2008: 107,515,049 and 2007/2006/2005: 109,150,344. Conversion of debenture loan concluded 15 July 2004. 4) 2013 Board of Directors’ proposal. 5) Figures presented for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS 19). Financials for 2011 and earlier are not restated. 136 saab annual report 2013 GLOSSARY ACARE Advisory Council for Aeronautic Research in Europe IRIS-T Infra Red Imaging System – Tail/Thrust Vector-Controlled AESA Active Electronically Scanned Array ISP Inspektionen för Strategiska Produkter (Swedish Agency AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & Control for Non-Proliferation and Export Controls) AGM ISR Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Annual General Meeting JDA Joint Development Agreement AMB Agile Multi-Beam LEDS Land Electronic Defense System ANSP Air Navigation Service Provider LFV Luftfartsverket (The Air Navigation Service Provider for ASW Anti Submarine Warfare Sweden) AT4 Anti-Tank weapon MAW Missile Approach Warners ATM Air Traffic Management MCS Mobile Camouflage System ATT Arms Trade Treaty MNM Market Network Management BMI British Midland MSA Maritime Surveillance Aircraft BOL High capacity counter measure dispenser for chaff or flares NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration C4I Command, Control, Communications, Computers and NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence NLAW Next Generation Light Anti-tank Weapon C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Intelligence and Surveillance and Reconnaissance PRI PRI Pensionsgaranti CBRN Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear agents R&D Research and Development CDP Carbon Disclosure Project RBS Robotsystem (Missile System) CISB Swedish-Brazilian Centre for Research and Innovation SAL Saab Aircraft Leasing DSEI Defence and Security Equipment International SOTACS Special Operations Tactical Suit EU European Union SRSAM Short Range Surface to Air Missile FMV Försvarets Materielverk (Swedish Defence and Materiel TPA Technical Partnership Agreement Administration) UAS Unmanned Aerial Systems FOI Totalförsvarets Forskningsinstitut (Swedish Defence Research Agency) UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle FPG Försäkringsbolaget Pensionsgaranti (Insurance company) ULCAS Ultra-Lightweight Camouflage Screen ICT Information and Communications Technology UN United Nations IDAS Integrated self-defence for airborne platforms VSHORAD Very Short Range Air Defence IFBEC International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct VTMIS Vessel Traffic Management Information System IHS Information Handling Services Inc. (A global supplier of technical information) Financial Information 2014 Headquarters Annual General Meeting 2014 8 April Saab AB Interim Report January–March 2014 25 April P.O. Box 12062 Interim Report January–June 2014 18 July SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden Interim Report January–September 2014 23 October Visiting address: Gustavslundsvägen 42 Telephone: +46 8 463 00 00 Contact Fax: +46 8 463 01 52 Ann-Sofi Jönsson, Head of Investor Relations, www.saabgroup.com Telephone +46 8 463 02 14, ann-sofi.jonsson@saabgroup.com Linköping Financial information can be ordered by telephone +46 13 16 92 08, Saab AB or accessed online at www.saabgroup.com P.O. Box 14085 SE-581 88 Linköping Visiting address: Bröderna Ugglas gata Telephone: +46 13 18 00 00 Fax: +46 13 18 00 11 For contact details to all offices, visit www.saabgroup.com Production: Intellecta Corporate Print: Larsson Offsettryck AB 2014 Photo: Sandra Birgersdotter, Kristofer Hedlund and Saabs image bank ADVANTAGE SAAB: INNOVATIVE AND EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS
