ING Group Sustainability Report 2013 Simpler, stronger, sustainable 1 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix Contents Contents in this report About this report 2 6 Improving environmental performance 60 i Our approach to sustainability reporting 3 6.1 Improving environmental performance: at a glance 61 ii Performance data 4 6.2 Driving efficiency 62 iii Q&A CEO 5 6.3 Sustainable procurement 64 iv Q&A Global Head of Sustainability 7 6.4 Monitoring and reporting environmental performance 66 Overview 8 6.5 Progress report 70 1.1 Company overview 9 7 Engaging our employees 71 2 Our strategic approach to sustainability 11 7.1 Engaging our employees: at a glance 72 2.1 Sustainability at ING 12 7.2 Being a responsible employer 73 2.2 What matters most to us: materiality 14 7.3 Building a professional and accountable culture 75 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 17 7.4 Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture 77 2.4 Our sustainability roadmap 22 7.5 Measuring our performance as an employer 79 DELIVERING ON our commitments 23 7.6 Progress report 80 3 Our sustainability performance 24 8 Creating positive change in communities  84 3.1 Progress report 25 8.1 Creating positive change in communities: at a glance 86 3.2 External review of ING’s sustainability performance 27 8.2 Educating children 87 4 Enhancing customer centricity 28 8.3 Promoting financial empowerment 4.1 Enhancing customer centricity: at a glance 29 and entrepreneurship 89 4.2 Putting customers’ interest first 30 8.4 Support for local themes 91 4.3 Helping customers manage their financial future 32 8.5 Progress report 93 4.4 Making basic financial services accessible 34 9 Governance and compliance 96 4.5 Measuring customer satisfaction 36 Appendix 100 4.6 Progress report 37 10.1 Independent Assurance Report 101 5 Promoting responsible lending and investment practices 39 10.2 Principles for Sustainable Insurance 102 10.3 UN Global Compact 104 5.1 Promoting responsible lending and investment practices: at a glance 40 10.4 Glossary 106 5.2 Setting our standards 41 10.5 Details 108 5.3 Environmental and social risk in practice 43 5.4 Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank 49 5.5 Responsible investment at NN Group 52 5.6 Sustainable assets allocated 57 5.7 Progress report 59 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix About this report This is our 19th Sustainability Report Contents in this section and our fullest source of disclosure on our sustainability-related actions About this report 2 and performance. We use this I Our approach to sustainability reporting 3 II Performance data 4 opportunity to share our sustainability III Q&A CEO 5 highlights of the year and how we IV Q&A Global Head of Sustainability 7 plan to go forward. This content is substantiated with detailed data, case studies, performance and future commitments summaries and comments from a broad range of internal and external stakeholders. This report covers both our bank and insurance businesses. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix i – Our approach to sustainability reporting This is ING’s 19th Sustainability Report. It includes summaries as well as How we defined content for this report detailed disclosure on our sustainability approach, actions and performance. The theme of this report, like the ING Group Annual Report, is ’Simpler, The performance updates are supported by data on key priority areas stronger, sustainable’, which reflects our achievements as an organisation. such as sustainable finance and investment, increasing financial capability of our customers, environmental performance of our operations, being a Balancing materiality and compliance responsible employer and community investment. The report represents an Sustainability is an ever-evolving domain where material issues change, opportunity to be transparent and to share the details of our performance. requiring us to adapt our reporting to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. The chapters of the report are consolidated on the basis of their relevance, covering topics that are material to our business and 19th Sustainability Report operational performance in 2013. The performance data specifically addresses the needs of rating agencies, external analysts and benchmarks. Definitions of the various terms and abbreviations used in this report can be found in the relevant paragraphs and in the glossary. Audiences for this report GRI 3.1 This report is intended to serve the information needs of the stakeholder Due to the large-scale organisational changes that stem from the separation groups that most affect and are affected by our business – customers, of our banking and insurance activities, we have decided to follow GRI 3.1 employees and investors. In particular sustainability rating agencies guidelines and the financial sector supplement this year, and are exploring and analysts who will use the content for an in-depth analysis of the possibility of producing a G4 compliant report in the next reporting our performance. cycle. We report at an A+ level on the GRI 3.1. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 4 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix ii – Performance data Boundary and scope of reported data Data validation We define ’boundary’ as the range of entities over which we have The centralised data processing team at ING Group is assisted by an management control. In 2013, to prepare for the transition of the independent external agency (Royal HaskoningDHV) that helps to validate business into separate bank and insurance companies, we have already and process the large amount of data gathered from our operations de-consolidated data for these two business streams, and report accordingly. worldwide. In collaboration with Royal HaskoningDHV, we have reviewed and updated our reporting protocol document with the aim of further In this reporting cycle, we set new parameters for business units to be improving the quality of our sustainability data reporting in the coming years. included within the scope of environmental data reporting. Business units that are above 200 FTEs, over which we have management control or that contribute at least 5% to our total carbon emissions based on 2012 data, Assurance were asked to provide environmental data. For social indicators, business KPMG has provided limited assurance to this report. Please refer to the units that are over 100 FTEs, and over which we have management Independent Assurance Report on page 101 for their statement. control, have provided performance data for 2013. Looking forward Data-collection tool We address issues in this report that are identified as material to our We have updated the proprietary, online data-collection tool that we stakeholders through a materiality analysis, which is one of the key use to gather, track and validate data on sustainability. The tool provides requirements of GRI’s G4 guidelines, that we aspire to adhere to in greater transparency and ensures more consistent and accurate data the future. Our vision for next year’s report reflects our journey towards collation. It has also enabled us to disclose additional data in this report. more integrated reporting. In 2013 we sourced the HR data directly from the HR data analytics department. The financial data reported in this document has been fully sourced and aligned with ING Group’s Annual Report 2013. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix iii – Q&A CEO Ralph Hamers Chief Executive Officer of ING Group What do you see as ING’s role in society? I am proud of the level of transparency we aspire to, through this report, We believe that financial services are significant drivers for a healthy with regard to the sources of the funds entrusted to us and how we use economy as well as a stable society. Although we are a financial institution, them. In addition, our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices our role goes beyond delivering monetary returns. We have an opportunity shows that our progress and performance are acknowledged by the to use our scale, reach and expertise to help society achieve long-term experts in this field. We also seek external direction and validation of our sustainable prosperity. As a bank, we serve society and play an important sustainability priorities by endorsing international standards such as the role in the real economy. We have a broad client base, from the largest UN Global Compact. retail chain to the corner bakery and the first-time home buyer. As an insurer, we help people manage and protect their assets and income How is sustainability playing a role through pensions, investments, insurance, savings and mortgages. in delivering long-term growth? The choices we make today can help shape the economies of the future Our focus on sustainability helps us to refine how we create long-term and provide stability to the communities in which we operate. This is value for our stakeholders. In addition, it gives us an informed steer on also a means for us to regain trust, which is the number one priority the short-, mediumand long-term risks and opportunities for all parties. for our company. We concentrate on the key issues that most affect our stakeholders Our customers are at the heart of everything that we do. What they want and us, but also those over which we have a direct influence, and for and what they expect determine the changes and improvements we make. which there is a sound business case. Sustainability is a way that helps us When they choose us as their financial partner, they expect us to help generate revenue, cut costs, attract talent and future-proof our business. them navigate to a secure financial future. Sustainability is a journey, with ups and downs along the way. As financial risk is conclusively interlinked with environmental and social risks, we It may sound contradictory at first, but although we are a customer-centric integrate these factors into our approach in order to make our business organisation, we do not automatically do what the customer wants. simpler, stronger and more sustainable. We have a duty of care to provide customers with the correct information and to ensure we really act in their best interests. Reaffirming my commitment to sustainability, I joined colleagues throughout the organisation in embedding sustainability in my What does sustainability mean to ING? performance targets. And what are you doing about it? I don’t believe in assessing our performance based on financial profit ING is a company in transition. alone. For me, being sustainable means harnessing our skills, scale and Where are you to date? reach in order to deliver long-term value. The ING I see today is very different from the ING of previous years. We have emerged from the crisis years as a less complex and more resilient We have to make choices in our sustainability agenda and prioritise our company. We have simplified our business, reducing our product offering resources in line with our business strategy, for the maximum impact. and streamlining processes to drive down costs and make our services and I see this as our attention being increasingly focused on our customers. products quicker and easier to use. The result is that we are now a stronger We can help them be better equipped to make financial decisions for financial partner for the people and businesses we serve. improved security of their present and future finances. The results of our huge efforts to restructure and change are that a fully Our customers trust us with their money under the assumption that we independent ING is now in sight. We are close to making the final will manage it responsibly. In practice, this means that good business ethics repayments for the support we received from the Dutch government in and sound environmental and social decision-making underpins our daily 2008 and 2009. We entered the final phase of our restructuring programme activities and behaviours. We use sustainability criteria in our capital in 2013, with the new brand for our insurance and investment businesses allocation choices to help stimulate the transition to a sustainable economy. being announced in October: NN. We have also had to make some painful decisions regarding divesting businesses and laying off people. Although we are now a smaller company, ING is arguably in better shape today, with strong funding, liquidity and capital. Above all, we strengthened our focus on our customers. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 6 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix iii – Q&A CEO continued What do you see as ING’s way forward? Our business, like any other, is affected by a rapidly changing world. We are seeing the emergence of a new global economic dynamic, population growth and ageing, resource scarcity and digital opportunities. At ING, we view these sustainability-related mega trends in terms of risks and opportunities for our business and stakeholders. Together, we are busy redefining what kind of bank and what kind of insurance business we want to be, what more we can do to help our customers get ahead, and what we can contribute to society. We are aware that we are not there yet, and there is still a lot of work to do, but I am proud of what we have achieved so far. With a refined and sharpened strategy for ING Bank to be presented in the first half of 2014 and a scheduled IPO base case for the insurance and investment management businesses, 2014 is set to be an important year for ING and all our stakeholders. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix iv – Q&A Global Head of Sustainability Léon Wijnands Global Head of Sustainability What are the key drivers of But we did not only focus on improving the quality of our credit risk portfolio and embedding sustainability in our product and services offering. the sustainability agenda at ING? Our efforts also focused on our operations. It was the first year of global For over a decade our aim has been to limit our exposure to financial, implementation of our sustainable procurement policy, which aims to cover legal and reputational risks that could arise from environmental or social 90% of our supplier base within the Global Procurement organisation. issues associated with our business engagement. As such, we gradually built our understanding of sustainability issues, which in turn enabled us The success of our community investment goals is attributable to to become more proactive, setting ourselves clear targets creating impact. employees who share our vision of helping one million children have access to better education. With the aim of being more transparent at heart, we managed to be one of the first financial institutions to report on our credit risk portfolio Our achievements have been recognised by the market as well. in relation to our Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) Framework policies ING Group NV has been selected as an index component of the Dow Jones applied (page 43). In 2012, we set ourselves the ambition to embed Sustainability Indices 2013, a respected global sustainability benchmark. sustainable procurement standards in our supply chain to ensure minimum Overall, as a company we are on the move towards a more sustainable way standards applied. And we continue supporting our clients and the of doing business. broader community to be economically empowered. What do you see as the path going forward? How would you summarise the sustainability The split of our banking and insurance and investment management businesses will have an impact on how we manage sustainability within highlights at ING of the year 2013? the company. Following the restructuring process, we have already put in One could probably best look at our progress report. And I am proud place two teams to define and develop the distinct visions and strategies to see the results. Just to highlight a few: as per the material areas relevant to the different business entities of bank We strengthened the implementation of our ESR Framework, by and insurance and investment management. We will take into account expanding the scope this year and by embedding it in the client and developments such as scarcity of resources, circular economy, energy transaction approval process in our systems over 2014. As Chair of the transition and uncertainty of future income for retail clients. Equator Principles Steering Committee, ING oversaw the review and I invite you to read about our sustainability performance in more detail in launch of the third version of the principles – EPIII. the following chapters and look forward to receiving your feedback and In our role as investor we have also taken significant steps in integrating insights thereafter. Please connect via: sustainability@ing.com environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects into the investment process. In addition, we managed to grow the volume of Sustainable Assets Allocated across our business lines (page 57). As is the shift in our project finance portfolio towards renewable away from coal (page 51). ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 8 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix Overview ING is a global financial institution Contents in this section of Dutch origin, currently offering banking, investments, life insurance Overview 8 and retirement services to meet the 1.1 Company overview 9 2 Our strategic approach to sustainability 11 needs of a broad customer base. 2.1 Sustainability at ING 12 ING is moving towards full separation 2.2 What matters most to us: materiality 14 of its banking and insurance 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 17 operations. Today, we have more 2.4 Our sustainability roadmap 22 than 75,000 employees serving around 48 million customers in over 40 countries. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 1.1 – Company NN Group N.V., formerly called ING Insurance Topholding N.V., merged with ING Verzekeringen overview N.V. effective as of 1 March 2014. As a result the legal entity ING Verzekeringen N.V. ceased to exist and NN Group N.V. became the legal successor of ING Verzekeringen N.V. as the holding company of the European and Japanese insurance and investment management operations. In this Annual Report, NN Group will be used to indicate these operations. Our mission Living our values Our mission is to set the standard in helping our customers manage their At the heart of our values are the ING Business Principles, which are the financial future. ING aims to deliver financial products and services in the global standard for the behaviour expected of every employee at ING: way our customers want them: with exemplary service, convenience and —— We act with integrity at competitive prices. —— We are open and clear —— We respect each other —— We are environmentally and socially responsible. Where ING Bank operates* ING Bank builds on its international network from its Northern European home markets, capitalising on its leadership position in gathering savings, multi-channel distribution, simple propositions, cost leadership and marketing. ING Retail Banking Benelux is the leading bank in the Benelux. Commercial Banking provides services to a customer base of large ING Retail Banking International* corporations, organisations and governments is active in Australia, Austria, China, through an international branch network France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, covering more than 40 countries. Romania, Spain, Thailand and Turkey. ING’s presence at 31 Dec 2013 * ING has an equity position in TMB Bank in Thailand and Bank of Beijing in China. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 10 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 1.1 – Company overview continued Our financial position Our progress on the We place great importance on strengthening our financial position in order restructuring of our company to make sure we are in the best position to facilitate sustainable economic ING continued to make strong progress on its restructuring programme development. in 2013, entering the end-phase of its transformation. Although this separation is required by the European Commission (EC), we also believe Our strategic focus it is in the interests of our stakeholders, most notably our customers, Our focus is on increasing customer satisfaction, simplifying our because it simplifies the organisation and therefore makes it easier to organisation and product offering, strengthening our financial position manage. We made significant progress with our restructuring programme and solidifying the sustainability of our business model. in 2013, and have now reached the final stage of the process. ING has strategic priorities at the Group, Bank and Insurance levels. During 2013, we passed several milestones, including: ING Group’s strategic priorities up until 2013 have been: strengthening —— The unwinding of the illiquid assets back-up facility (IABF) was our financial position, restructuring, repaying the remaining state aid and agreed upon in 2013. It was completed early 2014. building both stronger and sustainable banking and insurance/investment —— A successful initial public offering (IPO) of the US insurance business management businesses. (ING U.S.). ING Bank’s strategic aim is to be a strong, predominantly European bank —— Completion of the divestment of ING Insurance/IM Asia. for its customers. ING Bank wants to be a leading domestic full-service —— An agreement in November 2013 with the EC on revised timelines bank in attractive, stable home markets, as well as a leading commercial for the European and Japanese Insurance divestments, which together bank in the Benelux with a strong position in Central and Eastern Europe formed ING Insurance and were renamed NN Group on 1 March 2014. supported by an international network. —— In 2013, ING Insurance revealed its future brand name: NN. The preparations for the base case IPO of NN Group are progressing On the insurance side, the focus is on service to customers, generating well, which is expected to allow us to go to the market in 2014. capital, growing profitability and improving efficiency. NN Group’s strategy is therefore about offering appealing and easy-to-understand products ING Bank underlying net result 3,155 and services, multi-access distribution and efficient and effective operations in the 18 countries in which it is active. NN Group net result 48* ING Group underlying net profit 3,255 * Excluding the results of the discontinued operations of ING US and the results of Insurance Other. Where NN Group operates* NN Group has a strong position as a provider of life insurance, retirement and investment management services and is well positioned to capitalise on socio-economic trends. #1 Life insurer in the Netherlands. Third largest in Japan COLI** market. NN Group’s at 31 Dec 2013 * Outside Europe and Japan, Investment Management has offices in New York, Top-four market positions Atlanta, Singapore and Dubai. in many European countries. ** C orporate-Owned Life Insurance. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2 – Our strategic approach to sustainability We believe that financial services are significant drivers for a stable society as well as a healthy economy. Although we are a financial institution, we believe that our role goes beyond delivering monetary returns. We have an opportunity to use our scale, reach and expertise to help society achieve long-term sustainable prosperity. Contents in this chapter 2 Our strategic approach to sustainability 11 2.1 Sustainability at ING 12 2.2 What matters most to us: materiality 14 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 17 2.4 Our sustainability roadmap 22 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 12 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.1 – Sustainability at ING What sustainability means to us Sustainability governance at ING For us, sustainability is about creating long-term value. It is about making The Global Head of Sustainability reports directly to ING Group’s CEO sure that we enable people and businesses to make informed financial for the responsibilities that concern ING Group, like ratings, reporting and decisions, that our products and services are inclusive and accessible, we (reputation) risk. With regard to the activities developed for ING Bank, the integrate environmental and social criteria into the way we do business, Global Head of Sustainability reports to the Management Board Banking. and that we remain a top employer for our people. At NN Group, sustainability is part of the portfolio of the Chief Change & Organisation within the Management Board Insurance. Our sustainability framework We have dedicated teams in place, tasked with proactively embedding We have developed a sustainability framework focusing on five areas responsible decision-making and identifying risks and opportunities related where we believe we can make the greatest difference to our business to non-financial factors. We also have a network of subject matter experts and our stakeholders. We do this by providing innovative products and who work together to shape our approach to sustainable business services that help our customers make more sustainable financial decisions opportunities, risk and community investment. and improve the socio-economic health and strengths of individuals, Although the strategy, performance and stakeholder engagement is SMEs, corporates, institutions and the communities in which we operate. overseen by the sustainability team, sustainability is the responsibility of We use this framework to set targets, improve and assess performance everybody, from the boardroom, to the financial advisor, to our customers and maximise the value we create. and suppliers. We look at sustainability holistically, and recognise that sustainability expertise and hotspots are to be found across the whole organisation, both in geographic terms through our country offices and also in the nature of the products and services we provide. Our reporting framework commitment Simpler Stronger Sustainable Enhancing Providing accessible and We aim to offer simple and We help our customers to create We endeavour to be customer easy-to-understand appropriate products and a stronger financial future for increasingly inclusive in centricity products and services to services, at a fair price for themselves by enhancing their providing access to our help our customers manage retail clients financial skills financial products and services their financial future Promoting Promoting sustainable We revised our We strengthened the implementation We increasingly work and responsible finance and making Environmental and Social of our ESR framework, by further engage with companies that lending and responsible investment Risk (ESR) framework embedding the approval process in best address sustainability investment decisions our systems. We will continue this challenges practices implementation process in 2014 Improving Managing actively our Our data-collection We strengthen our environmental We embed sustainability criteria environmental environmental footprint sustainability tool has been performance through efficiency into our procurement systems performance updated to be simpler and initiatives and adopt environmentally more user friendly smart solutions Engaging our Creating a great place to We build a simpler We support and develop our people We expect the highest levels employees work where we encourage organisation that is easier to in order to help them better serve of personal conduct and our people to be the best manage and will enable us our customers integrity from employees they can be to provide more attention and support to our people Creating Making a positive We focus on development We make a positive difference in We want to create long-lasting positive change contribution to the many themes that match our skills communities worldwide through impact through community in communities communities in which and expertise and optimise making the most of our global reach investment initiatives we operate our impact ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.1 – Sustainability at ING continued ING’s sustainability teams The responsibilities of the sustainability teams include: Our sustainability-related activities are led and coordinated by two —— Developing ING’s overarching sustainability vision, policies and strategy dedicated sustainability teams based at the ING Bank and the NN Group —— Engaging in dialogue with key stakeholders headquarters in the Netherlands. —— Engaging with and providing information to SRI funds and rating agencies —— Supporting ING business units in developing sustainable products and services —— Establishing community development and awareness programmes —— Managing global and national partnerships and memberships —— Monitoring performance and producing the annual Sustainability Report. Simplified organisation chart – ING Group CEO CFO CRO Corporate Credit Corporate Corporate Risk Management Operational Risk Compliance Risk Management Management Banking Insurance Management Board Management Board Sustainability Corporate Communications and Affairs Corporate Citizenship/ Sustainability ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 14 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.2 – What matters most to us: materiality Our approach to materiality key functions in several home markets. They were identified for their We use regular materiality assessments to help us identify the key risks frequent interaction with one or more stakeholder groups. Respondents and opportunities that we face and to prioritise the issues that are most were asked to rank the relative importance of a number of issues and the important to our stakeholders. The results of the assessments inform our potential impact these issues could have on our business in the long term. strategic direction and therefore shape the actions we take and the targets The data were mapped and presented in the materiality matrix. we set for 2014 and beyond, as well as the people and organisations with The results were reviewed and approved by the Board. whom we work. The outcomes of our 2013 assessment Methodology The matrix below shows the overarching categories for the most We used the materiality analysis to define material issues that represent material topics addressed in 2013. Most material topics are defined as matters that may be of concern to stakeholders or affect our business. the expectations and topics of interest that scored a 4, 5 or higher for both The issues have been analysed on the basis of a materiality survey that the importance to stakeholders as the impact on ING (on a scale of 1-6). included matters raised by stakeholders throughout the year, issues Some topics were named as material to more than one stakeholder group: addressed in public media and desk research. The sample of respondents on the bigger the size of the bubble in the matrix, the more stakeholder the survey comprised of ING employees representing senior management, groups have addressed this material topic. Materiality matrix HIGHEST Topic Category 1 Customer interest first Customer centricity 10 2 Personalised approach 3 Customer dialogue 1 8 4 Enhancing customer financial capabilities 5 Ethical finance and investment policies Responsible business 6 Transparency and openness 13 7 Fair remuneration interest to stakeholders 12 19 8 Privacy and security Basic services 17 9 Usability and accessibility 9 2 10 Providing loans and granting credit 14 18 11 Research and advice 6 3 12 Managing risks Financial stability 7 13 Financial stability 4 5 14 Career development and employability Top employer 15 15 Respecting employees 16 Innovative business developments 11 16 17 Progress on restructuring 18 Reputation and trust HIGH 19 Process simplification and efficiency HIGH Impact on ING HIGHEST ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.2 – What matters most to us: materiality continued How materiality informs our reporting Materiality informs our sustainability reporting because it enables us to focus on the issues that matter most to our diverse range of stakeholders. In particular, materiality helps us meet expectations relating to disclosure, transparency and communications. The following abbreviations apply in the table below: IAR – ING Group Annual Report 2013 ISR – ING Group Sustainability Report 2013 MATERIALITY framework Material issues What it means to us Read our position Basic services This relates directly to our core business. It includes: IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, ING at a glance guaranteeing security and safety in our dealings page 6, Banking overview page 27, Insurance with customers; the accessibility and usability of our overview page 46 services; and providing loans and granting credit. ISR: Stakeholder engagement table page 18, Enhancing customer centricity pages 28-38 Customer centricity Focus on customer dialogue, making choices that IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, ING at a glance are in the interest of our customers and enhancing page 6, Strategy page 16 customers’ financial capabilities. ISR: Enhancing customer centricity pages 28-38 Financial stability How we create a stable financial system and IAR: ING at a glance page 6, ING Share page 10, organisation, in particular how we manage our Financial and regulatory environment page 12, most significant risks. Capital management page 21, Risk management page 23 ISR: Stakeholder engagement page 17, ING’s ESR framework pages 41-42 Responsible business The impact of our investments, making sure our IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, ING at a glance activities do no harm to people, society and the page 6, Strategy page 18 environment. It also includes transparency and fair remuneration policies. ISR: Q&A CEO page 5, Q&A Global Head of Sustainability page 7, Stakeholder engagement page 17, Promoting responsible lending and investment practices pages 39-59 Process simplification and efficiency How well we are organised and work efficiently. IAR: Strategy page 19, Banking overview page 27, 30, 35, 37, 38, 40, 44, NN Group page 52, Remuneration report page 81 ISR: Our strategic approach to sustainability pages 11-21, Improving environmental performance pages 60-70 Progress on restructuring Our progress on restructuring and our regulatory IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, ING at a glance compliance. page 6, Key figures page 8 ISR: Company overview pages 9-10 Innovative business development Financing and investing with an eye on the future. IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, Strategy It also covers financial innovation and how new page 16-20 products and services help us and our customers adapt to new challenges. ISR: Q&A Global Head of Sustainability page 7, Our strategic approach to sustainability pages 11-21, Promoting responsible lending and investment practices pages 39-59 Top employer This covers issues that are most important to our IAR: Key figures page 9, Strategy page 19 employees. Although most topics in this category were named as material, the most important ISR: Our strategic approach to sustainability appeared to be efficiency and well-organised pages 11-21, Engaging our employees pages 71-83 processes. Reputation and trust In reality, ING’s business is centred on people and IAR: Message of the CEO page 4, Strategy page 18 trust. Only by acting with professionalism and integrity can we maintain our stakeholders’ confidence and build the company’s reputation. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 16 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.2 – What matters most to us: materiality continued Understanding our most material issues Looking forward Reassuringly, a key outcome is that our stakeholders emphasise the In 2014, ING intends to further upscale the materiality assessment process importance of one of our key aims – to provide suitable financial services by reaching out directly to the various stakeholder groups in our home and products. They expect us to excel in this respect. markets to determine what concerns they have and the expectations of ING. The outcomes of our materiality assessments provide direction to our Our stakeholders also expect our business to be financially stable, sustainability reporting. By improving the methodology we intend to make following the years of recovery from the global financial crisis. Financial an increasingly relevant and transparent report. stability is at the heart of our strategy because it can facilitate the real economy and deliver long-term value for our business and stakeholders. The outcomes of the materiality assessment this year only cover a part Over the last few years we strengthened our financial position. Capital and of the content of this report. These topics that are addressed through funding improved, our liquidity position remained strong and our earnings chapters 4 and 5 of this report, Enhancing customer centricity and remained resilient. For more details please refer to pages 21-22 of the Promoting responsible investment and lending practices. However other ING Annual Report. aspects of our sustainability performance that we deem important are covered through the other chapters in this report. The materiality assessment results also highlighted the fact that our stakeholders expect us to conduct our business responsibly. They expect us to operate a fair remuneration policy, to be transparent and to mitigate social or environmental harm resulting from our activities. We have addressed these topics in detail in the various sections of our 2013 Annual and Sustainability Reports, with performance updates and data supporting our claims where appropriate. Materiality METHODOLOGY 2014 2013 2012 Selection of respondents Stakeholder groups in selected ING employees representing ING Group employees, based markets stakeholder groups from business in the Netherlands, representing units in the Netherlands, Belgium, stakeholder groups Germany, Luxembourg and Poland (including Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Insurance and Investment Management) Number of respondents 100+ respondents 88 respondents 30 respondents Selection of topics Topics derived from internal The 94 topics included in the survey The five topics included in the and external research on global were derived from the stakeholder survey were derived from the 2011 and economic trends expectations map and internal and Stakeholder Expectations Map external research on global and economic trends Presentation of results Similar to 2013 approach Results were plotted on two axes: Results were plotted on one axis: the interest of issues to stakeholders the potential impact of issues to ING and the potential impact of these issues to ING ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.3 – Stakeholder engagement Our approach to stakeholder engagement The business case for stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement takes many forms and it can be formal By engaging with our stakeholders we ensure that we understand the key and informal. Rather than having one-off consultations around specific issues of the individuals and organisations that are most concerned with topics, we prefer to take an integrated approach towards stakeholder and exert the greatest influence over our business. The immediate benefits engagement. This means that we have an on-going dialogue about of stakeholder dialogue include the opportunity to co-create high-impact our role in society, our products and services, our business performance solutions, product and process improvements, based on different and other issues. This is done at both the business unit and Group level. perspectives and competencies: The instruments we use to conduct this dialogue include regular information —— Informing our decision-making process sessions for private and corporate clients on customer protection; —— Improving our understanding of developments in the world stakeholder dialogues on topics like financial regulation and corporate in which we operate responsibility; representations in various international bodies; roundtable —— Prioritising and balancing stakeholder needs sessions with policymakers and academics; frequent bilateral contacts —— Opportunities to address and act upon stakeholder concerns with regulatory and government authorities, civil society organisations —— Regaining trust. (including non-governmental organisations, labour unions and industry associations); press conferences; frequent conference calls; technical briefing sessions; and road shows for journalists, analysts, rating agencies and investors. We also use surveys, in-depth interviews and focus groups. Membership of international and industry organisations ING Group’s external commitments* ING is a member of: ING partners with the following organisations: —— International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) —— UNICEF —— United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) —— UNEP Finance Initiative Climate Change Working Group ING endorses (is signatory of): (UNEP FI CCWG) —— The Universal Declaration of Human Rights —— UNEP Finance Initiative Work Stream Social Issues —— the Core Conventions of the International Labour —— United Nations Global Compact*** Organisation (ILO) —— the Academy of Business and Society (ABIS) —— Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) —— Leaders for Nature network —— Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI)** —— Equator Principles Association (EP) —— Principles for Investors for Inclusive Finance (PIIF) —— Thun Group of Banks —— CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) —— Association for Financial Markets in Europe —— Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) —— Centre for European Policy Studies – European Capital —— Children’s Rights and Business Principles (CRBP) Markets Institute —— Global Investor Statement on Climate Change —— European Financial services Round Table —— Global Education First Initiative —— International Capital Market Association —— EU Transparency Register —— Institute of International Finance —— Code of Conduct of the Society of European Affairs —— Dutch Social Investment Forum (VBDO) Professionals (SEAP) —— International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) —— Lobbying register of the House of Representatives —— the European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA) of the Netherlands —— CRO Forum, Sustainability Working Group. —— Wolfsburg Group principles. * This is an overview of our international affiliations. Country offices and business units will have their own memberships at local and regional levels. ** For our PSI progress report, please refer to pages 102-103. *** Reference to UN Global compact table, pages 104-105. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 18 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.3 – Stakeholder engagement continued ING’s position on key issues highlighted by stakeholders in 2013 We are keeping up with and responding to developments in the world around us. Many of our stakeholders also sought our views on these issues. Based on our materiality assessment, this section summarises how we addressed some of these topics throughout the year. Stakeholder engagement on material topics Material topic: Basic services and customer centricity External context ING’s position Consumer protection An important element of our customer suitability approach is our In 2013, the European Commission continued its legislative efforts to commitment to be transparent on the determination of prices, fees and improve consumer protection in financial services, particularly with regard rates. Our ultimate goal is for all stakeholders to trust that ING charges to mortgage credit, investment products and bank accounts. In addition a reasonable price (value for money) for its products and services. to EU legislative proposals, various local initiatives to increase consumer protection took place. In the Netherlands, a general duty of care for financial services providers has been introduced in the Financial Supervision Act as of 1 January 2014 as a result of consistent jurisprudence over the recent years. Security of online banking systems and privacy protection The growth of electronic distribution and communication channels has Security of online banking systems and protection of privacy is becoming increased the speed and convenience with which our customers can increasingly urgent with the rapid growth in the delivery of financial interact with us. We are committed to providing this convenience without services through online and mobile channels. The Distributed Denial compromising security standards. ING has comprehensive prevention, of Service (DDoS) attacks on (Dutch) banks in April 2013 made clear detection and responsive measures in place to defend against cyberthat the investments to defend our customers, information and delivery attacks and reduce the level of any losses. systems is more necessary than ever. Big data The use of Big Data provides many opportunities, but also calls for caution Recent technological developments allow for the possibility to pool large as we recognise that privacy is a very sensitive issue. ING will therefore amounts of data and make calculations based on these data that, until not provide personal information to third parties that is traceable to the recently, would have required too much time. This development is individual. ING will only use their personal information if it is permitted commonly known as ’Big Data’. These new technologies have multiple to do so. We will act in accordance with rules and regulations, as well as uses, such as in improving the customer service or helping to prevent fraud. our own business principles. For more detail on the use of customer data, please refer to ING.com. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.3 – Stakeholder engagement continued Material topic: Responsible business External context ING’s position Controversial weapons In line with Dutch legal requirement, ING broadened the scope of its Dutch law limits investments in cluster munitions as of 1 January 2013. defence policy for companies with direct involvement in cluster munitions from proprietary assets and ING managed funds, to also include externally In February, (the Fair Bank Guide and PAX) and October (PAX and managed investment funds offered by ING. International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN)), issued their respective reports on investments made in nuclear weapons companies. ING applies a broad exclusion list of cluster munitions companies, including The NGO’s expressed their concern over investments made by ING in some the indicative list as compiled by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial nuclear weapons companies, mainly in the US. At the same time, PAX and Markets (AFM) in cooperation with the Dutch financial sector. ICAN indicated: ’We commend ING for their policy and encourage them ING considers nuclear weapons to be controversial weapons as they are to further strengthen the policy’. indiscriminate and are likely to hurt civilians when used. We therefore do not In PAX’s annual overview report – ’Worldwide Investments in Cluster finance nuclear weapons. However, we may finance the non-controversial Munitions’ published in December, ING was included in the ’Runners-Up’ activities of high-tech companies, such as civil aviation activities. category and ’commended for its efforts.’ Public debate on shale gas ING does not finance shale gas production in Europe. Unlike in the US, Early 2013, there was increasing public concern about the potential in Europe technical feasibility and social and environmental impacts of negative impact of shale gas extraction. shale gas production are still being assessed and discussed. This is why ING Bank has decided to abstain from financing shale gas production in Europe at least until year-end 2016. In the US we have several energy, oil and gas companies among our clients. Some of them are also engaged in shale gas activities. It is our policy that we require from all of those companies to meet certain standards, such as the use of best practice in terms of techniques and safety standards. Cattle transport ING is of the opinion that within the European Union (EU), it should be In July, the Fair Bank Guide and a Dutch animal welfare organisation able to rely on both law and supervision to adequately function according (’Dierenbescherming’) issued a report about the role of banks in to societal values. If that proves not to be the case, then – within a highly preventing animal welfare issues during the transportation of cattle. regulated society – primarily the legislator and supervisor have a task to effectuate change. The EU Commission and the Dutch Government have shown demonstrable efforts to develop adequate law and regulation. Furthermore, they have taken measures to improve supervision on compliance therewith. For that reason ING decided not to go beyond current laws by applying additional rules to the animal transportation sector. Land rights ING engaged with FoE and its client in the sector to facilitate engagement In September, ING was one of the financial institutions approached by amongst them. Our client responded to the concerns raised, issuing a Friends of the Earth (FoE) expressing its concerns about the financing manifest early December. Furthermore, the company showed to be willing of palm oil companies. to engage with its stakeholders, both in Asia and in Europe in a round table to be organised early 2014. In November, ING participated in a round table hosted by the Dutch Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation about land rights. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 20 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.3 – Stakeholder engagement continued Material topic: Responsible business continued External context ING’s position Land rights ING issued a statement not to finance any agricultural projects operated In October, Oxfam issued its statement broadcasted at Dutch TV that by the company in Brazil. ING does finance the trade of the companies’ several financial institutions including ING, financed a company scrutinised agri commodity products, like sugar, to the international market. As such, for operating an alleged controversial sugar mill in Brazil. we engaged with the company and received its confirmation that the company would not renew its sugarcane contracts as they were to expire, starting in 2013. Furthermore, the company confirmed to respect any Brazilian governmental decision with regard to land ownership of the debated plantations. Transparency With respect to the survey’s conclusion, we do not believe it is appropriate In November, the Fair Bank and Insurance Guides conducted a survey to our client relationship model to publish the names of the companies ’Transparency and Accountability’. NN Group received positive feedback, we finance as suggested in the survey. At the same time, we are very but the conclusions for the largest banks in the Netherlands, including conscious of the rising level of expectations on responsible financing held ING Bank, suggested that banks are still insufficiently transparent about by our customers and the public at large. To accommodate these, we try their investments. to be as transparent as possible about the sources of funds entrusted to us and their ultimate use. We work continuously to develop and improve our policy. Coal ING facilitates the transition to a more sustainable economy which In November, Urgewald, BankTrack, CEE Bankwatch Network and Polska produces less CO2. We finance renewable energy, advise our clients on Zielona Sieć issued their report ’Banking on Coal’ describing investments energy efficiency and publish reports on the necessary transition and in coal. the way to finance said transition. Please find an overview of our power projects financed on page 51. Lobbying Our response to the report was published on our website, stating: In December, SOMO published its report titled ’Taking lobbying public’, “The careful consideration we give to all interests may sometimes prevent which focused on banks and their lobby activities. It stated – among us from publishing all details about our contacts with supervisors or other other things – “ING provides a relatively high degree of transparency stakeholders, for instance if we believe that the information we share with regarding its lobbying activities and its role in public policy development. supervisors or government agencies must be kept confidential on More importantly, ING expresses the position it takes regarding each issue.” competitive or supervisory grounds. For this reason, though we subscribe to and comply with the majority of SOMO’s recommendations, we cannot publish information about all our contacts or standpoints on financial supervisory and regulatory matters.” Human rights NN Group takes into account both financial and non-financial criteria, In December, the Fair Bank and Insurance Guides and Amnesty International including human rights, in its investment process. Our analysts and issued their report on banks and insurance companies financing or investing portfolio managers are in continuous dialogue with companies, also on in natural resource companies and their engagement efforts with those non-financial issues. Furthermore, we act as a responsible owner by voting companies to ensure human rights standards are being applied. ING Bank at shareholder meetings of companies. NN Group works continuously on performed best amongst its peer group while the Fair Insurance Guide improving its policy and responsible investment approach. Where relevant, suggested room for improvement for NN Group. we take into consideration the insights of the Fair Insurance guide, as well as other sources. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.3 – Stakeholder engagement continued Material topic: Financial stability and restructuring External context ING’s position Bank Structural Reform Based on the initial Liikanen report (October 2012), the separation Throughout 2013, the EU discussion on further structural reforms has proposal should not negatively affect ING’s business model. ING Bank continued. In the summer of 2013, the EC held a consultation on the believes in the strength of the universal banking model, combining retail main options under consideration for a follow-up to the Liikanen report. and commercial banking activities. The universal banking model brings The focus of the consultation was on the structural separation of certain major benefits in terms of risk diversification, capital and liquidity trading activities in case the size of these activities compared to a bank’s management, consumer choice, while fulfilling the needs of long-term total activities exceeds certain thresholds. The EC is expected to come customer banking relationships. with a legislative proposal early 2014. The Future of Banking ING answers questions from stakeholders in the debate, shares ING’s In June 2013, a Committee of Experts (’Commissie Wijffels’) advised vision and learns from stakeholders’ view on the future of banking. the Dutch government on the future structure of Dutch Banking Sector. In 2013, ING Bank decided to not only respond to questions and The Committee presented recommendations on how to make the financial suggestions, but to proactively contribute to the debate around capital sector more resilient and how to improve its ability to service the real ratios and share ING’s insights. In December for instance, two Dutch economy. Taking into account the Committee’s recommendations, the newspapers published contributions from Wilfred Nagel, ING Bank’s Dutch government released a vision document on the Dutch banking chief risk officer, and Koos Timmermans, ING Bank’s vice chairman. industry in August 2013. Main features of this vision are the desire to aim ING Bank has partnered with Debating Europe, an online debate platform. for a higher leverage ratio of at least 4% in EU negotiations, the need for In 2013, the debates have been about what Europeans want from banks a reduction of the loan-to-value related to mortgages to 100% in 2018 and whether the EU should better regulate cross-border banking. and 80% in the longer term, and the in-principle support for an EU approach towards regulating the industry. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 22 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 2.4 – Our sustainability roadmap Development of two distinctive sustainability strategies and 2014 teams ING Bank and NN Group Improved sustainability focus through materiality 2013 Start of the Sustainable ING signatory Lending Team 2012 to the PSI Launch of the Employee Charity Fund in the Netherlands 2011 Creation of stakeholder expectations map Integration of sustainability into the Launch of the ING Sustainable Credit fund personal accountability and performance objectives of senior management 2010 Renewable power financed outgrows coal power financed in project finance 2009 power and utilities portfolio ESR framework extended in scope to all business products ING IM signatory to the PRI 2008 Start carbon 2007 offsetting 2006 ING signatory UN Global Compact Founding of the ING Chances for Children programme and global partnership with UNICEF 2005 Launch of Global Voting Policy 2004 Further development ESR framework and adoption 2003 of Equator Principles Launch of ING 2000 Sustainable Equity fund Introduction of the ING Business Principles 1999 Creation of ING 1998 personnel donation fund First ESR policy; exclusion of Burma/Myanmar 1997 Creation of ING Groenbank to provide loans to 1996 environmentally friendly projects Publication of our first Environmental Annual Report 1995 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix Delivering on our commitments The following pages offer an 5 Promoting responsible lending overview of our performance on and investment practices 39 each of our strategic areas of focus. 5.1 Promoting responsible lending and investment practices: at a glance 40 We share the actions we have taken 5.2 Setting our standards 41 against the goals we set ourselves 5.3 Environmental and social risk in practice 43 back in 2012, and assess how 5.4 Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank 49 we have delivered against these. 5.5 Responsible investment at NN Group 52 More detail and comments are 5.6 Sustainable assets allocated 57 available in each of the following 5.7 Progress report 59 6 Improving environmental performance 60 dedicated chapters. 6.1 Improving environmental performance: at a glance 61 6.2 Driving efficiency 62 6.3 Sustainable procurement 64 6.4 Monitoring and reporting environmental performance 66 6.5 Progress report 70 7 Engaging our employees 71 Contents in this section 7.1 Engaging our employees: at a glance 72 7.2 Being a responsible employer 73 DELIVERING ON our commitments 23 7.3 Building a professional and accountable culture 75 3 Our sustainability performance 24 7.4 Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture 77 7.5 Measuring our performance as an employer 79 3.1 Progress report 25 7.6 Progress report 80 3.2 External review of ING’s sustainability performance 27 8 Creating positive change in communities  84 4 Enhancing customer centricity 28 8.1 Creating positive change in communities: 4.1 Enhancing customer centricity: at a glance 29 at a glance 86 4.2 Putting customers’ interest first 30 8.2 Educating children 87 4.3 Helping customers manage their financial future 32 8.3 Promoting financial empowerment 4.4 Making basic financial services accessible 34 and entrepreneurship 89 4.5 Measuring customer satisfaction 36 8.4 Support for local themes 91 4.6 Progress report 37 8.5 Progress report 93 9 Governance and compliance 96 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 24 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 3 – Our sustainability performance We set ourselves goals in line with our sustainability priorities to provide clarity and focus not only for the future, but also for the present. We have been tracking and Reflective of the big organisational changes that we have had this year, monitoring our sustainability two independent sustainability teams have been established to support the Bank and Insurance business units. In the coming months, the teams performance since 1995. will reassess how we structure and direct our efforts towards sustainability By evaluating our performance targets aligned with their business priorities. We intend to share the resulting strategy and KPIs over the course of 2014. and setting goals for the years For the sake of continuity, we have carried over the shared sustainability ahead, we are able to improve our targets for this reporting cycle and communicate our progress on the specific areas in the chapters. track record and set future targets. Contents in this chapter 3 Our sustainability performance 24 3.1 Progress report 25 3.2 External review of ING’s sustainability performance 27 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 3.1 – Progress report The Progress report below lists the actions we undertook and the plans we developed in 2013 to meet the sustainability goals we set in 2012. We assessed to what extent we believe we have achieved the goals, which is shown graphically (four orange arrows (»») mean we reached the target fully; two arrows (») mean we partially met the target). Additional information on the initiatives can be found in the various chapters of this report. Enhancing customer centricity Ambition: Providing accessible and easy-to-understand products and services which help our customers manage their financial future. What we said we would do What we Did status We will work on offering insights, 77% of our retail banking business units offer insights, tools and programmes to improve tools and programmes to improve customers’ financial decision-making customers’ decision making Two additional countries within NN Group introduced the Financial Personality Test; totalling to nine We further develop thought 11 financial education platforms are currently active across our retail banking business units leadership on financial education Two ING International Surveys were published regarding ’Homes & Mortgages’ and ’Savings’ We will increase accessibility for 85% of our retail banking business units of products or services to special segments customers with special needs 38% of our retail banking business units offer programmes or policies for customers in financial distress Three business units at NN Group offer concepts on breast cancer insurance cover for women (like ’For You’) We strive to improve the overall Our customer-centric focus has resulted in 11 retail banking business units achieving first customer satisfaction or second place in NPS compared with competitors NN Group’s customer focus approach resulted in increasing NPS scores and several awards won by multiple countries Promoting responsible lending and investment practices Ambition: Promoting sustainable finance and investment decisions that will contribute to healthier and more stable economies. What we said we would do What we Did status Expand our Environmental and We strengthened the implementation of our ESR framework, by embedding it in the client Social Risk (ESR) policy framework on boarding process and transaction approval process in our systems. During 2013, we increased our focus on human rights protection, specifically drawing attention to the rights and promote ESR in the sector of children in several sector-based policies arising from our support of the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. In addition, we reorganised these policies, to include Energy, and Mining and Metals as separate categories At ING Investment Management, we increased our voting activities and expanded ESG information and analysis in the investment cases We aim to increase our Sustainable Our Sustainable Assets Allocated increased with EUR 845 million, which underlines Assets Allocated and increase the our client’s appetite for products and services that apply sustainability criteria amount of sustainable products 23% of our retail business units offer products or services that have a direct social offered or environmental benefit ING Investment Management launched a new fund in 2013, the ING (L) Investment Europe Sustainable Equity fund ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 26 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 3.1 – Progress report continued Improving environmental performance Ambition: Minimising the impact of our operations on the environment. What we said we would do What we Did status We will focus on lowering our In 2013, the total extrapolated amount of carbon emissions from our business operations direct environmental footprint decreased from 209 to 169 kilotonnes compared to 2012 and per FTE from 2.4 to 2.2 tonnes We will increase the scope of We have developed a new ING Bank Procurement Charter. This charter defines the our sustainability procurement governing principles for organising, managing and conducting procurement activities globally. In 2013, we focused on implementing our principles of sustainable procurement programme throughout our global supply chain NN Group adopted a new procurement policy covering updated sustainability requirements based on the UN Global Compact Engaging our employees Ambition: Creating a great working environment that encourages our people to develop their skills, grow personally and professionally and achieve their full potential. What we said we would do What we Did status We will invest in opportunities At ING Bank we spent EUR 60 million and at NN Group EUR 14 million on training for the personal and professional and development for our employees, as supplied by external parties development of our employees We aim to improve the For ING Bank the engagement score is measured in the WPC survey. The response rate engagement of our employees was 81%. The overall score was 74%*, showing a slight improvement over last year (73%) At NN Group the engagement score is measured in the YES survey. The response rate was 82%. The overall engagement score was 67%, showing a slight decrease compared to last year (70%) * In 2012 ING Bank introduced a Sustainable Engagement score based on nine questions and for which we had an index of 73% in 2012 and 74% in 2013. The score in 2012 using the previous methodology of four questions was 68%. Creating positive change in communities Ambition: Positively contributing to society by supporting communities worldwide. What we said we would do What we Did status At least one million children The total funds raised in 2013 for UNICEF amounted to EUR 3,153,618. Since 2005, we have through the partnership with UNICEF raised a total of EUR 26.7 million, which has enabled UNICEF to reach more than 888,990 children. We will do our utmost to reach our goal of one million children have been reached between 2005 and 2015 Our total charitable giving should 58% of our charitable donations were donated to our focus areas for 60% or more be targeted towards our focus areas children and education, and financial empowerment and entrepreneurship Develop a separate community We reviewed our local community investment portfolios. We also started to align with investment programme for NN the new purpose and values that were launched in October 2013 in order for our new community investment strategy to be launched in 2014 Group, in line with our business strategy, new brand values and geographic focus ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 3.2 – External review of ING’s sustainability performance Our approach to sustainability is shaped by our specific skills and expertise as a financial company, our vision of the future, and the expectations of our stakeholders. Reviews of our performance by sustainability research and rating agencies help us improve our strategy and policies. External reviews of our sustainability performance Reviewer 2013 2012 2011 FTSE4Good Index Series Score: 3.8 (out of 5) Score: 3.8 (out of 5) Score 3.7 (out of 5) (EIRIS Score) Position: Included Position: Included Position: Included Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes ▲ Score: 76 (out of 100) Score 69 (out of 100) Score 72 (out of 100) (RobecoSAM Score) Position: Included in the DJSI Not included in World Index Included in World Index. World Index and the DJSI and Europe Index Not included in Europe Index Europe Index CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) ▲ Score: 96 (out of 100) Score 93 for disclosure Score 64 for disclosure for disclosure (out of 100) and B (out of 100) and D B for performance for performance for performance Position: Included Position: Included Position: Not included Sustainalytics ▼ Score: 75 (out of 100) Score 77 (out of 100) Score 82 (out of 100) Position: 6 (out of 196) Position: 3 (out of 148 Position: 1 (out of 135 financial peers financial peers) financial peers) ’Transparantie Benchmark’ (NL) ▲ Score: 188 Score: 185 Score: 179 Position: 13 (out of 483) Position: 13 (out of 472) Position: 16 (out of 500) VBDO Benchmark Responsible Investment ▼ Score: 3.1* Score 4.3 Score: 2.0 by Insurance Companies (NL) Position: 6 (out of 29) Position: 5 (out of 29) Position: 11 (out of 30) Oekom Research ▲ C CCInvestment Grade Below Investment Grade Below Investment Grade Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index ▲ Score: 53 (out of 100) Score: not disclosed n/a (Vigeo) Position: Included Position: Included * Due to change in methodology, not comparable with previous scores. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 28 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4 – Enhancing customer centricity Ian Bright Senior Economist at ING Bank We provide accessible and easy-tounderstand products and services The ING International Survey (IIS) aims to gain a better understanding of how retail customers, and potential customers, of ING Bank around the to help our customers manage their globe spend, save, invest and feel about money. financial future. We strive to make What is the primary motivation for the annual ING International Survey? sure our services remain affordable It is our mission to set the standard for helping our customers manage and we proactively consider our their financial future. For us to effectively deliver on this mission, we need to first understand how people really manage their money. We conduct customers’ personal circumstances the survey across at least 12 countries on a sample of around 1,000 adults to accompany them on their per country on different topics related to personal finance and publicly share the results. By asking what people are actually doing and by testing financial journey. theories of how people behave in certain financial contexts, we will be better informed when we design products and determine how we service our customers. For example, subjects like ’what percentage of the population in a country have savings?’ and ’do people consider payment by debit cards and credit cards different from paying actual cash?’ can help us understand basic financial behaviour. What have been the primary focus areas for the survey and the outcomes? We have a cycle of three topics that we focus on: savings; homes and mortgages; and mobile banking and new payment technologies. Contents in this chapter By focusing on these key areas, we can understand how consumer 4 Enhancing customer centricity 28 attitudes and behaviours are evolving across different market segments. For example, we were able to reconfirm the rapid adoption of mobile 4.1 Enhancing customer centricity: at a glance 29 banking technology, which helped us prioritise this as a strategic focus 4.2 Putting customers’ interest first 30 area and offer mobile banking across all our markets. 4.3 Helping customers manage their financial future 32 In our survey of savings across Europe, that we have now conducted for 4.4 Making basic financial services accessible 34 three years in a row, we have identified a sizeable proportion who respond 4.5 Measuring customer satisfaction 36 ’I do not have any savings’ on the survey. The importance of recognising 4.6 Progress report 37 this is that it helps us recognise the fragility of the financial position of segments of the population. By simply being aware of this fragility, we can change the way we anticipate and act on our role as a financial partner to our customers. In the context of a post-2008 financial world, we included homes and mortgages as a key topic in our survey. Our approach to this topic goes beyond just investigating if people can ’afford’ a mortgage, to asking our respondents what their housing dreams are. Living in a ’dream home’ is important for most people in Europe. By getting a better sense of their aspirations on what is probably the biggest and longest financial commitment they make during their lives, we can help them to build their dream in a realistic and responsible manner. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.1 – Enhancing HIGHLIGHTS —— We offer mobile banking services in all our retail markets customer centricity: —— 77% of retail units offer tools to enhance financial literacy —— 85% of our retail units offer products or services to special at a glance needs segments —— NN Group’s customer focus approach resulted in increasing NPS scores and several awards by multiple countries —— 11 retail banking business units achieving first or second place in NPS compared with competitors Our approach Focus areas ING’s mission is to set the standard in helping our customers manage and Enhancing the customer experience remains a key priority, whilst we secure their financial future. Accordingly, our customers are at the heart also deal with a rapidly changing financial environment from a regulatory of everything we do and the focal point for all our decisions. To service our and technology perspective. Our main areas of focus regarding our customers in the best way, in recent years we have made a decisive move customers are: from product centricity to customer centricity. —— Putting our customers’ interests first —— Helping customers to stay one step ahead To us, enhancing the customer experience means being accessible at —— Making financial services accessible all times, listening to the needs of our customers, following up on their —— Measuring customer satisfaction. expectations, and offering them products and services that are in their best interests. The result is that we help create a stronger financial future for our customers. Our reporting framework Our commitment Simpler Stronger Sustainable Enhancing customer We aim to offer simple and Individuals and business owners Financial services can open many centricity appropriate products and services, have to make many critical financial opportunities to individuals and at a fair price for retail clients. decisions. Yet, research shows that businesses. We endeavour to be many are under-prepared to make increasingly inclusive in providing To do so, we maintain dialogue these decisions. access to our financial products and with our customers. We are services by responding to the gaps transparent, including about the By enhancing the financial skills of identified in the channel and format pricing of our products and how our customers, and equipping them of delivery. we invest customers’ savings. with the skills to foresee and anticipate scenarios, we help them create a stronger financial future. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 30 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.2 – Putting customers’ interest first We engage with customers in order to gain honest and constructive Driven by the Retail Standards Board, progress was made in exchanging feedback. This enables us to provide them with the products and services that best practices and knowledge sharing. For example, seven business units suit them best. Our aim to enhance the customer experience does not mean now use the same tool for listening to social media conversations. The web that we automatically execute what the customer wants; we continuously care teams in all business units have been organised along the same lines, keep the customers interest first in our business decisions and advise. using the Netherlands’ model. Based on our Business Principles, the ’Five ING Customer Golden Rules’ form a key component in our approach towards customer centricity. NN Group: ’Operational Excellence’ We have used these rules since 2009 and they are an integral part of our in our products and service Product Approval and Review Process (PARP). Through this process, we NN Group strives to offer an excellent customer experience, with all strive to make sure that all products and services meet our requirements customer interactions treated as critical assessment points. For example, for doing business. For more information about the Five ING Customer our insurance businesses in Europe use a programme to identify the key Golden Rules, please refer to page 19 of the Annual Report. customer interaction points such as purchases, anniversaries, claims, lifestyle changes and contact changes. The business then strives to ensure ING Bank: ’Operational Excellence’ that customers receive excellent service at each point through customer experience improvement plans. Progress is measured through customer in our products and service satisfaction surveys. We strive to align our systems, structure and processes to deliver the best customer experience in a cost-effective way. For example, ING in the Our life insurance business in the Netherlands is lowering costs by Netherlands is improving customer service by focusing on easy-to-use streamlining its processes and systems, and improving the customer operational processes. Ten simple principles have been applied, such as experience focusing on the moments-of-truth. In Spain, a new customer ’never ask the customer for information we already have’. In 2013, the website was launched including a self-service portal with improved first results of simplifying our customer operational processes were realised. functionality; policies can now be delivered within two days of application. An example is the simplification of the child and youth account opening In the Czech Republic, 80% of claims are processed within five days. process by reducing the number of questions from 28 to 4 clicks. Similarly, ING Luxembourg reduced by 80% the time it takes for corporate Easy to understand customers to access the Bank’s website and improved the online account One of our key priorities is to provide products and services that are easy opening process for retail customers with one of the 10 principles to understand. Not only through our communications and the guidance ’first time right’. we provide, but also by making our product offer less extensive. For example, ING-DiBa Germany has stayed true to its mission during 2013 25% of the customers in the Czech Republic to be simple and uncomplicated. An easy-to-understand product range, have an active savings account on the with only 10 different products, offered with the highest service, 24 hours same day of opening a day, have been the ingredients for meeting all main needs of their retail banking customers. They also launched an initiative, aiming at making all its letters easier to understand. This, in turn, should lead to fewer additional ING Bank in the Czech Republic introduced a savings account, ING Konto, inquiries and, consequently, to a better customer experience. with a simplified opening process. Customers can apply online and the account can be activated rapidly. Around 25% of customers have an active ING Belgium launched a new version of Home’Bank in 2013, the Bank’s account on the same day, with 34% sending their first credit the same day. online banking service, which allows customers to manage their banking This new account also allows ING to save 45% on printing costs and has wherever and whenever they want. Fully integrated with the ING.be also led to a more efficient workforce, with employees now able to spend website, it provides easier navigation, more product information and time on other projects. a clear overview of the different functions. An important driver of operational excellence in our products and services is Our insurance businesses aim to ensure that customers fully understand their our Retail Standards Board, which is composed of the most senior leaders in policies, as policy documents are traditionally known to be complicated. the Retail Banking organisation. It sets standards in retail banking, creating In Greece, ING designed the policy documents for Orange Cross, a new and nurturing a sustainable knowledge-sharing culture throughout the Bank. health product, to make it as clear, simple, and understandable as possible. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.2 – Putting customers’ interest first continued Responding to the requests of our customers on increasing transparency and Listening to our customers simplicity, NN Group has guided employees in Turkey to build a fresh Client We constantly engage with customers and regulators to gain feedback to Portal. Furthermore, insurance businesses in Poland and Spain have unified improve our performance. Under our well-established Net Promoter Score their policy anniversary letters, according to their transparency model. (NPS) programme, some 250,000 ING Bank customers in the Netherlands Among other advantages, these one-pagers show the most important a year provide opinions on their customer experience. We inform financial data for the customer, the specific coverage of their contracts, customers on how we follow up this feedback via a dedicated page on our investment details and advice on how to best manage their products. website. Across NN Group, NPS has gathered a total of around 400,000 responses from customers and we are working hard to act on each of them. In Czech Republic, for instance, customer feedback has led to Case study UNIT-LINKED INSURANCE PRODUCTS improvements including the rebuilding of the claims process, which led to a 30% increase in their NPS in 2013. In 2008 ING’s Dutch insurance subsidiaries reached an agreement to offer compensation to customers who purchased certain unit-linked The NPS programme at Nationale-Nederlanden in the Netherlands is policies in the past. In 2012, Nationale-Nederlanden stepped up its offering customers – through one of the concluding questions in the total compensation for customers with individual unit-linked policies, survey – to have their feedback published on their website. It is a dedicated aligned with the ’best-in-class’ criteria formulated by the Dutch section in which the aim is to be as transparent as possible, hence it is Ministry of Finance. Early 2013, all customers were informed about called ’Open’. There it shows all feedback of customers, whether it is their compensation. positive or negative. As of January 2013, all our unit-linked insurance products have seen We engage with our customers through a range of channels, including a further reduction of maximum costs to 1.25% per year for the social media. All business units listen to conversations that are held in social remaining term of the policy. Despite these measures, the challenging media. The conversations are captured by dedicated tools and analysed market circumstances influenced the performance of the investmentby internal teams and are combined with other customer feedback we linked performance product. It is expected that some customers might receive, such as complaints. This supports continuous processes and not reach their financial goals set. services improvement. Next to executing the compensation scheme, all customers have been For example, ING Direct Italy used social media monitoring in 2013 offered the possibility to change or adapt the product without cost. to become a more customer-centric organisation. By observing online Several options are possible, like adjustment of the premium, risk discussions, they learned that people who open a new account expect to coverage or investment. Customers can also switch to another product receive all documentation within three days, compared to the seven days that better fits their personal financial situation and wishes. required by ING Direct Italy. Accordingly, the business changed its internal processes and new customers now receive all documentation by email Netherlands Life updated the consumer website within 24 hours. (www.nn-beleggingsverzekering.nl), hosted information evenings throughout the country and put advertisements in national In 2013, both ING Bank and Nationale-Nederlanden obtained the Dutch newspapers encouraging customers to enter into dialogue on this ’Gouden Oor Erkenning’, an award for listening to customers and subject with their insurance advisor. In addition, we proactively complaints management in the Netherlands. contacted client groups that are considered to be more financially vulnerable with respect to their investment-linked insurance product. It is our goal to assist our clients in making a conscious decision about whether to continue, modify or terminate the policy. We see this as a joint responsibility of advisors and insurers to encourage the individual consumer in making an informed choice. We will continue our proactive approach in 2014. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 32 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.3 – Helping customers manage their financial future 11 Most European countries and their citizens experienced strong economic financial headwinds in 2013, as well as a sharp increase in unemployment and education corporate bankruptcies, similarly increasing people’s insecurity about the platforms future. Consequently, we pay special attention to helping customers stay a step ahead and create a secure future for themselves. ING’s online platform Ezonomics combines ideas around financial Enhancing financial capability at ING Bank education, personal finance and behavioural economics to produce It is in our interest that customers are informed, and realistic and sensible regular and practical information about the way people manage their when it comes to their financial capability and possibilities. We are money – and how this can affect their lives. The aim is to make economic investing in providing online and offline insights, tools, and programmes information more accessible to non-specialists and show how it can to enhance the financial capability of our customers. influence how we live now and in the future. This table provides a snapshot of other financial education platforms launched by ING Bank in various countries: Snapshot of financial education platforms Business Type Description ING Bank Netherlands Website Creates awareness of financial matters and provides information about ’Mijn Geld’ financial products ING Direct France Corporate Blog Provides information about financial products and financial education ’Le Blog’ ING Direct Spain Corporate Blog Provides information about financial products and financial education ’Ennaranja’ ING Direct Italy Corporate Blog Shares smart savings tips ’Vocearancio’ ING-Diba Germany Website Provides information about financial products and financial education ’Finanzversteher’ Corporate Blog Provides information about financial products and financial education ’Wissenswertes’ ING-Diba Austria Website Creates awareness of financial matters and of Commercial Banking’s Lending ’Gut Mit Geld’ Services as part of an employee engagement programme at ING-DiBa in Austria. The website won the Preferred Bank Award, an internal ING award ING Bank Poland Website Creates awareness of financial matters and provides information about ’Zafinansowani’ financial products ING Bank Belgium Website Online platform offering information and tools to get to most out of your savings ’Savings & Investment guide’ ING Direct Australia Corporate Blog Blog featuring the Executive Board discussing financial topics ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 33 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.3 – Helping customers manage their financial future continued Enhancing financial capability at NN Group Being a strong partner for We invest in financial education and awareness-building campaigns our customers in difficult times and tools to help our customers understand the advantages and risks In 2013, ING Bank in the Netherlands actively engaged with 20,000 Dutch associated with insurance products and services, and therefore make homeowners who were potentially in financial difficulties. more informed decisions. 20,000 NN Group continued initiatives to increase customer awareness of the home owners in potential importance of securing their financial futures. Turkey and Romania financial difficulty proactively launched the Financial Personality Test (providing relevant insights on how contacted by ING Bank people behave around finances and how their behaviour can be improved), in the Netherlands bringing the total number of countries that launched this platform to nine. 38% The number of people taking the test across these countries increased by of our retail banking business 38% compared to 2012, to a total of 320,000. units offer programmes or policies for customers in financial distress 320,000 people in nine countries completed our Financial Personality Test Against the background of a subdued housing market in the Netherlands, ING Bank introduced an online ’stress test’ which helps homeowners improve their financial planning. Additionally, an online tool (’Afloswijzer’) was launched to help customers decide whether to save or pay off In the Netherlands, Nationale-Nederlanden introduced a new website their mortgage. that provides elaborate information on pensions, www.thuisinpensioen.nl. This fits in the objective to help customers make informed decisions about Customers in the Netherlands can now also call a mortgage hotline for their financial future throughout their lives. financial advice or take an online test to gain an insight into their mortgage situation. Furthermore, ING is introducing an online test to identify ING Investment Management (ING IM) wants to help customers become whether a homeowner’s mortgage requires attention. If this is the case, ’financially fit’ and launched a new website www.fitvermogen.nl during homeowners are informed about measures they can take to prevent 2013. ’FitVermogen’, which translates as ’healthy assets’, is a simple, possible problems. attractive retail website offering ING IM investment funds. With insight into the likelihood of achieving the investment objective, risk profile of the Nationale-Nederlanden introduced a new scheme for first-time buyers. portfolio and the expected return, ING IM aims to give customers more This is an innovative mortgage pledge service (hypotheektoezegging). control over their investments and make investing easier. It will evolve every In the Netherlands, an offer on a house is typically contingent upon six months, based on customer feedback. In forthcoming releases, the the potential buyers being able to arrange the funding. Buyers typically platform will be extended with asset management solutions specifically enter into a conditional contract without having any certainty on their tailored to certain needs. acceptance with a mortgage provider. With the hypotheektoezegging Nationale-Nederlanden introduces a service in which, after a stringent onboarding process, first-time buyers receive an upfront commitment that they will be accepted as a new customer and they also receive a written confirmation of the amount Nationale-Nederlanden is willing to provide as mortgage. The commitment is conditional upon the absence of subsequent changes in the personal circumstances and the acceptance of the house as collateral for the mortgage. Having a mortgage commitment in advance provides clarity and gives first-time homebuyers confidence as they negotiate the potential purchase of a house. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 34 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.4 – Making basic financial services accessible Increased accessibility through online channels Services for people with extra needs ING Bank adapts to the changing needs of customers, who increasingly We aim to offer our products to all segments of society, including want instant insight into their financial situation and future. We have physically challenged people. For example, our ATMs are adapted for therefore made mobile banking services available for retail customers in all the visibly challenged and we are moving towards barrier-free access to countries where the technology is present. Mobile banking also contributes all our branches. ING Bank Belgium has committed to improving branch to the paperless delivery of our products and services, reducing our own accessibility for physically challenged people. By the year-end, more than and our customer’s environmental footprint. The rapid shift to mobile is 600 branches had been renovated to meet this objective. also impacting Commercial Banking. 600 branches of ING Belgium Mobile banking developments in 2013 included: have barrier-free access —— ING Romania launched an app for making contactless payments by smartphone —— ING Australia’s new mobile app won the 2013 ’Mobile Award’ —— ING Vysya Bank released an app that increases its reach into remote Because we understand that many customers have demanding schedules cities and rural areas and don’t always have the opportunity to visit us during regular working —— ING Italy’s mobile app is now used by 50% of its customers just hours, we have extended opening hours of our branches at ING Bank one year after launch. in the Netherlands. 50% of ING Italy customers Financial inclusion use the mobile app Many financial products and services target regular customers, such as one year after its launch people in-work with existing financial capability and ambitions. Our view is that financial services should also be accessible to those in earlier or later stages of their lives. Financial inclusion means developing products and In 2013, NN Group has made clear progress in introducing a number services for minority or marginalised segments in society such as the of online platforms to make insurance more accessible and easier to use. elderly or young people. In India, ING offers farmers a range of products, In Romania new functions in MyING, the first self-service portal in the including the ’Kisan’ Credit Card, to cover their credit requirements at the local life insurance market, were introduced. In Turkey, the website was preand post-harvest stages. We also offer customised products for re-launched with more functions, and the client portal’s self-service various agricultural activities. capability was enhanced; in addition, a mobile application was introduced to give customers access to their accounts at any time and wherever they are. Nationale-Nederlanden added new savings and loan products to its direct offering, which clearly demonstrates its commitment to being easy to deal with. Customers can now submit a request for a savings account in less than three minutes, whilst the application for a loan is followed up with an offer within one business day. Greater accessibility through online channels comes with increased risks. During the last five years, crime has moved into cyberspace and is now at the forefront of corporate concerns. That is why security and anticybercrime efforts remained an important priority in all of ING Bank’s business units. In 2013, the Cybercrime Taskforce was launched, creating a common framework and implementing best practices for combatting cybercrime and e-banking fraud. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 35 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.4 – Making basic financial services accessible continued In December 2012, our insurance business in the Czech Republic launched Case study Reaching the unbanked in India breast cancer insurance cover for women, including online access to information and help with cancer prevention. This has been well-received What is the challenge? by customers, achieving an excellent NPS score. In 2013, Spain became A large portion of the Indian population does not have access to the second country to offer this cover. Our insurance business in Poland financial services. Information technology has enabled a more achieved success with its ’Insure yourself and trick the cancer’ campaign, efficient, accurate and timely management of banking transactions, which was voted the best campaign in the finance category of the and services like Net banking, mobile banking, ’Anytime and prestigious Zloty Spinacz public relations awards. The campaign was Anywhere’ banking are available to many citizens. However, farmers, recognised for its corporate responsibility features, including cancer small vendors, labourers in unorganised sectors, unemployed citizens, prevention and education about healthy living and the importance women, children, elderly and the physically challenged are still among of regular medical examinations. the financially excluded. What we did ING Vysya Bank in India has been working towards bridging this gap and providing banking services to the unbanked residents of villages with a population of less than 2,000. Most of the residents in the villages have no experience of banking and are also illiterate. ING has also partnered with a service provider to develop a model where the transactions for these customers are carried out using biometric authentication through a handheld wireless device. The transactions are limited to balance enquiry, funds transfer, cash withdrawal and deposit. Building capacity on the ground ING has adopted a business correspondent model, whereby we appoint a local resident as a business correspondent for a village or cluster of villages. Their role is to open accounts and service customers with basic banking transactions. The business correspondent is supported by the local branch which may be located within up to 50 kilometres away. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 36 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.5 – Measuring customer satisfaction Both ING Bank and NN Group apply the Net Promoter Score (NPS) ING Commercial Banking methodology in nearly all countries of operation. It helps measure Client centricity remains at the heart of Commercial Banking. Every year customer engagement and benchmarks us against our competitors. since 2010, hundreds of customers have participated in the Commercial Detailed customer feedback is used to improve our internal processes Banking Net Promoter Score programme. This programme has been and customer services. implemented in selected countries and will be further rolled out in Europe, Russia and the US in 2014. Feedback through NPS creates opportunities for us to deliver better propositions, redesign our products, services or approach to customer service. Greenwich Associates conducts independent research among senior financial executives at the largest Dutch and Belgium companies that ING Retail Banking confirms Commercial Banking’s No. 1 position for the fourth consecutive Our customer-centric focus has resulted in 11 countries achieving first or year in the Netherlands and the second position in Belgium. The Greenwich second place in NPS compared with competitors. ING Bank is conducting results show a significant advantage for ING over other banks in terms of NPS surveys in 11 out of 13 retail countries. lead relationships. ING Commercial Banking’s overall quality is highly rated, based on the effective senior management support we offer, knowing the 1st or 2nd ING Bank ranks client international needs, providing creative ideas and solutions and the 1st or 2nd place overall capabilities of relationship managers. in 11 countries NN Group Our insurance businesses made clear progress in improving the customer experience and broadening its distribution base in 2013. New products NPS Ranking ING Bank and value propositions were introduced. Its customer focus approach 2013* 2012* resulted in increasing NPS scores and several awards won by multiple countries. To encourage continuous improvement in customer experience, Australia 1st 1st our business in the Netherlands shared the customer feedback real-time Austria 2nd 2nd with 1,300 employees and over 100 teams; amongst other things this helped to achieve an NPS score improvement of 32% in comparison with Belgium 1st 1st last year. France 2nd 3rd ING Investment Management scored 7.8 which is between fairly good and good according to Integron in its annual client satisfaction survey, receiving Germany 1st 1st various awards that highlighted customer centricity. On the operational side, it completed the transformation of its infrastructure to a simpler and ING Bank Italy 1st 1st advanced environment that enables better investment performance Netherlands 1st 1st and further improves the customer experience. Poland 2nd 2nd Romania** 2nd 1st Spain 1st 1st Turkey*** 2nd 7th * Benchmark against our local top two or three competitors. ** Only one wave per year in 2012 and 2013. *** Only one wave per year in 2012 and 2013. ING Bank Turkey was 7th in 2012 against 10 competitors (according to old methodology). For the new methodology in 2013, ING compared itself to 4 competitors. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 37 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.6 – Progress report What we said we would do What we Did We will work on offering insights, tools and programmes 77% of our retail banking business units offer insights, tools and to improve customers’ decision-making programmes to improve customers’ financial decision-making Two additional countries at NN Group introduced the Financial Personality Test; totalling to nine We further develop thought leadership on financial education 11 financial education platforms are currently active across our retail banking business units Two ING International Surveys were published regarding ’Homes & Mortgages’ and ’Savings’ We will increase accessibility for customers with special needs 85% of our retail banking business units of products or services to special segments 38% of our retail banking business units offer programmes or policies for customers in financial distress Three business units at NN Group offer breast cancer insurance concepts for women (like ’For You’) We strive to improve the overall customer satisfaction Our customer-centric focus has resulted in 11 retail banking business units achieving first or second place in NPS compared with competitors. NN Group’s customer focus approach resulted in increasing NPS scores and several awards won by multiple countries Looking forward ING Bank NN Group All business units will continue to focus on the customers’ needs with The overall ambition is for customers to choose NN Group’s products easy and fair products, with a focus on ’digital first’. They will also and services based on their previous positive experience with our continue to provide fast and innovative responses, when and where business. The priorities for the business are to be a strong, sustainable required, with digital innovation remaining a top priority. A strong focus company, delivering excellent customer service and transparent products. in 2014 will be, for example, on further developing device-independent The priorities also include providing multi-access distribution, having facilities to ensure a maximised customer experience. This is all part of efficient and effective operations and generating capital. ING’s overall aim to help customers manage their finances, now and for the future. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 38 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 4.6 – Progress report continued Awards 2013 ING Bank Awards 2013 NN Group Our efforts have been recognised by various organisations, confirming Our efforts have been recognised by various organisations, confirming that we are well on the way to become our customers’ preferred bank. that we are well on the way to enhance the customer experience. ING won several awards in 2013, including: Various business units won awards in 2013, including: —— Three ’Bank of the Year’ awards for the Netherlands, Belgium and —— In the Netherlands, Nationale-Nederlanden obtained the ’Gouden Oor Western Europe from The Banker, part of the Financial Times Group. Erkenning’ for listening to our customers and complaints management ING Private Banking was ’highly commended’ by the Financial Times —— Romania’s Insurance business won awards from PRIMM-Asigurari si —— The ’Best Bank in the Netherlands’ award from Global Finance Pensii magazine for ’Quality of Services in Life Insurance’ and an award —— The ’Customer Service Online Award’ from the National Contact for ’Excellence in Administration’ of the ING Optim pension fund Centre Awards 2013 —— In Poland our insurance business was recognised as the most customer—— The Mobile Banking Campaign ’Penny for your thoughts’ won the friendly insurance company, including two distinguished honours for SAN Accent 2012 Award in the category Financial Service Industry their CSR campaigns —— The ’Gouden Oor Erkenning’ for complaints management; and the —— Japan Life received a three-star rating (out of a maximum ’Complain Online’ award for the fastest and best handling of of three) from HDI Japan for its after-sales call centre. complaints —— ING achieved second position in the Social Media Monitor’s ’Best Bank in the Netherlands’ —— ING Direct Australia was awarded best direct bank for customers by Mozo —— ING-DiBa won the award for ’most popular bank of 2013’, according to economics magazine €uro. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 39 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5 – Promoting responsible lending and investment practices Erik Kemper Manager Treasury and Asset Management at Menzis. We are careful about where and how we invest and aim to create Why is sustainability important to Menzis? As a large health insurer in the Netherlands, Menzis plays a vital role additional value for our clients by to manage the rising costs of healthcare for our clients and to ensure embedding sustainability principles affordable healthcare for the future. In everything we do, we adhere to the principle that sustainability is, in the products and services we and always will be, the norm. Menzis applies that same principle in its offer. In the long-term we want investment portfolio. We believe that financial and social returns are not mutually exclusive, and can even be mutually reinforcing. to deliver real long term value by What is your relationship with ING Investment Management? increasing the share of sustainable Asset management is a specialised field and the investment portfolio of business in our portfolios. Menzis is not large enough to have its own in-house expertise with sufficient continuity assurances. That’s why Menzis outsources the implementation of its asset management to investment funds and external asset managers. We have had a business relationship with ING Investment Management since 2008. Over the past two years, we have used their fiduciary management services through Integrated Client Solutions (100% owned by ING IM). ICS advises us on risk management, investment portfolio structuring and market conditions, as well as on fund manager evaluation and selection through Altis. How did we add value to your investment process? Contents in this chapter In 2013, Altis helped us with our search for a new fund manager for our 5 Promoting responsible lending Emerging Market Equity investments. Together with them, we set criteria and investment practices 39 for assessing the extent to which the asset management company is genuinely committed to sustainability and how ESG criteria are taken on 5.1 Promoting responsible lending board in the specific investment strategy. As well as the traditional analysis and investment practices: at a glance 40 of the manager’s quality, Altis also provided us with a separate ESG 5.2 Setting our standards 41 ’scorecard’. The ultimate test for us is whether the manager fits the 5.3 Environmental and social risk in practice 43 philosophy of Menzis: Sustainability is the norm. 5.4 Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank 49 5.5 Responsible investment at NN Group 52 5.6 Sustainable assets allocated 57 5.7 Progress report 59 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 40 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.1 – Promoting HIGHLIGHTS —— Expanded and strengthened ING’s ESR Framework responsible lending —— EUR 845 million increase in Sustainable Assets Allocated —— First ever ING microfinance facility of EUR 30 million in Turkey and investment —— 39% of our global project finance energy portfolio is allocated to renewable energy deals practices: at a glance —— We allocate 41% of the ING Bank’s balance sheet to mortgages and other type of loans to private individuals. —— ING Investment Management launched a new fund, the ING (L) Investment Europe Sustainable Equity fund Our approach Focus areas Promoting responsible lending and investment practices means creating The sustainability of our business is solidified by promoting sustainable value for our customers by embedding the principles of sustainability lending and investment practices. We do this by offering products that in our products and services. Financial risk is irrevocably intertwined with not only generate good financial results, but also serve social and environmental and social risk and by integrating these together we can environmental objectives and by managing the socio-environmental make our business simpler, stronger and more sustainable. risk of our transactions and client engagements. Our main areas of focus are: —— Setting our standards, our policy framework —— Environmental and social risk in practice —— Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank —— Responsible investment at NN Group. Our reporting framework Our commitments Simpler Stronger Sustainable Promoting responsible We revised our Environmental We strengthened the Our approach commercially lending and investment and Social Risk (ESR) framework. implementation of our ESR assists us to work and engage ING Bank's large corporate clients framework, by further embedding with companies that best address practices are now screened using easy to the approval process in our systems sustainability challenges and will understand criteria. and we will continue this be most successful over time. implementation process in 2014. At ING Investment Management At ING Investment Management, Improved lending and investment we increased transparency, we increased voting activities and decisions have led to a shift in our launching a new website providing expanded ESG information and project finance power portfolio overview of our responsible analysis in the investment cases. towards renewables, the launch investment approach, activities of more sustainability-focused and quarterly publications. Increased integration of ESR products and increased our ability and Environmental, Social and to attract more sustainable assets Governance (ESG) factors in our due under management. diligence and investment portfolio analyses, enables us to anticipate and mitigate non-financial risks that could have a negative impact on society and ultimately on our financial and investment performance. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 41 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.2 – Setting our standards A group-wide approach: ING’s ESR framework Activity-based exclusion policy With 48 million customers worldwide, our business activities can have a This policy ensures that we do not engage in activities that are not in line significant influence on communities and the environment. With influence with our Business Principles and deals with a variety of issues that may comes responsibility. For us, this means making the right choices in how, be present in any sector or business, such as the production of nuclear where and with whom we do business – and crucially, being transparent weapons or online gambling activities. about the underlying principles that guide our daily business decisions. We will refrain from entering into business engagements with any To limit any negative impact our business or that of our customers might have company or organisation whose principal activities are covered by our on the environment and communities, we have created an Environmental and exclusion table. If an excluded activity forms only a minor part of a Social Risk (ESR) framework which guides our business conduct. The ESR company’s or organisation’s total operations, we may agree to finance framework is a practical expression of our ING Business Principles and a customer’s non-controversial activities. In these cases, we will obtain our group’s underlying commitment to respect human rights and the satisfactory assurance based on the nature of the transaction, or environment. It lays down the rules and guidelines for specific industry confirmation stating that ING funds are not directly used to finance sectors, social and environmental issues, with the following key elements: excluded activities. —— An activity-based exclusion policy Although we recognise that the application of this policy can be —— A sector-based policy challenging in some business areas, we aim to apply it across all our —— A customer risk assessment products and services in a consistent and systematic manner. For the —— A transaction risk assessment. application within our insurance and investment management business, please refer to the section Responsible investment at NN Group (page 52). Scope, governance and implementation of the ESR framework In principle, all ING activities fall within the scope of the ESR framework. For a full overview of the business activities that we will not engage in, First formalised in 2003, the framework helps us to minimise financial please refer to ING’s ESR framework. liability and reputational risk that could arise from environmental or Sector-based policy social issues associated with a business engagement. It also enables us We acknowledge that some sectors are more likely to be associated with to engage with clients to help them improve their environmental and environmental and social risk and impacts than others. For customers social performance. By applying our ESR framework, we aim to improve operating in these sectors, we perform a dedicated ESR assessment. the environmental and social performance of our high risk customers. This aims to obtain an overall understanding of the customer’s approach Read more about how we define all our risk outcomes on ING.com to managing the environmental and social issues associated with their The ESR framework has been endorsed by the Global Credit Committee business activities, and to benchmark it against industry standards and best and our Management Board. At an operational level, the implementation practice. We reorganised these policies, to include Energy, and Mining and of ESR policies is facilitated by a dedicated Environmental and Social Risk Metals as separate categories. During 2013, we increased our focus on team (ESR Desk) integrated within the Credit Risk Department. The ESR human rights protection, specifically drawing attention to the rights of Desk advises front office relationship managers, the Credit Committee, children in several sector-based policies arising from our support of the senior management and our customers on business transactions that are Children Right’s and Business Principles. We now have sector-based identified to have potential environmental or social sensitivities. A negative policies for the following sectors, each of which is based around customer advice from the ESR Desk can only be waived by ING’s highest Credit and transaction assessments: Committee or the Executive Board. In practice, such waivers are exceptional. —— Energy (Oil and Gas, Power Generation) —— Chemicals The ESR framework in detail —— Forestry and Agrocommodities As a mainstream financial institution, we aim to engage with all industries —— Manufacturing and sectors within the economy. Not surprisingly, our portfolio embraces —— Mining and Metals. a wide spectrum of customers, from those involved in relatively sensitive The final decision to whether ING engages in a deal is based on the sectors and activities to those engaged in very low risk, more sustainable customer’s ESR performance and the transaction ESR risk profile. areas. However, most customers are not involved at either extreme and have a reasonable degree of ESR integration in their activities. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 42 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.2 – Setting our standards continued Customer risk assessment Advocacy and creating thought leadership We follow a decentralised approach to environmental and social risk Whilst our ESR framework guides our internal processes, we also work assessment, with the screening process initiated locally and escalated to with our peers and respected global organisations to ensure greater ESR Desk if necessary for high risk customers. The customer screening is awareness of the importance of environmental and social factors in embedded within the due diligence which we carry out as part of the the financial industry and beyond. customer on-boarding process. Advocacy on addressing human rights issues For customers operating in the sectors covered under the ESR sector-based The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) policy, we evaluate: developed by John Ruggie, the former special Business and Human Rights representative to the secretary general of the UN, advocates that the key 1. Customer’s location/country of operations responsibility of corporations is to respect human rights. Business must 2. Customer’s environmental and social policies act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others and to 3. Environmental and social reporting and disclosure address negative impacts with which they are involved. 4. Track record on environmental and social issues. Since 2011, we have worked with six other European commercial banks, For more detail on our risk assessment process, including criteria and formally known as the Thun Group, to explore how best the UNGPs could frequency, please visit ING.com be interpreted and applied in relation to banking activities. In October Transaction risk assessment 2013, the group published a discussion paper, ’The Guiding Principles: We carry out a similar assessment at a transaction level, taking into an interpretation for banks’. This aims to stimulate constructive dialogue account environmental and social risks associated with the transaction. between banks and other stakeholders interested in better managing business and human rights challenges. For transactions covered under the ESR sector-based policy, we evaluate: OECD Guidelines —— Engagement level (our services provided) Our Environmental and Social Risk policies use the ’OECD Guidelines —— Underlying purpose of transaction for Multinational Enterprises’ as a benchmark. The latest version of the —— Location/country of transaction. Guidelines (version 2011) includes a new and full expression of human For more detail on the transaction risk assessment process, including rights under which multinational enterprises have to fulfil their ’duty to criteria and the decision-making process, please visit ING.com respect human rights and carry out human rights due diligence as appropriate to their size, nature and context of operations’. The OECD The Environmental Social Risk profile Investment Committee mapped how financial institutions undertake We combine the outcomes of both the Customer Risk Assessment and the environmental and social due diligence when providing financial services Transaction Risk Assessment to create an Environmental Social Risk profile to their customers. In 2012 an advisory group of 15 members monitored for each case, which provides guidance on the appropriate actions that how the mapping exercise developed. We were initially the only financial should be taken. institution invited to join this advisory group, which also includes OECD Training and capacity building on the expanded ESR framework representatives, state and government departments, NGOs and Trade As our risk assessment processes are decentralised, each front office team Union representatives. Our role has been not only to provide feedback on must be highly familiar with the ESR framework. Consequently, we have the application of our own policies, but also to represent the industry and made a significant investment in training programmes to help front office to adequately coordinate and align (when appropriate) views with other and risk management carry out ESR assessments at both customer and industry peers. transaction levels. Human rights are important to business, therefore ING aims to retain a During 2013 and into 2014, we focused on training all relevant staff high level of participation in groups and forums that provide guidance and on the updated ESR framework and implementation. In total more than explore how best the UN Guiding Principles and OECD Guidelines could 460 colleagues have been trained face-to-face at our central offices be interpreted and applied in relation to our activities. (including Amsterdam, London, Frankfurt, Brussels, Warsaw, New York, For some specific examples on advocacy and thought leadership at Sao Paulo, Singapore, Tokyo, Mumbai and Bangalore). In addition, more NN Group, please refer to page 56. than 420 colleagues in other ING countries have been trained through webcast training and webinars. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice What the ESR framework means 41.3% of ING Bank’s assets for ING Bank’s credit risk portfolio are allocated for Most of ING Bank’s activities serve the financing and investment needs of private individuals households and companies, other financial institutions and governments. 29.4% are allocated For example, we allocate 41.3% of the balance sheet in the form of for corporates mortgages and other types of loans to private individuals, and this exposure has for instance minimal environmental risk implications. Some 29.4% of our assets are allocated to meet the financing needs of corporates. ING Bank credit risk portfolio per client segment (In %) Governments 2013 Bonds – Netherlands 18.4 Bonds – GIIPS* 3.0 Bonds – ROW** 53.4 Other*** 25.2 Financial institutions 2013 United Kingdom 22.8 Germany 11.8 Spain 8.2 China 7.5 France 5.3 United States 5.3 ROW** 39.1 ING Bank 2013 2012 Corporates 2013 Governments 10.3 9.4 Netherlands 26.8 Financial institutions 16.5 15.2 Belgium 14.5 Corporates 29.4 30.6 United States 6.1 Consumer lending 41.3 42.6 United Kingdom 4.1 Other 2.5 2.2 Turkey 4.0 ROW** 44.5 Consumer lending 2013 Residential mortgages – NL 46.8 Residential mortgages – ROW** 47.6 * Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain Other consumer lending 5.6 ** Rest of the world *** Other financial instruments such as lending, pre-settlement ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 44 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice continued ING Bank: Risk portfolio by economic sectors Through this table we aim to illustrate which environmental and social risk As indicated on page 43, corporate customers account for 29.4% of our policies apply to the various economic sectors. For example, the activities total lending portfolio, equivalent to around EUR 711.5 billion at year-end of companies categorised within the ’utilities’ sector are covered by five 2013. The table below represents the different sectors that are used to ESR policies, in addition to the ING Business Principles. These policies are classify our corporate customers. The column headed ’Exposure 2013’ environmental compliance, human rights, energy, nuclear energy and the reflects the percentage of our total lending and investment activities in the Equator Principles. various sectors. The sector breakdown is based on the NAICS classification applied by ING Bank Credit Risk Management in our internal measurement methodologies. The table illustrates for example that the largest portion of our total lending to corporates and investment activities is used in real estate (5.7%) and the smallest (0.3%) for the technology sector. ING Bank credit risk portfolio per economic sector and application of ESR framework (in %)* Exposure Which ESR policies apply 2013 (%) Eq ua Fo to rp rin re st ry cip les M in an d Ag in g an d ro co m Fu r M et als mod ities Bu G am bl sines G en in g sp rin et ic en Hu m cip M an uf gine er in an les Ch ac tu rin g En right em ica ls g vir on s En er gy (o m Nu il a nd An en ta cle ar en ga s, po im al lcom Po rn og ra erg y w er ge ne De tes tin plian Sh ip br ph y ration) fe nc g ce Fis he ea kin g e rie s Consumer lending 41.3 Financial institutions 16.5 Governments 10.3 Other 2.5 Corporates 29.4 Real Estate 5.7 Natural resources 5.4 Transportation and logistics 2.8 Services 2.2 Food, beverages and personal care 2.1 General industries 2.1 Builders and contractors 1.9 Chemicals, health 1.5 and pharmaceuticals Other 1.3 Utilities 1.2 Media & telecom 1.1 Retail 1.0 Automotive 0.8 Technology 0.3 * In order to manage stakeholder expectations and to provide more concrete info in line with the system implementation we have mapped the ESR questions with the NAIC codes embedded in ING’s client application in this table. The table published in the ING Group Sustainability Report 2012 on page 38 was conceptual. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice continued What the ESR framework means for NN Group’s credit risk portfolio The overview below, derived from our internal risk measurement methodologies, show that NN Group’s proprietary assets (General Account) are divided over five asset classes. The total market value of these assets amounted to EUR 97 billion at year-end 2013. In order to meet our long-term (life insurance) obligations the majority (57%) of assets are invested in bonds, of which 80% is allocated to government bonds. NN Group credit risk portfolio per asset class (in %) Equity 2013 Common & preferred stock 43 Private equity 16 Mutual funds 41 Securities 2013 RMBS* 53 CMBS** 5 Other ABS*** 42 NN Group 2013 2012* Loans 2013 Equity 6.0 5.2 Mortgages 83 Securities 7.4 7.5 Other loans 17 Loans 17.7 8.0 Bonds 57.1 66.9 Real Estate 4.8 5.3 Cash 7.0 7.1 * In order to provide comparable information based on comparable Bonds 2013 scope of entities, all businesses that have been divested or presented Government bonds 80 as held for sale as at 31 December 2013, are treated as held for sale in 2012. Corporate bonds 12 Financial bonds 8 * Residential Mortgage – Backed securities ** Commercial Mortgage – Backed securities *** Asset-Backed securities ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 46 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice continued 55% Economic sectors NN Group of NN Group’s assets are The overview below specifies how NN Group’s proprietary assets (General invested in ’Governments Account) are allocated to economic sectors. The breakdown is based on and public sector’ the NAICS1 classification applied by NN Group risk management in our internal measurement methodologies. It illustrates that the largest portion of these assets (55%) are allocated for investments in ’Governments and Most if not all activities in the sectors Governments and public the public sector’. ’Retail’ and ’Builders and contractors’ account for the administration, private individuals, non-bank financial institutions, and smallest portion of asset allocation with less than 1% each. We have also commercial and central banks do not carry a high environmental or social indicated which ESG policy is applicable to which sector. risk and therefore do not trigger the screening of ING’s specific ESR policies. An important instrument in implementing the ESR framework is our restricted list. Governments and companies that breach our policies are placed on this list to ensure that no harmful investments are made. NN Group credit risk portfolio per economic sector and application of ESR framework (in %)* Exposure Which ESR policies apply 2013 (%) an M in in d Ag ro Fu g an d com m r M et als od ities G am bl G in g Bu en et ic sines M an en gine sp rin uf ac tu erin g Hu m cip Ch em ring an les ica ls En right En er gy vir on s Nu cle (o il and m ar ga s, An en ta Po rn en erg y pow er im lcom og ra ge ne al te pl Fo Sh ph y ratio De fe st in g iance rest ip br ea kin n) nc e ry Fis he rie s g Governments 55.0 and public administration Private individuals and other 16.8 Non-bank financial 6.5 institutions Real estate 3.7 Commercial 3.3 and central banks Food, beverage 2.1 and personal care Automotive 2.1 and general industries Utilities 1.9 Media, telecom 1.7 and technology Natural resources 1.6 Transportation and logistics 1.5 Other 1.3 Chemicals, health 1.2 and pharmaceuticals Services 1.0 Builders & contractors 0.3 Retail 0.0 * Credit risk portfolio includes the asset classes: bonds, loans and equity. In order to manage stakeholder expectations and to provide more concrete info in line with the system implementation we have mapped the ESR questions with the NAIC codes embedded in ING’s client application in this table. The table published in the ING Group Sustainability Report 2012 on page 39 was conceptual. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 47 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice continued The Equator Principles gave us the opportunity to facilitate the review of the principles, the The Equator Principles (EP) are a set of 10 principles that form the success of which was based on consistency, focus and outreach. It is also financial industry benchmark for determining, assessing and managing during ING’s chairmanship that for the first time, the annual EP meeting environmental and social risk when financing projects over USD 10million. was held in Asia, enabling us to promote EP in a region with less They are primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due adopting institutions. diligence and support responsible risk decision-making. Key changes in the third version of the Equator Principles (EP III) As an Equator Principles Financial Institution (EPFI), we implement the EP Increased scope and transparency in our internal environmental and social policies, procedures and standards. Under EP III, the scope of the principles can be extended beyond project This means we will not provide project finance or project-related corporate finance to include other financing models and other projects which are loans to clients that will not, or are unable to, comply with the principles. part of the regular financing requirements of large corporations. There is While the EP are not intended to be applied retrospectively, we will apply also enhanced focus on transparency as banks will be required to publicly them if an existing project is expanded or upgraded, where changes in disclose the projects they are financing together with information on how scale or scope may create significant environmental and social risks and they implement the EP. impacts, or significantly change the nature or degree of an existing impact. Sharper, expanded criteria The EPIII criteria were updated based on new directives from the World Bank 2003 ING signs up to Group/International Financial Corporation, the experiences of recent years the Equator Principles and the changing ways in which projects are financed. Amongst many changes, the principles include more stringent human rights requirements and addressing climate change risks. 2013/14 ING chairs the Equator Principles Expanded criteria EP III Steering Committee Topic EP II EP III Social risk due Social and relevant human rights The EP are endorsed by 79 banks, representing 35 countries. Together, diligence due diligence signatories account for almost 70% of the international project finance debt ’Free Prior Informed ’Free Prior Informed Consent’ in emerging markets. ING, as an early adaptor, has applied the principles Consultation’ in specific circumstances voluntarily since 2003 and is the Chair of the EP Steering Committee since Explicit reference to address human Social 2012. The chairmanship will finish in spring 2014, as according to the EP rights in preamble Governance Rules. ING will continue to play a proactive role in the Equator Reference to ’Guiding Principles Principles Association as part of the Steering Committee and its different on Business and Human Rights implementing the UN Protect, working groups. Respect and Remedy Framework’ What we achieved As part of EHS Attention to due diligence ING believes that the Equator Principles should continue to evolve in a guidelines and general due diligence Alternative analysis for high emitting balanced way in the years ahead, and in pace with the realities of the EP projects in line with IFC (PS3) Association’s members and stakeholders. We have played a leading role Explicit reference to address climate in facilitating the EPIII review process, and for the first time ever the review change in the preamble process included an external consultation and public commenting process. Climate Change Project reporting requirements on The EP review has therefore been a careful balancing act that has GHG emission levels: strengthened the standards across all countries, while increasing a level — Mandatory: projects emitting > playing field. An example of this were the discussions that took place 100K tonnes of CO2 around climate change mitigation measures, where ING played a critical — Encouragement: projects role to facilitate discussion and reach an agreement that suits EP financial emitting > 25K tonnes of CO2 institutions of different sizes, business cultures and locations. We are also very pleased with the overall outcome of EPIII, which was supported by Sector dialogue the large majority of EPFIs. The updated EP III provides an opportunity to promote the EP and ING in key forums such as International Finance Corporation’s Community of In June 2013, we hosted the launch of the third version of the Equator Learning, United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative and Principles (EP III). This was drafted under our chairmanship of the EP the Business for Social Responsibility conference. These conferences also Steering Committee and formally presented at a conference in Amsterdam target regulators and present excellent opportunities for industry-wide to mark the tenth anniversary of the Equator Principles. Our role as chair discussion on trends and challenges. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 48 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.3 – Environmental and social risk in practice continued Equator Principles: Overview of screened transactions —— Risk Managers: departments which provide control over Front Office ING takes a robust approach to assessing transactions falling under the activities and would generally sign off on the environmental and social scope of the Equator Principles (EP). The assessment will depend on the impacts for ’Low Risk’ EP deals i.e. Category C projects or Category A scale and on the projects risks and impacts, which may vary widely from and B in designated countries project to project. The EP is embedded in our ESR policy framework, and —— Environmental and Social Risk; department within risk management requires involvement of the following three banking areas: fully dedicated to assessing environmental and social impacts associated with ’High Risk’ transactions, which in the context of EP generally refer —— Front Office: departments originate transactions and have direct to Category A and B projects in non-designated countries. Negative contact with the client or sponsors. These departments are critical to advice from the ESR Desk can only be waived by ING’s highest Credit providing information and act as the anchor point between the project Committee or the Executive Board. In practice such waivers are sponsor, lenders and consultants where necessary; exceptional. ING’s EP reporting for 2013 deals refer to EPII reporting criteria, however we provide additional information in line with EPIII reporting requirements: Equator Principles Screening at ING Bank 2013 EP risk category By sector A B C Total Total % Power and Utilities 9 28 1 38 55 Natural Resources 9 7 1 17 25 Infrastructure – 9 1 10 14 Mining 3 1 – 4 6 EP risk category By region A B C Total Total % North America 1 21 1 23 33 CEE 5 11 – 16 23 Asia 10 4 – 14 20 Europe 1 5 2 8 12 Africa 3 1 – 4 6 Latin America – 3 – 3 4 Middle East 1 – – 1 1 EP risk category By country designation A B C Total Total % Designated 1 29 3 33 48 Non-designated 20 16 – 36 52 Total 21 45 3 69 100 Advice category By type of transaction Negative Positive Conditional Total Total % Project finance – 30 9 39 57 Advisory services 1 11 5 17 25 (project) Project related – 6 7 13 19 corporate loans Total 1 47 21 69 100 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 49 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.4 – Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank Our approach to sustainable at a discount. At ING Belgium we have continued to offer real-estate eco loans to private customers as well as eco car loans. products and services Financial institutions such as ING can facilitate the transition to a Micro-finance sustainable economy. ING supports clients who are pro-actively addressing The mission of our micro-finance team is to empower micro-entrepreneurs sustainability challenges like resource scarcity and energy efficiency. in India, Turkey and Africa who do not have access to regular banking There is a need for us to be innovative and agile in creating financial facilities. We provide small loans so that they can start and/or expand their products and services that are able to support commercial activities small scale local business in order to lift themselves out of poverty and with environmental and social benefits. contribute to the wellbeing of their families and the broader development of society at large. For ING, the increasing range of opportunities includes renewable energy, €75m energy efficiency, cleaner production processes and technologies, water volume of micro-finance management, carbon finance, sustainable supply chains, circular business portfolio in India, Turkey models and investment product offerings. and Africa via ING Groenbank Increasing the volume of sustainable The micro-finance portfolio is financed by ING Groenbank and has been products and service offerings primarily distributed via ING subsidiaries since 2010. As of December 2013, By customising financial solutions for our customers’ sustainability the volume of the micro-finance portfolio of ING Groenbank across India, agendas, we can meet our customers’ increasing demand for products Turkey and Africa is EUR 75 million. In addition to this portfolio, our or services with higher environmental or social benefits, while at the Subsidiary in India, ING Vysya bank Ltd. Invested EUR 15 million via their own same time expanding our products and services portfolio. balance per 31 December 2013. This amount will increase to EUR 25 million ING acts both as a financier and asset manager, funding a wide range in 2014. In 2013 a 30 million facility is provided to ING Turkey who has of companies, projects and funds. We include sustainability criteria in started their micro-finance activities in the beginning of 2014. The lending these capital allocation choices to stimulate the transition to a sustainable will be distributed from our local branches in the form of small loans to local economy. This is reflected in the growth of what we, for reporting micro-entrepreneurs as well as local micro-finance institutions. purposes, call ’Sustainable Assets Allocated’. This is an overview of all All ING micro-finance lending has to comply with the UN Principles for the financing and investment assets where we apply sustainability criteria. Investors in Inclusive Finance and our own micro-finance lending In the overview, we make a distinction between sustainable lending requirements. activities originated at ING Commercial Banking and our Retail Bank activities comprising loans provided by ING Groenbank, as well as Socially Responsible Investments at ING Bank investment funds and portfolios offered and managed by ING Bank. Retail customers of ING Netherlands looking to invest EUR 1,000 or above In 2013, the total Sustainable Assets Allocated grew across our business are offered sustainable criteria-based investing as a standard option. by 14.8% or EUR 845 million (see page 58 for the overview of Sustainable Established in 2001, our Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) portfolios Assets Allocated figures). This reflects our consistent pursuit of financial in the Netherlands take into account societal and environmental targets based on sound business ethics and sustainable business priorities. considerations when investing the funds of retail and private banking See page 57 for more details. clients. Sustainability considerations are integrated into the decisionSocial and environmental value products making process of our Investment Office. Data from independent service In 2013, we introduced the ING Savings Account for UNICEF in the provider Sustainalytics is used as input for our analysis. Before choosing Netherlands, a savings account that helps raise funds for UNICEF to companies to include in the portfolio, we analyse both financial and support pre-school education in Madagascar. Each quarter, customers sustainability performance. receive an update on the programme’s achievements. Our SRI universe is the basis for the ING Socially Responsible Investments This year, we also joined forces with energy utility E.ON in the Netherlands Index (ING SRI Index). Since its introduction in 2008, the ING SRI Index to make it more attractive for consumers to purchase solar panels, through has outperformed both the MSCI World Index and the Dow Jones special financing terms. E.ON offers the solar panels to our customers Sustainability Index. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 50 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.4 – Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank continued ING Groenbank Utilities, Power and Renewables team; enabling energy transition The ING Groenbank N.V., the second biggest Groenbank in the €1.3bn Netherlands, offers lending services with a reduced interest rate for a exposure to renewable diverse range of sustainable projects, ranging from PV panels and windmills energy generation projects to waste factories. For example, In 2013 ING Groenbank led the financing representing for a record EUR 100 million green loan to Dutch energy company Eneco, 39% alongside Triodos Bank and ASN Bank. Green loans such as these are of our global project finance provided with interest rate reductions by passing on a tax benefit to the energy portfolio is allocated borrower, and are specifically used to finance environmental projects which to renewable energy deals comply with Dutch government standards, ranging from solar panels to waste factories. Renewable energy projects we financed provided energy to: €100m record loan to 360,000 German households renewable energy company Eneco 47,000 Italian households Sustainable lending at Commercial Banking Sustainable Lending Team ING’s dedicated Sustainable Lending Team was established in 2012, with 7,000 a global mandate to support sustainable business opportunities within households in Glasgow Commercial Banking. Together with all ING lending teams globally, they work on pursuing sustainable business, whilst remaining diligent on credit risks and building on our strong environmental and social risk policy framework. In its first year, 42 sustainable transactions were supported by the team. Experts have been brought together from various areas of Our Structured Finance Utilities, Power and Renewables team at Commercial lending to explore opportunities in sustainable sectors such as renewable Banking is helping customers to grow their businesses in the renewable energy and waste management, but also developments like circular energy sector. Given the large investment required in Europe to meet the economy and smart grids. In addition an internal dashboard was EU’s energy reduction targets, we believe that the coming years will provide developed to show our current involvement in sustainable business as many more opportunities. We focus on markets which have proven and well as various tools to help deal teams recognise sustainable transactions stable regulatory regimes. We continue to provide strong support to the and customers. The team has developed a scorecard approach for all new renewable energy sector, and had a EUR 1.3 billion exposure as a global lending proposals and to identify sustainable transactions and clients limit in renewable energy generation projects by Dec. 2013 (up from which are best in class in each sector. EUR 1.1 billion in Dec. 2012). This represents 39% of the structured finance global portfolio in the electricity sector (up from 31% in Dec. 2012). To support the drive towards sustainable lending, we have established expert panels to share in-house knowledge and build capacity where required. We have also introduced sustainability KPIs to motivate teams to further embed sustainability in their core activities. We recognise outstanding initiatives and transactions with a quarterly internal Sustainability Award. This is helping to build awareness of our progress and continued commitment to sustainability, both within ING and beyond. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 51 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.4 – Offering sustainable products and services at ING Bank continued In 2013 we again played a leading role in landmark transactions across In addition to renewable energy, we also believe that new opportunities various geographies and in a wide range of projects employing different will occur in the area of energy efficiency. These may be in buildings, types of technologies amongst others: industry, energy supply and transport. Our aim is to provide thoughtfully structured financial products to assist customers in managing the risks —— We were mandated lead arranger and hedging bank in the 288MW and making the most of the investment opportunities inherent in energy Butendiek offshore wind project in Germany. This project was the efficiency and the transition to a low-carbon economy. largest European offshore wind farm to come to market in 2013. Once completed, it will deliver electricity to ca. 360,000 German households Spreading the word —— In Italy, we closed the financing of our sixth solar PV portfolio. The Eoxis Commercial Banking decided to place sustainability at the centre of its and Carinola solar PV projects developed by renewable energy fund autumn advertising campaign. Over a three-month period, this campaign Platina brings another 9.5MW of renewable energy to the Italian highlighted how we support companies by financing their transformation market, and will deliver electricity to ca. 5,000 households into a more sustainable business, focusing on a number of green deals —— We supported Riverstone-owned Velocita Energy Developments undertaken in 2013. through the financing of the 11.5 MW Ardoch Over Enoch wind farm near Glasgow, Scotland, which will deliver electricity to ca. 7.000 Structured Finance Utilities, Power households and Renewables Portfolio Evolution —— We closed the financing of the 72MW St. Agata onshore wind farm developed by Fri-El Green Power, the fourth largest wind energy 60 generator in Italy, which will provide electricity to ca. 42,000 households. This transaction reconfirmed our position at the forefront of renewable energy financing in Italy. 50 48% The energy and carbon efficiency team: addressing the new investment challenge During 2013, our energy and carbon efficiency team worked closely with 40 39% clients, governments, public institutions, NGOs and other banks to help identify and overcome the economic, financial, and behavioural and policy barriers to large-scale investment in energy efficiency. This cooperation 30 recognises the development of a new market with significant growth potential for our customers. Market outlook 20 Companies are aware that resources are becoming increasingly scarce and expensive and are therefore addressing sustainability challenges with 13% innovative technologies. We have seen a focus on sustainability in real 10 estate with regards to energy efficiency in buildings and expect to see more value in sustainability certified (BREAAM, etc.) real estate. Waste management is also increasingly becoming an area of focus for companies. 0% 0 We are optimistic about the future of renewable energy. Solar panels 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 continue to decrease in cost and at current levels are attractive investments for private consumers. Onshore wind is becoming slightly more affordable, Gas although the cost of offshore wind has increased significantly, due to new Renewables wind farms being located further offshore. However, costs for offshore Coal wind are set to fall due to the commercialisation of larger and more efficient Oil turbines. In general large scale greenfield renewable energy projects on land in Europe are slowing down, but we anticipate a continuing uplift in smaller scale decentralised energy production initiatives. The developments in renewable energy remain highly influenced by economic and political factors. As long as developments remain transparent, focused on the future and in line with declining investment costs, renewable energy remains an attractive opportunity in the long term. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 52 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.5 – Responsible investment at NN Group Our approach The evolution of our ESG approach As an insurance company, we collect premiums from policyholders and Since the launch of the ING Sustainable Equity fund in 2000, we have invest the money prudently in order to pay future claims under these shared our knowledge of sustainable investing with all our analysts, fund contracts. Through our asset management business, ING Investment managers and sales force. This has helped all our professionals take an Management (ING IM), we invest the majority of these insurance integrated approach to investment, considering relevant non-financial (’proprietary’) assets but also third party assets. Third party assets are those factors in addition to rating the financial aspects of an investment. that we manage for institutional and retail customers through mandates ING IM signed up to the United Nations-supported Principles for and ING managed funds. Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative in 2008, underlining our commitment to integrating ESG factors into our investment process. 2000 ING IM launches first Key milestones in 2013 sustainable investment fund In 2013, ING IM worked hard to demonstrate the value and increase the transparency of our responsible investment practices. We started to publish Active Ownership reports on a quarterly basis and launched a new website to provide an overview of our approach, activities and publications. In addition, ING A responsible approach to investment helps us to meet our commitments IM increased commercial activities and organised various client events focused to policyholders and other customers. This means we consider on responsible investment such as the series of seminars on ’Demystifying Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors in our investment Responsible Investing’ for our institutional clients in the Nordic region. process in order to protect and enhance the risk-return profile of our investments. Furthermore, through active ownership, we support good We also focused on strengthening our responsible investment approach corporate governance and seek to enhance the social and environmental during 2013. For example, we expanded proxy voting activities to Belgian and practices of the companies in which we invest. Finally, we offer transparent Luxemburg funds. Furthermore we increased the level of ESG integration into and specialised sustainable investment products and solutions to meet our equity research process by expanding ESG information and analysis in the the growing interest from our customers in responsible investment. standard equity research formats and developing an ESG risk analysis tool for our portfolio managers. ING IM’s external asset manager selection business introduced a dedicated ESG scorecard for manager selection. In December of 2013, our portfolio of SRI funds and solutions was expanded with the launch of a European Sustainable Equity fund. The value of our sustainable assets under management increased to EUR 3,452 million, with both our investment funds and mandates contributing to this growth. The ING Sustainable Equity fund received the Novethic SRI Label, underlining the quality and transparency of the fund’s investment process. The table on page 58 provides an overview of the sustainable assets allocated. Our rationale for ESG integration The context Our approach In recent years, the market has shown increasing interest in ING IM has integrated relevant financial and non-financial factors into the equity and responsible investment. This has led to sharper focus on the fixed income investment processes. Taking non-financial factors into account assists analysis of ESG factors in the mainstream investment process. to uncover hidden risks at an early stage and discover new opportunities. It is important to look at the materiality of ESG factors, and these differ per industry. We believe that this trend is irreversible because responsible investing is a more complete approach to investing. Events, For example, safety standards, environmental impact, and resource access are material such as accidents with severe environmental damages or factors in the mining industry, whilst product liability and bribery are more material to accounting scandals, show that ESG factors can have a the healthcare sector. Governance is critical in all sectors. We are working with academic significant impact on a company’s share price performance research institutes to further investigate the materiality of ESG factors. This will help us and hence on investment performance. to improve the integration of these factors in order to optimise our investment process. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 53 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.5 – Responsible investment at NN Group continued Responsible investment pillars The shareholder meetings of our Dutch and Belgian holdings, as well as ING IM has a well-established approach to responsible investing, with all companies that are held in the Sustainable Equity fund, are individually the ING Business Principles forming the basis for social and environmental scrutinised by an in-house proxy voting committee for third party assets. responsibility. This responsibility is clearly expressed in our investment Portfolio managers and analysts are represented on this committee in principles, which state our commitment to investing responsibly and order to ensure a clear linkage between our voting and investment activities. delivering customer-oriented solutions. The proxy voting committee for proprietary assets, which also includes portfolio managers and analysts, reviews all shareholder meetings at a Our responsible investment approach is based on four pillars: case-by-case basis. —— Active ownership, including exercising our vote at shareholder All votes cast by ING IM at shareholder meetings on behalf of both meetings and engaging with companies and policymakers proprietary and third party assets can be reviewed on the website. —— Integration of ESG factors in the investment process ING IM is also represented at certain shareholder meetings, primarily —— Investment restrictions in the Netherlands. —— Offering specialised Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds and tailor-made responsible investment solutions. Shareholder resolutions In the United States, Japan and a number of other countries, shareholder Pillar I – Active ownership: voting and engagement resolutions are often used to address ESG issues. In fact, in 2013, Holding shares in a company gives us the right to vote at shareholder resolutions requesting sustainability reporting, both directly by the meetings, on relevant issues. We use this voting right to support or company and by the company’s suppliers, were among the most enhance our investment rationale for a company. We also use dialogue prominent shareholder resolutions, second only to proposals related and engagement with companies to encourage them to adopt the to political contributions and lobbying. ESG practices that we deem appropriate. We actively vote on shareholder proposals that are related to relevant In the broader context, we regularly discuss sustainability topics and ESG issues. We support shareholder proposals if we believe they help corporate governance issues with other investors, legislators and regulatory address significant social and environmental issues that can be material bodies. We are members of several investor networks through which we to a company. However, we take a rational approach to the analysis of engage in policy debates. shareholder proposals. If we believe that a company already adequately Exercising our influence through voting deals with the issues addressed in the shareholder proposal, we may not Investors have a role to play in ensuring that proper checks and balances support the proposal. We make voting decisions based on our analysis of are applied at the corporations in which they invest. Exercise of voting the merits of individual shareholder proposals on a case-by-case basis. rights is one of the most effective ways for investors to hold management Examples of how we voted on shareholder resolutions can be found in to account. the quarterly Active Ownership reports published on our website. ING’s ESR policy framework includes the ING Global Voting Policy, which Dialogue and engagement states that not only is financial, economic and corporate governance Dialogue and engagement with stakeholders is central to a role as an active information important in assessing shareholder value, but so too are social, investor. It helps encourage companies to adopt ESG practices that we deem ethical and environmental considerations. appropriate. This includes adhering to internationally accepted standards of corporate behaviour beyond compliance with local legal requirements. ING’s Global Voting Policy lays down the key principles of voting and ING IM expects all companies in which we invest to adopt standards, policies applies to all asset managers within the company. The principles expressed and management processes covering potential ESG risks. in this policy are the foundation for ING IM’s voting policies, which describe how we vote on standard resolutions at annual general meetings Our active investment strategy means that our analysts and portfolio and extraordinary general meetings. managers are in continuous dialogue with companies regarding ESG as well as financial and strategic issues. We also have an in-house team that ING IM has two proxy voting committees responsible for the voting focuses specifically on ESG issues that may have an impact on our activities, one for proprietary assets and the other one for third party assets. customers’ holdings. As the equity portfolio that we manage on behalf of our institutional and We also collaborate with other institutional investors to engage with retail customers is large, we cannot manually cast votes for all shareholder companies in order to maximise investor influence and to share resources and meetings worldwide. Currently, votes are cast on behalf of all the holdings expertise. We undertake ’collaborative engagement’ in direct cooperation of Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg ING funds with at least EUR 100 million with other investors, or through initiatives such as the PRI Clearing House. of assets under management. In order to ensure that all votes are cast in line with our policy and beliefs, we have a customised voting policy. This policy is implemented by the proxy research agency ISS on behalf of ING IM for the purpose of analysing all relevant shareholder meetings worldwide. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 54 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.5 – Responsible investment at NN Group continued Pillar 2 – Integration of ESG factors in the investment process Case study Rising to the challenge of bribery and corruption “Many studies have been conducted on the impact of inclusion of ESG factors on investment The context With several countries launching more stringent regulation on the performance in recent years. It is fair to say that, liability of companies involved in bribery and corruption, customers at least, integrating ESG factors improves downside are increasingly sensitive to any perceived or potential links with protection while potentially improving upside. In any such conduct. case it improves the risk/reward characteristics of an What’s the challenge? investment portfolio. These findings make perfect We are member of a coalition of 25 institutional investors that engage sense, as the goal of investing in a responsible way with companies around the world on bribery and corruption risks. is to look for sustainable business models, which This coalition, collaborating through the PRI, aims to improve disclosure often result in a company having a competitive edge of companies’ anti-corruption programmes and encourages reporting and being able to achieve superior returns.’ in line with international frameworks. Jeroen Bos, CFA, What we did Head of global equity research at ING Investment Management In cooperation with Transparency International, 45 companies were identified as having weak anti-corruption management systems. As an integral part of our research process, ESG analysis is carried out At the end of 2013, letters were sent to the boards of directors of 30 by ING IM’s analysts. Analysts have access to the ESG database, which of these companies, stressing the importance of a robust framework includes information on how each company scores on different ESG factors for managing anti-corruption risks. These written requests are the compared to its sector average, and if there are any structural issues or starting point of an intensive dialogue with the companies in question. controversies regarding people, planet and society. ESG factors covered Companies were asked to provide a written response on their progress include, amongst others, environmental damage, climate change, in actively monitoring the effectiveness of their existing bribery and corruption, human rights, health and safety, and corporate governance. corruption policies. A number of companies are now being asked The analysts incorporate the results of their analysis into the investment to implement specific changes to their policies and practices. case. This is our company research template, and it ensures that materiality (i.e. the impact on the valuation) is considered for each of the companies We regularly discuss sustainability topics and corporate governance issues reviewed. Fund managers at ING IM take the investment cases into with other investors, legislators and regulatory bodies. We are member account when making investment decisions. of several investor networks through which we engage in policy debates. This process is applied to equities and corporate bonds, with a similar These include the International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN), procedure in place for government bonds. In the case of government Eumedion, the European Fund and Asset Management Association bonds we use ESG data at a country rather than a company level. (EFAMA), the Dutch Fund and Asset Management Association (DUFAS), ESG country factors include for example corruption perception, ease of the PRI, and the Pilot Programme Investor Network of the International doing business, human development, rule of law and energy-dependency Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). In a key development in 2013, the investment case drafted by our equity ING IM is co-chair of the Shareholder Rights Committee of the International analysts now includes an expanded section with an analysis of the Corporate Governance Network. The ICGN is a global membership company’s non-financial performance. We added GMI Ratings to the list organisation with 600 corporate governance leaders based in 50 countries. of ESG data vendors we use in our process. Our analysts are now also Its mission is to raise standards of corporate governance worldwide. In this required to include key questions related to ESG factors, and these are capacity, during 2013 we responded on behalf of all ICGN members to key raised in meetings with company management. By doing this, ESG analysis policy initiatives related to corporate governance and shareholder rights. is not a speciality of sustainability experts limiting the knowledge and Being transparent about ownership practices ability to engage with companies to a select group. This helps us broaden In 2013, we took a significant step towards greater transparency of our the scope of ESG integration across the investment process. active ownership practices for our third party assets, by publishing quarterly In 2013, we also developed a risk tool that provides investment managers reports on our website. The website also offers insights into our dialogue with a comprehensive overview of how their equity fund scores from an and engagement activities with companies on ESG issues, as well as our ESG perspective, and an insight into the largest ESG-risks related to their involvement in public policy engagement. holdings. This helps investment managers make an informed decision about the composition of their portfolios based on non-financial risks that are increasingly linked to the financial performance of a company. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 55 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.5 – Responsible investment at NN Group continued Pillar 3 – Investment restrictions Both our Sustainable Equity and Sustainable Credit funds also meet the Guided by ING Group’s ESR framework, our policy indicates we do not requirements of the Eurosif SRI Transparency Code. invest in companies that are considered to be the worst offenders in Offering tailor-made responsible investment solutions sensitive areas, which include controversial weapons, animal testing, We help our customers establish separate mandates according to their environmental compliance, fur, gambling, genetic engineering, human specific preferences with respect to ESG criteria. This can be achieved rights, nuclear energy and pornography. The restricted list applies to the by using different or additional exclusionary criteria to those used for our proprietary assets and to the specialised SRI funds. sustainable funds, in order to reflect specific clients’ values and beliefs. We also maintain a specific restricted list of companies that produce, trade In addition, ING IM provides advice to institutional investors who wish to or maintain controversial weapons as defined in the ING’s Defence Policy. adopt a responsible investment policy or evaluate and refine one that is The restricted list for controversial weapons companies applies to all already in place. proprietary and third party assets invested in actively managed ING funds, Since 2008, we also offer independent review services of external asset both SRI and mainstream. managers through Altis, which is a part of ING IM. Altis uses ESG factors Pillar 4 – Offering specialised SRI funds and tailor-made in its manager scoring criteria. This has evolved into a dedicated ESG responsible investment solutions scorecard, which enables customers to make their own judgement on the We are developing sustainable investment products to meet the growing weight of ESG criteria versus traditional or financial criteria when choosing demand for good financial returns that also meet sustainability criteria. a fund manager. We have actually managed sustainable investment funds since 2000. Specialised SRI funds ESG outreach In 2013, the value of ING IM’s sustainable assets allocated grew to Governance of ESG activities EUR 3,442 million from EUR 3,141 million in the previous year. This was The governance around our ESG activities is managed through various due to a good performance, supported by new customers and two new internal bodies. Institutional mandates for our sustainable equity strategies. Of the ING IM has an ESG Board, which is chaired by the Chief Investment Officer EUR 3,442 million, EUR 1,195 million is allocated to sustainable equity and consists of senior managers and ESG specialists. The ESG Board strategies, and EUR 2,247 million to sustainable fixed income strategies. provides advice to the management board about our positioning and Our sustainable equity strategy combines best-in-class and exclusionary future initiatives in the ESG area. In 2013, the ESG Board was expanded criteria. In December 2013, we extended our offering through the launch of by including a broader representation of specialists responsible for different a European focused fund. ING IM has been successfully managing a European asset classes and disciplines. Sustainable Equity mandate since 2005 and has now expanded its offering An internal Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Committee is to meet the growing demand from both institutional and retail customers. responsible for implementing, reviewing progress and providing feedback The Sustainable Equity fund received the Novethic Socially Responsible to the relevant teams with regard to our commitment to the UN-supported Investment (SRI) Label during the year. Novethic, an independent French PRI. This committee comprises members representing different asset SRI research agency, awarded the SRI label to 104 funds in 2013, 87% of classes and other departments. This mix helps ensure that implementation which are French. The label highlights the quality, clarity and consistency is carried out across the whole business and that best practices are shared of our fund’s investment process and has helped raised awareness of our in the most effective and efficient way. The internal PRI Committee reports sustainable investment expertise on the French market. to the ESG Board. For institutional customers such as pension funds, insurance companies and foundations, ING IM offers fiduciary management through Integrated “There is a substantial supply of SRI funds in Europe, Client Solutions (ICS). The services of ICS comprise risk management, but not all funds are transparent. Our SRI label, strategic advice, as well as external manager selection offered through launched five years ago, is intended to help Altis. In 2013, ICS established an ESG Committee that meets on a regular individual investors in differentiating SRI funds from basis to discuss developments on responsible investing and determine more traditional funds and to guarantee a high level focus areas. A key focus area for this year was refining the ESG scoring of quality. We awarded the ING (L) Invest Sustainable methodology related to external fund manager selection. Equity fund with our label as they showed that ESG criteria are systematically integrated in the fund’s investment process, and that their investment process offers the greatest possible transparency.’ Dominique Blanc, Director of Research, Novethic ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 56 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.5 – Responsible investment at NN Group continued Advocacy and thought leadership ING IM also contributed to the launch of a globally accepted reporting NN Group contributed to a blueprint on how to integrate ESG criteria in framework developed by the IIRC that combines financial and noncountry risk management. This addresses the business-critical issue of financial information in a clear, consistent and comparable format. the stability of individual countries. The paper was presented by the CRO Whereas information was in the past brought together from different Forum, a group of professional risk managers from the insurance industry perspectives (financial, environmental and social), it will now be compiled that focuses on developing and promoting industry best practices in risk from one integrated perspective. management. Entitled ’Environmental, Social and Governance factors in country risk management – a new horizon’, the paper describes the drivers for integrating ESG criteria in country risk management in underwriting, investments and operational risk. In this fourth blueprint, created by the CRO Forum’s Sustainability working group, our particular contribution and focus was on investments. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 57 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.6 – Sustainable assets allocated ING acts both as a financier and asset manager, funding a wide range In 2013, Sustainable Assets Allocated increased with EUR 845 million, of companies, projects and funds. Increasingly, we include sustainability which underlines our client’s appetite for products and services that apply criteria in these capital allocation choices to stimulate the transition to sustainability criteria. The growth is in investment products for the average a sustainable economy. This is reflected in the growth of what we, for retail customer, contributing to the increase in the volume of NN Group reporting purposes, call ’Sustainable Assets Allocated’. This is an overview managed funds and ING Bank portfolios. Commercial Banking succeeded of all the financing and investment assets that apply sustainability criteria. in continuing to grow its portfolio of financing renewable energy and sustainable projects. The 14.8% growth of Sustainable Assets Allocated In the overview a distinction is made between lending activities originated provides clear evidence of the growth in our clients’ appetite for business at ING Commercial Bank and loans provided by ING Groenbank, as well conducted on sustainability criteria. as investment funds and portfolios offered and managed by ING Bank. The assets allocated by ING IM also fall into two categories: investment €6,570m funds and mandates. Sustainable Assets Allocated for both ING Bank and NN Group ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 58 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.6 – Sustainable assets allocated continued Sustainable Assets Allocated (in € million) ING Bank – Financing 2013 2012 2011 ING Groenbank* 769 804 821 Loans to renewable energy projects 1,300 1,091 1,053 Loans to sustainable projects**** 162 0 0 Loans energy and carbon efficiency projects 1 3 0 Subtotal 2,232 1,898 1,874 ING Bank – Portfolios (managed by ING Bank) 2013 2012 2011 Sustainable portfolios 903 696 528 ING Liric SRI Top 50 19 20 23 CS ING SRI Index fund 38 13 0 Subtotal 960 729 551 NN Group – Portfolios 2013 2012 2011 Sustainable portfolios and funds 10 13 14 (offered by NN Bank)*** Subtotal 10 13 14 NN Group – Funds (managed by ING IM) 2013 2012 2011 ING Duurzaam Aandelen Fonds 125 95 66 INI Duurzaam Rendement Fonds 76 64 50 ING (L) Invest Europe Sustainable 41 0 0 Equity fund ING (L) Invest Sustainable Equity 178 148 80 ING (B) Invest Solidarity Mixed/Child 0 2 2 Focus Euro (not offered anymore) ING (L) Renta fund Euro Credit Sustainable 479 382 209 ING Thai Global Water fund 0 0 4 (not offered anymore) Subtotal 899 691 411 * The amounts for Groenbank over 2011 have been adjusted. Previously, we reported on NN Group – Mandates outstanding loans, while last year and going (managed by ING IM) 2013 2012 2011 forward we will report the balance sheet total, i.e. total assets of ING Groenbank. Sustainable Fixed Income Mandates 1,768 1,920 0 ** Correction to eliminate double counting: Due to European Sustainable Equity Mandates 240 124 77 overlap in allocated assets in the sustainable ING 535 406 0 equity and fixed income funds and the managed Global Sustainable Equity Mandates sustainable portfolios in which some of these Subtotal 2,543 2,450 77 funds are part of the managed allocation, the total allocated amount is adjusted accordingly. *** The amounts for NN Bank were listed in the 2013 2012 2011 previous year as Westland Utrecht Bank, part of ING Bank. Total 6,644 5,781 2,927 **** The scope is limited to sustainable sub-sectors in Correction to eliminate double counting** 74 56 27 water, waste and energy (except for renewables). In 2014 the scope will be increased to a wider Total sustainable assets allocated 6,570 5,725 2,900 set of sustainable transactions. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 59 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 5.7 – Progress report What we said we would do What we Did Expand our Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) policy We strengthened the implementation of our ESR framework, by embedding framework and promote ESR in the sector it in the client on boarding process and transaction approval process in our systems. During 2013, we increased our focus on human rights protection, specifically drawing attention to the rights of children in several sectorbased policies arising from our support of the Children Right’s and Business Principles. In addition, we reorganised these policies, to include Energy, and Mining and Metals as separate categories. At ING Investment Management, we increased our voting activities and expanded ESG information and analysis in the investment cases. We aim to increase our Sustainable Assets Allocated and Our Sustainable Assets Allocated increased with EUR 845 million, which increase the amount of sustainable products offered underlines our client’s appetite for products and services that apply sustainability criteria. 23% of our retail business units offer products or services that have a direct social or environmental benefit. ING Investment Management launched a new fund in 2013, the ING (L) Investment Europe Sustainable Equity fund. Looking forward ING Bank NN Group In 2014, we will continue the global implementation of our expanded In preparation for its standalone future, NN Group is developing a new environmental and social screening processes, supported by an increase Responsible Investment (RI) framework, which will capture the existing in training for all relevant staff. The processes will be embedded in the IT elements of ING IM’s responsible investment approach. In 2014, ING IM systems that implement customer due diligence. We expect to report the will continue to focus on voting and engagement, strengthening ESG first results of this implementation, in the form of numbers of customers integration across asset classes, and expanding our client base for SRI screened, in our 2014 Sustainability Report. funds and tailor-made responsible investment solutions. Under EP III banks are now required to publicly disclose the projects they are financing together with details on how they implement the EP. We will collect the appropriate data during 2014 for disclosure in next year’s report. Next to assessing transactions, investments and clients on their sustainability profile we will aim to capitalise on the potential sustainable business opportunities in the market. We will continue to further embed sustainability into our daily commercial strategy. We aim to expand the volume of sustainable assets allocated and improve and expand our sustainability offerings. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 60 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6 – Improving environmental performance Floor Schneider Managing Director at FIRA We monitor and manage our environmental footprint closely. FIRA verifies CSR information of companies and institutions and enables CSR dialogue based on reliable information. FIRA has developed an online We invest in efficiency solutions in platform where companies can demonstrate their CSR strategies and our operations and ways of working, achievements for stakeholders. The FIRA Platform and methodology used is coherent with international standards such as ISO26000, AA1000 source renewable energy whenever and GRI. we can, integrate sustainability in What is the objective of the FIRA Platform? A key objective for us is to really empower companies to take ownership our procurement process and have and be accountable for their own CSR strategy. We want to go beyond the been offsetting our carbon perception that CSR requirements only relate to compliance and that they can be addressed simply by signing a piece of paper. To achieve that goal, emissions since 2007. we need to engage procurement functions on the customer side, and give them a sense of the wide range of sustainability indicators that should be reviewed. This also helps to leverage what we call their ’power of spend’; meaning that buyers have a great opportunity to exert positive influence over suppliers. We make sure that suppliers and buyers work with the same framework, which encourages dialogue and also ensures that both parties have consistent and time-saving models in place. Our goal is take sustainable procurement beyond CSR risk management alone – to address the frustration created by multiple types of sustainability questionnaires and codes of conducts that suppliers were asked to Contents in this chapter complete; but that failed to address the information that buyers were 6 Improving environmental performance 60 actually looking for. We are based in the Netherlands, but are expanding worldwide to reflect the global nature of supply chains. 6.1 Improving environmental performance: at a glance 61 What does it mean to work with ING ? 6.2 Driving efficiency 62 ING joining the programme was an important milestone for us. We work with a number of financial institutions and having ING as part of the 6.3 Sustainable procurement 64 team means we can partner with one of the Netherlands’ major players. 6.4 Monitoring and reporting FIRA supports ING to identify the most material impact of their facilities environmental performance 66 management, environmental and labour-related issues and focus on where 6.5 Progress report 70 the greatest impact is, notably through IT. FIRA is very much about partnership and transparency. As an assurance provider; we do not decide what’s right or what’s wrong. Instead, our role is to manage the CSR-information and ensure it is reliable. Our approach is very much based on process and not on the completion of yet another questionnaire. It is a process that captures what companies are already doing and achieving, highlights best practices, identifies areas for improvement and makes all that information available. We also ask open questions, for example on the wider risks in supply chains, which are useful to trigger conversations and open dialogue. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 61 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.1 – Improving HIGHLIGHTS —— NN Group adopted a new procurement policy covering updated environmental sustainability requirements based on the UN Global Compact —— The carbon emissions per FTE decreased more than 8% performance: —— In 2014, ING will obtain a Bronze level assessment from FIRA. at a glance Our approach Focus areas ING’s Business Principle – ’We are environmentally and socially To manage our footprint, we focus on reducing the use of resources, responsible’, and our business priority for ’Operational Excellence’ set adopting greener alternatives and offsetting the remaining carbon the agenda for ING’s environmental management programme. We see emissions from our energy and business travel. We measure and report managing our environmental footprint as a means to increase the on the most relevant areas of our environmental footprint. Due to the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations. In our experience, being office-based nature of our core business activities, we emphasise the more environmentally friendly often also translates as being financially following focus areas: smarter. In this chapter, we focus specifically on our own operational —— Driving efficiency environmental footprint. —— Sustainable procurement —— Monitoring and reporting environmental performance. Our reporting framework Our commitments Simpler Stronger Sustainable Improving Our data-collection sustainability Through efficiency initiatives we We are embedding sustainability environmental tool has been updated to be simpler strengthen our environmental criteria into our procurement and more user friendly. It now performance. These include systems and adopting performance enables greater transparency, behavioural change, new ways of environmentally smart solutions. consistency and accuracy. working as well as reducing energy use through a more efficient IT infrastructure. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 62 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.2 – Driving efficiency Our approach to energy efficiency Our facilities management teams are continuously working to improve Case study Commercial Banking Asia wins the energy efficiency of our buildings. Equipment is replaced or upgraded Earth Hour staff engagement regularly to support energy efficient technologies, particularly those related award to computers, motion sensors, lighting and printers. Commercial Banking Asia’s creative effort and enthusiastic participation Increasingly, new ING buildings incorporate specific energy saving features in during Earth Hour have been recognised by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) order to gain green certifications such as those provided by LEED, BREEAM Singapore. The team got a staff engagement award for ’the company and Green Star. In 2013, NN Group updated its real estate policy to include that has made the most significant and sustainable impact via its internal the requirement to select working offices that carry green certification. stakeholder engagement activities, and enabled staff to inspire others in taking action’. ENERGY EFFICIENCY ACHIEVEMENTS Belgium: ING Bank’s two main buildings and ING Bank branches Energy efficiency: investing ’carbon neutral’ since 2007 in more efficient data centres Germany: ING-DiBa AG moved to a revitalised building with The energy efficiency of our data centres has the continuously attention of BREEAM certification Facilities Data Centre to improve on power consumption. In the Netherlands UK: ING Bank secured a prestigious Platinum Award within the we have finished the development of a new data centre. This new data ’Clean City’ Awards centre has an efficient way of cooling by using only air for as long as US: certificate granted by US Green Building Council possible (benefitting from the mild Dutch climate) to limit the use of mechanical cooling machines. India: ING Vysya Bank Mumbai headquarters awarded with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification Compared to one of the existing data centres of ING in the Netherlands Singapore: ING Bank staff moved into the Tampines Grande building this new data centre has a potential reduced energy consumption of 20%. which incorporates solar panels into its façade reducing energy In 2014, ING starts with migration towards this new data centre which consumption by 2,000 kWh for all of its tenants (not only ING staff) will contribute to energy saving. Hungary: NN Group’s landmark ’Landlord’ building awarded LEED certification Business travel efficiency: Czech Republic: NN Group HQ located in ’Golden Angel’ landmark reducing business travel building was awarded a 5-star BREEAM certification. Investing in audio and video conferencing Video and audio conferencing is an additional way in which we can reduce unnecessary business travel, costs and carbon emissions. We have invested in these solutions, ranging personal video units to small and large video rooms, as well as high-end tele-conferencing facilities. We will continue to invest in audio-conferencing solutions for home and remote employees in the future. We use communication and awareness campaigns to actively promote these facilities, because reducing business travel is also very much about behaviour change. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 63 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.2 – Driving efficiency continued 400 video-conferencing facilities Waste efficiency: E-waste management are now in place across In 2013, ING proactively sought sustainable disposal solutions for various the business units types of IT hardware at the end-of-use phase. During this pursuit, multiple pilots were conducted to find secure and sustainable options. One of these 10% increase in video-conferencing pilots was focused on securing a second-life use for old but reusable data facilities in our European centre equipment. One of the primary knock-out criteria for a successful business units pilot was the supplier’s attention and care for environmental and social concerns. Due to the high environmental standards that are in place and a 50% increase in the number of positive experience during the pilot, ING is currently exploring the next steps. minutes used for high-end Furthermore, Retail Bank International sought a sustainable solution for video-conferencing workplace hardware in 2013 – including desktops, laptops and mobile phones – for the end-of-use phase. 6,000 users of audio-conferencing, ING sees giving IT hardware a second life as an opportunity to contribute an increase of 50% to a reduced demand for raw materials for hardware production and less overall waste. Business travel alternative: leasing electric cars Following the introduction of electric cars to our lease fleet, several ING offices in Europe are now equipped with charging stations to encourage employees to opt for greener cars. Our offices in Amsterdam were equipped with 30 charging stations in 2013. In the spring of 2012, we partnered with an electric taxi service to support the transportation needs of employees in the Netherlands. Through this initiative, we have ’greened’ 18,000 kilometres of journeys up to year-end 2013. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 64 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.3 – Sustainable procurement Our approach 3. Product/service assessment: With a combined annual overall spend on suppliers of EUR 4.8 billion In the final phase to be further addressed in 2014, we will focus on at ING Bank and NN Group, we have a real opportunity to drive our assessing the sustainability of the products and services sourced. We regard sustainability agenda through the supply chain. By encouraging our circular purchasing as a key future model of procurement and have already suppliers to share our standards and work towards continual improvement, begun to integrate it into our procurement practices. we believe we can make a demonstrable impact on the environment and NN Group has a similar sourcing process in place. In December 2013, its society while mitigating risks. management approved a new Procurement policy, including a specific chapter on Sustainable Procurement. In this chapter a specific reference is Our Procurement Charter made to the UN Global Compact principles. In addition, each procurement As a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we have asked our category has been working on an analysis of the sustainability risks and suppliers to agree to compliance with the UNGC principles that promote opportunities. An overview of existing sustainability initiatives per category human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection and is in place. Engagement with our suppliers will be an important element anti-corruption. in our approach going forward. As such, we have developed a new ING Bank Procurement Charter. This states that sustainable procurement means taking into account the Partnerships in sustainable procurement environmental and social aspects of the products and services procured, as This year, ING Bank and NN Group partnered with FIRA Sustainability B.V. well as the attitude of the supplier towards sustainability. The Procurement to screen and assess the sustainability performance of suppliers. The pilot Charter defines the governing principles for organising, managing and conducted this year was largely successful, with a positive response rate conducting procurement activities globally. of 85% of a small select group of suppliers for voluntary assessments in the Netherlands. The FIRA platform is now embedded in our RFP (Request for Proposal) process for Facility Management suppliers in the Netherlands The Sustainable Procurement programme and will be expanded to other procurement domains in 2014. Our Sustainable Procurement programme, which began in the Netherlands in 2012, takes this a step further by embedding ING’s procurement policy The FIRA platform provides us with the opportunity to connect with towards suppliers into our processes. In 2013, we focused on implementing sustainable suppliers through FIRA’s database of assessed suppliers. our sustainable procurement policy throughout our global supply chain. Furthermore, FIRA will provide verification services for assurance of suppliers’ sustainability commitments and claims. In 2014, ING will obtain The Sustainable Procurement programme consists of three main elements a Bronze level assessment from FIRA which means that FIRA assessed our which are outlined below: sustainability commitment against ISO26000 standards. 1. Supplier qualification (SQ) ING Bank also partnered with the sustainability supply management The process begins with a supplier qualification process, where we ask agency EcoVadis. This organisation operates the first collaborative platform our suppliers to commit to our global ING’s Procurement Sustainability that enables companies to monitor the sustainability performance of Standards, before we enter into a contractual agreement. The SQ process suppliers across 150 sectors and 95 countries. Through the initial pilot focuses on policies in two areas: sustainability (covering human rights, phase, we will aim to assess 100 selected cross-border suppliers on their labour, environment, and anti-corruption); and Financial Economic Crime sustainability performance. as defined in ING’s FEC Statement. In 2013, we joined 22 other Dutch companies involved in the National 2. Supplier performance assessment Circular Purchasing ’Green Deal’. This is a commitment to making circular Once the supplier has signed the IPSS, we conduct an environmental and purchasing an integral part of our procurement process over the next three social performance assessment of selected suppliers. We do this alongside years. In practice, we are shifting from a linear to a circular purchasing external sustainability verification agencies and benchmarks such as FIRA model. In other words, we are moving from purchasing goods that are and EcoVadis. typically wasted after usage, to purchasing services through results-based contracts such as renting or leasing. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 65 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.3 – Sustainable procurement continued Specific projects in this area include: Energy alternative: procuring renewable energy —— Identifying additional sustainable commuting solutions for our employees As a financial services company, we primarily use electricity to power —— Entering into contracts where products are returned to the our offices and branches, and also to run our data centres. We strongly manufacturer for recycling or reuse encourage the use of renewable energy in countries where it is available. —— Working to reduce packaging waste and transportation needs related However, availability remains challenging in some areas, like in Romania. to product delivery. CARPET RECYCLING AT NN GROUP Millions of square metres of worn-out carpet are thrown away every year, often burned or dumped at landfill sites, leading to the destruction of valuable raw materials. In the recent renovation of our office in The Hague, The Netherlands, we took steps to ensure that roughly 9,500 m2 of used carpets was safely taken back and recycled. NN Group received a Take Back™ certificate from carpet supplier Desso, as a guarantee that the material is recycled according to Cradle to Cradle principles. A grand total of 37,340 kilograms of carpet tiles were separated at Desso’s innovative Refinity® separation plant. The yarn is sent back to a yarn supplier for recycling and will be used for new carpets. The bitumen for the backing is sold to the road and roofing industry. All non-recyclable fractions are used as secondary fuel in the cement industry. A carpet take back of this scale does not happen often in The Netherlands. The ’Haagse Poort’ carpet project is said to be an example to make responsible use of available resources. The success was mainly due to the cooperation between all parties involved, including Desso Nederland, the owner of the building and the facility management and procurement teams at our insurance and investment management business in the Netherlands. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 66 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.4 – Monitoring and reporting environmental performance Our data management system A new baseline In 2013, we updated our environmental management tool to increase 2013 will be considered as the new set of data. When there are the reliability and accuracy of publicly reported data on various aspects of significant organisational changes, the baseline is changed. In such a way our sustainability performance. The updated tool reflects changes in our that energy consumption and emissions are measured and are comparable organisation and the increased maturity of our environmental reporting each year. Significant will mean at least an impact of 5% of the CO2 since 2009, when the first platform was custom built for our use. emissions. Both ISO 14064-1 and the GHG Protocol require that a baseline recalculation policy is put into place. For more information, see our reporting protocol for the calculations of 2013 on ING.com. This will be Group CO2 emissions in kilotonne used and updated every year to assess whether or not a business unit Total carbon Scope 1* 29.4 will be included. Total carbon Scope 2* 59.0 Considering the current organisational changes planned for ING, we Total carbon Scope 3* 49.5 will assess future performance against an average baseline of two years. Meaning the target of a CO2 emissions decrease on absolute level of 7% will be benchmarked against an average of the prior two years. This will * Scope 1: comprises of emissions from our use of natural gas and fuel oil; then be calculated every year to provide a more accurate comparable S cope 2: comprises of emissions from our use of electricity, renewable electricity foundation for emissions calculations. and district heating; Scope 3: comprises of emissions from our business travel by air and car. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 67 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.4 – Monitoring and reporting environmental performance continued CO2 Emissions Breakdown of energy consumption (Carbon emissions in kilotonne) ING Bank 2013 2012 2011 MWH KiloMWH KiloMWH Kilo(x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne Electricity 78 43 101 60 144 69 Renewable electricity 228 0 235 0 230 0 Natural gas 102 24 103 21 123 25 * Due to ING’s divestment strategy, the overall size of the company was reduced which resulted in Fuel oil 7 2 9 2 8 2 a reduction in total energy usage. District heating 23 5 23 2 24 3 Regarding our non-renewable electricity portfolio, a large reduction was made due to a major shift from Total energy 438* 74* 471 85 529 99 non-renewable to renewable electricity in Germany. NN Group 2013 2012 2011 MWH KiloMWH KiloMWH Kilo(x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne Electricity 15 8 38 23 34 19 Renewable electricity 27 0 83 0 80 0 * The environmental data reported in 2013 includes Natural gas 18 4 19 4 6 1 sales offices/branches dedicated to serve external clients, which were not part of the reporting scope Fuel oil 0 0 0 0 0 0 in previous years. The considerable decline in energy District heating 15 3 14 2 2 0 consumption of NN Group compared to 2012 can be explained by a large decrease in the total number Total energy 75* 15 154 29 122 20 of insurance business units. ING Group 2013 2012 2011 Coverage (% of employees) 78 77 79 MWH KiloMWH KiloMWH Kilo(x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne (x 1.000) tonne Electricity 93 52 139 84 179 87 Renewable electricity 255 0 318 0 311 0 Natural gas 120 28 122 25 128 26 Fuel oil 7 2 9 2 8 2 District heating 38 8 37 4 26 3 Total energy 513 89 625 115 652 118 Total energy per FTE* 8.5 1.5 8.8 1.6 7.9 1.5 *Total energy per FTE in MWH and in tonne. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 68 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.4 – Monitoring and reporting environmental performance continued Energy consumption and carbon emissions through business travel by car and air (Carbon emissions in kilotonne) ING Bank 2013 2012 2011 KM KM KM (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne Car travel 97* 18* 62 16 74 18 Air travel 122 17 130 16 141 17 Total travel 219 35 192 32 215 35 * ING Bank in the Netherlands reports on lease kilometers, which were not included in the reporting scope in previous years. As a rule, one third of the lease kilometres driven by employees are reported. NN Group 2013 2012 2011 KM KM KM (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne Car travel 53 10 59 15 16 4 Air travel 24* 4* 68 8 102 12 Total travel 77 14 127 23 118 16 *D  ue to ING’s divestment strategy, the overall size of NN Group was reduced which resulted in a reduction in air travel. ING Group 2013 2012 2011 Coverage (% of employees) 91 74 75 KM KM KM (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne (x 1 MILLION) Kilotonne Car travel 150 28 122 31 90 22 Air travel 146 21 197 24 243 29 Total travel 296 49 319 55 333 51 Total travel carbon – 0.69 – 0.78 – 0.64 per FTE in tonne ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.4 – Monitoring and reporting environmental performance continued Carbon Offsetting We offset 100% of our remaining carbon emissions through the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Units (VCUs) from wind power projects in China. To offset 2013 emissions, pre-Clean Development Mechanism (pre-CDM) carbon credits were purchased from the Wuxianglang project – a new-build wind plant with total installed capacity of 150MW. Carbon credits bought by ING are booked in an international market VCU registry. When compensating CO2 emissions from our operations, an equal amount of carbon credits is booked and deleted from our account. Carbon emissions extrapolated (in kilotonne) 2013 2012 2011 Coverage (% of employees) 81 75 77 ING Bank Total carbon 109 117 133 NN Group Total carbon 29 52 36 ING Group Total carbon 138 169 169 Total carbon per FTE in tonne 2.2 2.4 2.1 Total extrapolated carbon 169 209 225 ING Group Total carbon Scope 1* 29.4 27.0 28.1 Total carbon Scope 2* 59.0 87.7 90.1 Total carbon Scope 3* 49.5 54.7 51.0 * Scope 1: comprises of emissions from our use of natural gas and fuel oil; S cope 2: comprises of emissions from our use of electricity, renewable electricity and district heating; Scope 3: comprises of emissions from our business travel by air and car. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 70 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 6.5 – Progress report What we said we would do What we Did We will focus on lowering our direct In 2013, the total extrapolated amount of carbon emissions from our environmental footprint business operations decreased from 209 to 169 kilotonnes compared to 2012 and per FTE from 2.4 to 2.2 tonnes. We will increase the scope of our We have developed a new ING Bank Procurement Charter. This charter sustainability procurement programme defines the governing principles for organising, managing and conducting procurement activities globally. In 2013, we focused on implementing our principles of sustainable procurement throughout our global supply chain. NN Group adopted a new procurement policy covering updated sustainability requirements based on the UN Global Compact. Looking forward ING Bank NN Group To achieve our group-wide targets, we rely on our country offices In line with the Dutch ’MeerjarenAfspraak 3’, NN Group aims to implementing environmental initiatives at a local level. Some countries achieve a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions in its Dutch operations by have already set ambitious targets while others are continuing to build 2020 compared to 2005. We will do this through implementing energy their environmental programmes. efficiency measures and seeking green alternatives. By 2020, ING Bank aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 7% from 2013 levels by: —— Implementing efficiency measures in the most relevant areas of operations. —— Raising the share of energy procurement from renewable sources for our own use to 80%. In the Netherlands, ING Bank’s goal is to achieve a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 compared to 2005 levels. The environmental management team in the Netherlands has a 2016 action plan to achieve this, based on forecasts in carbon intensive areas of operation. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 71 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7 – Engaging our employees Zoltán Hajtó HR Director at ING Bank Hungary Creating a great working environment that encourages our How does ING Hungary ensure that the employees have access to information about their rights and responsibilities? people to develop their skills, grow ING Hungary developed an Employee Handbook which provides personally and professionally and employees a summary on subjects like remuneration, holidays, working organisation, dress code. It has been uploaded to the HR public site, to be achieve their full potential. accessible for all staff. The detailed HR related regulations are available in separate policies – such as the Training Policy or the Joiners and Leavers Policy – available on the HR public site. Newcomers are informed about the relevant HR policy and practice information in two phases; at HR on their first working day, the second is at the integration training where more detailed information is provided. New joiners can also visit our intranet site about any employment related information they require. We organise regular orientation sessions to gain an insight on all areas of the bank where existing colleagues are also welcome to join. How different is the situation at ING for employees within the local context and labour laws? Thanks to the Work Agreement we can better comply with local regulations and could improve the reputation of our Works Council as a social partner. The whole financial sector is in a very turbulent environment, which results in a lot of uncertainties concerning the future of the banks. The ING Contents in this chapter employees have a transparent and predictable system of social relations, 7 Engaging our employees 71 under the umbrella of the Work Agreement which is a sign that we count on our staff as accountable individuals who are contributors of our success. 7.1 Engaging our employees: at a glance 72 7.2 Being a responsible employer 73 What have been the challenges and the advantages of an employees’ Works Council? 7.3 Building a professional and accountable culture 75 We should differentiate the two phases of the Works Council: before 2012 7.4 Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture 77 and after. Since 2012 we have a new Labour Code in force in Hungary. 7.5 Measuring our performance as an employer 79 The former Code provided limited power to the Work Council, which was a 7.6 Progress report 80 simple co-decision body of the staff. Even if the regulation was not generous the Works Council was recognised as a professional social partner of the employer. We have discussions twice a year on the economic situation of the Bank, and have organised consultations for relevant decisions or projects. Since 2012 the Labour Code allows the opportunity to regulate almost all the topics of a Collective agreement in a Work Agreement in case there is no trade union. Based on this we have started the negotiations with our local Work Council and after a few months we signed our own Work Agreement. Thanks to this new regulation sensitive topics like disciplinary rules or data protection could be covered. I am convinced the relationship with Works Council is a fair partnership and our staff recognises them as an important organisation to express their opinion. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 72 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.1 – Engaging our HIGHLIGHTS —— ING bank won seven Top Employer Awards employees: at a glance —— EUR 74 million spent on employee training and development —— Sustained engagement score for ING Bank despite major organisation changes. Our approach Focus areas The financial sector is under great scrutiny and experiencing significant We believe that employees who are able and engaged and are determined change. We are redefining what kind of bank and what kind of insurance to get the best out of themselves will help us be the preferred financial business we want to be, how we can help our customers get ahead, and partner for our customers, our investors and for society at large. When we what we can contribute to society. To help us rise to these challenges, succeed, it will be because of our capabilities, our engagement and our we must attract, retain and develop the right talent by being simpler, collaboration across the organisation. stronger and a more sustainable employer. —— Being a responsible employer —— Helping employees through change —— Building a professional and accountable culture —— Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture Our reporting framework Our commitments Simpler Stronger Sustainable Engaging our employees A simpler organisation is easier We support and develop our people Our long-term business success to manage and will enable us in order to help them better serve depends not only on being resilient to provide more attention and our customers. We seek to to change, but also on a motivated support to our people. continuously equip them with the workforce. We expect the highest skills and approach needed for us to levels of personal conduct and thrive in a rapidly-changing business integrity from employees. and sector. This approach enhances the professionalism and engagement of everyone at ING and enhances customer loyalty, our financial results and our reputation. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 73 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.2 – Being a responsible employer ING Bank’s strategic HR priorities Case study ING Bank’s Top Employer Programme 63,805 employees at ING Bank The Top Employer programme is centred on 22 standards which help us to consistently attract, develop, and retain the best people. ING’s Top Employer standards determine ’what’ we want to achieve, €60m spent on training the local teams determine ’how’ they will achieve it based on a local and development gap analysis, local priorities and action plans. Human Resource management teams across the global organisation have the target to implement the 22 standards by 2014. Every country business unit has 45.4/54.6 female/male a local Top Employer team driving the implementation supported by gender ratio the local CEO. Across the banking businesses, best practices are shared in the three global priorities identified to bring more focus and consistency to the Our focus at ING Bank is to partner with management by advising, Top Employer programme: performance management, development, developing and challenging them as leaders and professionals with the and efficient & effective collaboration. We track our progress via the objective of increasing professionalism and engagement within the larger global and local Top Employer dashboards and also use these employee base. We believe motivated and well-equipped employees will platforms to share best practices. lead to better-serviced customers which in turn is good for our overall performance. Our ambitions are based on five strategic HR priorities: In 2013, 17 local Top Employer teams, covered most of our employee population. Altogether, our teams were successful in winning seven Creating a lean and agile bank Top Employer awards. With a low cost base, limited organisational layers and optimised spans of control. Developing inspirational and collaborative leaders Leaders with a shared understanding of our strategic priorities, are aware and equipped for their own role in achieving ING’s business and people objectives and are role models. Building deep professionalism and personal accountability We drive personal accountability, strengthen feedback and ensure our people have the deep professionalism to execute. Striving for HR excellence and collaboration Our drive for excellence and collaboration is underpinned by continuously simplifying, standardising and improving key HR processes. Establishing ING Bank as a Top Employer It is our ambition to be perceived and recognised by the external market and our employees as a Top Employer. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 74 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.2 – Being a responsible employer continued NN Group’s strategic HR priorities Equipping our employees to effectively deal with change €14m spent on training 2013 was a year of major transition for a number of business units within and development ING’s global operations. We are committed to supporting employees who are directly affected by organisational changes. At the same time, we focus 48.5/51.5 on retaining the right talent and ensuring that our people remain engaged female/male and able to take charge of change. gender ratio In February 2013 a second phase of ING Bank’s Retail Netherlands’ cost reduction programme was announced on top of the programme announced in November 2011, followed by an extension of the existing cost-saving At NN Group, we believe that our employees are the ones that make programme in the fourth quarter of 2013. Including this extension, total our strategy come to life. We invest in their personal and professional headcount reductions are 4,400 FTEs and will result in EUR 460 million development and aim to provide them with the tools they need to be annual cost savings by 2015. Since the start of the programme, there has successful and to create a work environment that supports their physical been a reduction of about 2,900 FTEs. and mental wellbeing. We appreciate effort and reward results. In the last quarter of 2012, NN Group announced a reorganisation for We seek to empower our people to make a positive difference to our its insurance and investment management operations in the Netherlands. customers. We believe that the success of customer-centricity at NN Group The estimated headcount reduction associated with this programme is lies in the behaviours of our people. Through organisational culture 1,350 FTEs over the period 2013–2014. By the end of 2013, a reduction programmes, we are connecting our employee value proposition to our of 818 FTEs was realised. The restructuring process has led to stronger customer proposition. governance and better integration of support functions. To guide the We strive to create an inclusive corporate culture that welcomes, organisation through these challenging processes, we introduced numerous acknowledges, respects, challenges and benefits from each other’s initiatives to provide employees with training, coaching and consulting. differences. We endorse a culture that welcomes and respects everyone and by this creates room for full engagement and makes innovation happen. We have developed a set of common corporate values to reflect the strategic direction of the insurance and investment management organisation. These values – We are Clear, We Care, We Commit – describe how we deliver on strategy in our everyday business, and how we move from strategy to execution. They provide a simple framework that any business, department, team or individual can use to evaluate and improve their own performance or business process. Our core values provide a clear basis for key behaviours that will guide our employees through the organisational change. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 75 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.3 – Building a professional and accountable culture ING’s roots can be traced back to 1881. We have experienced great Increased focus on risk and non-financial performance change since then and our culture today is expressed by ’Orange Spirit’. Variable remuneration is linked to risk and non-financial performance This is the spirit that guides us as we set our priorities, and lies at the heart and will take into consideration both individual and company performance of how we do things at ING. Although we speak many languages, we all criteria. Performance measurement will account for estimated risks and aim to share the same values. Regardless of our background we remain costs of capital. In addition to financial indicators, performance will also entrepreneurial and dedicated, and committed to doing business in a fair be assessed based on non-financial drivers, by means of a number of and responsible way. targets regarding economic, environmental, customer satisfaction and social criteria. More information on remuneration can be found in the Responsible remuneration ING Group Annual Report 2013, pages 81 to 87. The primary objective of the remuneration policy is to enable us to retain and recruit qualified and expert leaders, senior staff and other highly Employee learning and development qualified employees. We endeavour to match compensation appropriately Every employee is entitled to and goes through a performance against a variety of factors, such as the complexity of functions, the scope management process on an annual basis. Part of this process is to allocate of responsibilities, the alignment of risks and rewards, international legislation a budget to each employee for both professional development and and the long-term objectives of the company and its stakeholders. This is training, as well as personal development. With the current restructuring more important still in light of the changing international standards regarding of the organisation and in view of divestments and staff redundancies, we responsible remuneration. These factors differ for each role, line of believe that it is important for employees to be well prepared for a career business and country. Wherever possible for a global financial institution inside as well as outside ING. This helps us to build a more engaged and of our size, we aim to take account of these differences and also of the skilled workforce while also enabling our employees to take a long-term standards applied within similar financial institutions in the various view of their career. countries where we operate. Executive development Remuneration policy for the Executive Board Management Board: In accordance with the Banking and Insurance Codes, According to the remuneration policy for the Executive Board as adopted annual education programmes are in place for both the supervisory board by the AGM on 27 April 2010 and amended by the AGM on 9 May 2011, and the management boards for banking and insurance. These learning remuneration of Executive Board members consists of a combination of programmes cover relevant developments at the bank and in the financial fixed compensation (base salary) and variable remuneration (together sector, corporate governance in general and in the financial sector in ’total direct compensation’), pension arrangements and benefits. particular, the duty of care towards the client, integrity, risk management, financial reporting and audits. Throughout last year, the Board received education on these topics. Financial performance indicators include: Non-financial performance indicators include: 1. Underlying net profit for ING Group 1. R  einforce ’Customer First/Suitability’ culture of transparency, honesty, integrity and societal awareness 2. Reduce double leverage in ING Group 2. Strengthen key stakeholder relationships 3. Reduce the loan-to-deposit ratio of ING Bank 3. Improve employee engagement across the Banking and 4. Reduce leverage in ING US in preparation for IPO base case Insurance operations 5. Reduce leverage in Insurance EurAsia to prepare for standalone future 4. Improve leadership capabilities and strengthen leadership pipeline 5. On sustainability: improve sustainable business practices 6. Align Operational Excellence Group-wide ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 76 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.3 – Building a professional and accountable culture continued Senior executives: We believe it is important for our leaders to have the Talent development qualities they need to lead the company towards success. We strive to The ING International Talent programme is our bank’s global trainee provide them with the appropriate development opportunities and programme, where international graduates are attracted, selected, assignments. In turn, our leaders create opportunities for our employees on-boarded and developed using a clearly defined framework. The trainees to develop and take on challenging assignments and career paths, thus are offered a three-year curriculum that provides a rich blend of both creating a participative culture. leadership development and core banking skills. This gives our trainees a solid foundation in terms of banking knowledge and supports their growth For example, in 2013, ING Bank’s management council (top 100) and in becoming role models for our values and leadership standards. executives from country management teams, participated in a leadership development programme simulating a bird’s-eye-view of an entire, NN Group’s Generation 2020 programme is being developed for 2014. integrated bank with associated challenges and trade-offs, allowing them It focuses on strategy, business innovation and product development by to test strategy and decision making and learn from the results. involving early and mid-career talents as a sounding board for Group-wide strategic initiatives. We aim to enable these individuals to become At NN Group, we have developed various international and local initiatives ambassadors of the strategic initiatives to the rest of the organisation. to continuously improve the strength of our succession bench by paying In addition, we are working on a course for all employees, covering induction special attention to the high-potential individuals within our company. and the fundamentals of insurance and asset management. Available in We provide these people with various development programmes which different media formats, this project is targeted for roll-out during 2014. aim to connect our next generation of leaders to our current leadership team and strategy. Professional development Case study Strategy creation and A solid professional development curriculum is offered through the various implementation at NN Group: academies at a country and business level. At corporate level we support Talent Council this by, among other initiatives, offering a rich e-learning suite containing 350 modules on topics such as Basel 3, Risk Management, Treasury and Our Talent Council programme took place for the third time in 2013. Financial Markets. Potentials from all our business units participated in the programme, which provides a safe environment for practising real-life business NN Group also offers specific training and development programmes challenges, developing strategy creation, selling it and then for employees. In 2013, these included Art of Insurance, Art of Asset implementing. Management, as well as the First Line Manager and High Impact Performance programmes. The Talent Council fosters a culture of knowledge sharing in our organisation by making use of the in-house experience of our subject matter experts. It also brings together talented employees from various areas of our business and encourages them to come up with an innovative idea to a real-life business challenge. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.4 – Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture An extra-financial approach to remuneration The Inclusion Council (formerly known as the Diversity Council) meets on In addition to financial indicators, we aim to further improve our sustainable a regular basis to discuss progress on the diversity agenda and to promote business practices by also assessing performance through non-financial diversity initiatives. In 2013, we organised a talent day for more than 100 indicators. These include customer satisfaction, workforce diversity, early career talents while also continuing the Female Leadership Network stakeholder engagement and sustainable business practices. For more with a dedicated mentoring programme and a two-and-a-half days event. details of non-financial KPIs used in the performance management of We will continue to support employee networks and provide international our senior teams, please see pages 81-87 of our Annual Report. career opportunities to our employees. For 2014, we have reworked our focus around three priorities; international inclusion, connection to younger generations and female leadership. Diversity and inclusion As a responsible employer, we work hard to help our people thrive by providing an environment where they feel safe, engaged and welcome. Our approach to health, safety and well being Therefore, we are committed to building on that inclusive work Healthy, safe and fair working conditions contribute to productivity and environment and believe that individual talents and capabilities work engagement amongst both management and employees. We employ best when deployed in diverse teams. a range of internal communications including our internal web-based platform to ensure that employees and managers are familiar with topics When they see matters from different perspectives, employees challenge related to health and safety. We also follow the relevant national and basic assumptions and can help our leaders and customers make the international guidelines and workplace health and safety directives. right decisions. No matter how different we all are within ING, we have These directives set out general principles for the protection of our one common goal, which is to serve our customers as well as possible. workers’ occupational safety and health. This commonality creates a sense of belonging throughout the workplace. Working conditions 46/54 female/male gender ratio We aim to ensure that working conditions for our people meet all labour standards and laws of the countries in which we operate. We only employ people above the legal minimum working age and our HR framework is designed to provide just and favourable conditions for all. We perform regular reviews, taking into account internal and external comparisons, Diversity at ING Bank broader labour and marketplace developments and issues raised by our For many years, the Bank has pursued an ambitious agenda in order to people or their representatives. create a more diverse workforce and a more inclusive culture. This ambition is supported by our Management Board Banking. ING’s Global Diversity In the Netherlands, the Health and Safety department lays down Council (GDC) includes representatives from the different business lines requirements for procurement, including of office furniture and IT and support functions, and is chaired by the vice chairman of ING. The GDC resource, the renovation and relocation of buildings/offices, new meets at least every quarter. Its aim is to create awareness and encourage working arrangements and business restructuring. the participation of the business and support functions in fostering Work/life balance diversity policies in their departments and across all countries and regions. Balancing work and private life contributes to good health and wellbeing. Diversity at NN Group Our managers and employees are jointly responsible for maintaining an We believe that an inclusive workforce allows us as a company to better optimal working environment. Employees are encouraged to discuss service our customers. We are very diverse in terms of nationalities, languages matters with their managers if they feel they are under too much stress. and cultures, and aim to create an environment where diversity can flourish. Managers are responsible for making sure that there is a balance between We embrace collaboration across various backgrounds and organisational the organisation’s objectives and the targets that employees are expected areas. We endorse a culture that welcomes and respects everyone and to achieve. Both parties may ask the Health and Safety department for help. creates room for full engagement and makes innovation happen. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 78 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.4 – Promoting an inclusive and balanced culture continued Safety risk monitoring The consolidation of security risks has been in force for several years, and Case study ENERGY PROGRAMME AT BANK during 2013 we extended this process to safety risks. While the law requires What is the challenge? that we maintain a risk inventory, in addition we now also use the NonDue to an ageing population and pension regulations, our employees Financial Risk dashboard as a management tool to consolidate identified are also expected to work longer. In addition, roles are evolving to health issues across the business. Risk consolidation through the dashboard meet the demands of changing market conditions, regulations, includes risk identification, evaluation and prioritisation and implementation technology and competition. We want to make sure that our employees of an appropriate action plan. Security incidents are assessed quarterly are physically, mentally and emotionally fit for their jobs now and in within the operational risk management process. the future. What we did Upholding employee rights Our Energy@ING programme is based on principles frequently Human rights applied by top athletes, such as ’manage your energy, not your time’. We consider certain human rights fundamental and universal for our Energy@ING is an internet-based programme, complete with workforce. These include the right to freedom of association, the right to assessments and e-health apps, that is delivered in combination with collective bargaining and freedom from discrimination based on race, colour, workshops hosted by former athletes and coaches. Participants can sex, religion, political opinion and national and social origin. We support also consult vitality coaches. The workshops focus on daily energisers the elimination of all forms of forced labour and child labour. We uphold the such as food, water, sleep, relaxation, exercise, the best time for rights proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and aim to meetings, negotiations, and how to solve difficult issues. Participants respect human rights in all our global operations. These rights include those are challenged to change their behaviour in a way that is easily of our employees and of the people who are affected by our operations. applicable to everyday life and work. In December 2006, we adopted a Human Rights Statement which What we achieved expresses our commitment to supporting international labour rights for our In the Netherlands, managers are enthusiastic and recommend the employees. We have assessed the implications of the UN Framework and programme. To date, 3,500 employees have already participated in Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (the Ruggie framework) the programme. The results show that behaviours have been changed, on our business. including improvements in the ability to work, perceived energy levels, Collective bargaining and freedom of association perceived mental health, sleep habits and nutrition. We uphold the freedom of association for all our employees and recognise the right to collective bargaining as laid down by International Labour Organisation convention No. 87 and 98. The way in which we consult employees depends on local legislation and culture. In some countries, Case study HEALTH PROGRAMMES AT NN GROUP employee consultation is a legal requirement. In many European countries, Within our insurance and investment management businesses we employee consultation is arranged via works councils. At group level, introduced health programmes in 2013, called CLIC and eNNergise. we intend to proactively encourage local employee participation in those In short, we provide insights and tools to support our staff in European countries where it is not already established. maintaining healthy lifestyles and increase daily energy levels – to be At our insurance businesses in the Netherlands, a three-year collective able to perform with excellence every day. It also brings colleagues labour agreement was signed, which included the goal of stabilising labour together across teams, business units and countries. costs as well as the integration of Westland Utrecht employees into Nationale-Nederlanden Bank. Health and safety monitoring We have a decentralised approach to health and safety risk management. At a country level, local business units monitor and evaluate risks based on the local regulatory and corporate environment. However, basic minimum health and safety requirements exist in all our offices. Interpretation and implementation is in line with the identified risks within the local employee population. We regularly monitor compliance with our health and safety policies, with incidents per business line reported quarterly through the Non-Financial Risk Dashboard. The risk of incidents occurring and the appropriate mitigation measures are summarised and presented at Board level. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 79 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.5 – Measuring our performance as an employer The annual employee engagement surveys are a vehicle designed to Employee engagement at NN Group hear the voice of our employees and better understand what helps or 82% hinders them to execute our strategy. It stimulates dialogue and helps of NN Group employees our organisation to determine concrete actions for improvement and answered the survey to measure progress. 67% Employee engagement at ING Bank of NN Group employees said they were ’engaged’ 81% of ING Bank employees answered the survey The annual YES! survey (Yearly Employee Survey) asks our people how they 74% of ING Bank employees feel about our company, their business unit, team and manager. NN Group said they were ’engaged’ defines engagement based on four indicators: satisfaction, pride, advocacy and intention to stay. We want to maintain what we are doing well and improve what we can do better. The survey helps us gain insight into the opinions of our employees and is an important starting point for a For another consecutive year we recorded a strong response rate of dialogue between managers and their teams. 81% on our engagement survey, the overall new ’sustainable engagement’* The response rate in 2013 was 82%, showing that our employees feel score was 74%, showing a slight improvement over last year (73%). encouraged to express their views and opinions. The engagement score Compared to Towers Watson’s benchmarks, ING scores above the global was 67%, demonstrating that in times of significant change we need to average norm of all industries and slightly below the average of the GFS pay attention to maintain good levels of commitment. (Global Financial Services) norm. NN Group executed several organisational changes in 2012 including the The results demonstrated increased confidence in the long-term future delayering of the support functions and acceleration of the transformation of the company. In addition, they endorsed our ongoing commitment to programme at our insurance businesses in the Netherlands. customer focus and showed that our continuous efforts to improve the customer experience, and the flexibility we give employees to better serve Taking these major changes into account we can see that support offered customers, are paying off. The survey also highlighted improvements in in these challenging times paid off, showing a limited impact of the career development and retention. changes on the overall engagement score. Opportunities remain for us to improve the efficiency and organisation Looking ahead, the dynamic environment we face in 2014 means that of our work processes. Furthermore, employees feel that we can speed instead of one extensive survey we will run pulse surveys to monitor up the pace at which we move from strategy to implementation. progress, and will return to the annual YES! survey in 2015. Moving forward, all departments and teams are requested to review the outcomes of the WPC and find opportunities to strengthen and Employee engagement score in YES! survey improve them. (In % of employees) 2013 67 2012 70 2011 67 *Introduced in 2013. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 80 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.6 – Progress report What we said we would do What we Did We will invest in opportunities for the personal and At ING Bank we spent EUR 60 million and at NN Group EUR 14 million on professional development of our employees training and development for our employees, as supplied by external parties. We aim to improve the engagement of our employees For ING Bank the engagement score is measured in the WPC survey. The response rate was 81%. The overall score was 74%*, showing a slight improvement over last year (73%). At NN Group the engagement score is measured in the YES! survey. The response rate was 82%. The overall engagement score was 67%, showing a slight decrease compared to last year (70%). * In 2012 ING Bank introduced a sustainable engagement score based on nine questions and for which we had an index of 73% in 2012 and 74% in 2013. The score in 2012 using the previous methodology of four questions was 68%. Employee engagement score in Winning Outcome Winning Performance Scan Performance Scan – ING BANK (% of employees) – ING Bank (% of employees) 2013 74 ING Bank overall – 2013 74 2012 73 ING Bank overall – 2012 73 Engagement 76 Recommendation of ING 68 Pride in ING 76 Belief in goals and objectives 76 Discretionary effort 85 Enablement 70 No obstacles to doing job 68 Being well equipped 65 Team’s ability to meet challenges 77 Energy 76 Energy to work effectively 78 Sense of personal accomplishment 75 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 81 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.6 – Progress report continued Budget training and development employees ING Bank – in € millions ING Bank – per FTE 2013 60 2013 947 2012 63 2012 969 2011 69 NN Group – in € millions NN Group – per FTE 2013 14 2013 954 2012 18 2012 947 2011 17 ING Group – in € millions ING Group – per FTE 2013 74 2013 949 2012 81 2012 964 2011 86 Total workforce gender breakdown (In % of employees) ING Bank 2013* 45.4 54.6 2012 49.9 50.1 2011 49.6 50.4 NN Group 2013 48.5 51.5 2012 47.7 52.3 2011 49.4 50.6 ING Group 2013 46.0 54.0 2012 49.2 50.8 * The shift in the gender ratio in favour of males in 2013 is partly due to the inclusion of ING Vysya 2011 49.6 50.4 Female Male India and the exclusion of divested businesses. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 82 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.6 – Progress report continued Manager overseeing other managers (In % of employees) ING Bank 2013 25.1 74.9 2012 23.4 76.6 2011 23.8 76.2 NN Group 2013 46.2* 53.8* 2012 32.3 67.7 2011 33.5 66.5 ING Group 2013 35.0 65.0 2012 26.5 73.5 * The large differences can be related to a change in 2011 27.7 72.3 definition; supervisor instead of manager overseeing Female Male other managers. International management council (In % of employees)* ING Bank 2013 15 85 2012 14 86 NN Group 2013 25 75 2012 26 74 ING Group 2013 18 82 2012 17 83 * We report ING Bank and NN Group separately since Management Council was divided over ING Bank Management Council (95 members) 2011 16 84 Female Male and NN Group Top 50 (53 members). ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 83 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 7.6 – Progress report continued Awards 2013 ING Bank: ING France, ING Italy, ING Poland, ING Belgium and ING Spain received local Top Employer Awards. ING Luxembourg, Interhyp, ING-DiBa and ING Spain have also received European Great Place to Work Awards, placing them in the top 25 of the Best Multinational Workplaces in Europe. NN Group: Our efforts to provide a better workplace for our employees have been rewarded by a number of awards. For example, ING Asigurari de Viata Romania (Insurance Romania) won the category for the HR Strategy category for their Employer Value Proposition, awarded by the Romanian HR Community and the HR Professionals Associations in Romania (HR Club). Looking forward ING Bank NN Group Despite our best efforts, we are not yet closing the gender gap in NN Group is formulating its people strategy for its standalone future. the number of women in senior management positions fast enough. The strategy will focus on anticipating business and societal changes, To address this, the Management Board Banking has identified eight key building strong data and analytics capabilities, and at the same time actions for 2014 to support our target of having 33% of women in top improving efficiency in our processes. We will execute plans based on the management roles. In order to address our diversity and inclusion agenda, feedback from the employee survey and we will re-evaluate the way we we have developed a customised action plan for 2014, which includes: measure engagement to better fit our business and employees of the future. Inclusion and diversity remain important topics with priorities on —— Re-introduction of exit interviews for our top management connecting to Generation 2020, harvesting benefits of our international —— Introduction of stay interviews for our most senior women within diversity and strengthening female leadership. the organisation —— Selecting around 25 senior women and offering them further development and exposure at top management level —— Improving the pipeline of women by hiring at least 60% female graduate candidates —— Including at least one woman on every recruitment and selection short-list —— Adopting diversity metrics to ensure we can measure and report on a quarterly basis. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 84 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8 – Creating positive change in communities Stakeholder Q&A Project partners Orange Drops programme Orange Drops programme ING Bank Turkey We invest in communities through global and local actions. Orange Drops, ING Bank Turkey’s programme to educate schoolchildren about the importance of saving, is helping to build the case for including We prioritise our initiatives around financial education in the national school curriculum – one student at a the strategic themes that match our time. Developed in partnership with Koç University and the Turkish Ministry of Education and the Regional Environment Centre, this eightskills and expertise and where we week, financial education programme for eight and nine-year olds aims to strengthen children’s attitude towards saving and to expand their horizons believe can make the most positive on basic financial concepts, such as forward-looking behaviour, limited and long-term impact. resources, needs and wants, budgeting, being patient and taking a role in group decisions. How does the programme align with social and economic priorities in Turkey? (Project partners: Istanbul MEM, ING Bank, Koç University, Regional Environment Centre) Dr. Muammer Yildiz, Istanbul Provincial Director of National Education (MY): The issue of saving is important in all countries. At individual, institutional and national levels, we all need to take urgent action. Turkey may have abundant resources, but they are not endless and any delay will lead to waste. Through our organisation, we are training the adults of the future – and this is a vital mission. We have influence in areas ranging from Contents in this chapter education and environmental awareness to savings awareness, and can 8 Creating positive change in communities  84 help guide today’s children in how to use financial and material resources economically. 8.1 Creating positive change in communities: at a glance 86 Rıfat Ünal Sayman, Director REC Turkey (RÜS): 8.2 Educating children 87 The project aimed to induce positive behavioural changes by increasing the financial literacy of teachers, students and parents. It focuses on transforming 8.3 Promoting financial empowerment current over-consumption patterns to become more sustainable through and entrepreneurship 89 raising awareness of limited resources, and supporting students to adopt 8.4 Support for local themes 91 behaviours such as being patient and acting as a member of a community. 8.5 Progress report 93 Professor Sule Alan and Dr. Seda Ertac from Koç University (SA/SE): The programme aligns with two important social and economic issues in Turkey: low personal rates of saving; and the lack of financial literacy that drives this situation. The problem of inadequate savings, limited financial market participation and individual debt is a growing concern for governments worldwide. These outcomes are often associated with inadequate financial knowledge (low or lack of financial literacy), and frequently imply low life satisfaction and increasing reliance on state transfers and taxes. Recent surveys have revealed that people everywhere, including Turkey, lack the knowledge to make informed financial decisions. As an emerging middle income country, Turkey suffers from a chronically ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 85 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8 – Creating positive change in communities continued low rate of personal savings, reflected in its large current account deficit. Why is it important to invest in financial education The programme considers this situation to be a structural and a for school children? behavioural problem, and proposes a long-term solution: financial literacy MY: education, targeting early years. We believe that the earlier we instil an awareness of saving into our children, the more quickly and effectively we will make progress, so we How did the multi-stakeholder approach add value? are targeting third graders at elementary schools. Just as we are more likely MY: to be successful at sport, music and art if we acquire skills at an early age, We value collaboration with the private sector, government institutions children who become aware of savings will adopt important habits and and non-governmental organisations. Experience shows that it strengthens increase their chances of being successful. our own organisation and leads to significant achievements, including synergies and savings. So we decided to base this project on a broad base RÜS: with multiple stakeholders. Of course, having many stakeholders also gives Young children are much more responsive than adults to education us access to many different ideas and proposals. A key challenge is to practices that target positive changes in attitudes, and can associate reconcile these different viewpoints through cooperation and partnership. information received at school with the practices of people around them. Moreover, children have a strong influence on their parents and on society. RÜS: They take home the messages learned at school and encourage positive This project was delivered by a range of experts with specialist skills and behaviours in their families. knowledge including: the scientific knowledge of Koç University; official support and authority from the Ministry; REC Turkey’s international SA/SE: experience; and ING’s financial and technical support. Furthermore, Most studies on the effects of financial literacy focus on adults. collaboration with school principals ensured commitment from teachers However, when financial education is provided in the early stages of life, and participation among students. The project gathered stakeholders’ it has the potential to create long-lasting impacts. As shown by Nobel Prize views to evaluate the current structure, search for better alternatives, winner James Heckman for other areas of knowledge accumulation identify best practices and develop unique tools. (e.g. Heckman, 2006), interventions at a young age have the largest impact on behaviour. The idea that traits such as forward-looking SA/SE: behaviour, self-control, rational risk taking and perseverance are potentially Most successful corporate social responsibility projects follow a multimalleable in childhood is important for educational policies. stakeholder approach to ensure quality and sustainability. ING Bank Turkey adopted this approach and collaborated directly with the public sector, civil society and academia. ING also worked with prestigious research funding agencies via the project’s renowned researchers, Prof. Dr Sule Alan and Dr. Seda Ertac. The collaboration ensured that training programmes ran smoothly and that impact evaluation was carried out with full scientific integrity. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 86 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.1 – Creating positive HIGHLIGHTS —— 105,121 children reached this year through our partnership change in communities: with UNICEF —— 25% increase in financial empowerment and entrepreneurship at a glance initiatives —— EUR 13.4 million donated to charities —— More than 58,000 hours volunteered by ING employees. Our approach Focus areas Like every other business, we aim to be profitable, but at the same time We consider it our responsibility to make a positive contribution to the we have a responsibility to be a good corporate citizen. This role gives our many communities in which we operate. That is why we invest knowledge, company a broader sense of purpose. Where formal social support services skills and resources in the following areas: are unable to fully reach out to disadvantaged communities and the —— Educating children underserved in otherwise prosperous societies, businesses such as ING can —— Promoting financial empowerment and entrepreneurship help bridge the gap. By sharing this sense of purpose with stakeholders, —— Supporting local causes. we motivate and connect with our employees, business partners and customers. By simply aligning our business and community investment objectives we can help support people find their way towards a financially strong and secure future. Our reporting framework Our commitments Simpler Stronger Sustainable Creating positive change By keeping our focus on Our strength is our global reach We want our community in communities development themes that are which gives us the possibility to make investment initiatives to create long an easy match with our skills and a positive difference in communities lasting impact. Our ING-UNICEF expertise we aim to optimise our worldwide. Our community partnership for example will help impact. For educating children investment activities are successful bring sustainable change to the we work together with a single due to the strong commitment lives of many children and their long-term global NGO partner of our employees who contribute families while also stimulating like UNICEF since 2005. their time, skills and resources. broader social and economic development. Focusing on health, environmental care and social welfare through country level initiatives also aims to make long-term positive impact in local communities. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 87 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.2 – Educating children Our commitment to educating children Disaster relief Investing in children, particularly in their education, is an important way When a disaster occurs, children’s rights are seriously endangered. This is to build stronger communities. Launched in 2005, our ING Chances for true not only for the right to education, but also for the right to survival Children programme brings together our global and local initiatives on and the right to protection. ING is committed to supporting UNICEF’s child education. At a global level, ING Bank continues to support education disaster relief and recovery projects. initiatives through the United Nations development agency, UNICEF. We have also initiated local partnerships with community based organisations Case study Disaster relief Philippines and employee volunteering programmes in countries where we have a presence. For local examples please visit ING.com In November 2013, typhoon Haiyan brought terrible destruction to the Philippines and affected up to nearly four million children. Although the global partnership with UNICEF has not been continued UNICEF established its disaster relief response immediately for children by NN Group in 2013, many business units still support local children’s who needed shelter, clean water, medicine and nutrition supplies. charities as a legacy of the ING Chances for Children programme. The EUR 700,000 funds raised by ING were rapidly deployed to provide children with school tents and child-friendly spaces to ING Bank’s partnership with UNICEF maintain their education. 2005 partnership between Children’s Rights ING and UNICEF started We participated in the co-development and launch of the Children’s Rights Business Principles (CRBPs) in 2012. Developed by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact and Save the Children, these are the first 1 million children reached comprehensive set of principles to guide companies on the full range objective by 2015 of actions they can take in the workplace, marketplace and community to respect and support children’s rights. During 2013, the CRBPs were promoted through workshops, conferences and discussions with €26.7m donated to UNICEF businesses, governments and development agencies. We also integrated since 2005 the CRBPs into the Environmental and Social Risk framework that guides our business conduct. Worldwide, tens of millions of children do not go to school or receive an Fundraising and volunteering unacceptable quality of education. We chose UNICEF as our long-term We facilitate and encourage our employees and customers to participate strategic partner in 2005 because it shares our vision and scale, and has in supporting UNICEF. proven expertise in helping children access education. We support UNICEF Employee contributions with a consistent flow of funds to enable them to implement their projects All financial contributions from our employees are doubled through our in several countries. Working together with our employees and customers, matching plan. we want to have positively impacted the lives of at least one million children in need by providing them with access to school, better-quality Our most succesful global employee fundraising event was The education, and safer and healthier living conditions by the year 2015. International Run for UNICEF. It involved the International Run for UNICEF For more information on the history of our partnership with UNICEF, involved 1,500 ING employees from around the world. The running event please visit ING.com. followed the sun around the globe in 12 cities across 11 countries. Together, we raised over EUR 170,000. We have raised funds for UNICEF to build schools, train teachers and supply children with learning materials. We have also worked on clean water and healthcare projects, tackling some of the basic needs of children without which, education cannot happen. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 88 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.2 – Educating children continued Donations through dedicated financial products ING Netherlands introduced the Savings Account for UNICEF at the end Case study Global Challenge 2013 of 2013. This account functions as a normal savings account, with a Now in its 6th year, our biggest fundraising and volunteering campaign significant difference. We donate 0.10% per annum to UNICEF, calculated at ING Bank is the ING Chances for Children Global Challenge. over the total average savings balance on the account. Customers with this The Global Challenge is an annual event around 20 November – the savings account receive a quarterly report on the impact of their donation. United Nations International Day of the Child. ING employees across What we achieved with UNICEF in 2013 the organisation join efforts in support of children worldwide. The Global Challenge 2013 saw 13,056 ING employees in 25 countries Charitable donations to UNICEF come together and volunteer 8,685 hours during 2013. They also raised funds for UNICEF and local children’s charities. 2013 2012 2011 EUR Children EUR Children EUR Children (x 1,000) reached (x 1,000) reached (x 1,000) reached Customer donations ING Bank 3,154 105,121** 2,214 73,804 n/a n/a Customer donations are made in a variety of ways. These include specific campaigns during the festive season or around specific disasters. NN Group –* –* 560 18,665 n/a n/a ING Spain used an animated film to persuade 3,955 customers to donate ING Group 3,154 105,121** 2,774 92,469 3,540 118,100 a total of EUR 281,000. The ’Life of Luna’ animation received widespread Total since 2005 26,668 888,990** 23,514 783,869 20,740 691,400 attention with more than 207,000 customers visiting the site and 187,000 YouTube views. * The global partnership with UNICEF has not been continued by NN Group in 2013. ** Because of the progress we had in the programme of UNICEF the organisation had to change the original calculation methodology. Due to the type of activities in 2013 UNICEF reached more children. For historical comparison the number presented is in line with former calculation methods. The actual number of children reached in 2013 is more than three times higher and comes down to 346,525. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 89 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.3 – Promoting financial empowerment and entrepreneurship Our commitment to financial empowerment An overview of the key surveys of 2013 can be found on ING eZonomics. and entrepreneurship We believe that our role is to contribute to helping people gain the skills and insight they need in order to secure their financial future. To achieve 15 programmes in support this, we use various channels and tools to create awareness and develop of financial empowerment knowledge and insight. We particularly focus on young people because and entrepreneurship we believe that good financial habits are developed at a young age. Entrepreneurs create employment, encourage growth and help energise In 2013, we partnered with several expert agencies to conduct specific the economy. We therefore support programmes and projects that create research projects into financial behaviour and entrepreneurship. The reports entrepreneurial awareness, entrepreneurship for all and the development provide us and our customers with valuable information and insight which of entrepreneurial skills. We contribute by donating funds, as well as help us develop new products and services. According to ING’s special offering our networks and mentoring. In particular, we support start-ups, report on financial education from 2013, 47% of people in Europe say they social business ventures, women in business and the development of did not receive financial education at all. We are faced with record high entrepreneurial skills in young people. youth unemployment, an ageing population and decreasing state spending on social welfare. It is evident that people need to be equipped with the required skills to face these challenges. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 90 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.3 – Promoting financial empowerment and entrepreneurship continued Selection of local financial education and entrepreneurship initiatives at ING Bank and NN Group ING business unit What it’s about Outcome ING Bank global ’Women in Business Challenge’ with BiD Network to support 56 ING coaches helped 123 female entrepreneurs women entrepreneurs from developing countries to take part in the challenge ING Bank Hong Kong China school trip programme to give schools and students 80 pupils were reached in remote areas in China educational and financial support ING Bank Hungary Financial education programme to teach young people about 270 pupils from grade 7-10 have been reached finance. Employees serve as guest docents ING Bank Netherlands High school programme to discuss money matters. Employees 2,250 pupils have been reached serve as guest docents ING Bank Netherlands Fame game. Online app that teaches children how to deal 20,000 downloads with money issues ING Bank Netherlands Jumpstart is an online students platform on Facebook. Reach: over a million students reached online Students can share ideas and concepts on saving money. 200,000 movie views The best ideas get support from ING to launch their own business Over 100 applications of which three were selected and supported by ING ING Bank Turkey The Turuncu Damla (Orange Drops) programme focuses on 8,400 pupils have been reached financial literacy for primary school children, with an emphasis on saving ING Corporate and Programme at the Money Museum, designed to allow high 986 pupils from 32 schools, have been reached Institutional Clients school students to explore the world of finance. The Academy teaches students to aspire to financial independence, develop Americas an appreciation for savings, make financial goals and learn to avoid scams ING Direct Australia Launch of Dreamstarter, together with StartSomeGood. 13 selected Dreamstarter projects received support A platform that helps philanthropic entrepreneurs create change. funding to help them achieve their fundraising goals Entrepreneurs post a video explaining their social project and Over EUR 67,500 was raised requesting donations to enable them to start working ING Direct Italy Coltiva il tuo sogno (Grow up your Dream) is an educational 42 employee volunteers teached more than project to teach primary school children the value of saving 1,300 children at primary schools in Milan ING Direct Italy BitBamBum is a competition that supports projects and ideas Almost 300 concepts were uploaded. Three finalists that help new generations learn and develop through the were selected and they received EUR 5,000 each to innovative use of technology spend on goods and services to realise their concept The winner received additional EUR 25,000 to spend on goods and services plus six months of mentorship from iStarter, a famous Italian incubator ING Group Launch of a unique social media campaign challenging 5,234 views of online book Curious little Leo potential future bankers from around the globe to explain key financial topics to children aged between 7 and 10 years ING Commercial Enterprise simulator programme for children. The children More than 60 pupils have been reached Banking Spain create a product and have to consider economic variables such as markets, demand, target prices and competition Winners on country level continue the contest on European level Nationale-Nederlanden Various workshops for self-employed professionals on topics More than 150 self-employed creatives (multisuch as: ’How do I promote myself?’ and ’My pension and me’. disciplinary such as fashion, graphical art and design) Self-employed participants also got tax advice. In cooperation who wanted to gain more returns from their with Cultuur-Ondernemen entrepreneurship Nationale-Nederlanden Awareness campaign ’Battle of Concepts’ for students 12,000 students aged 20 to 28 years old were about pensions invited, and 49 concepts were submitted ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 91 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.4 – Support for local themes Our commitment to supporting local causes NN Group community investment activities Balancing our global strategy and agenda with the interests of local Our purpose is to help people secure their financial future. Our local employees and customers is an ongoing but rewarding challenge. To meet community investment activities contribute to fulfilling this purpose. As we this challenge, we have established funds in different countries to enable are in a transition period to become a standalone company, we are in the them to support causes that they consider important. These funds, which process of prioritising the overarching community investment themes for are provided by the local business units, give employees and communities our organisation going forward. a voice in how our corporate donations are used. Supporting local projects Our local businesses and foundations support a broad scope of community was the key strategy for community investment at NN Group in 2013. investment activities. In addition to (financial) education and entrepreneurship, other activities were developed, focusing on health, environmental care and social welfare. Overview of local Charity Funds ING Bank and NN Group Organisation Name Amount of donations Supported organisations Applications Votes ING Bank Austria Vereinstausender 50,000 50 900 500,000 votes ING Bank Belgium ING Solidarity Award 412,500 55 1,400 200,000 votes ING Bank Luxembourg ING Solidarity Award 76,000 48 121 22,867 votes ING Bank Netherlands ING Goede Doelenfonds 1,100,000 808 943 5,807 employee votes ING Bank Romania Adopt a project 40,000 8 80 1,400 employee votes Insurance Poland HelpING 16,700 13 50 N/A Insurance Romania Foundation for Life 56,000 100 100 N/A Nationale-Nederlanden Wij & de Maatschappij 231,000 205 223 1,100 employee votes ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 92 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.4 – Support for local themes continued Our commitment to supporting health Our commitment to environmental care We aim to support and encourage healthy behaviour among our Our commitment to environmental care is shared by many of our employees, customers and society, with the aim of preventing and reducing employees. In many of our locations, employees are involved in activities the risk of personal health difficulties. With our community investment such as recycling campaigns, planting trees in public spaces or acting as initiatives we promote healthy lifestyles, invest in research and support a volunteers in city parks. broad variety of charities that help people who suffer or are recuperating from life-threatening illnesses. Case study Cleaning up the city Case study Promoting cancer prevention Cleaning up the city for five years, our insurance business in Slovakia has participated in the ’Our City’ programme organised by Pontis foundation. What we did Our employees volunteer to spend a full working day per year helping to Our insurance business in Poland has participated in the national clean the city of Bratislava. Activities are based both outdoors (such as education campaign ’Cancer. It can be treated’. The objective was parks, streets, buildings, benches, painting playgrounds, planting trees) to provide education and awareness about cancer prevention and as well as indoors (community centres, offices). to fight against the stereotypes associated with the disease. The campaign focused on prevention and included input from experts Our commitment to social welfare in the field of oncology, NGOs and patients. We participated in this In terms of community investment, social welfare includes providing campaign from the start and supported all activities in the project, personal care, protection or social support services. These are provided including: to children, as well as to adults with needs arising from illness, disability, old age or poverty. —— A charitable concert for 2,500 guests —— A flash mob on World Cancer Day at Central Station in Warsaw with 100 dancers Case study Helping people in distress —— Sponsorship of more than 500 mammography’s at outdoor events Our insurance business in Greece responded to the critical situation —— A charity run ’Chase the cancer’, with all funds raised donated to of local communities by providing better living conditions to people cancer organisations. in economic distress. The company organised a campaign where What we achieved employees collected goods such as clothing and shoes, which were For the campaign our insurance business in Poland received the donated to the non-profit organisation Children SOS Village. Items Zloty Spinacz award in the finance category – a prestigious public valued at EUR 12,200 were donated. relations award in Poland – acknowledging their innovative approach to education and prevention of cancer. The campaign is a key activity for our local insurance business and will continue throughout 2014. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 93 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.5 – Progress report What we said we would do What we Did ING Bank At least one million children through the partnership The total funds raised in 2013 for UNICEF amounted to EUR 3,153,618. with UNICEF have been reached between 2005 Since 2005, we have raised a total of EUR 26.7 million, which has enabled UNICEF to reach more than 888,990 children. We will do and 2015 our utmost to reach our goal of one million children. Our total charitable giving should for 60% or more 58% of our charitable donations were donated to our focus areas. be targeted towards our focus areas children and education, financial empowerment and entrepreneurship NN Group Develop a separate community investment We reviewed our local community investment portfolios. We also programme, in line with our business strategy, started to align with the new purpose and values that were launched in October 2013 in order for our new community investment strategy new brand values and geographic focus to be launched in 2014. Total donations ING Bank (In € X 1,000) ING Bank 2013 Direct business donations Donations business 8,619 Donations business in-kind 919 Facilitated by ING Donations customers 1,383 Donations employees 1,290 Total 12,211 ING Bank 2013 Arts and Culture 598 Children and education (incl. UNICEF) 6,513 Emergency relief 777 Environment 471 Financial education and entrepreneurship 559 Health 1,833 Social welfare 748 Other 712 Total 12,211 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 94 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.5 – Progress report continued Total donations NN Group (In € x 1,000) NN Group 2013 Direct business donations Donations business 1,097 Donations business in-kind 35 Facilitated by NN Group Donations customers 13 Donations employees 27 Total 1,172 NN Group 2013 Arts & Culture 77 Children and education 95 Emergency relief 0 Environment 0.3 Financial education and entrepreneurship 112 Health 313 Social welfare 179 Other 395 Total 1,172 Employee Volunteering ING Bank (In hours) ING Bank 2013 Arts & Culture 351 Children and education 27,331 Emergency relief 218 Environment 8,494 Financial education and entrepreneurship 6,832 Health 3,730 Social welfare 6,723 Employees volunteer thousands of hours. Other 1,374 Volunteering takes place during office hours in all community investment areas with a focus on children Total 55,053 and education. Employee Volunteering NN Group (In hours) NN Group 2013 Arts & Culture 0 Children and education 1,232 Emergency relief 0 Environment 416 Financial education and entrepreneurship 0 Health 582 Social welfare 984 Other 136 Total 3,350 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 95 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 8.5 – Progress report continued Looking forward ING Bank NN Group By 2015 ING Bank expects the partnership with UNICEF to have As we prepare for the standalone future of the insurance and investment fulfilled its initial objective of positively impacting the lives of at least management businesses, we will review our current community one million children. Furthermore we will continue our focus on financial investment portfolio and align it with our purpose, company values empowerment and entrepreneurship to help young people. and brand going forward. We will continue to strike a balance between local and global needs and the expectations of our employees, customers and society at large. We will base our approach on financial support through donations, with employee volunteering as the main interaction channel. Our new Community Investment strategy will be launched in 2014. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 96 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 9 – Governance HIGHLIGHTS —— Increased focus on materiality for defining sustainability priorities and compliance —— High score on DJSI/Bronze class distinction by RobecoSAM —— Stronger ESR risk management —— Increase in sustainable business —— Reorganisation means two independent teams at Bank and Insurance driving sustainability. We have strong governance and compliance systems in place that reflect our values, local and international regulations. Our business and sustainability governance is ensured by a number of distinct bodies and committees that have the necessary mandate and remit to ensure appropriate and ethical management. Our business principles and policies offer a comprehensive set of strict guidance and systems for all employees to manage day-to-day decision making in a safe, ethical, commercially astute and compliant manner. Contents in this chapter 9 Governance and compliance 96 ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 97 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 9 – Governance and compliance continued ING Business Principles Dutch Banking and Insurance Codes Our business revolves about people and trust. Being entrusted with other Dutch Banking Code people’s money is a responsibility we take very seriously. Only by acting In September 2009, the Dutch Banking Association (NVB) published the with professionalism and integrity can we gain and maintain our Banking Code, which lays out the principles by which Dutch banks should customers’ confidence and preserve our company’s reputation. The ING conduct themselves in terms of corporate governance, risk management, Business Principles play an important role in this. audit and remuneration. ING Bank strongly supports the principles of the Banking Code because we believe they are an important way for the First introduced in 1999, the ING Business Principles set a global standard banking sector to regain trust, ensure stability and protect the interests of for the behaviour ING expects of every employee. The ING Business our stakeholders. Accordingly, ING applies the Banking Code within the Principles are refreshed every five years to ensure their relevance in a following legal entities that hold a Dutch banking licence: ING Bank N.V., changing environment. Each of the four principles is equally important. ING Direct N.V., Bank Mendes Gans N.V. Taken as a whole, they form our collective conscience. They are the foundation of our strategy, culture and day-to-day work. Living the ING Drawn up in response to a report entitled ’Restoring Trust’ that was Business Principles helps us make decisions that can stand the test of time. published in April 2009 by the Advisory Committee on the Future of Banks in the Netherlands, the Banking Code is a form of self-regulation that took —— We act with integrity effect on 1 January 2010 on a ’comply or explain’ basis. —— We are open and clear —— We respect each other Dutch Insurers’ Code —— We are environmentally and socially responsible. In December 2010, the Dutch Association of Insurance Companies (Verbond van Verzekeraars) published the Governance Principles, also These Principles are not voluntary suggestions. They are non-negotiable, known as the Code of Conduct for Insurers. The Code of Conduct for and every single ING employee is responsible for living up to them. Insurers, effective as from June 2011, lays out the principles for Dutch The ING Business Principles enable us to do what we do best, both today insurance companies in terms of corporate governance, risk management, and tomorrow: to help our customers manage their financial future. audit and remuneration. Our Business Principles are expressly pointed out to every new ING employee by inserting a reference to the ING Business Principles in the Operational and compliance employee’s contract of employment. Non-Financial Risks (NFR) Non-Financial Risk Management Corporate governance Non-financial risk management includes operational risk management ING’s aim is to have a governance structure that is transparent and does and compliance risk management. To ensure robust non-financial risk justice to the interests of all its stakeholders: customers, shareholders, management, ING monitors the implementation of its Risk Policies and employees and society as a whole. ING has a two-tier board structure Minimum Standards. Business units have to demonstrate that the consisting of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. appropriate steps have been taken to control their operational and The Executive Board is responsible for day-to-day management of the compliance risks. Processes are in place to identify key threats, business and long-term strategy. vulnerabilities and the associated risks which might cause adverse events. Different techniques for event identification exist within ING, e.g. Risk and The Supervisory Board is responsible for controlling management Control Self-Assessments, scenario analysis, external events inventories, performance and advising the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board internal incident analysis (e.g. lessons learned based on information from is made up exclusively of outside directors. For more information on the incident reporting), key risk indicator events and threat scans. At least members, the profile and charter of the Supervisory Board, please see once a year, business units and departments perform a Risk and Control the link below. Self-Assessment with the involvement of the business and their Banking and Insurance have their own management board consisting Operational Risk, Compliance and Legal departments. of the Executive Board members and positions for four other members. Non-Financial Risk Dashboard (NFRD) Full details about our management structure and implementation The NFRD is based on a defined risk tolerance within the business and of Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found on ING.com gives a clear overview of the risks and responses enabling management to prioritise and to manage operational, compliance and legal risks. The NFRD is a quarterly report and a fixed item on the agenda for the meetings of the Management Board Banking (MBB) and the Risk Committee and sent to the Supervisory Board for information. For Insurance it is discussed in the Management Board Insurance (MBI) and Non-Financial Risk Committee and sent to the Supervisory Board for information. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 98 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 9 – Governance and compliance continued Non-Financial Risk Committees Non-Financial Risk – Compliance Risk Non-Financial Risk Committees (NFRCs) are established at all levels in ING is committed to the preservation of its reputation and integrity through the organisation to ensure appropriate management action is taken by compliance with ING’s Business Principles, applicable laws, regulations and the responsible line managers and at the appropriate level of granularity. ethical standards in each of the markets in which it operates. All employees At the executive level there is an NFRC, which is accountable for the design are expected to adhere to these laws, regulations and ethical standards, and maintenance of the risk management framework including the ORM, and management is responsible for ensuring such compliance. Compliance and Legal policies, minimum standards, procedures and guidelines; the NFRC structure; development of tools, methods and key Financial and economic crime parameters (incl. major changes) for risk identification, measurement and ING implements a Corporate Policy on Financial Economic Crime (FEC) to monitoring/reporting. NFRCs have furthermore been established at the prevent its businesses from involvement in money laundering and terrorist regional and BU level. They are chaired by the CEO of the entity and steer financing. This policy is based on international laws and regulations. Local the risk management activities of the first and second line of defence in ING management is responsible for the implementation of, and compliance their entities. with, the policy. Non-Financial Risk Management – Operational Risk The Financial Economic Crime Policy defines the minimum requirements Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed and refers specifically to the following risk areas: internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk can lead to financial loss but also to non-financial loss in —— Anti-Money Laundering (AML) the form of reputation, regulatory or personal impact. Risks falling under —— Counter Terrorism Financing (CTF) this category include: —— Sanctions (economic, financial and trade), Ultra High Risk Countries (UHRC) Information Technology Risk —— Export Trade and Proliferation Financing Compliance. Information and the supporting business applications, IT processes, databases and underlying infrastructure are important assets of ING and, In countries where ING’s Financial Economic Crime Policy is more strict like other important assets, must be suitably protected. The availability, than local rules, ING’s policy applies. Also, ING commits to the Wolfsburg integrity and confidentiality of information assets are essential in Group principles on topics such as Know Your Customer, Anti-Money maintaining our competitive edge, cash flow, profitability, regulatory Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing policies, which are applicable and legal compliance and respected company image. ING’s Information to all ING entities within ING. Technology Risk management baseline is formed from the international standards Cobit and ISO, which are used as industry good practice in Gifts, entertainment and anti-bribery policy the financial services industry. The objective is to provide ING’s approach ING has zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption, regardless of the to managing information technology risks and the protection of identity or position of the originator or recipient of the bribe. Gifts and information assets to all ING organisational units and to those contracted entertainment must not involve activities, products, services or venues that to provide services. might embarrass, be considered of bad taste or violate the ING Business Business Continuity Risk Principles. Maximum limits apply to offering and receiving gifts and Continuity Risk is the risk of events leading to a situation that threatens entertainment. Written approval must be obtained before offering gifts or the safety and security of people or business continuity. Examples of such entertainment to public officials. Facilitation payments are strictly prohibited. events are natural disasters, power outages and terrorism. The implementation of a consistent business continuity management Insider regulation and Chinese Walls The Insider Regulation ING is an ING policy, based on the Dutch Financial process and plans that are in alignment with requirements is essential in Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht). An essential element of order to provide appropriate and effective recoverability from any disruption this policy is to prevent (the appearance of) dealing while having inside or disaster. Business continuity plans identify the critical processes and information regarding ING. Employees within the organisation who (could) describe the corrective measures and resources necessary in case a business possess inside information regarding ING are assigned as ’Insider ING’ and is disrupted and cannot be resumed within the normal environment. are as such governed by the (additional) rules of the Insider Regulation Fraud Risk ING. These rules refer, among other things to their personal account Risk of fraud is defined as the deliberate abuse of procedures, systems, dealing in ING, the monitoring thereof and the treatment of confidential assets, products and/or services of ING by those who intend to deceitfully information relating to ING. ING has a system of Chinese Walls in place to or unlawfully benefit themselves or others. Policies and standards are used prevent the uncontrolled flow of sensitive information between banking to increase fraud detection and reduce fraud-related losses. and investment departments that can have different interests. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 99 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 9 – Governance and compliance continued ING Whistleblower Procedure Competition The ING Whistleblower Procedure applies to all ING entities worldwide. ING’s reputation is based not only on how effectively it serves its customers Employees of ING Group and its Group companies can report complaints and how successful it is at increasing shareholder value, but also on the and/or highlight concerns via this procedure as an additional option way it conducts its business and its competitive practices in the market outside of their normal reporting lines. place. Competition law is more than a legal requirement; it is vital for ING’s reputation and long-term success and helps ING to operate in accordance Promoting integrity with ING’s Business Principles. ING created several programmes and tools to ensure that every ING ING businesses and their employees worldwide are required to strictly employee in every part of the organisation understands how their actions observe and adhere to the competition law rules. ING wants to be and behaviours can help earn and retain customer and stakeholder trust, unmistakably clear both outside and inside ING that we compete fairly and also undermine their trust in ING. Examples include multiple e-modules and lawfully. It is ING Group’s policy to fully comply with all competition and dialogue packs that teams can use to discuss the impact of key laws applicable to its entire range of activities. More information regarding priorities within ING. our compliance policies can be found on ING.com Political donations and public advocacy With regard to political donations, ING businesses are not permitted to make gifts or political donations or to offer entertainment to political parties or candidates for political office. This is governed by the ING Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy. Public advocacy In order to strategise, develop and coordinate the company’s positions on important public affairs issues, ING is actively involved in public policy and regulatory developments in its relevant constituencies. It does so with the objective of enhancing (implementation of) financial regulation and supervision that support the interests of ING’s stakeholders. In the Netherlands, ING is registered in the lobbying register of the House of Representatives and is a member of the Dutch Association for Public Affairs. Code of conduct ING is registered in the EU Transparency Register and therefore adheres to the code of conduct of the EU for organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in EU policymaking and policy implementation. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 100 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix Appendix This appendix compiles comprehensive Contents in this section disclosure of our independent assurance report and ING’s annual Appendix 100 communication on progress on the 10.1 Independent Assurance Report 101 10.2 Principles for Sustainable Insurance 102 UN Global Compact Principles. 10.3 UN Global Compact 104 10.4 Glossary 106 It also details our progress report 10.5 Details 108 on the Principles for Sustainable Insurance, and provides a glossary of terms and acronyms used in this report. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 101 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.1 – Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the ING Group Work undertaken Our procedures included the following: Sustainability Report 2013 We were engaged by the Executive Board of ING Group N.V. (further ’ING’) —— A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant to provide assurance on the ING Group Sustainability Report 2013 (further sustainability issues for ING in the reporting period. ’The Report’). The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of —— Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes The Report, including the identification of material issues. Our responsibility for the collection, processing and control of the information in the Report. is to issue an assurance report based on the engagement outlined below. —— Interviewing management at corporate level responsible for the sustainability strategy and implementation. Scope —— Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business level Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance responsible for providing the information in The Report. on whether The Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in —— Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, accordance with the reporting criteria. to determine whether the information in The Report is supported by sufficient evidence. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, —— An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted targets and expectations of ING. by businesses for consolidation at group level. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed During the assurance process we discussed the necessary changes in the at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than Report and reviewed the final version of the Report to ensure that it reflects those for a reasonable level of assurance. our findings. Reporting criteria and assurance standard Conclusion ING applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has Reporting Initiative supported by internally developed guidelines as described come to our attention to indicate that The Report is not fairly presented, in the chapter ’About this report’. It is important to view the performance in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. data in the context of these criteria. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Observation Standard for Assurance Engagement (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagement Without affecting the conclusion of our engagement, we would like to other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by draw the readers’ attention to our observation below: Following up on the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard last year’s observation, we have noticed that ING is in the process of requires, among others, that the assurance team possesses the specific formulating more concrete KPIs and targets. In addition, ING has improved knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide its materiality assessment in 2013 to further align the reporting content with assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with the stakeholder expectations. We recommend ING to present the new KPIs and requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the targets in the 2014 report. We also recommend ING to further align the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. content of the report with the outcomes of the materiality assessment. Extending the information on the most material topics, compared to topics deemed less material, will improve the balance of the report. Amsterdam, 28 March 2014 KPMG Sustainability, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels RA, Partner ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 102 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.2 – Principles for Sustainable Insurance Progress report 2013 In June 2012, ING joined thirty other leading insurance companies and became a founding signatory of the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance. We report on our progress in implementing the principles in our business operations throughout the ING Sustainability Report. The overview below provides a selection of examples from this progress report, including references to the relevant pages in this report. We will embed in our decision-making environmental, social and governance issues, relevant to our insurance business Goals Progress 2013 Offer insight, tools and programmes to improve consumers’ We developed online and offline platforms for knowledge sharing financial decision making and development (ING Sustainability Report, pages 32-33) Maintain an up-to-date Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) We strengthened the implementation of our ESR policy framework, policy framework improved existing policies and implemented them in our client onboarding and transactional processes (ING Sustainability Report, pages 41-42) As part of ING’s separation process, we will develop a In both our banking and insurance and investment management businesses refined set of ambitions, goals and performance indicators sustainability teams have been put in place that are in the process of defining and developing distinct visions and strategies – for both our banking and insurance business We will work together with clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance issues, manage risk and develop solutions Goals Progress 2013 Aim to increase our sustainable assets allocated In 2013, our sustainable assets allocated increased with EUR 845 million compared to 2012 (ING Sustainability Report, pages 57-58) Manage our direct footprint and review our procurement In 2013, the total extrapolated amount of carbon emissions from our process in order to create more sustainable practices business operations decreased from 209 to 169 kilotonnes compared to 2012. ING implemented new procurement guidelines based on the UN Global Compact principles (ING Sustainability Report, page 69) ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 103 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.2 – Principles for Sustainable Insurance continued We will work together with governments, regulators and other key stakeholders to promote widespread action across society on environmental, social and governance issues Goals Progress 2013 Engage with stakeholders on general developments During 2013 we entered into dialogue with various stakeholders on or more specific issues various topics. We also conducted research and published reports on sustainability topics (ING Sustainability Report, pages 17-21) Promote sustainable finance amongst key stakeholders We are an active member of various (inter)national networks. ING is amongst others Chair of the Equator Principles Steering Committee. We aim to contribute to positive change as we support clients to seek improvement in ESG practices (ING Sustainability Report, pages 17-18, 39-59) Strive to positively impact the lives of children and increase Total funds raised in 2013 for UNICEF amounted to EUR 3,153,618. our employee participation in ING’s community investments Since 2005 we reached more than 888,990 children initiatives We will demonstrate accountability and transparency in regularly disclosing publicly on our progress in implementing the principles Goals Progress 2013 Ensure public disclosure of our sustainability objectives, ING published its Sustainability Report 2013 in parallel with its financial and the progress we make, in our annual reporting report. This table serves as a cross-reference to the relevant sections in our Sustainability Report ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 104 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.3 – UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 2013 ING Commitment Performance 2013 Principle 1 The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles Business should support the environment. ING’s Environmental and respect the protection Human rights are an integral part of ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all economic sectors Social Risk Framework of internationally proclaimed that we conduct business with. human rights Human Rights ING Human Rights Statement for employees with reference made to the ILO Core Conventions. Business Principles At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and Business Principles in our activities. for Children Rights We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, Sustainable Procurement fair labour practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. ING memberships ING is a member of the Thun Group of Banks, dedicated to investigating how the United Nations guidelines on business and human rights can be applied. Principle 2 The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles Business should ensure that the environment. ING’s Environmental they are not complicit in Human rights are an integral part of ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all economic sectors Social Risk Framework human rights abuses that we conduct business with. Human Rights ING Human Rights Statement for employees with reference made to the ILO Core Conventions. Business Principles At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and Business Principles in our activities. for Children Rights We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, Sustainable Procurement fair labour practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. ING memberships ING is a member of the Thun Group of Banks, dedicated to investigating how the United Nations guidelines on business and human rights can be applied. Principle 3/ILO Conventions The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles 87 and 98 the environment. Human Rights Business should uphold the Under our Human Rights Statement, we uphold the freedom of association for all our freedom of association and Sustainable Procurement employees and recognise the right to collective bargaining. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principle 4/ILO Conventions The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles 29 and 105 the environment. ING’s Environmental Business should support the Human rights are an integral part of ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all economic sectors Social Risk Framework elimination of all forms of that we conduct business with. forced and compulsory labour Human Rights ING Human Rights Statement for employees with reference made to the ILO Core Conventions. Business Principles At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and Business Principles in our activities. for Children Rights We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, Sustainable Procurement fair labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principle 5/ILO Conventions The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles 138 and 182 the environment. Human Rights Business should support ING Human Rights Statement for employees with reference made to the ILO Core Conventions. the effective abolition of Business Principles child labour At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and Business Principles in our activities. for Children Rights We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, Sustainable Procurement fair labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principle 6/ILO Conventions The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights and Business Principles 100 and 111 the environment. Diversity Business should support the We believe it is right for the composition of our workforce to reflect that of society and for elimination of discrimination ING Human Rights our people to bring a diversity of talents, beliefs and perceptions to their work. Statement in respect of employment and occupation ING Human Rights Statement for employees with reference made to the ILO Core Conventions. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 105 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.3 – UN Global Compact continued Principle 7 The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights Business Principles Business should support and the environment. ING’s Environmental a precautionary approach ING’s ESR Framework aims to mitigate environmental and social risk of our business activities. Social Risk Framework to environmental challenges The ING Procurement Code of Conduct includes environmental criteria. Sustainable Procurement ING’s environmental management programme aims to limit the environmental impact Environmental of our own operations. Management at ING ING applies the Equator Principles to Project Finance. Application of the Equator Principles at ING Principle 8 The ING Business Principles are based on the commitment to respect human rights Business Principles Business should undertake and the environment. initiatives to promote greater ING’s ESR Framework aims to mitigate environmental and social risk of its business activities. environmental responsibility The ING Procurement Code of Conduct includes environmental issues, this to ensure environmental sustainability. ING applies the Equator Principles to its Project Finance activities. ING’s Economics Bureau researches and publishes reports on environmental issues. Principle 9 ING’s Economics Bureau researches and publishes reports on environmental issues. Researching the business Business should encourage ING commits to increasing the share of renewable energy in its project finance portfolio. case for sustainability the development and diffusion Responsible investment of environmentally friendly The ING Groenbank, the ING Sustainable Lending Team and several other specialist teams within ING Bank and ING Lending Services promote sustainable business. and lending technologies Growth in the Sustainable Assets Allocated that represent business conducted with Sustainable Assets sustainability criteria. Allocated 2013 Principle 10 The ING Business Principles set a global standard for the behaviour expected of every employee. Business Principles Businesses should work against ING has zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption and has clear policies on this. Governance and corruption in all its forms, Compliance including extortion and bribery ING implements a Corporate Policy on Financial EconomicCrime (FEC). ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 106 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.4 – Glossary ABIS EHS The Academy of Business and Society Environmental Health and Safety ABS EIRIS Asset Backed Securities Global provider of research into corporate environmental, social and governance performance AFM Authority for the Financial Markets EPFI Equator Principles Financial Institution AGM Annual General Meeting of Shareholders ESG Environmental, Social and Governance AML Anti-Money Laundering ESR Environmental and Social Risk BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental EUR Assessment Methodology Euro € CDM EU ETS Clean Development Mechanism European Union Emissions Trading Scheme CDP FEC Carbon Disclosure Project Financial Economic Crime CEO FTE Chief Executive Officer Full-time equivalent (for employees). An FTE of 1.0 equals a full-time employee CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities FSSS Financial Services Sector Supplement CRO Forum Chief Risk Officer's Forum GDC ING’s Global Diversity Council CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GFS Global Financial Services CTF Counter Terrorism Financing GHG Greenhouse Gases DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes GMI GMI Ratings maintains broad coverage of the environmental, DUFAS social, governance (ESG) and accounting-related risks affecting Dutch Fund and Asset Management Association the performance of public companies EP GRI Equator Principles Global Reporting Initiative EP II GIIPS Equator Principles two Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain EP III ICAN Equator Principles three International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons EFAMA ICGN European Fund and Asset Management Association International Corporate Governance Network ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 107 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.4 – Glossary continued ICS PRI Integrated Client Solutions Principles for Responsible Investment IFC PSI International Finance Corporation Principles for Sustainable Insurance ILO RFP International Labour Organisation Request for Proposal IPO RMBS Initial Public Offering Residential Mortgage Backed Securities IPSS ROW ING’s Procurement Sustainability Standards Rest of the World ISO SEAP International Organisation for Standards Code of Conduct of the Society of European Affairs Professionals LEED SOMO Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations MBB SRI Management Board Banking Socially Responsible Investing MBI UHRC Management Board Insurance Ultra High Risk Countries MSCI UNEP MSCI World Index United Nations Environmental Programme MWh UNPR MegaWatt hour United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment NAICS UNEPFI North American Industry Classification System United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative NFR UNEP Non-Financial risk UNEP Finance Initiative Climate Change Working Group NFRC UNGC Non-Financial Risk Committees United Nations Global Compact NFRD UNICEF Non-Financial Risk Dashboard United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund NGO UN Kyoto Protocol Non-Government Organisation The Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement linked to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which commits its NPS Parties by setting internationally binding emission reduction targets Net Promoter Score VBDO NVB Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development Dutch Banking Association VCU OECD Voluntary Carbon Units Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development WPC ORM Winning Performance Culture employee engagement survey Operational Risk Management WWF PARP World Wildlife Foundation Product Approval and Review Process YES PAX Yearly Employee Survey PAX Christi International Catholic Movement for peace PIIF Principles for Investors for Inclusive Finance ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 108 About this report OVERVIEW Delivering on our commitments appendix 10.5 – Details This Sustainability Report is available as a PDF file on Contact us www.ing.com/sustainabilityreport ING Groep N.V. Email Bijlmerplein 888 sustainability@ing.com 1102 MG Amsterdam P.O. box 1800, 1000 BV Amsterdam Text and production The Netherlands ING Sustainability, Amsterdam Commercial Register of Amsterdam, no. 33231073 Concept, design & production Radley Yeldar For further information on ING Group’s sustainability strategy, www.ry.com policies and performance, call +31 20 563 7764, email sustainability@ing.com or visit www.ing.com/sustainability Disclaimer This ING Group Sustainability report ’Simpler, stronger, sustainable’ is made for the purpose of informing our stakeholders and to give details of ING’s commitment and performance regarding Sustainability. Nothing in this document is intended to extend or amend ING’s existing obligations to its clients, shareholders or other stakeholders. All policies, procedures, guidelines, statements or anything similar that have been mentioned in this report are intended for ING internal purposes only, and under no circumstance should they be construed as creating any rights whatsoever to third parties. In assessing compliance with any of the policies and guidelines, the standards applied are subjective and any decision in relation thereto remains within ING’s discretion. ING does not accept liability for whatever consequences may result from its not adhering to these policies, procedures, criteria, instructions, statements and guidelines. ING reserves the right to change, amend or withdraw policies, procedures, guidelines and statements at its discretion at any time and can, at its own discretion, decide to make available to third parties (details of) policies, procedures, guidelines, statements or anything similar that have been mentioned in this report. This document refers, by hyperlinks or other means, to information provided by third parties. The reasonableness, accuracy or completeness of such information has not been verified by ING and links to other sites do not constitute ING’s approval or endorsement of such sites or their products or advertisements. ING accepts no liability whatsoever in connection with any such information that has been or will be provided by third parties. The copyrights to this document belong to ING Groep N.V. Your use of this document establishes your agreement not to reproduce, retransmit, distribute, sell, republish, broadcast, or circulate the content of this document without the prior written consent of ING’s Sustainability department. © 2014 ING Groep N.V. ING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013
