Annual Report 2013 LANXESS Group Key Data € million Q4 2012 Q4 2013 Change % 2012 2013 Change % Sales 2,123 2,014 (5.1) 9,094 8,300 (8.7) EBITDA pre exceptionals 239 176 (26.4) 1,223 735 (39.9) EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 11.3% 8.7% 13.4% 8.9% EBITDA 228 123 (46.1) 1,186 624 (47.4) Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 137 55 (59.9) 847 288 (66.0) Operating result (EBIT) 126 (262) < (100) 808 (93) < (100) EBIT margin 5.9% (13.0)% 8.9% (1.1)% Net income (loss) 50 (204) < (100) 508 (159) < (100) Earnings per share (€) 0.61 (2.45) < (100) 6.11 (1.91) < (100) Dividend per share (€) 1.00 0.50 1) (50.0) ROCE 15.6% 5.8% Cash flow from operating activities 414 330 (20.3) 838 641 (23.5) Depreciation and amortization 102 385 > 100 378 717 89.7 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 315 226 (28.3) 696 624 (10.3) Total assets 7,519 6,811 (9.4) Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,330 1,900 (18.5) Equity ratio 31.0% 27.9% Net financial liabilities 1,483 1,731 16.7 Employees (as of December 31) 17,177 17,343 1.0 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,392 1,339 (3.8) Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 3.4 3.2 Energy consumption (petajoules) 55.0 53.0 (3.6) Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 309 296 (4.2) Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,913 1,770 (7.5) Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 7.6 6.6 (13.2) Total waste (in thousand tons) 283 273 (3.5) Production wastewater (in million cubic meters) 34 32 (5.9) 1) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders' Meeting on May 22, 2014 2012 figures restated Sales by Region Employees by Region (as of December 31) % % 25.8 29.0 15.5 19.9 Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) 9.0 Latin America 11.6 8.8 Latin America North America 17.6 Germany 16.0 46.8 North America Germany This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to conform them to future events or developments. Performance Polymers Market Position Performance Indicators The Performance Polymers segment brings together all the activities € million 2012 2013 Change % of the LANXESS Group in the production of rubber and plastics. Our Sales 5,176 4,486 (13.3) technologies give us a strong position in the global market. For example, LANXESS is among the leading manufacturers of butyl and polybuta­ Proportion of Group sales 56.9% 54.1% diene rubber, used mainly for the production of car and truck tires. Our EBITDA1) 817 389 (52.4) high-tech plastics Durethan® and Pocan® are strong brands with significant potential for growth and innovation in the field of lightweight autoEBITDA margin 1) 15.8% 8.7% motive components. Cash outflows for capital expenditures 434 385 (11.3) Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 5,348 5,379 0.6 • Butyl Rubber (BTR) 1) Pre exceptionals • Performance Butadiene Rubbers (PBR) • Keltan Elastomers (KEL)1) • High Performance Elastomers (HPE)1) • High Performance Materials (HPM) 1) Since January 1, 2013 Advanced Intermediates Market Position Performance Indicators The operations that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates € million 2012 2013 Change % segment make it one of the world’s main suppliers of basic and fine Sales 1,674 1,647 (1.6) chemicals. Our core competencies lie in the production and marketing of industrial and fine chemicals, and in research and development in Proportion of Group sales 18.4% 19.8% these fields. Many years of experience, successful brands and a highly EBITDA1) 305 286 (6.2) efficient integrated aromatics production network give LANXESS leader­ship posi­tions in the global market. EBITDA margin1) 18.2% 17.4% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 92 96 4.3 Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 2,841 2,854 0.5 1) Pre exceptionals • Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII) • Saltigo (SGO) Performance Chemicals Market Position Performance Indicators LANXESS’s Performance Chemicals segment combines all the G ­ roup’s € million 2012 2013 Change % application-oriented activities in the field of process and functional Sales 2,203 2,132 (3.2) chem­icals. With strong brands, we rank among the world’s lead­ing producers. For example, we hold a leadership position in the field of Proportion of Group sales 24.2% 25.7% ­or­ganic colorants for plastics. Our major strengths include a global EBITDA1) 281 231 (17.8) sales and service network, outstanding product quality, high innovative ­capability and patent protection for our company’s technologies. EBITDA margin 1) 12.8% 10.8% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 135 111 (17.8) Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 6,031 5,837 (3.2) • Material Protection Products (MPP) 1) Pre exceptionals • Inorganic Pigments (IPG) • Functional Chemicals (FCC) • Leather (LEA) • Rhein Chemie (RCH) • Rubber Chemicals (RUC) • Liquid Purification Technologies (LPT) 1) 1) Until March 31, 2013: Ion Exchange Resins With innovative premium products, first-class technical expertise and inventiveness, LANXESS contributes to its customers’ success around the globe. As a specialty chemicals company, our businesses hold leadership positions in the world’s markets. Resource efficiency and environmentally friendly solutions form the key to our sustainable growth. Our product portfolio is consistently aligned to four of the most important global megatrends: mobility, agriculture, urbanization and water. We are successfully positioned in growth regions in which our products will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in the medium and long term. Contents 44 Investor Information 4 Strategy 54 Financial Information 12 Corporate Responsibility 2 Letter to Stockholders 3 Management 4 Strategy 12 Corporate Responsibility 44 Investor Information 54 Financial Information 57 Combined Management Report 116 Corporate Governance 124 Report of the Supervisory Board 128 Consolidated Financial Statements 186 Responsibility Statement 187 Auditor’s Report 188 About this Report 189 GRI Statement 190 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report 192 GRI Content Index 198 Glossary 200 Index 201 Graphics and Tables 202 Financial Calendar/Contact 2 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Letter to Stockholders 2013 was a challenging year for LANXESS. It was characterized by For 2014, we expect the market situation for synthetic rubber products a weak market environment, especially in Europe. Above all, volatile to remain challenging in light of the competitive and capacity situaraw material prices and increasing competition continued to have a tions. Exchange rates are likely to continue their volatile development, negative impact on our business development. For this reason, we especially against the U.S. dollar. The same applies to raw material posted an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €735 million for the fiscal year. costs, although their development is expected to be at a comparatively This was within the range of €710 million to €760 million forecasted moderate level. As 2013 was impacted by one-time effects such as raw in the third quarter but well below the result achieved in 2012, our material-related inventory devaluations and increased start-up costs, we record year. are anticipating an improvement in EBITDA for 2014, even if selling prices remain at a low level. We currently expect that we can achieve Following changes in the competitive environment for our rubber EBITDA pre exceptionals of between €770 million and €830 million. business, impairment testing in the fourth quarter led to impairment charges of €257 million. As a result, a net loss of €159 million was As an international specialty chemicals group, we bear a major reposted for the reporting year. sponsibility toward people and the environment. Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility, which is also a key comIn response to the changed business environment, LANXESS suppleponent of our strategy. It therefore followed that, in 2013, we again mented its proven flexible asset management and strict cost discipline reaffirmed our commitment to the principles of the world’s largest by initiating the Advance program of additional cost-cutting measures, corporate responsibility initiative, the Global Compact. some of which have already been implemented. Through efficiency enhancements, targeted restructuring and portfolio adjustments, we The decisive factor in our corporate success is the support of our are aiming to achieve annual savings of around €100 million from employees worldwide. On behalf of the Board of Management, I would 2015. Of the total costs of €150 million budgeted for the Advance like to thank them for their dedication, professionalism and achieveprogram, €110 million were already incurred in 2013. ment throughout the very challenging past year. I also want to express my gratitude to all of our customers, business partners and not least, In addition, we have focused on key strategic projects, reducing our you, our stockholders, for your continued confidence and support. cash outflows for capital expenditures to €624 million in the reporting year. We continue to drive forward our three major investment pro­jects Kind regards, in Singapore, China and Belgium. For now therefore, 2014 will be the last year with cash outflows for capital expenditures at the same high level as in fiscal 2013. Despite the net loss posted in 2013, we are maintaining our consisBernhard Düttmann tent dividend policy. We therefore intend to propose to the Annual (Chief Financial Officer) Stockholders’ Meeting that a dividend per share of €0.50 be paid, a reduction over the prior year. Letter to Stockholders | Management 3 ﻿ Management Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Düttmann was born in Düsseldorf in 1959. He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG, where he was latterly the Executive Board Member responsible for Finance/Human Resources and held regional responsibility for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Düttmann was appointed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on April 1, 2011, to become the company’s Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Werner Breuers Member of the Board of Management Werner Breuers was born in Mönchengladbach in 1958. He studied c­ hemistry and obtained his doctorate from Aachen Technical University before ­beginning his career in the Research and Development Division of Hoechst AG in 1989. After holding managerial positions at various companies in Germany and abroad, he latterly worked for the Basell Group as President of Basell Polyolefins Europe. Werner Breuers was appointed to the Board of Management of LANXESS AG effective May 14, 2007. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of Management (Industrial Relations Director) Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands. He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate, and joined Bayer AG in 1988. When the LANXESS organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally appointed Managing Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium. Rainier van Roessel was a­ ppointed to the LANXESS AG Board of Management on January 1, 2007. Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Chairman of the Board of Management (until February 2014) Axel C. Heitmann was born in Hamburg in 1959. After graduating in chemistry from H ­ amburg University and Southampton University, United Kingdom, and obtaining his doctorate, he joined Bayer AG in 1989. In the subsequent years, he held a succession of roles at Bayer, which included a number of international assignments in the United Kingdom and China. Axel C. ­Heitmann was appointed Chairman of the LANXESS AG Board of Management on September 16, 2004. Strategy Throughout the world, more and more people seek inrolling resistance while ensuring a long service life and creased mobility. LANXESS uses state-of-the-art techoptimal braking behavior. Used in brake pedals, oil pans nologies to develop applications that make mobility more and many other automotive components, our high-tech environmentally friendly. Our high-performance rubbers plastics result in a measurable weight reduction and corare the main component in modern green tires, reducing responding decrease in fuel consumption. Compared with metals, they are also easier to process and have outstanding mechanical properties. Mobility 6 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Decisive Leading positions at the core of the chemical industry action As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, we are positioned at the core of the chemical industry. Our specialist expertise, our applications know-how and our capacity for innovation are demonstrated by our three segments: Performance Polymers, Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals. Within these segments, 14 independent business units manage our global business operations. Effective January 1, 2013, we divided the Technical Rubber 2013 was overshadowed by increasing Products business unit in the Performance Polymers segment into two independent business units: Keltan Eastomers and High Performance competition and volatile raw material Elastomers. While Keltan Elastomers focuses exclusively on the producprices, especially in the rubber business. tion and marketing of ethylene-propylene-diene (EPDM) rubber, High Performance Elastomers has been assigned the remaining Technical We therefore launched an extensive effiRubber Products portfolio, which includes various high-performance ciency program as a major step toward rubbers and specialties. returning as quickly as possible to susOur concept of “entrepreneurs within the enterprise” ensures short tained and profitable growth. communication lines, flat hierarchies and motivated employees – all of which are crucial in enabling us to respond quickly to specific customer requirements and to changes in market and regulatory conditions. Our aim is to position the businesses in our broadly diversified portfolio at the forefront of their respective markets. We support this with targeted development activities in all segments. LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, chemicals, automotive, plastics, electronics, agrochemicals, leather and footwear, pharmaceuticals, food, water purification, construction and furniture. Other important LANXESS Focuses on the Core of the Chemical Industry Pharma Agro Performance Specialty chemicals Chemicals • Here we can perfectly leverage our expertise in Performance Polymers ­chemicals and our applications know-how. Polymers Advanced • We have excellent and long-standing customer relations. Intermediates Intermediates • We see a lot of room for maneuver in these three Bulk plastics segments. Petrochemicals • Our balanced portfolio in these segments reduces the volatility of our business. Feedstocks, gas und oil Strategy 7 A Leading Specialty Chemicals Company Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals Global no. 1 to 3 European no. 1 and 2 Global no. 1 to 4 in niche markets • Global technology leader for synthetic rubbers • Leading supplier of custom syntheses and • Applications-oriented specialty chemicals and polyamides used in mobility applications basic chemicals with a focus on agrochemicals for various niche markets such as water treatment • Differentiation through strong global presence, • Strong cost position: globally unique aromatics and construction product offering (quality, reliability and customer network and world-scale production facilities • Market leadership positions thanks to high product proximity), technological expertise and new • Customized solutions; recognition as best in class quality and innovative technologies applications (tire and non-tire) • Provider of services and solutions; differentiation potential sectors to which we supply products include medical supplies, coatFurther information about our research and development activities ings, printing technology and packaging. We believe that targeted decan be found in the combined management report starting on page velopment of our Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals 65 of this Annual Report. segments especially harbors opportunities for further improving our response to the cyclical nature of specific customer industries in the polymers sector. Diversification means that we are not dependent on … to ensure sustainability individual customers. In 2013, our ten biggest customers accounted for only around 24% of our business. Our global profile, which we have In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the steadily improved in recent years, also plays a key role in the stability demands of economics, ecology and society. “Good for business, of our business performance. good for society.” This short sentence perfectly sums up our approach to business. It reflects our conviction that our products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development can make a Innovative thinking … significant contribution to supporting our customers, protecting the environment and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. Through targeted additions to our product portfolio and innovative solutions, we are improving our technical expertise. We maintained The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility (CR) activities this approach in 2013, reliably delivering premium-quality products are achieved if they are balanced with our entrepreneurial and, esto our customers, actively supporting their innovation processes and pecially, economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our thus adding measurable value for them. In this way, we are able to core business or to our available expertise. strengthen customer loyalty and achieve clear differentiation from our competitors. Further information about our commitment to sustainability can be found in the “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 14 Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs of this Annual Report. of the market and our customers. Each business unit therefore has its own development capacities. Over and above this, our Innovation & Technology Group Function is an efficient central organizational unit Advance program launched to increase that coordinates all research and development activities within the competitiveness Group and handles cross-business unit projects. The high significance of innovation for our company is also demonstrated by the fact that At the start of 2013, we were already predicting that it would not be an R&D spending in 2013 came to 2.2% of sales, which was once again easy year for LANXESS. In particular, our synthetic rubbers business well above the average in recent years. in the Performance Polymers segment was exposed to increasing competition – not least from new market entrants – in a weak market environment. 8 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 ­L ANXESS Acts Sustainably Good for Business Good for Society • Strengthening the reputation and positive image • Protection of climate/environment of the company • Social responsibility Corporate • Training and education • Transparency, trust and good partnership Responsibility with stakeholder groups • Culture • Satisfied employees and stakeholders • Safety and security • Increasing awareness among customers and public • Neighborhood We therefore launched a new program, alongside our flexible asset Mid-term growth target management and strict cost discipline, to cushion the impact of a partially changed competitive situation in a persistently difficult market Despite the unsatisfactory performance of our business in 2013, environment. we remain committed to the growth trends that are the basis for its alignment. The elements described below serve as our operating Known as Advance, the program aims to generate annual savings of framework. We have set a mid-term target of €1.8 billion EBITDA pre around €100 million from 2015 through efficiency enhancements and exceptionals in 2018, although that target has become considerably selective restructuring. It will result in exceptional charges of around more ambitious in light of the current business trend. €150 million in 2013 and 2014. Among the areas affected by selective restructuring is the Rubber Global megatrends Chemicals business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. We have closed the Isithebe site in South Africa because the products We are aligning our product portfolio – and consequently our research manufactured there had reached the end of their market life cycle. and development activities – to four of the most important global In a further move, we focused production processes in Belgium and megatrends, where we anticipate steady, above-average growth in the United States. Our portfolio adjustments also include exploring the coming years. strategic options for various non-core businesses. In addition, we launched a voluntary separation program that comprises early retireMobility With economic growth and rising prosperity, particularly in ment packages and severance pay. In this way, we plan to reduce our emerging and developing countries, our world is becoming increasingly global headcount by about 1,000 employees. mobile. LMC Automotive, a market research company specializing in the automotive industry, forecasts that the number of cars in use worldwide will increase by an average 3% each year through 2020. However, this growth goes hand in hand with increased emissions and higher consumption of resources. Making mobility environmentally Strategy 9 friendly is therefore one of the greatest technical challenges of our counterparts. By using our high-tech plastics, the automotive industry time. Thanks to our pioneering technologies, our business units in the can therefore lower production costs, increase design freedom and Performance Polymers segment enable us to significantly contribute improve vehicle safety in one single step. Other advantages include toward two strategies for mastering this challenge. significant environmental benefits, because lighter cars consume less fuel, which also results in lower emissions. Since around one quarter of a car’s fuel consumption is accounted for by its tires’ rolling resistance, improving the energy efficiency of Agriculture The steadily growing global population is probably the tires is the primary strategy. As the market leader in high-performance key driver of the agriculture megatrend. According to current United rubbers, we make it possible to optimize the conflicting tire properties ­Nations forecasts, it will rise to around 9.6 billion in 2050. The indefined in the “magic triangle” of tire technology, thus combining low creasing number of people is also driving world demand for food. The rolling resistance, good wet grip and durability. Regulations mandatConsultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) ing the labeling of new tires to show their fuel efficiency, wet grip and estimates that global food production must expand by 60% by 2050 noise emissions – like those introduced in the European Union at the simply to keep pace with this population growth. The situation is comend of 2012 – are an important and above all sustainable growth pounded by changing eating habits worldwide and the growing use of driver for our business. In both the medium and long term, they will crops as alternative energy sources. At the same time, however, climate translate into an increase in demand for green tires, which can only change and increasing industrialization are likely to decrease the be produced using high-tech synthetic rubber. However, the European amount of land available for agriculture, thus necessitating a considerUnion is not alone in its efforts. In December 2012, South Korea introable improvement in the efficiency of cultivation. The product portfolios duced mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model. Japanese tire of our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business units manufacturers voluntarily introduced a comparable labeling system at include many key intermediates for synthesizing agrochemicals that the start of 2010. From November 2016, all tires imported to Brazil can help farmers protect their crops and increase their yields. or manufactured there for the local market will have to be labeled in this way, too. Similar legislation is also being discussed in both the Urbanization Throughout the world, people are relocating from rural United States and China. areas to cities. The United Nations forecasts that the proportion of citydwellers in the world population will increase from slightly more than The second strategy for achieving environmentally friendly mobility 50% at present to just under 70% by 2050. The urbanization trend is is the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum, most evident in emerging and developing countries. It is believed that with innovative high-tech plastics and intelligent composites. In 2010, 11 new megacities – cities with more than ten million inhabitants – will modern vehicles contained an average of around 14 kilograms of highdevelop in China and India before the end of this decade. All these tech plastics. By 2017, this is likely to have increased to around 22 kilo­ people will need living space, offices and a robust infrastructure. Our grams. There are good reasons for this. Plastics and fiber composites products are used in a large number of customer industries that are are easier to process than metal components. They have outstanding benefiting from increasing urbanization. mechanical properties and weigh up to 50% less than their metal Water Usable water is one of the most valuable of all raw materials. Even in areas where it is available in sufficient quantities, water often cannot be used due to high levels of contamination. State-of-the-art industrial processes like those used to generate electricity cannot be implemented safely and economically without ultra pure water. 10 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Population growth, environmental pollution and climate change will In 2013, in view of the challenging environment, we reduced our greatly exacerbate the supply situation in the decades ahead. Studies capital expenditure budget and focused on key strategic projects: suggest that the demand for clean water in 2030 will exceed current supply levels by around 40%. We aim to contribute to closing that gap. • The Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is investProducts and processes marketed by our business units, especially ing around €200 million in a new production plant for high-­ Liquid Purification Technologies (formerly Ion Exchange Resins), are performance Nd-PBR in Singapore, close to the butyl rubber playing an increasingly important role in the treatment of drinking facility that came on stream at the start of 2013. water, wastewater and process water. • In Changzhou, China, the Keltan Elastomers business unit is investing €235 million in the world’s largest production plant for EPDM rubber. Emerging markets • To strengthen the High Performance Materials business unit’s high-tech plastics activities, a new world-scale facility for polyamide We consider a global production and distribution network, a strong plastics is under construction at our site in Antwerp, Belgium. presence in growth markets and the resulting proximity to customers to be key success factors in the competition for market share. By Further information about these projects and other investments can investing extensively, we have steadily improved our global position be found in the “Capital Expenditures” and “Opportunity Report” in past years. In the markets of Asia and Latin America, which are sections of the combined management report. characterized by above-average growth, we have more than doubled sales to around €3.1 billion since 2005. We have a growing, modern production infrastructure in both regions. Targeted acquisitions We also intend to continue generating growth through acquisitions, Organic growth focusing on small to mid-sized enterprises that optimize and complement our existing portfolio. Stringent strategic and financial criteria We also aim to continue growing organically – by expanding existing are used to evaluate potential acquisition targets. production facilities and increasing investment in new state-of-the-art sites, through product innovations and, last but not least, through In 2013, we made two small additions to our portfolio in the Perforfurther improvements in process efficiency. Clear rules have been mance Chemicals segment. defined for all growth projects: They must generate a return that is at least equivalent to the average return on capital employed (ROCE) Through the acquisition of Singapore-based PCTS Specialty Chemicals achieved by the LANXESS Group during a normal business cycle. Pte. Ltd., LANXESS has become one of the leading suppliers of biocides for coatings in the growing Asia-Pacific region. PCTS specializes in the production of biocides for environmentally friendly water-based coatings that meet stringent health, safety and environmental standards. The acquisition has given us access to new biocide applications. At the same time, we are benefiting from PCTS’ product expertise and know-how in coatings. We have already completed the process Strategy 11 Successful Implementation of LANXESS Acquisition Strategy Acquisitions Darmex Gwalior BondThermphos Unitex Laminates Petroflex MP Jiangsu DSM Syngenta CISA Jinzhuo Elastomers TCB PCTS Verichem 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Emerging markets Complement portfolio Strengthen portfolio Technology Acquisitions must be a good cultural fit, strengthening and expanding competencies at LANXESS of integrating PCTS into our Material Protection Products business Outlook for 2014 unit. This included establishing the PCTS facility as that business unit’s new headquarters in the Asia-Pacific region. We assume that the efficiency-enhancing and restructuring measures we initiated in fiscal 2013 as part of the Advance program will help to To strengthen the phosphorus chemicals activities of our Functional increase LANXESS’s competitiveness in what remains a challenging Chemicals business unit, we acquired the operations of the French environment. subsidiary of insolvent Dutch company Thermphos International B.V, Vlissingen, Netherlands. This transaction included the production faciliHowever, we currently anticipate a lower demand dynamic in light ties of Thermphos in Epierre, France, and its customer list. Thermphos of the forecasted development of the global economy. We also asis a manufacturer of phosphorus pentoxide and polyphosphoric acid. sume that the situation for our business units with synthetic rubber Both of these products complement our existing portfolio and can products will remain challenging in 2014 owing to new competitive be used as intermediates in a range of applications including flame and capacity situations. retardants and pharmaceuticals. Even if selling prices remain at a low level, LANXESS is anticipating a slight improvement in EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year – due alone to the absence of one-time effects. We are confident of being able to continue growing organically and through targeted acquisitions in the medium term. The efficiencyenhancing and consistent restructuring measures described in this Annual Report should make a major contribution here. Corporate Responsibility Usable water is one of the most valuable of all raw materian industrial scale in power stations and in household als. Products and solutions from LANXESS help to keep applications. They are also used to adsorb arsenic as water free from harmful substances and bacteria for all well as other undesirable substances in water, such as kinds of industrial applications and produce clean water lead and phosphate. Consequently, they are suitable for for humans and animals to drink. Our ion exchangers, for treating industrial wastewater the world over. Membrane example, prevent damaging limescale deposits – both on elements for reverse osmosis help to reliably remove salt from seawater and brackish water, making them suitable for drinking. Water 14 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Corporate certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible Care®). In 2014, we plan to integrate our new butyl rubber facility in Singapore into the Responsibility matrix certificate. HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) management is an important part of our integrated management system. We have aligned our HSEQ management system toward ensuring uniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide. The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are As an international specialty chemicals recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and group, we bear a major responsibility to develop this sustainably in the future. toward people and the environment. Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense Clearly defined responsibilities of responsibility, which is also a key comWe have established various committees to ensure compliance with ponent of our strategy. Safety, environand the ongoing development of our corporate responsibility (CR) stratmental protection, social responsibility, egy and the rules and standards defined in our management system. quality and commercial efficiency are all The CR Committee, which is made up of representatives from relevant key corporate goals at LANXESS. group functions, is responsible for developing our CR strategy and ensures that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line with this strategy. In its capacity as an interdisciplinary competence center, it advises both the Board of Management and the business units on all matters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and maintaining reliable data that comply with current market standards for use in our external CR communications. Integrated management system drives success The HSEQ Committee, comprising LANXESS’s senior executives At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary under the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Werner global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. With this Breuers, is tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with unitoolbox, we have created a transparent framework of values and rules formly high quality management, safety, environmental and climate that unites management and employees across national borders. In protection standards. The committee has responsibility for initiating addition to internal directives and operating procedures, the company and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ is steered on the basis of strict quality and environmental standards in guidelines, strategies and programs, as well as for defining our HSEQ line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 which apply worldwide. objectives and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated quality and environmental management External, independent experts regularly audit the progress of system system in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. integration at new sites and the performance of our management system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 The Compliance Committee, which is made up of representatives and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. We sucfrom a range of specialist backgrounds, handles all referrals concessfully completed a follow-up audit in 2013. cerning compliance violations, with the goal of countering illegal or unethical conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and As of September 26, 2013, our matrix certificate covered 48 comintroducing suitable measures to prevent improprieties. panies with 77 sites in 23 countries. In 2013, our production sites in Greensboro and Gastonia in the United States and the site we acquired from DSM in Triunfo, Brazil, were included in the certificate as planned. For our sites in the United States, we have also received Corporate Responsibility 15 Comprehensive values system established in countries where the rule of law is limited, to specific questions such as whether issuing invitations to business partners can be considered All management systems are based on values and guidelines that proto be corruption. vide a clear framework for a company’s management and employees. Our system is based on established global standards and on our comCompliance Management System The LANXESS Compliance Manpany’s own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment. agement System (CMS) is described in our CMS statutes and was externally audited by Deloitte & Touche GmbH in 2012. The global Compliance LANXESS considers compliance with laws and ethical audit covered the largest possible scope (design, suitability and efprinciples to be the basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our fectiveness). It was not limited to defined risks but focused on the employees’ integrity and awareness of their responsibilities are key ten main compliance risks identified in the course of our analysis. factors in the success of our company. The Code for Legal CompliThe audit was completed without observation – i.e. no significant ance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which is applicable weakness was identified – and with an unqualified audit opinion. throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards. The CMS principles we apply are based on a comprehensive framework for company-wide risk management (COSO II). The basic eleAs a global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets to proments of our CMS include: moting respect for human rights at all times and preventing child and • Compliance culture forced labor. Our code also covers issues such as anti-competitive • Compliance objectives behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product and • Compliance risks (identification, evaluation and measures) plant safety and environmental protection. To take sufficient account • Compliance program of the individual circumstances – particularly with respect to legisla• Compliance organization tion – in certain countries or business areas, there are also many spe• Compliance communication cific guidelines on the aforementioned issues. All globally applicable • Compliance monitoring and improvement LANXESS directives and guidelines are contained in a system that is accessible to every employee. Our Compliance Code can also be found At the top, our compliance culture is shaped by the commitment of our on our website at www.lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/ Board of Management and Supervisory Board. If it is to permeate the Responsibility/Sustainable Management. entire company, the process of living and communicating our compliance culture must also be an essential aspect of the leadership role at “The company respects applicable law and requires its employees and every subsequent decision-making level. At LANXESS, responsibility business partners to do likewise.” This is the key statement of our Comfor compliance and business activities goes hand in hand. pliance Code and expresses our basic guiding principle – that each of our decisions and activities must satisfy this premise, irrespective of the Our compliance objective is to avoid any violations. It is based on the aims we are pursuing or the conditions we face. In the first instance, principle outlined above that compliance represents the fundamental we define applicable law as any applicable international or national condition for every decision and action taken by our company. legislation in the jurisdictions in which LANXESS operates. Moreover, human rights and ethical principles are considered to take precedence Compliance risks are regularly analyzed by the Compliance Comin all cases, even if they are not stipulated in the applicable legislation. mittee and presented to the Board of Management for discussion. In this context, we have also signed the U.N. Global Compact, and They are evaluated according to the likelihood of occurrence and recognize the principles it sets forth as inalienable rights. We consider damage potential. Risk exposure is analyzed both for business areas the stated principle of legality and ethical behavior to be more than and countries, and Risk Officers are appointed accordingly. Wherever just compliance issues. Instead, we see them as inextricable aspects possible, early-warning indicators and monitoring instruments are of our corporate responsibility and sustainability culture. defined and countermeasures initiated to reduce the risks identified. The principal risk exposures we have identified relate to antitrust law We have established a Compliance Management System to implement (horizontal), competition law (vertical), anti-corruption, export control, our clear commitment to compliance in our daily business activities. environmental and safety regulations, data protection, product liability, This system supports and guides decision-makers and other company insider trading, discrimination, accounting law and – being closely employees in their actions. In this way, we eliminate any potential related to compliance – fraud (against the company). uncertainties relating to our compliance principles. These range from basic questions such as the extent to which all laws must be obeyed 16 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Our compliance program includes all of the “classical” CMS elements, Compliance monitoring is performed by means of general audits such as issuing a compliance code and specific guidelines and work and dedicated audit programs conducted by Internal Auditing and a instructions, and establishing guidance systems, information and traincentral HSE department. Since Internal Auditing is itself part of the ing. We ensure compliance in the broader sense by clearly assigning CMS framework, we have this organizational unit regularly audited responsibilities within our structural and process organizations, and by independent third parties. The status of compliance at LANXESS by implementing a functioning internal control system and suitable is also subject to regular review by the auditor of the annual financial auditing and monitoring activities. statements. The compliance organization includes a global Compliance ComGlobal Compact We are committed to the established principles of the mittee, a global Compliance Officer drawn from this body and loworld’s largest corporate social responsibility initiative, the U.N. Global cal compliance officers and/or committees in every country where a Compact. Since we signed up in 2011, we have continued to raise our LANXESS company operates. Various group functions also assume sustainability profile. You can find more information about the Global support and/or monitoring roles in the compliance system, for example Compact at www.unglobalcompact.org. Legal, HSE and Internal Auditing in particular. The responsibility for ensuring legally compliant behavior, however, always rests with the Responsible Care® Transparency and improved public dialogue are respective decision-maker. We therefore view compliance primarily among the stated objectives of the Responsible Care® Global Charter as a key leadership task within the company. launched by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). This is the only way to build confidence and trust in an industry that Our compliance communication involves both top-down and bottom-up plays a crucial role in improving people’s living standards and quality processes in equal measure. Information events and training courses of life. We have supported this initiative since 2006, when we also enable our employees to fulfill their tasks correctly and in compliance became one of the signatories to the ICCA charter. For us, applywith the law. Our communication activities include the “Compliance” ing the Responsible Care® Global Charter to our business means section on the LANXESS intranet, coupled with e-learning programs. working consistently to improve our processes and services in terms From a bottom-up point of view, compliance issues and problems are of environmental and climate protection, health, safety and quality. reported to local compliance officers and on to the central CompliOur corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are ance Committee. The global Compliance Officer reports significant integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. developments, findings and measures to the Board of Management and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. We also expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, espeThere is an obligation to report ad hoc to the Board of Management cially the Global Compact, and establish adequate systems to ensure and the Supervisory Board in the event of wide-reaching compliance legally compliant behavior and carry ethical behavior throughout their violations. However, there has been no need to do so as yet. organizations. The LANXESS Supplier Code of Conduct is part of our communication with suppliers. Additionally, in the course of acquisitions, we make it a principle of our due diligence processes to ensure that human rights are also respected by the target company. The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Area Principle Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2) Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5) Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6) Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8) Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9) Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Responsibility 17 The Most Important CR Issues Perceived by the Stakeholder Groups Surveyed Capital market Customers Employees NGOs Politics Suppliers • Transparency • Supply chain • Diversity • Environmental • Renewable energy • Sustainability in the • Sustainability in the transparency • Health and safety protection sources supply chain supply chain • CR strategy • Work-life balance • Social standards in • Sustainability in the the supply chain supply chain Active stakeholder dialogue individual aspects relating to working conditions and environmental protection. We meet respondents’ request for a transparent portrayal In 2013, we implemented a variety of projects and events to maintain of sustainability in our supply chain through the Together for Sustainour active dialogue with key stakeholders on issues that are or may ability initiative we founded in 2012 together with five other chemical become relevant to our company and our economic success. companies. This is described in detail in the combined management report on page 63 of this Annual Report. Our Diversity & Inclusion The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions initiative (see page 24) also incorporates suggestions received in our and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our stakeholder surveys. In our combined annual and sustainability report, business units and who therefore have a justified interest in our activiwe regularly provide comprehensive information about progress in both ties. The primary purpose of our dialogue with customers, employees, the aforementioned areas as well as in other areas our stakeholders suppliers, capital market participants, the media, neighbors of our view as important. sites, and representatives of politics, public authorities and NGOs is to identify topics that we consider to be significant in terms of our corBased on the results and suggestions from the survey, we will focus porate responsibility. At the same time, we seek to encourage mutual our activities more on those areas our stakeholders consider to be understanding and build trust through open and constructive dialogue. particularly relevant. In the future, we plan to depict these areas in a materiality matrix. Regular stakeholder surveys Customer satisfaction as a success factor We carry out regular surveys of our key stakeholders to ensure we always have a representative view of how they perceive LANXESS’s In markets with a high level of competitive pressure such as the chemisustainability activities and which issues they consider to be particularly cal industry, customer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among important. The most heavily represented stakeholder groups in the the most important success factors. Our central inquiry management surveys carried out to date were employees, customers, representatives system provides customers with information about our products, their of politics and capital market participants. However, we also included applications and potential risks and with product certificates. We apply representatives of NGOs and our suppliers. the principle of one voice to the customer to ensure that every customer has a regular contact person. Critical feedback from customers gives Our most recent survey in 2012 showed that our stakeholders consider us valuable pointers for improving our products and processes. We us to be well positioned compared to the relevant competitors in terms have established a global customer complaint management system of our general CR strategy and activities. In particular, our performance backed by a Group-wide guideline. The aim is to quickly and comin developing innovative products for green mobility and commupetently resolve customer dissatisfaction issues so as to establish a nicating our sustainable activities was rated very highly. The most sustained bond between the customer and us. concrete suggestions for improvement were spread over a number of The customer surveys we conduct every two years use recognized opinion research methods and also provide us with vital information about the loyalty of our customers, their expectations and how they perceive our services compared to those of our competitors. In line 18 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 with our aim, we increased the number of customers contacted in Our first Lanxess Pigments Symposium held in Shanghai, China, 2013 by 40% compared with the last survey. The overall assessment in November 2013 discussed sustainable technologies for a clean of LANXESS was again very good and represented an improvement environment. More than 140 participants heard papers and attended on the previous results. panel discussions and workshops concerning the sustainable manufacture of inorganic pigments and global trends in the coatings and Our daily commitment to high customer satisfaction was also honored pigments industries. in 2013 with a number of awards from our customers. For example, our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit received a supplier Since 2013, we have been supporting “Chemie³,” a joint sustainabilaward for very good product quality and outstanding service from Brita, ity initiative of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the one of the world’s leading manufacturers of drinking water filters. For German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) and the third time, our Butyl Rubber business unit was presented with the the German Chemical Industry Employers’ Association (BAVC). The Strategic Partnership Award from Chinese tire manufacturer Triangle. initiative focuses on the Guidelines for Sustainability in the Chemical Industry in Germany, which encompass a total of 12 areas of activity and were formulated with input from internal and external stakeholders. Social media guideline introduced They are a mission statement for the industry, supporting companies and their employees in expanding their contributions to sustainability. The social media are more than just a trend. Every day, several billion people use platforms like Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn for networking In October 2013, LANXESS hosted the 8th Innovation Management and exchanging information within seconds. We believe that the social Round Table, one of a series of events conceived and organized by media offer great opportunities for improving global dialogue, the German gas and electricity utility RWE. The theme of the network collaboration among our employees and the interaction with external meeting at LANXESS’s headquarters was the culture of innovation. stakeholder groups. In 2013, we introduced a social media guideline This forum offers LANXESS the opportunity to enter into interdisciplinto ensure responsible use of the social media and raise our employees’ ary dialogue on effective innovation management and benefit from awareness for the associated risks. It defines general rules of conduct the exchange of views. and specifies a selected group of specially trained employees who are officially allowed to publish and comment on contributions on We also conduct an open dialogue with government representatives behalf of LANXESS. and with authorities on local, European and international level. The focus is on an active exchange of ideas on strategic corporate issues such as environmentally friendly product and process innovations, Establishing efficient networks developments on raw material and energy markets and issues relating to the labor market and education policy. Our own offices in Berlin We are very aware that no single organization alone – company, govand Brussels place us close to the center of political decision-making. ernment, research institute or NGO – will be able to master the major social challenges of our time. Alongside the many CR activities of Another important element of our stakeholder communication is strucour own, we are therefore participating increasingly in establishing tured dialogue with residents in the immediate vicinity of our sites. powerful global networks where we combine our competence in In fall 2013, for example, our affiliate Currenta opened Chempunkt sustainable development with the expertise of other partners. As well neighborship offices to serve as a point of contact for local residents as state institutions, NGOs in particular – with their extensive expert interested in discussing issues concerning the Chempark sites in knowledge of specific issues – have a crucial role to play. Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, where LANXESS has many production facilities. Also planned are events addressing matters Our Green Mobility initiative is a prime example of successful networksuch as safety and vocational training. In addition, LANXESS is seeking ing that benefits several participants and is totally in keeping with our to collaborate with clubs and associations. Our dialogue offering is philosophy of “Good for business, good for society.” Our Mobility Days, rounded off with information films and other materials. Automotive Days and Rubber Days, for example, are interdisciplinary, global platforms for discussing current green mobility issues and trends with experts from business, science and associations. Corporate Responsibility 19 Employees Innovative and Stringently Applied HR Strategies Support our Sustainable Growth • Global leadership concept emphasizes behavioral change Leadership & Qualification • Extensive investment in qualification, special focus on global sales force • Comprehensive demography programs to enhance productivity Demographic Management • Workforce planning aligned with demographic data and succession plan • Employee turnover in volatile BRIC countries below sector average Employee & Labor Relations • Reliable and stable labor relations in countries with strong union traditions • Performance-based and flexible compensation schemes Compensation • Employee stock plan in Germany with over 70% participation over years Our entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on the perforThe jury’s decision was based on a poll of 6,000 managerial employmance, implementation skills and commitment of our employees. ees in 25 chemical and pharmaceutical companies, canvassing their Only through their ongoing training and development – especially views on a range of HR and cultural issues. In China, the CRF Institute with regard to change and innovation – can we safeguard our ability to named us China’s Top Employer for the third time, after honoring us pursue our corporate goals and further enhance LANXESS’s competiin 2009 and 2011. We were judged as outstanding in the human tiveness in the long term, even in a challenging business environment. resources, leadership and strategy categories. Our HR strategy remains focused on four central areas of activity, within Building on the employee survey we carried out in 2012, we held a which we have developed and implemented a range of innovative tools. number of employee information events throughout our organization in China and implemented a range of additional measures aimed at In addition, we continued the strategic development of the HR function strengthening our employees’ already high level of commitment. In during 2013. We have established a global HR Excellence Program Brazil, we again collaborated with Great Place to Work to conduct an with the aim of identifying internal and external drivers of change for employee satisfaction survey. Among those questioned, 71% agreed which we can then define strategically coherent responses for global that LANXESS is a very good employer. application throughout the organization. The areas of activity include quality management, leadership and dialogue, diversity and inclusion, A broad range of individual social commitment activities and various organizational consulting and change management. fundraising campaigns are evidence of our employees’ strong drive to complement LANXESS’s corporate responsibility programs and serve By actively promoting social responsibility, providing attractive jobs the communities they live in. Detailed information can be found in the in an international environment, offering performance-based market“Society” section of this chapter starting on page 40. rate compensation and promoting a culture that inspires diversity, leadership and openness to change, we give our employees access The challenging business environment was also reflected in our global to remarkable career development opportunities, also outside their headcount in 2013. The increase in our workforce, in part as a result home countries. of 2012 planning and primarily to meet the needs of growth and investment projects, slowed in the second half of the year. Toward the In fiscal 2013, several national and international awards underscored end of the year, headcount felt the effects of the extensive efficiencythe success of this strategy. For the first time, we took top place in the enhancing and restructuring measures that comprise our Advance annual sentiment survey conducted by the VAA (Association of Acaprogram, which is intended to cut around 1,000 jobs worldwide. demic and Managerial Employees in the German Chemical Industry). 20 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 3 20 – 29 14 30 19 80 13 32 30 56 48 178 30 – 39 22 42 20 52 5 31 14 30 34 108 40 – 49 9 27 7 27 4 24 3 13 16 32 50 – 59 2 12 4 10 7 15 4 4 9 ≥ 60 1 2 4 Total 48 111 50 169 31 106 47 106 102 327 Recruiting talents worldwide In fiscal 2013, we continued to seek direct contact with talented university and school students through our presence at a large numAs part of our sustainable corporate policy and against the backdrop ber of career fairs, university events and scientific conferences, and of demographic change, LANXESS is continuing to invest in wellby organizing our own events. We also cooperated with university qualified young talents – both apprentices and university graduates – career centers and funded a range of scholarships as part of the and experienced specialists. German government’s “Germany Scholarship” program. Through this, LANXESS continued to support more than 50 students at eight By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain renowned universities in 2013, including students at RWTH Aachen the best minds and talents for our company. In recent years, we have University, TU Dortmund University, the University of Cologne and worked closely with our employees to develop the basis for an employer Cologne University of Applied Sciences. The scholarship holders brand with the goal of conveying an authentic image of LANXESS. In receive a monthly payment of €300. The company pays €150 of 2013, we redesigned our market presence aimed at attracting future this amount and the remaining half is shared equally by the German apprentices and specialists. Our new internal and external online government and the state of North-Rhine Westphalia. In addition, we platforms are better aligned with the communication needs of the offer our scholarship holders individual guidance. various target groups – from apprentices through to professionals. We are especially committed to fostering young talents during their Our corporate culture is shaped by challenging tasks and encourages undergraduate or PhD study programs and facilitating their successful employees to assume responsibility in an international context at an career start. We provide support to especially gifted students to enable early stage. This gives our employees unique development opportunithem to develop their full potential. The LANXESS support program ties, as reflected in our low turnover. The increase in turnover recorded specifically targets outstanding undergraduate and PhD students in during the reporting period was due to special effects generated by scientific and engineering subjects. We value personal contact as much our global efficiency and headcount adjustment program. In Germany, as the provision of financial support. Other features of the program the turnover resulting from voluntary resignations was 0.5% in the include an active dialogue on specialist and career-related issues, reporting period. Globally, it was around 2.4%. the opportunity to gain practical insights into the working day of a Turnover % EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 20 – 29 1.1 1.4 0.7 3.2 3.1 2.3 12.1 4.2 9.9 9.4 30 – 39 5.1 2.9 0.7 1.1 9.2 7.6 7.9 4.9 9.0 6.4 40 – 49 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.2 3.2 3.1 4.2 1.2 9.0 2.5 50 – 59 0.0 1.3 0.0 0.2 0.7 1.8 3.4 1.0 4.0 1.7 ≥ 60 7.8 6.3 0.0 0.4 4.8 12.9 0.0 26.7 80.0 0.0 Total 2.2 1.9 0.2 0.6 3.4 4.1 8.1 3.3 9.3 5.7 Corporate Responsibility 21 specialist and interesting get-together events. This gives the recipients In Pittsburgh, United States, we continue to support the Carnegie of support the opportunity to meet LANXESS employees and find out Science Center in a variety of ways – for example, as a founding sponwhich career entry and development options are available. sor of the Center for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Education and Career Development. Activities include Every year, more than 200 students gain work experience through projects for high-school students and events for young women interinternships and thesis placements at LANXESS in Germany. Here, we ested in science. In Canada, we maintain close contacts with Western actively seek collaboration with universities and colleges. We are also University, offering post-doctoral internships at our research center in increasing our support for scientific conferences and congresses such London, Ontario. We provide the Polymer Research Institute at the as those organized by the Max Planck Society’s PhDnet, the young University of Waterloo with financial and intellectual support in the chemists’ forum in the GDCh (Association of German Chemists) and form of, for example, the transfer of know-how. the ProcessNet initiative of DECHEMA and VDI. Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany The best prospects for the smartest minds We attach great importance and around the world, for example as part of specialist project weeks, to maintaining and expanding our contacts with especially committed and promoting science education at local high schools are also in the and talented interns. To this end, we have developed the eXclusive focus of LANXESS’s extensive education initiative, which we continued program. The underlying principle is simple: An intern who displays to expand in fiscal 2013. As a company, we consider this initiative to above-average qualities will continue to receive support from us in be part of our social and corporate responsibility. the form of, for example, personal coaching and preferential access to further training opportunities. We have established clear criteria for International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment inclusion in the program such as impressive performance during a to education is also reflected in our partnership with Teach First in minimum three-month internship with LANXESS and an outstanding Germany and India. We have been one of the main sponsors of this profile of soft skills and expertise. not-for-profit organization since 2010. Teach First, which is already established in a number of countries, has set itself the goal of helpIn Brazil, we are continuing to offer an internship program with a special ing school students who have had a difficult start in life, fostering part-time contract to students in the concluding stages of their degree their individual talents and supporting them in developing career programs. They are given responsibility for a project of their own, the prospects. Particularly highly qualified university graduates from all results of which will later be presented to top management. This atdisciplines, who also have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for a tractive offering targets the best of a year group, enabling us to attract period of two years, helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas local young talents who bring new expertise to the company. We also with education and schooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly offer a similar internship program in India, which is supplemented by on supporting fellows specializing in mathematics and science. The a mentoring program. most recent intake of fellows has been active in schools in North Rhine-Westphalia since February 2013. In addition to providing fiIn China, we have further expanded our partnership with the C­ hangzhou nancial support, we are also making a practical contribution through Institute of Engineering Technology. We are sharing practical and scien­ activities such as vocational training preparation for school students tific expertise with the university by means of a second “LANXESS and personal coaching for fellows. class” of 22 students, who have the opportunity to visit our production facilities and gain an early insight into the working world through We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010. The internships – thus arousing their interest in working for LANXESS. first fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and We also continued our collaboration with Qingdao University of SciDelhi were given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites ence and Technology, where our technical experts teach a number of in India as part of the program. The school students they support are special courses. The best students in each of these courses are given also given career guidance and an insight into working life through the opportunity to participate in an internship at our technical service visits to our facilities. In addition, LANXESS employees provide direct center in Germany. We held a series of Campus Talks at various other support for projects in the schools in their free time. This commitment universities, raising awareness of LANXESS as an attractive employer was also continued in fiscal 2013. in China. In a special careers program initiated with high schools partnered by the Goethe Institute, we provide four-week internships with our company to promising students of German. 22 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Structured development of young managers Each year, under the Encouraging and supporting individual development motto “Prepare for the Future,” our LANXESS international corporate trainee program attracts highly skilled university graduates. Our aim In a multitiered process of global HR development, we annually review is to prepare the participants for an international career within the the performance, potential, development needs and future career LANXESS Group and establish a global pool of young managers with planning of all our managerial employees around the world. During international experience. In fiscal 2013, the focus was on controlling, 2013, we introduced the Executive Database as a tool to facilitate the finance and engineering. Since the initiative started, we have offered matching of candidate profiles with the results of the conferences. In a wide range of trainee positions to 67 university graduates with an this connection, we are revising our current talent management and interest in embarking on an international career. succession planning processes. The results of these reviews form the basis for detailed feedback discussions between managerial staff We have also established local trainee programs in a number of and their supervisors. Moreover, the Orientation Center has become ­regions. an established tool worldwide for assessing the potential of future young managers and supporting their development. This is flanked In the United States, we offer 15 places on our trainee and intern by individual assessment centers aimed at identifying the potential of programs in the fields of finance and engineering, cooperating with midand top-level managers and diagnosing the suitability of exterestablishments such as the University of Pittsburgh. We also organize nal applicants for key positions. The results of this multidimensional a special Summer Internship Program. approach are an integral part of our HR development and recruiting strategy. In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specifically for the Chinese market. This two-year program, which we continWe are currently implementing a new employee dialogue and feedued in 2013, aims to prepare highly qualified business and technology back tool named Employee Dialog. Following its launch in 2012, we graduates for management roles and create a pool of local talent. extended the project in 2013 and tested it in pilot units. Employee Dialog represents an innovative approach to performance management In Brazil, we maintain close ties with the Universidade Federal do Rio based on an ongoing dialogue and thus also on active management de Janeiro (UFRJ), providing scholarships to masters students that of the relationship between supervisors and employees. Compared enable their participation in special studies to develop new processes with the rigid and more formal structures of traditional approaches, in rubber technology. In addition, we offer more than 50 vocational the focus is on trust and individual motivation as success factors. In and student training positions at our sites. the long term, this creates a culture in which leadership and employee development are seen as a joint task for supervisors and employees LANXESS in India has established three XTrainee programs struc– which benefits individual productivity and satisfaction. tured individually for students, graduates and prospective managers. Participants in these programs are given a specific project to work We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers. Inon and are supported by a mentor. In 2013, 39 students, graduates stead, we expect them to find a personal balance between strategic and prospective managers received training and guidance in one of vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions these programs. Cooperating with the Indo German Training Centre (Guts). Our management philosophy thus focuses on a holistic ap(IGTC) in Mumbai, Chennai and Calcutta, LANXESS in India also proach. The associated skills serve as guidance, with our managers’ provides five positions on a post-graduate training program in business individual leadership strategies taking the forefront. As part of our administration. This program comprises three modules and lasts six Advance efficiency program, we have consolidated the leadership months. LANXESS in India runs a further one-year structured training seminars for our managers at various levels and introduced a novel program in collaboration with the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) which form of training which focuses on practical leadership skills and moallows 15 young people to continue their training after completing an tivation for teams undergoing change processes. Pilot training has apprenticeship as a production specialist or technician. shown that the concept successfully fosters dialogue between managers and employees during periods of transition. Corporate Responsibility 23 We also provide our managerial staff with a wide range of ­individual and weaknesses. Continuous feedback sessions with the participants’ development opportunities, including personal coaching and direct supervisors and the ILSA coaches are aimed at ensuring that 360-­degree feedback. We continued offering special modular and the program aids both sides in optimizing sales activities, thus adding multi­dimensional programs through the LANXESS Academy. Devalue for LANXESS. Ultimately, the ability of our sales employees to signed specifically to prepare trainee managers for their future tasks, implement what they have learned depends largely on the support these programs proved to be a very successful component of our they receive from their supervisors. That is why, in 2013, we initiated structured management training. In the period under review, 188 regional training programs for the ILSA participants’ supervisors. employees – 43 of them women – took part in these special corporate programs. ILSA perfectly complements the programs already in place in the business units and countries by facilitating communication and the Training and development are significant aspects of personnel develsharing of best practices across business units and national borders. opment at all levels. Alongside formal training sessions and seminars, We consider the targeted qualification of our global sales employees which amount to 16,100 hours a year in France, for example, there to be a significant success factor in the further improvement of our are many informal training courses such as orientation days, peercustomer relationships. It also gives us a competitive edge in today’s to-peer coaching and continuous knowledge-sharing events linking global markets. To date, some 250 first-level sales employees from young and experienced employees. all over the world have taken part in the program. The LANXESS Summer Academy, which we organize once a year near our company headquarters, encourages training, networking Development opportunities and diversity and personal development across the boundaries of our business for international markets units and group functions by means of presentations, seminars and a varied supporting program. The Academy is aimed at employees Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS currently from various backgrounds – from business professionals to chememploys people from 69 countries across the world. Our successful ists and engineers. After the very positive feedback of the previous focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase proxyears, we again held a Summer Academy in 2013: 114 employees imity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer took part in the one-week program, which included eleven seminars of know-how and international experience are not one-way streets, on improving hard and soft skills and an intensive interdisciplinary which is why LANXESS is increasingly sending employees from the exchange of experiences. BRICS countries to its sites in Western Europe and North America. Under the umbrella of the LANXESS Academy, we continued offerInternational assignments are a key component of our systematic HR ing functional training for our global sales employees in 2013. The development process. Therefore, all expatriate positions at LANXESS International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) is a one-year modular have been advertised globally since mid-2012. This gives all our emprogram designed to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft ployees the same opportunity to apply for an international assignment skills of our sales employees. In 2013, we reworked the existing proand embark on an international career. gram so that each module now addresses one overarching topic and the modules are more strongly interwoven. Module 1 covers negotiaWe feel it is important to give the best-possible consideration to an tion preparation while Module 2 focuses on negotiation management. employee’s family circumstances in the event of international assignIn Module 3, participants are confronted with challenging negotiation ment. Also in the year under review, LANXESS provided a dual career scenarios. ILSA now gives participants better opportunities for selfallowance to compensate some of the loss of income caused when reflection so they can identify and manage their individual strengths a partner gives up work to accompany one of our employees on an international assignment. In addition, we support the accompanying partner’s professional development. 24 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Making expatriate management one of the central components of Despite these differences, our commitment to increasing diversity systematic personnel development also means enabling employees worldwide has a common basis – equal opportunity. Wherever equal with limited international mobility to work abroad. In 2012, therefore, opportunity exists, recruitment and development will be based on we enhanced the framework conditions for short-term assignments. performance, experience and personality, and not on membership of To this end, our revised International Assignment Policy now includes a particular group. To guarantee this in all cases, a company must influan attractive mix of fringe benefits and special training for both longence the attitudes of its employees and managers toward the different term and short-term assignments. In this way, we are making it easier nationalities, age structures, genders etc. they encounter in their daily for new and experienced managers as well as skilled non-managerial work. Diversity starts in the head of every individual. employees to acquire international work experience. With this in mind, the path to greater diversity at LANXESS requires With the introduction of the Advance efficiency and restructuring a cultural change process above all else. We must also create the program, the number of employees on international assignment was structural framework (e.g. organization, processes, guidelines) so that greatly reduced in 2013. At year end, 187 employees – around 5% diversity generates added value for our employees and the company. of our managers – were working as expatriates outside their home During the reporting year, we continued to develop and implement a countries, mainly Singapore, China, the United States and Brazil. range of measures as part of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative. In addition to achieving a global transfer of knowledge by sending We added three further business entities and subsidiaries as D&I piexperts and managers abroad, our goal is still to develop local manlots. The D&I Dashboard completed in 2013 will in future facilitate agement with the necessary expertise and international competencies the detailed analysis of data pertaining to the three dimensions in our in each country and to transfer challenging tasks to suitable local focus. Each business unit and group function will be able to view its D&I employees. Outside Germany, 69% of our management functions indicators on national, regional and global level, enabling the developare currently filled by local employees. ment of appropriate strategic measures. By extending the Ladies Lunch women’s network to Brazil, China, Germany and India and establishing The global Diversity & Inclusion initiative With the goal of achieving an expatriate network in Germany, two initiatives have been launched structured development of diversity at LANXESS and utilizing its positive to improve dialogue within the company. Following successful piloting effects for our company and its employees, we established the Diversity in one business unit, our global mentoring program is due to be rolled & Inclusion (D&I) initiative in 2011, under the patronage of Board of out across the company. 2014 will see the entry into force of a number Management member and Labor Director Dr. Rainier van Roessel. of new guidelines such as a recruiting guideline that anchors diversity This initiative reflects the great importance of a diverse workforce for aspects and a guideline for future mothers. We are also working on the our competitiveness on global markets, for increasing our innovative development of an innovative job-sharing model aimed at achieving strength and performance capabilities and for attracting and retaining greater workplace flexibilization. promising talents – especially in light of the demographic challenges in various countries. The Senior Trainee Program – the Diversity & Inclusion lighthouse project launched in 2012 – was honored as an innovative individual Given the many different dimensions of diversity (e.g. age, gender, naproject with the Diversity Award 2013 from German business magationality, ethnicity, disability, social origin and experience), we decided zine Wirtschaftswoche and McKinsey. The 18-month program offers a at an early stage to establish a clear focus by concentrating on the qualified full-time position to employees with an academic background dimensions of age, gender and nationality. The criteria for this decision who wish to return to working life after a period of time spent raising included the expected leverage effect for a diverse corporate culture at a family. Alongside their actual work, the participants receive personal LANXESS and the importance of different dimensions in key country support from a mentor, individual coaching and tailor-made training. organizations and target markets. On November 5, 2012, 14 Senior Trainees began their second career in 11 different business sectors. Since then, they have been gaining experience in various areas of responsibility, in line with their academic training and in part through job rotation. By better recognizing the professional and life experience of these men and women and actively utilizing their potential, we are taking a particularly innovative approach to combining our general commitment to greater diversity with the requirements of active demographic management. Corporate Responsibility 25 LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 1 2 20 – 29 82 270 138 468 33 130 83 266 165 496 30 – 39 199 783 281 1,125 61 192 126 376 258 905 40 – 49 145 906 543 2,372 85 287 48 322 132 514 50 – 59 92 869 432 2,453 152 430 29 291 29 183 ≥ 60 15 82 30 278 44 112 1 16 2 12 Total 533 2,911 1,423 6,694 375 1,151 287 1,273 586 2,110 Through all these measures, our D&I initiative is making a key contribuVocational training In 2013, 159 young people (125 men and 34 tion to reaching the goal we have set ourselves of raising the proportion women) joined our core companies in Germany to start a vocational of women in middle and upper management to 20% by 2020. The training or combined vocational training and study program in one of figure currently stands at around 15.1%. the 13 technical, commercial or scientific professions at LANXESS. Of this number, 18 are enrolled in five combined vocational training and study programs. To ensure the long-term availability of skilled Taking action on demographic change workers, we added a combined vocational training and study program in engineering sciences during the reporting period. In view of the challenges posed by demographic change, LANXESS cooperated closely with the employee representatives in 2009 to deWith a total of 456 trainees in 19 different career paths (as of Decemvelop XCare, a comprehensive demographic program for our German ber 31, 2013), LANXESS continues to train more young people than companies based on the collective agreement on lifelong worktime it needs to meet its own requirements. In 2013, despite our extensive and demography in the chemical industry. In 2013, this program restructuring program, we gave permanent and temporary positions remained focused in particular on the issues of health management to more than 80% of those who completed their vocational training and preventive medicine and balancing career and family life. It aims with us in Germany. to find answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average age of our workforce coupled with a shortage of skilled young people. LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of The XCare project was initially based on an extensive demographic our social responsibility. In 2012, we once again strengthened the analysis of the entire LANXESS organization, which resulted in five marketing activities for our vocational training programs using a range areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and orgaof media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools. nization; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision. Through events of our own such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Apprentice), we also address young people with an interest in our company and One aspect of work and training was the analysis of our trainee figures give them valuable guidance for their later career choices. We again from a demographic perspective. Among the measures based on took part in Germany’s Girls’ Day in April 2013, providing girls with a our findings was the decision to increase the number of vocational deeper insight into technical areas of activity in our company. In additraining places we offer. For the period 2011 through 2014, some tion, our one-year orientation program XOnce provides young people 570 training places are available at our sites throughout Germany. with useful guidance on their way to subsequent vocational training if they are not ready to take this route at the current time. 26 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Demographic management Another main focus of our XCare demomaking workplaces as healthy as possible, but at the same time rely graphic project in Germany is balancing career and family life. It is on the individual responsibility of our workforce. In Germany, our re­ evident that this is an important issue for a growing number of LANXESS integration and occupational health management programs are based employees. 5.8% of our employees in Germany aged between 20 and on corresponding agreements with our employee representatives. 40 made use of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 43% were fathers. In 2011, in support of parents looking for care for As part of our reintegration management program, we give individual, their children, we started offering our employees reserved places at case-by-case support to employees who are suffering illness or have childcare facilities in Cologne ahead of the relocation of our company had long periods of absence from work due to ill health in the past headquarters to that city in 2013. We also sought to increase the numtwelve months. To this end, workplace integration teams comprising ber of reserved places. In addition, we opened our company daycare integration officers and employee representatives have been in place center named Xkids in Leverkusen on July 30, 2013. The facility offers at all our German sites since 2011. In 2013, as in the previous year, 50 places for children aged between six months and six years in two many employees accepted the offer of an individual consultation with preschool groups and one crèche group. Xkids is open to all parents the workplace reintegration team. in Leverkusen but LANXESS employees have preferential rights. In the area of occupational health management, further facilities have Providing care is an important aspect of career and family life. We aim joined those originally selected for pilot projects in taking the first steps to support employees in the care of dependents, either financially or toward introducing this system. As a rule, the projects are steered by in terms of time. In line with the German government’s draft legislation working groups made up equally of employee and employer repreon family caregiver leave, which came into force in 2012, we were one sentatives who analyze the existing health situation and develop a of the first companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement with participatory action model. The projects encompass management employee representatives on a multistage caregiving program that inworkshops, prevention concepts, advice on ergonomics for plant cludes advice from an external service provider, paid short-term release workers, help to give up smoking, nutrition programs for shift workers from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for caregivers. and skin screening. New measures introduced in 2013 concerned We added two further modules to this program in 2012 – a care loan the working atmosphere and enhanced awareness for the prevention at favorable terms and the support of an external service provider in of psychological illnesses. arranging care placements close to all our German sites. Experience from the pilot projects shows that our employees are Caregiver leave remains at the heart of the program. This allows emparticularly keen to obtain personal advice about their health and the ployees to reduce their working time to a greater extent than their salary possible need for preventive action. Building on this awareness and during the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they return to knowledge about their own health, employees are also responding well work. 22 employees have already taken advantage of caregiver leave to follow-up offers. Special medical check-ups are offered specifically and other job release options. for top management. Around 500 eligible managers were invited to regular appointments in 2013. Health and preventive action During the reporting year, we further intensified communication in the area of people and health and launched In the area of savings and retirement provision, we made no changes new projects across the company. We held information events and to the long-term account for non-managerial employees as regulated implemented measures at several sites concerning exercise, our top by the agreement with the employee representatives and the collecissue for the year. Our primary goal is to raise awareness of health istive bargaining agreement. Since August 2013, our employees have sues among employees and managers and encourage them to adopt been able to access all information about their long-term account in healthy behaviors at work and in their free time. We take seriously our an online portal. In addition, we introduced comprehensive accident responsibility of involving the employees and managers concerned in insurance for all non-managerial employees in Germany at the beginning of 2013. Cover applies worldwide, both at work and at home. Corporate Responsibility 27 All benefits with respect to work and family, health and retirement For the period 2010 to 2013, the Board of Management introduced provision apply to the core workforce. Individual benefits may vary a comparable long-term compensation component to replace regionally and be adjusted locally to our employees’ needs. Variable LANXESS’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The Long-Term Stock remuneration systems have been implemented for 88% (2012: 78%) Performance Plan 2010-2013 (LTSP) comprises four tranches, one of our employees worldwide, while 65% benefit from unfunded comcommencing each year. This plan compares the performance of pany pension plans. LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index over a period of four years. Since participants make a personal investment and there is the chance that the stock will increase in value, Rewarding performance these programs are an attractive long-term incentive and a means of boosting employee loyalty. The participation rate is 89%. ­ ANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to L the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldwide a transparent, market-rate compensation system. Collective Acting in partnership bargaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries. A key pillar of our HR policy that we practice worldwide is close The fixed salaries of managerial staff, and of some non-managerial cooperation between employee representatives and management, staff, are supplemented by performance-based compensation comincluding trade unions and employers’ associations, in line with the ponents that are linked, on the one hand, to the attainment of the principle of active codetermination. This means that we also comply Group’s defined EBITDA targets and, on the other, to employees’ with the ILO convention in respecting our employees’ freedom of individual performance. association and valid collective agreements, as confirmed by our membership of the Global Compact. Worldwide, more than 68% of In 2013, our employees around the world shared in the company’s our employees are covered by the terms of collective agreements; success in 2012 with a payout totaling €111 million. Our managers in Germany, this figure is nearly 90%. are also able to reward outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically. All employees worldwide are entitled to such We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies rewards on the basis of a prompt assessment of their performance. in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our In fiscal 2013, this resulted in payments of €9.1 million worldwide corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change for outstanding individual performance. processes at an early stage. The European Forum in particular serves as a platform for codetermination and dialogue in Europe. It brings We again offered an employee stock plan in 2013. All LANXESS Group together members of the LANXESS works councils from across employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS the continent and the company’s management in an annual meetshares at a 50% discount. The shares were purchased at an average ing lasting several days. In addition, the Executive Committee of price of €44.59 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation the European Forum meets with company representatives several rate of 76% represented a renewed increase over the prior year. At the times throughout the year to maintain an ongoing exchange on reporting date, our employees and Board of Management members current issues. In accordance with the German Works Constitution held around 1% of LANXESS shares through stock plans. Act, LANXESS is obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned operational changes which could result For some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive proin material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. gram for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United This does not affect the provision of information about the company’s States, Canada, India and China. The plan for the period from 2008 economic affairs to the Economics Committee. We fully comply with to 2010 compared the performance of LANXESS stock against the these legal obligations with respect to the responsible bodies. In Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. Germany, the notification period is four weeks. 28 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Open to ideas criteria. At 68%, “Come up with solutions” was the most important component in the creativity process. With its attractive, performanceWhen LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work procerelated bonus system, our idea management system is an essential dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management element of innovation management at LANXESS and will continue system fosters the development, processing and implementation of to play a key role in our company’s future success. suggestions for improvements to ensure that we continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety and environmental protection. Health, safety, environment and climate protection in the value creation chain In 2013, employees at LANXESS’s German companies submitted a total of 3,085 new suggestions, a rate of 417 per thousand employees. LANXESS is responsible for its actions across the entire supply and In the same period, 1,306 ideas were implemented, yielding total savvalue creation chain – from the global procurement of raw materials ings of €2.4 million. As well as cutting costs, 824 of these ideas led and product development, through production, storage and transto improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. port, to use and disposal. The health and safety of our stakeholders Around half of all ideas were submitted by two or more employees who – employees, contractors, immediate neighbors of our production in this way jointly experienced success and sustainably strengthened sites, customers and end users – is of central importance at each of their cooperation. More than €1.0 million was paid out to employees these stages. whose ideas were put into practice. The highest individual payment of €90,000 was awarded for a process improvement that led to an Through our safety standards, we aim to ensure the responsible apincrease in production capacity without the need for investment. plication of chemistry in health and environmental protection, in the handling of chemicals, in plant safety and in workplace safety precauAs a further incentive to attract ideas, the LANXESS Ideas Competition tions. Company-wide standards are in place to define the associated was launched in 2008. Each year, the company’s organizational units requirements and responsibilities. Through the ongoing training of our can measure themselves in terms of team benefit1). The focus is on employees and regular auditing of our health, safety and environmental identifying further cost-cutting potential, increasing both implementamanagement, we ensure that the requirements are systematically and tion and participation rates, and shortening processing times. In 2013, sustainably implemented in our processes. the Functional Chemicals business unit won the Ideas Competition for the second year in succession. 88 employees submitted an idea Our commitment was again recognized with various awards in 2013. that was implemented and contributed to the business unit’s success. For example, we received the Indian Chemical Council’s Award for They each received an additional payment of €300. All ideas that Excellence in Management of Health, Safety and Environment for the are implemented are evaluated in accordance with our _FormulaX high HSEQ standards we apply at all LANXESS sites in India. Our butyl rubber plant at Zwijndrecht, Belgium, was honored with the Fireforum Award 2013 for the revised fire safety concept we introduced there. Uniform standards in production FormulaX Across the globe, LANXESS operates at 50 production sites in which holds more than 50% (as of December 31, 2013). The diversity of the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many different Take on responsibility chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for planning, engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure a high level of Come up with solutions process, plant and occupational safety. Handling chemical substances Dare simplicity and working with technical equipment fundamentally involve health and safety risks. We systematically identify these risks and the hazAccelerate progress ard potential and minimize these by taking them into account when planning facilities and by defining and implementing the necessary 1) The team benefit is calculated from the proven cost savings yielded by ideas with a financially quantifiable benefit and from the bonuses paid (= benefits) for ideas with no quantifiable benefit and set in relation to the number of eligible employees in an organizational unit. Corporate Responsibility 29 preventive and protective measures. To help us achieve this, we have The 12 international corporate sub-committees established to scruestablished LANXESS-specific guidelines within the context of our tinize and refine our global HSE standards largely completed their global management system. These govern our procedures for all safetytask in 2013. Based on the results of their work, we familiarized just critical processes in our production facilities and cover aspects such under half our workforce with the cultural elements of our occupational as the definition and implementation of technical and organizational safety and health program in a first implementation phase. We also protective measures and the environmentally friendly handling of raw initiated training for the management levels at selected sites outside materials and waste. Germany. At the present time, we are preparing training documents in our various corporate languages adapted to the cultural requirements Experts conduct targeted spot checks as part of on-site audits to asof different countries. sess implementation of the relevant LANXESS guidelines and local regulations for safe plant operation. At each facility, compliance with Key measures developed by the corporate sub-committees focus the safety standards must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals on the prevention and sustained avoidance of accidents. In this conrequired by local legislation. In 2013, a total of 36 facilities (2012: nection, we consider an improved reporting culture to be especially 32), 14 of them in Germany (2012: 14), were audited in the course important. In 2013, we began systematically recording near accidents of HSE compliance checks. so we can analyze their causes and implement corresponding corrective action. A further important preventive measure is the workplace It goes without saying that safety and environmental aspects also safety analysis we are performing at all our sites in Germany. Using a play an important role in our acquisition projects. Before making any guideline, experienced employees partner a safety expert or trained acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests alongside the plant employee to assess which equipment and working procedures economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by LANXESS soon could be a risk to our employees and how these risks can be avoided. after the takeover of a production site. These are used to identify any differences between the management system already in place at the We are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual understanding of site and LANXESS’s own system. The results serve as the basis for occupational safety with our partner companies and are increasingly drawing up action plans to implement LANXESS’s binding global HSE integrating them into our safety culture. They must, for example, prostandards at these locations. In 2013, we performed a gap analysis vide verification of their own safety management system and disclose for our site at Epierre, France. their injury statistics to LANXESS. We also expect all employees who work for us to complete certain safety training. In addition, we now measure the success of the individual safety briefings we give to the Xact: Board of Management’s global safety initiative employees of our partner companies. LANXESS attaches the highest priority to the safety of all its work Recording accidents and incidents Thanks to our global electronic processes. Our Xact global safety program, launched in 2011, is Incident Reporting System (IRS), we are able to record accidents aimed at further raising employee awareness of safety and working and incidents using standardized procedures. The incidents that are together to improve safety throughout the company. The central body documented include accidents involving people, transport accidents, for monitoring the program is the LANXESS HSE Council, which innear accidents, environmental incidents and downtime caused by, for cludes two members of the Board of Management and five business example, bad weather or strike action. We communicate significant unit and group function heads. incidents worldwide via our intranet or by newsletter. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify measures that can be taken to avoid Following our successful two-year collaboration with DuPont Sustainsimilar accidents, disruptions or near accidents in the future. able Solutions (DSS) in designing Xact, we began implementing the program without external support in June 2013. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, is one of the indicators used to assess occupational safety. In 2013, the LTIFR was 3.2, compared with 3.4 in 2012. Our analyses have shown that the number of lost days per accident has decreased significantly, which indicates a decline in the severity of accidents. This can be attributed to our employees’ raised awareness for occupational safety, which was enhanced by our stronger focus on this issue throughout 2013. 30 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting measures that are necessary when using LANXESS products. We aim in Absence from Work (LTIFR) to raise marketability and the provision of hazardous goods data to a globally uniform safety and technical standard by successively integrat2013 3.2 ing this safety data system into our SAP system worldwide. Most of our organization in China was connected to this system in 2013 and 2012 3.4 we plan to complete the roll-out at the start of 2014. 2011 2.7 We regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to reflect changes to the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Label2010 2.3 ing of Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS is a system under 2009 3.0 the umbrella of the United Nations that aims to harmonize existing classification and labeling systems used in various sectors such as 0 1 2 3 4 5 transportation and consumer, employee and environmental protection. Of course, we observe regional variations in the implementation of the GHS such as the European Union’s CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) regulation. Global product stewardship Before manufacturing, importing or selling our products in a given country, we examine their marketability in accordance with the chemiLANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global Charter, cal legislation in force there. We register our substances and products an initiative for product stewardship by the world’s chemical industry in line with local requirements and we participate in the substance launched in 2006 by the International Council of Chemical Associaanalysis programs of the relevant authorities by supplying all available tions (ICCA) that was the key factor in the development of the Global information and producing new data if necessary. Product Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk assessment data about substances so that the impact of chemicals on We expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH regulahuman health and the environment can be minimized and products tion, which aims to achieve a high level of safety for human health and can manufactured and marketed in such a way as to prevent injury to the environment in the manufacture and use of chemicals. We met people and damage to the environment. the December 1, 2008, deadline for preregistering all substances of relevance to LANXESS with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) In line with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardin Helsinki, Finland. We then registered 360 substances that we proship covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products duce in or import to the European Union in volumes exceeding 100 throughout their life cycle – from procurement and research and develand 1,000 tons annually by the respective deadlines in 2010 and opment, through production, storage, transportation and downstream 2013. Lastly, all substances with volumes exceeding one ton must processing to marketing and disposal. be registered in Europe by the third deadline on May 31, 2018. Registration involves the systematic evaluation of information concerning The Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive steers the our substances and their uses. In doing this, we consider the entire Group-wide observance of product stewardship and secures the necproduct life cycle. essary participation of everyone involved. This applies in particular to those substances in our product portfolio that are classified as Within the context of a voluntary commitment made by the German hazardous. Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a Management of chemical control regulations The safe handling, marbasic data set for our intermediates as well, in line with Appendix VII ketability and safe transportation of our chemicals and products are of the REACH regulation. conditional on compliance with global chemical control regulations. In the case of consumer applications in particular, such as those in the LANXESS has a global organization supported by an electronic safety areas of food and drinking water contact, toys, cosmetics, pharmaceudata system to ensure compliance with both mandatory and voluntary ticals and medical products, we ensure the availability of information control requirements. Safety data sheets in more than 30 languages regarding the conformity of our products with national and international inform our customers worldwide about substance data and the safety laws and standards, religious dietary laws and quality hallmarks. Corporate Responsibility 31 REACH Implementation Schedule Creation of the European Pre-registration of all substances Chemicals Agency Preparation for REACH Registration of substances Substances ≥≥ 1,000 1,000 tons tpa3)per annum CMR substances1) ≥ 1 ton tpa per annum Environmentally Substances with hazardous R50/532) ≥ substances 100 tpa ≥ 100 tons per annum Substances ≥≥ 100 Registration of substances 100 tons tpa per annum Substances ≥≥ 11 ton Registration of substances tpa per annum June 1, 2007 June 1, 2008 Nov. 30, 2008 Nov. 30, 2010 May 31, 2013 May 31, 2018 Other obligations: evaluation procedures, authorization 1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic The exchange of information with our customers is an important aspect Procurement in the supply chain Responsible action begins in proof our product stewardship activities. We therefore provide them with curement. At LANXESS, all the raw and other materials, plant and extensive information via the IMDS (International Material Data System), services needed for our operations must satisfy uniform global safety an automotive industry database for archiving, exchanging and managand environmental protection requirements. Raw materials in paring information, or via LANXESS’s product-specific database, which ticular are subject to stringent monitoring to ensure safe processing has a public area and a restricted area for registered business partners. in our production facilities. For example, the procurement of any raw material is dependent on the submission by the supplier of a current Product monitoring LANXESS’s Central Product Surveillance Direcsafety data sheet. Our procurement department clarifies which of the tive governs worldwide tracking of the health-related and ecological REACH requirements must be satisfied in the case of raw materials implications of raw materials and products. The information acquired from non-European suppliers. In order to minimize our procurement is used by our product developers and product safety experts in their risks and enhance supply chain transparency, we and five other interevaluations. national chemicals companies founded the Together for Sustainability initiative in 2012. Further detailed information is contained in the The No Pellet Emission project We take responsibility for protecting “Procurement and production” section in the combined management the world’s oceans and coastlines and are implementing correspondreport on page 63. ing measures. Our focus is on plastic pellets which may be released into the marine environment due to inattentiveness at various stages Global dangerous goods and transport safety management Through of the value chain – in production, distribution, storage and transporour global dangerous goods and transport safety management systation. Plastic pellets themselves do not react chemically but may tem, we ensure the avoidance of hazardous situations in the relevant have an undesired impact on account of their small size and volume. processes. We centrally coordinate, supervise and review the impleTherefore, under the umbrella of the Responsible Care® Initiative, we mentation of international, regional and local dangerous goods and and PlasticsEurope Deutschland together launched the No Pellet transport safety regulations and internal company guidelines. We Loss initiative aimed at motivating all stakeholders to handle plastic apply a uniform classification to dangerous goods worldwide and pellets in a responsible way. consider regional requirements when interpreting dangerous goods regulations. The classification determines the wrapping (packaging In LANXESS’s No Pellet Emission project, the units that handle pellets and tanks), marking and labeling, the permitted modes of transport have set themselves the goal for 2014 of preventing the emission of and transport routes. The necessary classification database is filed in even the smallest amounts of pellets in the long term. To this end, LANXESS’s chemicals safety data system. In 2013, we restructured we are devising a concept that includes both training and technical the dangerous goods and transport safety officer organization at our measures. logistics sites to ensure its ability to function effectively. 32 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Storage management We operate our own warehouses, but also We equip all new production sites in line with state-of-the-art environcommission external warehousing service providers on the basis mental standards, taking into account local requirements. This often of a specified process that considers relevant aspects of logistics, sets us apart from local competitors. safety and security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness. In line with a corresponding chemical industry concept, we apply a Environmental protection in proximity to our production sites Close globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into account the to some of our European sites are protected areas that fall under the substances stored and meets fire protection and occupational health European Habitats Directive. Our industrial sites themselves do not and safety requirements. contain any protected or restored natural habitat since, as a rule, these areas continue to be used for industrial purposes. Some unused areas outside the sites are near-natural, for example at La Wantzenau, France, Ecological responsibility or outside Europe at Duque de Caxias, Brazil. There are isolated cases of protected species, such as the capybara, living on land and in waters As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example, at our sites. through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and energies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions and We are responsible for landfill sites which are still in use and others waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our ecological which have already been closed. The latter are recultivated in line with responsibility to which we must apply our expertise. legal requirements and we have established provisions for this purpose. However, the sites do not necessarily revert to natural habitat. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region petajoules/% 15% 16% 85% Germany 19 P J 84% 32% North America 11.5 P J 68% 28 % 35% EMEA (excluding Germany) 12 P J 45% 52 % 20 % 20% Latin America 5.5 P J Asia-Pacific 5 PJ n Direct energy sources n Direct energy sources (biomass) Our energy consumption reflects the global distribution of our production operations, n Indirect energy sources slightly more than one third of which are located in Germany. Corporate Responsibility 33 Progress in climate protection Our aim is to reduce each segment’s Energy Consumption specific energy consumption and specific CO2e emissions by 10% by 2015 (base year: 2010). Our measures are applied in all value million gigajoules gigajoules per ton of product creation processes – from energy generation through manufacturing 100 10 processes and transportation to waste disposal. 8.47 8.431) 8.30 80 8.16 8.371) 8 Systematic energy management Resource and energy efficiency are key factors in our company’s economic efficiency and in climate and 60 54.51) 55.01) 53.0 6 environmental protection. In this connection, we have implemented 52.0 a global energy management system (EnMS) which in Germany was 43.0 certified to ISO 50001 for the first time in 2013. On account of 40 4 necessary cost-containment measures, we postponed our goal of obtaining certification to this standard for our EnMS worldwide by 20 2 the end of 2014. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Since 2012, our measures to increase energy efficiency have been combined in the LANXESS Energy Efficiency Program (LEEP) which 1) Figures restated facilitates a Group-wide overview of potential savings, the cost of ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute their implementation and their impact on our energy goals. A team of LANXESS energy experts supports the business units in identifying new measures. Most of the measures concern especially the optimization of our production capacities, the use of residual heat and improvements Energy Consumption by Segment to refrigeration. A future focus is to be found in fine-tuning our plant gigajoules per ton of product operations to reduce energy consumption. Performance Polymers 8.38 8.42 By the end of 2015, we aim to cut our specific energy consumption 8.521) and with it our specific energy costs by 10% compared with 2010. To Advanced Intermediates 8.44 date, we have identified more than 200 measures with a calculable 9.36 financial benefit. The measures we have already implemented have 9.17 yielded an annual reduction of around 4% in our total energy costs. Performance Chemicals 7.94 We have also reduced CO2 greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) by 7.131) 7.431) some 200,000 tons (5%). At the same time, energy consumption in the facilities participating in the project dropped by around 3.9 peta­ 0 2 4 6 8 10 joules (7.5%) compared with 2010. 1) Figures restated 2013 2012 2011 As the volumes produced and our product mix play a significant role alongside the efficiency projects, the savings cannot be directly represented in our energy and emissions data. For this reason, global Reduction of climate gas emissions In 2013, we pursued our goal of energy consumption appears largely unchanged compared with the reducing specific emissions of CO2 equivalents in each of our segments previous year. by 10% compared with the base year (2010) by 2015. As shown by the graphics, we were able to slightly reduce Scope 1 emissions (both absolute and specific). Scope 1 emissions cover direct emissions from production and our own energy generation operations. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated with the procurement of energies. The graphic on the following page shows the development of LANXESS’s specific Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 34 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) We again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2013, sharing data and information on climate protection and the reduction of thousand tons of CO2 equivalents CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product emissions. The CDP is an organization representing international institu7,000 0.56 tional investors who have joined forces in order to improve transparency for the financial market on questions linked to climate change and the 0.46 0.47 0.46 6,000 0.45 0.48 requisite corporate guidelines. As in 2012, we were included in the 0.42 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Our transparent reporting 5,000 0.40 on climate protection puts us in the top 10% of the 350 companies 0.32 0.30 assessed in German-speaking countries. 0.30 4,000 0.29 0.28 0.32 3,068 2,899 We are also systematically compiling carbon footprints for selected 2,867 3,000 2,708 0.24 2,356 products so we have reliable information about greenhouse gas emis1,906 1,937 1,913 sions throughout the life cycle of these products, and thus gain new 2,000 1,638 1,770 0.16 insights regarding further potential reductions. We are also continuing the life-cycle assessments of specific products for the same reason. The 1,000 0.08 analysis covers criteria such as CO2, primary energy consumption, and greenhouse and eutrophication potential. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ll Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold nn Scope 1 (absolute) ll Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold nn Scope 2 (absolute) Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) LANXESS reporting ceiling Indirect greenhouse gas Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) emissions (Scope 1) thousand tons thousand tons 2,899 1,770 Volume sold thousand tons Electricity, steam petajoules 38 6,371 Coal, gas, oil petajoules 13 LANXESS site boundary Corporate Responsibility 35 18 LANXESS facilities in Europe are subject to the European EmisSustainable logistics We select our transport solutions worldwide sions Trading System (EU-ETS). Trading in CO2 emission rights – or on a case-by-case basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful CO2 emissions. and cost-effectiveness. We also take into account the CO2 emissions Three trading periods were defined for emissions trading in the Euroresulting from our transports. A CO2 monitoring dashboard introduced pean Union: The second trading period that ran from 2008 to 2012 in 2012 enables us to compare the costs and potential CO2 savings of was concluded without us having to purchase additional allowances. a transport solution, and thus develop an effective strategy for reducThe German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) has not yet allocated ing emissions in our supply chain. The emission factors used in this the allowances for 2013 to German companies. However, since all of dashboard were determined by a working group set up by the German our facilities are at the cutting edge of technology and participate in Chemical Industry Association (VCI). The dashboard also visualizes international competition, we expect to receive an adequate number our transport-related CO2 emissions for our employees responsible of free allowances for 2013 and 2014 to cover our our CO2 emissions for logistics procurement and planning, thus raising their awareness in 2013 and our anticipated CO2 emissions for 2014. of the issue. In 2013, we recorded 90% of global transports in our database. The volumes were carried by ship, rail, truck and aircraft. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product Today we already select ships as the means of transport with the lowest emissions for around 90% of all ton-kilometers (tonnage transported Performance Polymers 0.31 multiplied by the distance transported in kilometers). In Germany, we 0.35 0.36 continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco Plus solution offered Advanced Intermediates by logistics provider DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products 0.23 0.25 by rail. The electricity required for transport is obtained from renew0.25 able energy sources. In this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions Performance Chemicals from our German rail transport operations by almost 75%. Overall, 0.24 0.20 transport operations caused around 290,000 tons of CO2 emissions 0.24 worldwide in 2013. 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 2013 2012 2011 Alongside these measures, we collaborated with TÜV Rheinland as our testing partner in conducting a large-scale trial of green tires for trucks at one of our logistics service providers in the reporting year. Under normal operating conditions, it was found that high-quality tires with low rolling resistance reduce fuel consumption by 8% and CO2 emissions by 700 kilograms for every 10,000 kilometers driven compared with conventional tires. We aim to consistently apply these significant environmental benefits to our transport operations in the future. 36 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Other atmospheric emissions The European Union’s NEC (National Before issuing an operating permit, the authorities assess the possible Emission Ceiling) Directive has set maximum national limits for the economic, social and environmental impacts of water extraction on emission of the atmospheric pollutants sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrothe surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, this takes place under gen oxides (NOX ), ammonia (NH3) and volatile organic compounds approved conditions. The issue of water extraction is also addressed (VOC). Since 2011, these limits may no longer be exceeded. We by our environmental protection compliance program. have specifically inspected sites that release relevant emissions in support of the respective national air quality improvement programs. Overall, our water consumption remained virtually unchanged in relation to the volumes sold. VOC Emissions Water Consumption tons VOC, kilograms per ton of product 1.31 million cubic meters cubic meters per ton of product 14,000 1.26 1.4 1.22 1.15 800 80 12,000 1.2 1.04 63.5 10,000 1.0 600 60 8,000 45.6 45.4 46.9 46.4 7,800 7,600 8,000 0.8 6,700 6,600 400 40 6,000 0.6 252 235 239 257 244 4,000 0.4 200 20 74 57 53 52 52 2,000 0.2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 l In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption) nn Cooling water (absolute) nn Process water (absolute) ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute In the year under review, our VOC emissions decreased further – both With respect to the amount of wastewater requiring treatment, we in absolute terms and in relation to the volumes sold. Despite the have achieved a relatively stable level over the past years in relation development of our business, they are at the 2009 level. This was to volumes sold. due to, among other things, various measures taken to achieve our environmental protection target of cutting VOC emissions by 30% Wastewater through 2015 (base year: 2010). million cubic meters cubic meters per ton of product Responsible use of water resources All wastewater and surface water 80 8 discharges at our sites are subject to legal and permitting requirements. We use both technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational (monitoring) measures to comply with these requirements. 60 5.2 5.1 5.1 5.1 6 4.7 40 33 34 32 4 31 27 20 2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute Corporate Responsibility 37 Sustainable waste management The company aims to employ a Waste for Disposal consistent material flow management process – from the use of raw % materials to the manufacture of the final product – so as to use re9 sources as efficiently as possible and minimize the amount of waste Waste disposal by other means 36 we produce. Some forms of waste can be used as secondary raw Landfilled waste materials and are thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this 24 is not possible, using waste as a raw material or energy source. In Material recovery order to minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to continuously improve our production processes. 23 8 Incinerated Incinerated waste with waste without The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes energy recovery energy recovery sold did not change substantially compared with the previous year. Some 47% of our waste is used in material or energy recovery. Worldwide, slightly more than 50% of our waste is classified as hazardous and is disposed of in compliance with statutory requirements. Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an electronic system for the systematic global recording of key performance Total Waste indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. This system enables us to define a broad range of HSE performance thousand tons kilograms of waste per ton of product indicators for each business unit and location worldwide. These provide a valid database for internal and external reporting and map the 800 80 progress we are making toward achieving our globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see table on page 39). Data for all indicators except 600 60 the LTIFR are gathered only at those production sites in which the 42.9 42.9 39.6 40.5 41.6 company has a holding of more than 50%. 400 40 267 283 273 259 We are working systematically to improve our HSE performance and 203 200 20 the data quality. In 2013, a project initiated a year earlier enabled the first-time collection of data worldwide on a quarterly basis, thus increasing the accuracy with which we steer our global HSE processes. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute In the year under review, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our data recording processes and system in the course of a business audit. Our HSE indicators for 2013 were audited with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. The audit certificate is on page 190 of this Annual Report. 38 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Environmental and Safety Performance Data* Environmental and Safety Performance Data* 2011 2012 c) 2013 c) 2011 2012 c) 2013 c) Safety Waste in thousand tons/year Occupational injuries to LANXESS Total weight of waste (EN22) 267b) 283 273 employees resulting in at least one day’s Incineration with energy recovery 70 68 63 absence (per million hours worked)1) 2.7b) 3.4 3.2 Incineration without energy recovery 24 22 22 Volume sold 2) in thousand tons/year 6,434a) 6,596 6,371 Landfilling 93 111 99 Material recovery 47 64 64 Energy in petajoules (1015 joules) 3) 54.5 55.0d) 53.0 Other forms of disposal 33 18 25 Direct energy sources (EN3) Type of waste Non-renewable 14 14 13 Hazardous 143b) 153 160 Renewable 0 0 0 Non-hazardous 124b) 130 113 Indirect energy sources (EN4) Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data Non-renewable 38 40 38 * The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50%. On account of their recent acquisition by LANXESS, Other direct energy sources the ­following production sites are not yet included: Little Rock, USA; PCTS Singapore, From biomass 2.5 2.0 2.0 ­S ingapore; Epierre, France; and Lipetsk, Russia. • 2011: On account of limited recording and control options and the resulting estimates, the Water in million cubic meters/year base data contain some inherent uncertainties. Total water consumption (EN8) 292 b) 309 296 • 2012: The data are based on actual values for the period January through October. Appropriate estimates were used for November and December. Surface water 127 135 138 • 2013: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. Groundwater 8 7 7 The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 Rainwater 0.0 0.0 0.5 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). Wastewater 1.0 2.0 1.5 Other water sources 155 165 149 In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO 2e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second AssessCooling water in total ment Report (SAR 1995). water consumption 4) 239b) 257 244 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost ­ Process water in total following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including subcontract water consumption 53b) 52 52 ­workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS Emissions into air company or externally (excluding commercial products) in thousand tons CO2e/year 3) T he energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy Total greenhouse gas emissions (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). (EN16) 4,804 4,981 4,669 4) Equivalent to circulating cooling water Direct (Scope 1)5) 1,937 1,913 1,770 5) All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included Indirect (Scope 2)6) 2,867 3,068 2,899 in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: Ozone-depleting substances 2011: 240 kt CO2, 2012: 225 kt CO2, 2013: 223 kt CO2. (EN19) 0.00071 0.00231 0.00115 6) A ll Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO 2e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, NO X , SO X and other emissions factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2009 were used for fiscal year 2011, (EN20) factors from 2010 were used for fiscal year 2012 and factors from 2011 were used for fiscal year 2013. NOX7) 2.8 2.4 2.5 7) Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO 2 (excluding N 2O – nitrous oxide) SO28) 1.9 1.2 1.1 8) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO 2 CO 3.0 2.1 2.1 9) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 10) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) NH3 0.2 0.1 0.1 NMVOC9) 7.8 7.6 6.6 a) Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit b) Indicator was assessed (reasonable assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ Wastewater in million cubic meters/year gesellschaft in the course of a business audit Total wastewater discharge c) Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by PwC AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (EN21) 272b) 291 276 in the course of a business audit d) Value corrected compared to the value published in the prior year Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)4) 239b) 257 244 Production wastewater (with treatment) 33b) 34 32 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) Total nitrogen 0.54b) 0.53 0.48 Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.2b) 2.2 2.0 Heavy metals10) 0.0045a) 0.0060 0.0045 Corporate Responsibility 39 HSEQ Targets for 2013 Target Goal Program/Action Date Target Attainment 1. Improvement in ocImplementation of the Xact safety program 2014 Program was rolled out on schedule with support from Dupont. cupational and plant On completion of the analysis phase, the decision was taken to use safety – no injuries or internal resources for global implementation of the program. environmental incidents 2. Climate protection Reduce specific CO2e emissions by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year: 2010) Reduce specific energy consumption by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year: 2010) Increase resource efficiency and perform 2013 On account of extensive portfolio reviews, no final decision has yet ­environmental footprint and life cycle analyses been taken as to which substances should be analyzed next. for relevant products 3. Environmental Reduce absolute emissions of volatile organic 2015 Ongoing measure protection ­compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 4. Energy management Global implementation of energy management 2014 The ISO 50001 energy management system (EnMS) was successsystem and certification fully audited in Germany in 2013. Systematic implementation of the EnMS at production sites worldwide was initiated in 2013. All sites are to be certification-ready by the end of 2014. HSEQ Targets for 2014 Goal Program/Action Target Date 1. Improvement in occupational and plant Global implementation of the Xact safety program 2014 safety – no injuries or environmental incidents 2. Consolidation of corporate audits Increased efficiency of corporate audits through harmonization and consolidation 2014 3. Climate protection Reduction in specific CO2e emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Increase in resource efficiency and performance of environmental footprint and life cycle analyses 2014 for relevant products 4. Environmental protection Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 2015 5. Energy management Global implementation of the energy management system and certification readiness 2014 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Society In 2013, some 400 high-school students participated in our project weeks, which we continued under the motto “World Class – Green As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society in which ­Mobility.” The aim was to make the young people aware of the adwe operate – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and vantages and disadvantages of increasing mobility. In an intensive political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only introduction session, the students looked at current trends such as right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume lightweight construction, green tires, alternative fuels and electro­ responsibility and ensure that society also benefits from our success. mobility. The young researchers also developed their own ideas about Our social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle how traffic and driving could be made more sustainable in the future. as our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a manageable number of projects that promise long-term success. We continued the implementation of our first project aimed at elementary school children, distributing 1,000 of our chemistry experiment kits Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science worth €360,000 to schools around the world. The kit is intended to education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial prereqconvey the fascination of science and technology, waking the inventive uisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where spirit of both girls and boys as early as possible. One experiment kit in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to can be used by an entire class and includes test setups for conducting develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive basic scientific experiments and research. The experiments, which spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that we designed in cooperation with the Department of Teaching and the LANXESS Group offers. Didactics of Chemistry at the Technical University of Dortmund, are completely safe and focus primarily on the solubility of substances in Consequently, some 47% of the projects we implemented in 2013 water. In a further measure, we provided all elementary schools close were dedicated to education. A second major pillar of our social comto our sites in Germany with specially developed teaching materials mitment is promoting culture, which in 2013 again comprised around related to mobility, globalization, urbanization and water, making an 22% of our projects. The geographical focus of our activities shifted additional €100,000 available for this purpose. toward the Asia-Pacific region in the reporting year, where we implemented half of all projects. Overall, more than 237,000 (2012: more Our latest project premiered in Germany in fall 2013: “Make it happen than 60,000) mainly young people benefited from our projects, which – green mobility” is our first activity aimed at middle-school students. we funded with some €1.5 million in 2013 (2012: some €2.6 million). A number of schools in Cologne were the first to participate. Students spent several days in locations outside the classroom – including LANXESS’s new headquarters – developing ideas for mobility in the The LANXESS education initiative – a success story future. They then presented their ideas to an audience. In visits to our production facilities and laboratories, the young people were also In 2008, we launched the extensive LANXESS education initiative introduced to career opportunities at LANXESS. that underscores our clear commitment to Germany as a business location and as a base for the chemical industry. This initiative has We are also involved in fostering educational opportunities for young since provided funding to more than 30 schools close to our sites in talents at universities. As part of the German government’s “Germany Germany. The money was used for a number of purposes including Scholarship” program, LANXESS supports 50 students at eight unithe provision of new laboratory facilities, technical equipment and versities, five of them in North Rhine-Westphalia. teaching materials for chemistry, biology, physics and IT classes. We also regularly offer interested and talented students the chance to take Over the past six years, we have invested around €4 million in the part in project weeks and workshops. initiative, which was among the winners of Germany’s “365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas” contest in 2011. Through our activities, we have reached more than 50,000 children, adolescents and young adults. Corporate Responsibility 41 Social Activities by Topic1) Social Activities by Region 1) % % 7 4 7 Climate protection Corporate volunteering North America 10 Diversity and networking 21 EMEA 10 47 50 Water and Education Asia-Pacific disaster recovery 22 22 Latin America Culture 1) Basis: 58 projects undertaken in 2013 1) Basis: 58 projects undertaken in 2013 Feedback from teachers, principals and school authorities shows that Green Cycle competition. The winners receive recognition for the the initiative has significantly enhanced the importance of the MINT environmental protection projects they develop for the competition subjects (mathematics, information technology, natural sciences and and LANXESS fully finances implementation of these projects. Particitechnology) in school timetables. pants additionally receive assistance from an agency that specializes in implementing environmental projects. We also provide financial support to this agency. Since the competition began, we have successGlobal commitment to education fully initiated 23 projects that have benefited more than 5,000 people. In addition, our employees in Brazil have participated in Community LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the proDay since 2011 and spend the day providing practical assistance to motion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe. facilities such as kindergartens, hospitals, schools and social centers. We are involved in a wide range of projects and initiatives in Brazil, Around 15% of our employees around the country took part in 2013. Argentina, India, China and South Africa especially. The “Educar para Crecer” (Educate to Grow) initiative in Argentina Our local activities in Brazil have been merged under the “e3” initiative. aims to promote development in the Zárate region by supporting “e3” stands for education, ecology and economy. South America’s schools and not-for-profit organizations engaged in educational, social largest country has some catching up to do, particularly in the fields of and environmental protection activities there. As part of this initiative, environmental protection and education. We aim to use our expertise we provide funding for sustainable education projects and help those to offer effective support in this area. wishing to launch such projects by delivering the fundamental knowhow they need. In 2013, the sixth year of the program addressed Since 2010, for example, we have been fostering scientific knowlelementary schools and technical colleges. Six projects qualified for edge and environmental awareness at our Brazilian sites with our funding. More than 8,500 people have already benefited directly or indirectly from the projects implemented since the program was launched in 2007. 42 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The “La Basura Sirve” (Waste is Useful) initiative launched in Zárate in In 2013, we collaborated with the Goethe Institute in China to launch 2012 also seeks to promote responsible environmental practices. The the LANXESS-PASCH Dream Career Program. Two students from program, which we conduct in collaboration with a group of schools, the Goethe Institute’s partner schools were given the opportunity encourages the collection and sorting of inorganic household waste. to complete a four-week internship with LANXESS in Shanghai. In The income from the sale of reusable materials to recycling companies Liyang, we continued the program we launched in 2012 to provide is used by the participating schools to purchase essential items. Some support for students who are particularly gifted or very committed. 4,500 students were involved in the second year of the program, The number of young people who have received a LANXESS scholcollecting more than 5,000 kilograms of PET waste that was then arship increased from 36 in 2012 to 69 in 2013. By contrast, our sent for reuse. long-standing collaboration with Shaanxi University of Science and Technology celebrated its 20th anniversary. Under this program, we An important CR project in India is the long-term Teach for India proaward scholarships and offer internships to selected students. gram, part of the Teach to Lead initiative. The program recruits top graduates from Indian universities as fellows who, after completing Since 2011, we have been the main sponsor of the Rally to Read their studies, spend an initial period of two years teaching full-time at initiative in the KwaZulu-Natal region of South Africa, which aims to schools with insufficient funding. Our financial support to date, which reduce the significant difference in reading and writing skills between amounted to €50,000 each year, has funded 18 fellows in various students in rural areas and their urban counterparts. Twelve schools Indian towns and cities. Given the great success of the initiative, we were provided with items such as teacher training guides, container decided in 2013 to continue our support for Teach for India for a further libraries, writing materials, sports equipment, educational toys and five years and increase the annual budget to €75,000. school shoes worth around €35,000. More than 2,000 children benefited from the campaign. Their progress is regularly monitored In April 2013, we awarded the first three scholarships under our new by the local education authorities and the READ Trust, partner of the partnership with the Indian organization HUM. We will be financing Rally to Read initiative. top-quality musical training for three visually impaired students over a period of five years. In addition, we provided support to the Jidd An initiative in the United States fully reflects our commitment to corSchool in Thane, an educational establishment for differently abled porate volunteering. As part of a new partnership with Junior Achievechildren and adolescents, to procure essential teaching materials. ment, 15 LANXESS employees visited firstto third-grade classes in a school district near Pittsburgh to teach basic aspects of economics In Nagda, where we have a production facility, we installed state-ofand entrepreneurship. the-art water purification and cooling equipment for public use at four central locations in the city. We also donated a 42-seater bus to Nagda to facilitate travel to the city’s Government College for around Promoting art and culture 500 students, many of whom face a difficult journey to class. In this way, it is hoped to increase attendance levels. As part of our cultural commitment, we have been the main partner to lit.COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest literature festival in Cologne, since 2010. In 2013, we inaugurated its sister event named phil.COLOGNE, a top-class international philosophy festival. We supported Germany Year 2013/2014 in Brazil with the international literature festival (FLIP) in Paraty, a cultural event that drew literary greats such as M ­ ichel Houllebecq, Marina de Mello e Souza and Gilberto Gil, Brazil’s former Culture Minister. Corporate Responsibility 43 A further focus of our cultural commitment is the fostering of young We have been supporting the African Medical and Research Foundamusical talent. As part of the Young Euro Classic initiative, we now tion (AMREF) for a number of years. By the end of 2010, AMREF had support five orchestras which bring together the greatest talents from used LANXESS’s financial assistance to establish water supplies for Germany and LANXESS’s main markets around the world, giving them 25 Tanzanian schools attended by approximately 10,000 children and the opportunity to showcase their ability during concert tours and provide the sanitary facilities they need. In addition to these infrastrucprestigious events. In May 2013, the Young Euro Classic Orchestra ture measures, AMREF also supplied hygiene training for teachers and Brazil-Germany premiered at the event which officially opened Gerchildren, thus helping spread the safe water message in their daily lives. many Year in Brazil. We also found a renowned local partner in South Africa – the not-for-profit organization MIAGI (Music Is A Great InvestThe same important message was the focus of PHASE (Personal Hyment). In 2013, we supported MIAGI in establishing the New Skool giene and Sanitation Education), a joint project with AMREF launched Orchestra, a multicultural group of highly talented young classical and at our South African production site in Rustenburg in 2012. The projjazz musicians and composers. ect aimed to significantly reduce the incidence of disease caused by contaminated water. Thanks to our financial support, more than 750 Alongside our Young Euro Classic activities, we support a number of sets of PHASE teaching materials were distributed to seven schools. other projects dedicated to the musical training of young people. Our Some 3,000 students, their teachers and parents have benefited from LANXESS SNYO Classic cultural initiative is sponsoring an exchange the knowledge they acquired. and mentoring program for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra, initially until 2015. Also until 2015, we will be supporting the Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy (OICMA) in Japan, enabling Help where it is needed talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a top-quality musical education. Since 2012, we have been a partner to the “Kölner Although our social commitment is normally carefully thought out and Philharmonie,” one of Europe’s premier cultural institutions. In addition influenced by strategic considerations, some events require a rapid to the “Acht Brücken” (Eight Bridges) contemporary music festival, and unbureaucratic response. we support many other activities at this venue, including a discounted concert subscription for students. Following the devastating earthquake in Japan in March 2011, for example, we donated €310,000 to Save the Children Japan. The organization used some of this donation to open a temporary children’s Valuable knowledge of water center in Yamada. The donation will continue to fund various activities at the children’s centers in Yamada, Rikuzentakata and Ishinomaki As part of our social commitment, we are contributing our knowledge through to the end of 2014. Our commitment is benefiting some of water to charity projects, especially in Africa. 1,000 children and, indirectly, their families as well. In April 2013, a strong earthquake also hit the Chinese province of Sichuan. We donated RMB 50,000 to the ONE Foundation to provide emergency aid to the victims and help reconstruct the infrastructure that had been destroyed. Investor Information Cities are facing enormous challenges from the growour biocides protect vulnerable materials like wood, paints ing demand for living space, steadily increasing energy and plasterboard from infestation with harmful organisms, consumption, higher waste volumes and rising levels of thus prolonging their useful lives. Our flame retardants air and noise pollution. With its products and solutions, inhibit the flammability and combustibility of floor coverLANXESS can make an important contribution to the ings, cable sheathings and insulating materials. And our development of sustainable urban concepts. For example, iron oxide and chrome oxide pigments can be used to lend an esthetic touch to pre-cast concrete components and asphalt floorings, among other things. Urbanization 46 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Investor Cyprus crisis, the Syrian conflict and the Italian government crisis. However, these issues had only a temporary effect on the performance Information of the aforementioned indices and no impact on their very positive development over the course of the full year. In early March, the DAX moved back above 8,000 points for the first time but suffered setbacks as the first half of the year progressed because it and the other European stock markets especially were impacted by the crisis in Cyprus and the uncertain outcome of Italy’s LANXESS stock was unable to benefit parliamentary election. Against this background, the DAX came under occasional pressure, achieving only slight gains of 2.4% in the first from the positive market environment in quarter and 2.1% in the second quarter. In the second half of the fiscal 2013. On the contrary, the challengyear, it then returned to a path of growth and reached new record levels. Underpinned by improved economic data, the low interest rate ing year the company faced was reflected policies pursued by the ECB and Fed, and continuation of the Fed’s in the way our stock performed. Against bond-buying program, the DAX gained just under 8% in the third quarter. At the end of October, it then climbed above 9,000 points this background, our share price experiand continued its positive development until the last trading day of the enced corrections during the past year year. It closed at 9,552 points on December 30, delivering growth of around 11% in the fourth quarter. Over the year as a whole, the DAX and closed at €48.48 on the last trading expanded by a substantial 25.5%. day in 2013. In 2013, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM also benefited from the positive market factors described above. Our benchmark index moved back above 700 points for the first time in March to close the first quarter with slight growth of 3%. However, it then took losses in the subsequent months, finishing the second quarter down 1.9% at below 700 points. A sustained recovery followed in the second half of the year, raising our benchmark index to 756 points at year end for The world’s stock market indices climbed to new all-time highs last an increase of 14% over the full year. year. The German lead index, the DAX, which has included our stock since September 2012, topped the 9,000-point threshold for the first Our stock was unable to benefit from the positive development of the time ever. At 16,500 points, the U.S. Dow Jones Industrial Average market in 2013. The past year was characterized especially by the also surpassed its previous record. LANXESS’s benchmark index, the impact of the company’s corporate newsflow on the price of LANXESS Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, gained almost 100 points over stock. At the end of 2012, following what had been a very good year the course of the year to close at more than 750 points. The positive for our company, we reported a decline in demand which continued performance of the world’s stock markets in 2013 was buoyed in into 2013 and worsened over the course of the year. Persistently particular by the continued pursuit of a relaxed monetary policy by weak demand for the products of our Performance Polymers segment, the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed), the reduction of interest rates by the especially from the tire and automotive industries, had a significant European Central Bank (ECB) and more positive economic data from impact on our earnings expectations and development. In light of the the United States. By contrast, the markets at times experienced presmodest business performance we communicated and the substantially sure resulting from other key issues such as the U.S. budget dispute, lower earnings forecast (EBITDA pre exceptionals) compared with ongoing speculation about a change to U.S. monetary policy, the 2012, our stock was unable to sustain the high price level of the prior Investor Information 47 LANXESS Stock Performance since Listing % 500 400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM DAX LANXESS Stock Performance 2013 % 150 125 100 75 50 Dec. 28, 2012 March 31, 2013 June 30, 2013 Sep. 30, 2013 Dec. 30, 2013 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM DAX 48 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Performance Data 2013 Q1 2013 Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013 Year 2013 Capital stock/no. of shares 1) €/no. of shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 Market capitalization1) € billion 4.60 3.85 3.99 4.03 4.03 High/low for the period € 68.59/54.19 59.15/44.91 53.16/42.45 53.64/43.76 68.59/42.45 Closing price1) € 55.32 46.28 47.98 48.48 48.48 Volatility 2) % – – – – 28.89 Trading volume million shares 50.561 61.358 57.833 45.817 215.568 Average daily trading volume shares 815,502 973,929 876,254 738,976 852,047 Earnings per share € 0.30 0.11 0.13 (2.45) (1.91) Price/cash flow ratio1), 3), 4) – – – – 6.29 1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2013, Q2: June 30, 2013, Q3: September 30, 2013, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2013 2) Source: Bloomberg 3) Data, especially cash flow, are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly 4) Reference value: operating cash flow year. While our share price remained above €60 until mid-March, it Capital Market Information fell below €50 following the announcement of our anticipated busiShare class No-par shares ness performance for 2013. Further price reductions followed in Listing code LXS the subsequent months and our stock closed the second quarter at WKN (German securities 547040 €46.28. Our company’s performance combined with stock market ­identification number) ISIN DE0005470405 uncertainty driven by factors such as speculation about a premature Reuters/Bloomberg codes LXSG.DE/LXS:GR tightening of U.S. monetary policy to put our share under increased Market segment Prime Standard pressure during this period. Trading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin The LANXESS share price remained below €50 through to the end of Selective indices DAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, August, before starting to recover in September when the LANXESS DAXsupersector Basic Materials, MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Management Board announced a range of measures to counteract Mid Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index the persistently difficult business situation at an event for analysts and World, Dow Jones Sustainability Index ­Europe, FTSE4Good a media day held in mid-September. LANXESS’s Advance program Investment-grade ratings (outlook) Standard & Poor’s: BBB (negative) is designed to achieve annual savings of around €100 million from Moody’s: Baa2 (negative) 2015. This efficiency-enhancing program was welcomed by the capital Fitch: BBB (negative) market. However, the still subdued development of our business was an obstacle to a sustained upturn in our share price. The disappointing share performance continued to the end of the year. Sustainability LANXESS stock closed at €48.48 on the last trading day of 2013, a decrease of 26.9% over the reporting period. It thus underperformed Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key elethe DAX and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, the two indices ment of our corporate strategy. We therefore continued to advance of significance to LANXESS. Despite its performance in 2013, our our sustainable development in 2013 and underscored our claim to share has developed very well since its initial listing in January 2005, being a sustainable investment. increasing in value by some 227%. LANXESS was again included in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) compiled by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This means we continue to rank in the top 10% of the 350 companies surveyed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland which are characterized by Investor Information 49 particularly transparent reporting about climate protection. LANXESS around 29%). The proportion of our stockholders in Germany was was first included in this index by the leading global climate protection unchanged compared to the previous year, at around 24%. Owner­ initiative in 2012. The company has participated since 2006 in the ship of our shares in the United Kingdom declined to around 17% CDP, which collects climate protection data from companies around (2012: around 19%). the world and uses the results of its analyses to calculate the CDLI. Institutional investors in other regions, especially other European Our sustainable development was also rewarded by our renewed inclucountries, slightly increased their share to 32% (2012: around 31%). sion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World). For the Here, LANXESS is represented in France, the Scandinavian countries first time, we were also listed in the DJSI Europe. Our performance in and Switzerland, in particular. the areas environmental policy/management system, climate strategy, antitrust guidelines, innovation management and product stewardship An overview of the institutional investors which have issued mandatory contributed especially to our ranking. notices reporting ownership of at least 3% of LANXESS’s outstanding shares is published on our website. All voting rights announcements Our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which we were first included in can be found under Investor Relations/Shares. 2011, was also confirmed. In addition, leading rating agency oekom research has put our corporate responsibility rating at C+ since 2011. Stockholder Profile as of January 31, 2014 % In June 2011, LANXESS signed the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility ~11 ~ 89 (CSR) initiative. It again reaffirmed its commitment to this important Private investors Institutional investors platform last year. Strengthening the sustainability profile will remain a priority for LANXESS in 2014. Detailed information about sustainability is available from page 14 and on our corporate website. Ownership structure The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. At January 31, Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2014 1) 2014, these investors held around 89% of the stock. % 8 In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, a holding of 27 Other regions around 11% of our shares is in the hands of private investors and U.S.A. LANXESS employees, who collectively own some 1%. These investors are primarily located in Germany. 24 Other Europe Most of our institutional investors are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. At January 31, 2014, the proportion of our stockholders in the United States was around 27% (2012: 17 24 U.K. Germany 1) Based on the stockholders identified 50 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Analysts Annual Stockholders’ Meeting In fiscal 2013, a large number of analysts again issued reports on At the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in Cologne on May 23, 2013, the current and future performance of the LANXESS Group. Around LANXESS stockholders again passed all the agenda items by solid 30 sell-side analysts, most of them from Germany and the United majorities. With 54.75% of the voting capital present, corresponding Kingdom, regularly issued their appraisals of LANXESS. In light of the to 45,551,567 shares and the same number of votes, attendance challenges in the 2013 fiscal year, focal points of the dialogue with was again good. Detailed voting results and additional information analysts were the market situation for our businesses – especially our about LANXESS’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are available on our synthetic rubber business in the Performance Polymers segment – and website under Investor Relations/Events & Presentations. our Advance program of measures to increase our competitiveness. Shortly before the closing date for preparing our consolidated financial The 2014 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting takes place on May 22 in statements on January 31, 2014, the central topic was the change the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne. of leadership in the LANXESS Board of Management. As of January 31, 2014, a majority of the analysts – 50% (2012: Dividend 46%) – continued to recommend buying LANXESS shares. A further 32% (2012: 36%) said to hold our shares, while 18% (unchanged LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim for our stockfrom 2012) gave a sell recommendation. holders to share in our business performance in an appropriate and sustainable way. With a view to maintaining continuity, we also intend Recommendations as of January 31, 2014 to propose a dividend for the challenging fiscal year 2013. The Board % of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 22, 2014, that 18 a dividend of €0.50 per share be declared for fiscal 2013 (2012: 50 Sell Buy €1.00 per share). Relative to the price of €48.48 at which LANXESS shares ended 2013, this equates to a dividend yield of 1.0%. Subject to approval of the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the dividend will be paid on May 23, 2014. 32 Hold Investor Information 51 Bonds In their analyses, the rating agencies expect LANXESS to return to good growth and increase profitability in the mid-term. In the short LANXESS placed no new Eurobonds on the capital market in fiscal term, however, they see uncertainties associated with the persistently 2013. The following table provides an overview of our successful weak demand situation in the European automotive and tire industries bond placements to date. and the pressure on margins in the synthetic rubber business. These uncertainties are reflected in the adjusted outlook. The rating agenOverview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds cies noted as positive aspects such as LANXESS’s good positions in intermediates and specialty chemicals and the company’s continued ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon strong liquidity. XS0423036663 €500 ­million April 9, 2009 – 7.750% April 9, 2014 XS0452802175 €200 ­million September 21, 2009 – 5.500% Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have had LANXESS at a BBB and a September 21, 2016 Baa2 rating, respectively, since 2007. Fitch has rated LANXESS at XS0629645531 €500 ­million May 23, 2011 – 4.125% BBB since 2006. May 23, 2018 XS0746637296 CNH 500 ­million February 16, 2012 – 3.950% (around €60 million) February 16, 2015 XS0855167523 €500 ­million November 21, 2012 – 2.625% Investor relations activities November 21, 2022 Maintaining an active, broad and ongoing dialogue with investors and analysts is a top priority in our investor relations activities. Our declared All LANXESS’s Eurobonds placed to date were issued by LANXESS objective is to provide a continuous and sustained flow of information Finance B.V. and are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The about the LANXESS Group. Our activities in 2013 focused on roadterm sheets are available on our website under Investor Relations/ shows, capital market conferences, our Analyst Roundtable and our Bond. Media Day. Altogether, the Chairman of the Board of Management, the Chief Financial Officer and the Investor Relations team represented Further information about our bonds can also be found on page 85 ff. LANXESS at roadshows and capital market conferences on 75 days. of this Annual Report. We therefore sustained the high level of our investor relations activities in this area. We continue to focus on our stockholders and foster an intensive dialogue with fixed income investors and with investors who Ratings are focused on sustainability. The world’s three major rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, again confirmed their existing investment-grade ratings for LANXESS in the reporting year. In summer 2013, in light of the challenges facing LANXESS, the rating agencies adjusted their outlook from stable to negative. 52 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 High roadshow frequency with intensive dialogue International conferences an important forum Roadshows are a central means of engaging in a broad and personal In fiscal 2013, the LANXESS Board of Management and the Investor dialogue with institutional investors. International capital market centers Relations team again participated in conferences held in the world’s like Boston, New York, London, Paris, Frankfurt and Zurich are important financial centers like Frankfurt, London and New York as an imporroadshow destinations for LANXESS management and the Investor tant means of communicating with investors and analysts. We also Relations team. In 2013, we also stepped up our activities in other expanded our presence at conferences in North America and used regions where there is an interest in our shares. In Europe, this again roadshows and conferences in Asia to provide information about curincluded the Benelux and Scandinavian countries as well as France. rent LANXESS issues. We participated in special forums for private We also expanded our activities in Asia – for example in Singapore investors in order to present our company’s alignment and business and Japan – and in North America. performance to this important target group. In 2014, we intend to maintain a strong presence at international conferences. We will also In addition to our roadshows, we also invite investors to visit us at our continue our participation at events for private investors. company headquarters. Plant tours give them a detailed insight into our operating business and our research and development activities. Further IR activities round out information for the capital market Extensive efficiency-enhancing program communicated at the LANXESS Analyst Roundtable and Media Day In addition to the aforementioned activities, other activities have become the standard for communicating with our target groups. ConAt the LANXESS Analyst Roundtable and Media Day on September 18 ference calls remain an important means of providing capital market and 19, 2013, we provided information about our strategic alignment, participants with timely and extensive information updates. In these the current challenges facing LANXESS and our Advance program calls, the Board of Management comments on our published results aimed at counteracting the company’s present situation. and reports on current measures taken by LANXESS. Conference calls are streamed live in the Investor Relations section of the LANXESS In describing the current challenges to our business, we focused on website, and recorded versions are available for download for one year. the rubber activities in our Performance Polymers segment, providing details about the present market situation, the strategy for our different rubber products and innovations in this area. A further focus were the details about our efficiency enhancements, targeted restructuring measures and strategic options for non-core businesses within the context of our Advance program. This is designed to achieve annual savings of around €100 million from 2015. The presentations made at both the Analyst Roundtable and the ­Media Day are available on our website under Investor Relations/Events & Presentations. Investor Information 53 The Investor Relations section of our website also contains the presenInvestor Relations contacts: tations from roadshows and conferences, financial reports, publications like the LANXESS Fact Book, investor news and details about Head of Investor Relations our shares and bonds. Oliver Stratmann Tel. +49 221 8885 9611 E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com LANXESS earns top marks for its capital market communications Private Investors, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Events Tanja Satzer Maintaining a broad, timely and transparent dialogue with the capital Tel. +49 221 8885 3801 markets has always been a priority for us. That is why we are very E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com pleased that, in what was a difficult year, LANXESS’s capital market communications were again recognized by portfolio managers and Institutional Investors, Analysts analysts in prestigious rankings and earned top marks internationally Ulrike Weihs for the first time. The main criteria for these rankings were again the Tel. +49 221 8885 5458 credibility and transparency of our capital market communications, the E-mail: ulrike.weihs@lanxess.com focus on target groups and access to top management. Dirk Winkels For the first time, LANXESS was honored internationally for its investor Tel. +49 221 8885 8007 relations activities. In the new Global IR Magazine Awards organized E-mail: dirk.winkels@lanxess.com by the U.K.’s respected IR Magazine, LANXESS ranked top among companies with a market capitalization of up to €5 billion. LANXESS Matthias Arnold took fourth place in the Global Top 50 Gold Awards category honoring Tel. +49 221 8885 1287 outstanding capital market communications by companies of any size E-mail: matthias.arnold@lanxess.com across all industry sectors worldwide. In the survey by IR Magazine in Europe, we placed second among the 98 companies included. Our IR team ranked top for investor relations work by a large-cap company, based on a survey of some 500 European portfolio managers and analysts. LANXESS again earned top marks in the annual survey conducted by U.S. magazine Institutional Investor and for the first time took top honors from both investors and sell-side analysts in Europe. The LANXESS Investor Relations team was ranked first among European chemical companies. In compiling its rankings, Institutional Investor asked more than 850 fund managers and 1,500 analysts to rate the investor relations work of European companies. Financial Information Modern agriculture must meet the needs of a growing suppliers to the agrochemical industry, for example. Our world population and satisfy the increasing demand for antioxidants ensure that biofuel obtained from natural energy produced from renewable raw materials. LANXESS raw materials remains stable and can therefore be used plays a role in making modern agriculture more productive for longer. Antioxidants also play a key role in protecting and sustainable. As a manufacturer of active substances, animal feed from spoiling. They prevent the unsaturated precursors and intermediates, we are among the leading fatty acids in the feed from becoming rancid and thus also toxic. Agriculture 56 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Combined Management Report of the ­LANXESS Group and ­LANXESS AG; Corporate Governance Report 57 Combined Management Report 57 Fundamentals 57 Group structure 57 Business ­59 Strategy 61 Value management and control system 63 Procurement and production 64 Sales organization and customers 65 Research and development 68 Corporate responsibility 68 Economic report 68 Legal environment 69 Business conditions 70 Key events influencing the company’s business 71 Comparison of forecast and actual business 72 Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group 75 Business trends by region 76 Segment information 79 Statement of financial position and financial condition 87 Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year 88 Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG 90 Employees 93 Compensation report 97 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 99 Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 99 Events after the end of the reporting period 99 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives 116 Corporate Governance Report 116 Implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code 117 Other key principles of the management practices applied by LANXESS 118 Composition and work of the Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board and its committees 120 Stockholders and stockholders’ meetings 121 Compensation report 121 Risk management 121 Liability insurance 121 Reportable securities transactions 121 Accounting and auditing 121 Corporate governance statement 122 Offices held by Board of Management members 122 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 124 Report of the Supervisory Board Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 57 Group structure | Business Group structure standards. The acquisition has given us access to biocide applications. At the same time, we are benefiting from PCTS’s product expertise Legal structure and know-how in coatings. LANXESS AG is the parent company of the ­LANXESS Group and Also in the Performance Chemicals segment, we strengthened the functions largely as a management holding company. ­LANXESS phosphorus chemicals activities of our Functional Chemicals business Deutschland GmbH and ­LANXESS International Holding GmbH are unit by acquiring the operations of the French subsidiary of insolvent wholly owned subsidiaries of ­LANXESS AG, and in turn control the Dutch company Thermphos International B.V., Vlissingen, Netherlands. other subsidiaries and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. Completed in September 2013, this transaction included the production facilities of Thermphos in Epierre, France, and its customer list. The following are the principal companies wholly owned by L ­ ANXESS AG Thermphos is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of phosphorus directly or indirectly: pentoxide and polyphosphoric acid. Both of these products complement our existing portfolio and can be used as intermediates in a Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of ­LANXESS AG range of applications including flame retardants and pharmaceuticals. Company Name and Domicile Function Segments ­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, L Production All Cologne, Germany and sales Management and control organization L ­ ANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Production Performance Polymers Singapore and sales LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting of ­LANXESS Corporation, Production All Pittsburgh, U.S.A. and sales the Board of Management, which manages the company, and the L ­ ANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Production Performance Polymers Super­visory Board, which oversees the Board of Management with the Lillebonne, France and sales assistance of an Audit Committee formed from among its members ­ ANXESS Elastomers B.V., L Production Performance Polymers Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands and sales to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management shapes ­ ANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., L Production Performance Polymers Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales organization. As the Group management company, ­LANXESS AG is L ­ ANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Holding­ All Barcelona, Spain ­company responsible for financing and for communication with the company’s ­LANXESS Inc., Production Performance Polymers key stakeholders. Sarnia, Canada and sales LANXESS India Private Ltd., Production All Thane, India and sales For additional information, please see the Corporate Governance LANXESS International Holding Holding­ All Report. GmbH, Cologne, Germany ­company L ­ ANXESS International SA, Sales All Granges-Paccot, Switzerland ­LANXESS N.V., Production Performance Polymers, Business Antwerp, Belgium and sales Performance Chemicals L ­ ANXESS Rubber N.V., Production Performance Polymers Zwijndrecht, Belgium and sales Business organization Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals Mannheim, Germany and sales The ­LANXESS Group is structured in three segments which, since Saltigo GmbH, Production Advanced Intermediates Leverkusen, Germany and sales January 1, 2013, comprise 14 business units. Each of these conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility. We divided the Technical Rubber Products business unit in the Performance P ­ olymers Additions to the Group portfolio segment into two new units. The newly formed Keltan Elastomers business unit focuses exclusively on ethylene-propylene-diene ­rubber Through the acquisition of Singapore-based PCTS Specialty ­Chemicals (EPDM). The remaining Technical Rubber Products portfolio was Pte. Ltd., which was completed in April 2013, ­LANXESS has become renamed the High Performance Elastomers business unit. In the one of the leading suppliers of biocides for coatings in the growsecond quarter of 2013, the Ion Exchange Resins business unit in ing Asia-Pacific region. Now integrated into the Material Protection the Performance Chemicals segment changed its name to Liquid ­Products business unit of our Performance Chemicals segment, PCTS Purification Technologies. This underscores the significant expansion specializes in the production of biocides for environmentally friendly of the product portfolio to include membrane filtration technology for water-based paints that meet stringent health, safety and environmental reverse osmosis. 58 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Group functions and service companies assigned to them support Advanced Intermediates our business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the Saltigo business units and group functions, the country organizations ensure Sites Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany the necessary proximity to markets and provide the organizational Baytown, U.S.A. infrastructure required. Liyang, China Nagda, India At the present time, we do not plan to make any other material changes Applications Agrochemicals to the legal or organizational structures described above in fiscal 2014. Automotive Construction Dyestuffs Coatings The segments in brief Pharmaceuticals We have combined our high-performance synthetic rubber and hightech plastics manufacturing activities in the Performance Polymers We have combined our application-oriented process and functional segment. chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. Performance Polymers Performance Chemicals Business units Butyl Rubber Business units Material Protection Products Performance Butadiene Rubbers Inorganic Pigments Keltan Elastomers 1) Functional Chemicals High Performance Elastomers 1) Leather High Performance Materials Rhein Chemie Sites Brilon, Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, Krefeld-­ Rubber Chemicals Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Marl, Germany Liquid Purification Technologies 1) Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium Sites Bitterfeld, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, KrefeldSittard-Geleen, Netherlands Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany La Wantzenau and Port Jérôme, France Epierre, France Sarnia, Canada Antwerp, Belgium Gastonia and Orange, U.S.A. Branston, United Kingdom Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil Filago, Italy Nantong and Wuxi, China Lipetsk, Russia Jhagadia, India Vilassar de Mar, Spain Singapore Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, South Africa Applications Tires Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon, Automotive Greensboro, Little Rock and Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Electronics Porto Feliz, Brazil Electrical engineering Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina Medical equipment Changzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai and Wuxi, China Jhagadia, India 1) E  ffective January 1, 2013, Technical Rubber Products was divided into Keltan Elastomers and High Performance Elastomers. Toyohashi, Japan Singapore Sydney, Australia Applications Disinfection The business activities that ­LANXESS combines in its Advanced Protection and preservation of wood, ­Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading suppliers construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the custom Color pigments synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors and specialty Polymer additives Leather processing products active ingredients. Tire chemicals Water treatment products 1) Until March 31, 2013: Ion Exchange Resins Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 59 Business | Strategy ­LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Europe North and Central America Asia South America Australia Africa Strategy Sustained megatrends offer potential for future success The L ­ ANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise Our strategy is aligned with four central megatrends: with a portfolio ranging from polymers to industrial, specialty and fine chemicals. All of the conditions are in place for long-term suc• The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and cess in our businesses. These include flexible asset structures, a other large emerging economies, and the simultaneous need to diversified customer base, a global presence with regional flexibility make mobility more environmentally friendly. and an entrepreneurial management structure. • Agriculture, which will have to satisfy the sharp increase in global food requirements due to a rapidly growing world population. Through innovations and selective additions to our product port• Urbanization, resulting worldwide in the migration of people from folio, we have positioned ourselves as a reliable high-tech supplier rural areas to cities. All these people will need living space, ofof premium-quality products that actively supports its customers’ fices and a robust infrastructure. According to current forecasts, innovation processes and thereby adds measurable value for them. nearly 70% of the world population will be city-dwellers in 2050. This strengthens customer loyalty, sets us apart from our competi• The rising demand for water due to population growth and tors and supports our efforts to generate adequate margins, even in climate change will likely result in water becoming a commodity highly competitive phases of the market cycle or segments. as valuable as oil in the not-too-distant future. 60 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 With the customized products and services offered by their business Capital expenditure strategy units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribution to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends in We make capital expenditures with a view to increasing our intereveryday life. national competitiveness, focusing on attractive growth opportunities in profitable markets. The following principles guide our capital expenditure policy: Earnings strategy • The focus is on expanding our portfolio of premium products that Against this backdrop, we are consistently aligning our product portset us apart from our competitors. folio with markets that promise steady, above-average growth in the • We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic coming years. Accordingly, our regional focus is mainly on expanding focus for our operating segments. our businesses and production capacities in the faster-growing BRICS • Capital expenditures must satisfy clear financial criteria that, at countries, especially Brazil, India and China. We are concentrating a minimum, preserve the average return on capital employed particularly on organic growth. (ROCE) achieved by the ­LANXESS Group during a normal ­business cycle. • Capital expenditures are mostly financed out of the cash flow from Program to increase competitiveness operating activities or, if that is insufficient, from other available liquidity or credit lines. To mitigate the effects of changes to the competitive situation in what currently remains a challenging market environment, we initiated a program to increase competitiveness in the second half of 2013. Financing strategy Known as Advance, the program aims to generate annual savings of around €100 million from 2015 through efficiency enhancements and Our conservative, sustainability-based financing policy prepares the selective restructuring. It will result in exceptional charges of around ground for long-term dynamic business activity. The cornerstones of €150 million in 2013 and 2014. Implementation is expected to this policy are accessing international financial markets and securing reduce headcount by about 1,000 employees worldwide by 2015. long-term financial flexibility. Among the areas affected by selective restructuring is the Rubber In respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to Chemicals business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. optimally reconcile competing requirements for profitability, liquidity, We have closed this unit’s Isithebe site in South Africa because it was security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems no longer competitive and focused production capacity in Belgium. used by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. Our portfolio adjustments also include exploring strategic options for various non-core businesses such as the Perlon monofilaments Growth of our company is enabled by its business operations and product line of the High Performance Materials business unit, the specific financing measures. Our goal is to generate positive earnings accelerators and antioxidants of the Rubber Chemicals business unit contributions along with a positive cash flow. and the nitrile butadiene rubber activities of the High Performance Elastomers business unit. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 61 Strategy | Value management and control system Value management and control system use EBITDA pre exceptionals as our key controlling parameter because it facilitates assessment of the company’s development over several Value Management and Control System reporting periods. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 EBITDA pre Of the exceptional items of €381 million incurred in 2013, €270 mil­exceptionals € million 465 918 1,146 1,223 735 lion were write-downs with no impact on EBITDA, €257 million of EBITDA margin which were due to impairment testing at the business unit level. The pre exceptionals % 9.2 12.9 13.1 13.4 8.9 exceptional items of €111 million which had an impact on EBITDA Capital employed € million 3,475 3,750 4,784 5,442 4,969 ROCE % 5.9 17.0 17.2 15.6 5.8 resulted primarily from measures related to the Advance program. The Days of sales in “Segment information” section of this combined management report inventories (DSI) Days 55.1 53.7 60.1 64.7 58.0 details the distribution of these exceptional items among the segments. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) Days 47.0 46.3 49.9 47.4 47.8 Net financial ­liabilities € million 794 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Group’s Net debt ratio 1.7x 1.0x 1.3x 1.2x 2.4x controlling parameters because they do not permit any direct concluInvestment ratio % 6.8 7.4 8.0 8.1 8.1 sions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark 2012 figures restated of our industry and their fluctuation throughout the year impacts our selling prices. This has an effect on sales, but largely no impact on the margins that are significant to our profitability. We therefore set no To achieve our strategic goals, we need specific indicators that we can sales targets, either for the short term or medium term. use to measure the outcome of our activities. Such assessments are founded on a reliable, readily understandable financial and controlling information system. We are constantly working to further improve the Company-specific lead indicators information provided by the Accounting and Controlling group functions through consistent reporting of budget, forecast and actual data. Lead indicators support the timely identification of material changes in assets and liabilities, financial condition and earnings performance Our success is largely reflected by our earning power so our control and the initiation of appropriate measures. system is focused on steering this parameter. Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations from our Earning power own funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital expenditure The key indicator for steering the earning power of the ­LANXESS decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market conditions Group and the individual segments is EBITDA (earnings before interand the competitive environment, operational forecasts are prepared est, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. It twice each year as the basis for updating the full-year budget and the is calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciation of property, plant associated key values we use to control the Group. In addition, regular and equipment, amortization of intangible assets and any exceptional forecasts of the key values for our earning power are prepared. items. The latter are effects of an unusual nature or magnitude. They may include write-downs, restructuring expenses, expenses for the Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined cendesign and implementation of IT projects and expenses for portfolio trally and applied uniformly because they have a major influence on adjustments. Income from grants and subsidies from third parties for the key values. Strategic raw materials, like butadiene, play a crucial the acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment role in forecasting. The ongoing development of procurement prices are assigned using the gross method. No adjustments other than is significant to the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional for gross depreciation and amortization are made when calculating differences in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of EBITDA pre exceptionals. time may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our production sites and customer markets, exchange rate development Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the short and also affects the profitability resulting from sales and cost trends, with long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre exceptionals. As corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging strategies. In part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for addition, we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for our this benchmark of our company’s success, which are then taken into customer industries and the regions where we do business in order account in determining employees’ variable income components (see to prepare and review sales and capital expenditure decisions. the “Employees” section of this combined management report). We 62 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Profitability Capital employment Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a profit­ To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two ability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently we utilize key performance indicators: DSI (days of sales in inventories) and our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital expenditure DSO (days of sales outstanding). These represent inventories and decisions, for example. receivables, respectively, in relation to sales for the previous quarter. In 2013, DSI was at 58.0 days (2012: 64.7 days) and DSO at 47.8 days Ebit pre exceptionals (2012: 47.4 days). ROCE = Capital employed Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous Capital employed = Total assets capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product Less deferred tax assets Less interest-free liabilities areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indicators such as the pay-off period, net present value and ROCE. For more detailed information about Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions our capital expenditure guidelines, please see “Capital expenditure and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabilities, trade strategy” above. payables and items included under “other non-financial liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,” to evaluate the performance of our business units. Debt The net debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is defined as net Cost of capital financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionals. Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current financial liabilities, less Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case, cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. The financial liabilities from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a reflected in the statement of financial position are adjusted here for risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as liabilities for accrued interest. Due to weaker earnings development in ­LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by investors the reporting year and higher net financial liabilities at December 31, from an investment in ­LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a 2013, the net debt ratio increased to 2.4, against 1.2 at the previous risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than year’s reporting date. Our net financial liabilities rose by €248 million in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk to €1,731 million. premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds Net Financial Liabilities and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an invest€ million 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ment in ­LANXESS stock compared with that of the market as a whole. Non-current financial l­ iabilities 1,462 1,302 1,465 2,167 1,649 In 2012, ROCE was 15.6% and thus well above our weighted average Current financial liabilities 94 176 633 167 668 cost of capital (WACC) after adjustment for comparability. It fell below Less Liabilities for accrued the WACC to 5.8% in 2013. interest (47) (41) (55) (54) (53) Cash and cash equivalents (313) (160) (178) (386) (427) Near-cash assets (402) (364) (350) (411) (106) 794 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 63 Value management and control system | Procurement and production Procurement and production and goods went to suppliers from countries in the upper third of the Country Sustainability Ranking. Our total procurement volume in 2013 Procurement was around €6.2 billion (2012: about €6.9 billion). LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement organization Across the ­LANXESS Group, a global procurement directive defines – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a reliable supply of raw how our employees should behave toward suppliers and their employand other materials and services. Global Categories closely coordinate ees. An internal training academy supports the training and ongoing with our business units to pool their requirements in the raw materials, professional development of our employees and ensures the high technical goods, packaging materials, energy, services and logistics quality of our procurement processes. The training content includes our segments. Our worldwide procurement network helps them leverage seven-step strategic procurement process, negotiating techniques and purchasing synergies, so that we can move efficiently in the market and intercultural awareness, as well as time, supplier and risk management. exploit price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result, We systematically apply best-practice processes. These include we experienced no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting ­e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs and electronic marketplaces, period that had a material effect on our business development. many of which are integrated into our internal IT systems. In 2013, about 64% of all items ordered (2012: around 60%) were handled Procuring chemical raw materials is a significant priority at ­LANXESS. in e-procurement systems. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of long-term contracts. The availability of raw materials has always played a crucial role in Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and upcoming facility location decisions. For our butyl rubber plant in Singaservices are procured. In the reporting year, our procurement transacpore, which came on stream as scheduled in the reporting year, we are tions involved more than 20,000 suppliers. Based on the principles already sourcing a large proportion of the most important feedstocks of the U.N. Global Compact, the International Labour Organization via nearby pipelines. We will take the same approach to sourcing the (ILO), Responsible Care® and other corporate responsibility codes, we raw materials for our plant to manufacture neodymium-based perforexpect our suppliers to comply with all applicable national and other mance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), which we are currently building in laws and regulations on safeguarding the environment, ensuring health Singapore. We procure key raw materials like butadiene and utilities like and safety in the workplace and using appropriate labor and hiring steam and biomass from the immediate vicinity at several of our other practices. These criteria, which are defined in our Supplier Code of production sites, too. In this way, we not only minimize the costs and Conduct, play a key role in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. environmental impact of our transportation activities, but reduce the risk of delivery shortfalls caused by transportation issues in particular. In 2012, we and five other international chemical companies founded the Together for Sustainability initiative to monitor compliance with our Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2013 included requirements, enhance supply chain transparency and minimize proBASF, Bayer, BP, Braskem, Enterprise Products, Evonik, ExxonMobil, curement risks. The goal of this initiative is to develop and implement INEOS, LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic, Shell Chemicals and a global audit process to assess and continuously improve sustainTotal. ability activities along the chemical industry supply chain, focusing on human rights, child labor, working standards, occupational safety, Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our proenvironmental protection and business integrity. All members of the duction operations in 2013 were ammonia, butadiene, caustic soda, initiative have access to the growing number of assessment and audit cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, propylene, raffinate 1, styrene and results, which comprised 750 sustainability assessments and 150 toluene. In all, strategic raw materials accounted for a purchasing volaudit reports at the end of 2013. These identified a greater need for ume of about €3.2 billion in fiscal 2013 (2012: about €3.9 billion), action in respect of labor and human rights and occupational safety. In or around 76% of our total expenditure for raw materials and goods 2013, 103 follow-up audits were carried out to verify implementation in 2013, which amounted to approximately €4.2 billion (2012: about of the corrective measures agreed with suppliers. These showed that €4.7 billion). Around 83% of our total expenditure for raw materials the situation had improved. 64 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Production ­­ Including the measures described above, our cash outflows for capital expenditures came to €624 million in 2013. Details are given under LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of chemical and “Capital expenditures” in the “Statement of financial position and polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very financial condition” section of this combined management report. For small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and additional information about the acquisitions made in the year under fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons. review, please see “Additions to the Group portfolio” in this combined management report. Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an individual business unit. The most important production sites are at Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp, Sales organization and customers Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia, Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; SingaSales pore; and Wuxi, China. ­LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers Italy, Japan, Russia, South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and in more than 150 countries across all continents. ­LANXESS’s longthe United States. For a detailed breakdown of our production sites standing customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries. by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this combined We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions. To management report. meet our customers’ needs, we have set up very flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world through The following significant changes occurred in our global production 52 companies owned by ­LANXESS itself. We continually extend our network in 2013: global presence so we are closer to our customers and can better evaluate strategic potential. In countries where we do not yet have our • Our Butyl Rubber business unit opened Asia’s most modern butyl own company, we work with local sales partners. rubber facility in Singapore. The plant entered its commissioning phase in the first quarter of 2013 and started production in the To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive second quarter as planned. individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales • The Keltan Elastomers business unit has converted its largest proorganization. Another competitive advantage is provided by our 52 duction line for Keltan® EPDM rubber at the site in Sittard-Geleen, production sites in 17 countries. Wherever possible, customers are Netherlands, to ACE™ technology. supplied from production sites in the same region, yielding advantages • Our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit increased in terms of time and costs. capacities for the intermediates cresol and dichlorobenzene at the site in Leverkusen, Germany, by 20% and 15%, respectively. In 2013, we expanded our e-business activities in purchasing, sales • As scheduled, our Leather business unit brought a new facility for and logistics. Altogether, more than 800,000 orders and the respecmanufacturing leather chemicals on stream in Changzhou, China. tive automated follow-up notices were handled as e-business. This • The Leather business unit also commissioned a new CO2 concencapability is provided by the ­LANXESS one Internet portal and the tration plant at the Newcastle site in South Africa. system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. We will continue to ex• The Rhein Chemie business unit opened a new facility for highpand this process, which provides benefits for all involved, by adding performance curing bladders in Porto Feliz, Brazil. further partners and technical services. The net sales invoice values • In Lipetsk, Russia, the Rhein Chemie business unit also opened accounted for by e-business came to approximately €1.75 billion, an ­LANXESS’s first production facility in that country to manufacture increase of about 4% on the previous year. rubber additives for the automotive and tire industries. • As part of our program to increase competitiveness, we closed our Selling costs for fiscal 2013 came to 9.1% of ­LANXESS Group sales, Rubber Chemicals business unit’s site at Isithebe, South Africa. up 0.7 percentage points on the prior-year level of 8.4%. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 65 Procurement and production | Sales organization and customers | Research and development The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last five years. The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in Selling Costs which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower number of customers in the Performance Polymers segment, which nonetheless generates Selling costs (€ million) 530 646 732 763 755 % of sales 10.5 9.1 8.3 8.4 9.1 relatively high sales, is typical of the synthetic rubber products busiBreakdown by segment ness. On account of the extensive customer base, no segment can Performance Polymers 178 216 262 284 286 be considered dependent on just a few customers. Advanced Intermediates 92 122 127 125 126 Performance Chemicals 253 300 320 335 328 Reconciliation 7 8 23 19 15 Research and development Research and development makes an important contribution toward Customers increasing our competitiveness and expanding our business through the development of innovative processes and products as well as the Because of our broad offering, we have business relationships with a ongoing optimization of existing production processes. large number of customers all over the world. These customers need an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able to provide Therefore, we continued to systematically drive forward our research because our sales organizations are managed through the business and development activities in 2013. Existing products and processes units. Individual sales and marketing strategies are reviewed on the were refined and optimized with a shortto medium-term time horizon. basis of regular customer satisfaction surveys. In addition, the Innovation & Technology Group Function focused above all on initiating mediumto long-term research projects to ensure LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, chemicals, success in the high-growth areas of the future and thus safeguard the automotive, plastics, electronics, agrochemicals, leather and footwear, Group’s sustainable performance. pharmaceuticals, food, water treatment, construction and furniture. In this connection, we entered into two new alliances with research Shares of Sales by Industry Sector institutes in China. One of these is investigating the polymerization % 2013 behavior of typical rubber monomers with a view to expanding our Tires product portfolio, while the other is aimed at developing thermoplastics ~ 25 Chemicals ~ 15 for new application areas. Both of these initiatives support our ambition Automotive ~ 15 to be a pioneer in the field of green mobility. Agrochemicals ~ 10 Construction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear ~ 20 Innovations in the Performance Polymers segment, which focuses on Others (cumulative share) ~ 15 the mobility megatrend, include the development of two new grades of neodymium-based performance butadiene rubber. They have the high molecular weights that are essential for manufacturing tires with In fiscal 2013, our top ten customers accounted for about 24% of particularly low rolling resistance. Thanks to the new polymer chain total sales (2012: 26%). None of our customers accounted for more modification technology we use, our customers can process these than 10% of Group sales. 57 (2012: 50) customers accounted for ­rubber grades more easily and effectively. We also succeeded in annual sales in excess of €20 million. manufacturing bio-based polybutylene terephthalate (PBT), a component of our high-tech plastic Pocan®, at our world-scale facility in The number of customers in each segment varied widely. The PerHamm-Uentrop, Germany. Here, sugar – a renewable feedstock – was formance Polymers segment had some 3,500 customers in 2013 converted into the raw material butanediol using a strategic partner’s (2012: 3,300), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance commercially proven process. This marks an important step forward Chemicals had about 3,000 (2012: 3,000) and 11,600 (2012: in our efforts to offer bio-based versions of Pocan® in the future and 11,800), respectively. This information is based on the number of further expand our position as the leading company in the field of customer accounts in each segment. Each segment includes all cusspecialty chemicals for green mobility. tomer groups and sales categories. However, one customer may do business with more than one segment. 66 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The Saltigo business unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment Number of Employees in Research and Development started developing new applications for the insect repellent Saltidin®, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 which can be added to sunscreens or impregnated into textiles. Year end 489 519 731 843 931 % of Group employees 3.4 3.5 4.5 4.9 5.4 In the Performance Chemicals segment, we drove forward our research and development activities in the area of water treatment, for example. Here we succeeded in developing ion exchange resins with Our largest research and development units are at the sites in Lever­ a small bead radius that enhance the efficiency of certain membranekusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; Sittard-Geleen, based electrolytic water treatment technologies, thereby extending Netherlands; London, Canada; and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. The the service life of both the resin and the membranes. This results in development and testing of high-performance rubber products for lower operating costs because less regenerating agent is needed and energy-saving green tires and high-tech plastics for lightweight conless wastewater is produced. We also introduced a new technology struction applications in the automotive industry are examples of the and service concept for beamhouse operations in the area of leather work we perform there. We also operate a development center for processing. The newly developed products for the beamhouse ensure high-tech plastics in Hong Kong to strengthen our relations with auto­ significantly better process design, particularly from an ecological point makers in the Asia-Pacific growth region. of view, partly by reducing the amount of waste produced. Fields of activity and patent strategy Cost trend and employees In 2013, we conducted around 260 research and development projects Our total research and development expenses in 2013 decreased (2012: 235), around 150 of which (2012: 145) aimed to develop by 3.1% on the prior year to €186 million, or 2.2% of sales (2012: new products and applications or improve existing ones. Some 110 €192 million, or 2.1% of sales). The Butyl Rubber, High Performance projects (2012: around 90) concerned process technology issues with Materials, High Performance Elastomers, Keltan Elastomers and Saltigo a view to reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. We business units accounted for the largest share of these expenditures plan to have roughly 20% of the research and development projects in 2013 at 59% (2012: 61%). Butyl Rubber, Saltigo, Material Protecwe started in 2013 in the market or technical implementation stages tion Products, High Performance Elastomers and Liquid Purification by the end of 2014 (2012: about 25%). Technologies were the business units most active in research in terms of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales. The results of our research and development work are protected by patents, where this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2013, The table below shows research and development expenditures in we submitted 89 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, the past five years. 2013, the full patent portfolio included approximately 1,140 patent families covering around 7,500 property rights. Research and Development Expenses 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Research and development Organizational focus expenses (€ million) 101 116 144 192 186 % of sales 2.0 1.6 1.6 2.1 2.2 Our research programs are directly and systematically aligned with the major global megatrends: the greater need for mobility, sharply rising global food requirements, increasing urbanization and the At the end of 2013, we employed 931 people (2012: 843) in our growing demand for water. Business units with a substantial proporresearch and development laboratories worldwide. We created the tion of products in very mature markets, such as Advanced Industrial Group Senior Scientist awards in 2012 to honor top researchers Inter­mediates, concentrate on constantly improving their production and scientific experts for their achievements, generate motivation facilities and processes (process optimization). Other business units and prospects for careers in research and development, and place focus their research and development activities more on optimizing the focus even more firmly on innovation. The first awards have their products and product quality and on developing new products already been made for outstanding achievements in the area of to meet market requirements and customers’ special needs. sustainable science and technology with commensurate contributions to earnings. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 67 Research and development Our basic research is conducted mainly via alliances with universities the business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is substanbusiness units, and there is a mediumto long-term time horizon. Here, tially more cost-efficient than if we were to maintain our own resources too, our research goals are derived from the global megatrends. Since for this purpose. In 2013, we had a total of 197 (2012: 203) major launching our Xplore ideas platform on the company intranet, we research and development alliances, 73 (2012: 78) of which were regularly issue challenges that result in the development of ideas and with universities, 72 (2012: 66) with suppliers or customers, and 52 solutions for future-oriented innovations worldwide. The great success (2012: 59) with research institutes. of this platform has made a significant contribution to the promotion of our corporate innovation culture. We have already transformed a large number of ideas into concrete projects with the help of standardized Innovation & Technology Group Function processes. These projects are regularly evaluated with regard to their technological and financial attractiveness. As a central unit, the Innovation & Technology Group Function complements our business units’ research work with new, longer-term, crossFor instance, we have developed a new technology that makes it business unit projects to ensure that potential synergies are exploited quicker and easier to produce a lightweight fiber-reinforced compoto the full and innovations can be applied in various ­LANXESS units. nent using the reaction injection molding process. The low-viscosity monomer is directly injected into the (textile) fiber-filled mold, where We further expanded this group function in 2013 to allow better use of it then polymerizes. Together with the Institute of Plastics Processing available synergies. When we divided our Technical Rubber Products and a renowned Austrian manufacturer of injection molding equipbusiness unit into the new Keltan Elastomers and High Performance ment, we presented this technology at the K 2013 plastics fair in Elastomers business units, the Technical Service Center in Dormagen Düsseldorf, Germany. and the Polymer Testing Center in Leverkusen (both Germany) – with additional sites in Qingdao, China, and Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands – We have further expanded our broad network of external partners were integrated into this group function. As a result, these facilities through the establishment of new alliances with universities, institutes are now available to all business units. and leading companies in various fields such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, microtechnology and membrane technology. The group function’s research concentrates on both process and product innovation, which are handled by separate units. We also collaborate with the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) – one of the world’s most distinguished scientific institutions – and In the area of process innovation, we direct our efforts toward develhave established a research network with leading Russian institutes oping new processes and integrating new technologies into existing and universities. After jointly hosting a prestigious scientific symposium production processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology as part of Germany Year in Russia in 2012, L ­ ANXESS and RAS held leadership. One focus is on reviewing current production processes their annual joint workshop in 2013, as envisaged by their collaborausing mathematical and experimental methods in order to pinpoint tion agreement. The aim is to meet regularly to exchange views on optimization potential. In this way, we have already identified and in current scientific trends and developments, possibly leading to further some cases achieved considerable savings on raw materials and cooperation projects. energy. We made further savings in operating costs by implementing our process control concepts in a number of facilities. These newly implemented concepts – including online analytics – enable us to run plants even closer to the optimum operating point, which, in addition to reducing costs, in some cases even increases their capacity. Against the backdrop of our strategic growth initiative, we are also stepping up our efforts to refine the technological aspects of our processes for growth projects. A key success factor is our process technology laboratory where we can optimize existing processes as well as develop new processes and investigate their transferability to industrial scale. Product innovation is focused on the development of new products and new applications for existing products as well as on product modifications. The development of new products is more broadly based than in 68 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility Environment data In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the We use a proprietary electronic system for the systematic global recorddemands of economics, ecology and society. With our products and ing of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and enviour expertise in the area of sustainable development we can make a ronmental protection. Data for all indicators except the LTIFR are ­gathered significant contribution to supporting our customers, protecting the only at those production sites in which the company has a holding of environment and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. more than 50%. In the year under review, ­Pricewaterhouse­Coopers AG All our corporate responsibility (CR) activities must be linked to our Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our data recording processes core business or to our available expertise. and system in the course of a business audit. Our HSE indicators for 2013 were audited with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. We consider compliance with laws and ethical principles to be the basis for sustainable corporate governance. The “Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at L ­ ANXESS,” which is Product stewardship applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our employees advice and guidance on complying with these We expressly support the protection goals of the European chemical standards. Our compliance management system was audited by legislation REACH, which aims to ensure a high level of safety for ­Deloitte & Touche GmbH in 2012. The audit was completed without human health and the environment in the manufacture and use of observation and with an unqualified audit opinion. chemicals. We met the December 1, 2008, deadline for preregistering all substances of relevance to ­LANXESS with the European Chemicals We have been supporting the Responsible Care® initiative since 2006, Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki, Finland. We then registered a total of 360 when we became a signatory to the Global Charter initiated by the substances that we produce in or import to the European Union in International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). We are also volumes exceeding 100 and 1,000 tons annually by the respective committed to the established principles of the world’s largest corpodeadlines in 2010 and 2013. Lastly, all substances with volumes rate social responsibility initiative, the U.N. Global Compact. Since we exceeding one ton must be registered in Europe by the third deadline signed up in 2011, we have continued to raise our sustainability profile. on May 31, 2018. Integrated management system Social commitment At ­LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. In adeducation in schools. In 2008, we launched the extensive ­LANXESS dition to internal directives and operating procedures, strict quality education initiative that underscores our clear commitment to Gerand environmental standards in line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 many as a business location and as a base for the chemical industry. apply worldwide. External, independent experts regularly audit the ­LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the proprogress of system integration at new sites and the performance of our motion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe. management system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with To date, we have invested some €6 million in educational projects, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. €4 million of this sum in Germany. We successfully completed a follow-up audit in 2013. As of September 26, 2013, our matrix certificate covered 48 comLegal environment panies with 77 sites in 23 countries. In 2013, our production sites in Greensboro and Gastonia in the United States and the site we There were no changes in the legal environment in 2013 that would acquired from DSM in Triunfo, Brazil, were included in the certificate have had a material impact on the cash flows, financial condition or as planned. For our sites in the United States, we have also received results of operations of the ­LANXESS Group or ­LANXESS AG. certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible Care®). In addition, we have implemented an energy management system at our facilities in Germany which was certified for the first time to ISO 50001 in 2013. Combined Management Report – Economic Report 69 Corporate responsibility | Legal environment | Business conditions Business conditions slide against the euro, which was worth US$1.38 at the end of the year. This represented a decrease in the value of the U.S. currency of around GDP and Chemical Production in 2013 4.5% in 2013. The euro’s average rate for the year was US$1.33, up Change vs. prior year in real terms (%), projected from US$1.29 in the previous year. Due to the regional positioning of our business, a weaker U.S. dollar generally has a negative effect North America 1.7 on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that 3.3 cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place Latin America 3.2 in the same currency area. 0.3 EMEA 0.7 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro 0.5 Asia-Pacific 4.3 1.50 6.0 World 2.1 1.40 3.5 0 2 4 6 8 1.30 Gross domestic product Chemical production 1.20 1.10 The economic environment Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. 2013 Average 2013 Global economic growth in 2013 was relatively modest at 2.1%, which 2012 Average 2012 was slightly below the prior-year level. Europe saw weak development overall given the need to consolidate public budgets, coupled with restrained consumer spending. However, the situation varied slightly from region to region. In Western Europe, the economy stagnated in On the raw material markets, prices declined over the course of the light of zero growth. Germany’s gross domestic product grew by just year. We are particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical raw 0.4%, while the economies of Central and Eastern European counmaterials, as they have a material impact on our production costs. tries expanded slightly by 1.3%. The United States was unable to fully The price of our most important strategic raw material, butadiene, exploit its growth potential because of the renewed budget crisis and declined substantially against the prior-year period – especially in the the automatic spending cuts this entailed. Nevertheless, the country middle of the year – reaching its lowest level in September. Until the contributed to economic growth of 1.7% in the NAFTA region. On third quarter, price decreases in Asia were more pronounced than in account of the weak growth in the industrialized countries, the emergEurope and North America, so prices trended more favorably toward ing economies also posted more modest growth rates. The Chinese Asia during this period. economic region expanded by 7.3%, buoyed by incentives to counter a temporary phase of weakness in the second quarter. In India, the pace of economic development slowed against the backdrop of lower The chemical industry consumption and declining business confidence. Nevertheless, the economy still expanded by 4.6%. Brazil posted economic growth of The general economic trends had an impact on the chemical industry 2.5%, supported by a rise in investment but only a moderate increase as well, where production grew by 3.5%. The Chinese economic in consumption. region posted the strongest growth at 8.3%, whereas expansion in other regions was somewhat more restrained. Against the backdrop The fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. of the ongoing positive situation in the NAFTA region’s end markets, dollar were less pronounced in 2013 than in the previous year. With production there increased by 3.3%. In Brazil, production grew by an expansionary monetary policy and extremely low interest rates in 1.7%, just slightly more than in the previous year. In Western Europe, on both currency zones, the euro started the year at US$1.32. Until midthe other hand, the customer industries for chemical precursors were year it moved between US$1.28 and US$1.36. While the prevailing impacted by a weak economic dynamic, resulting in a decline of 0.2%. conditions remained largely unchanged, the dollar began a continuous 70 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Evolution of major user industries Evolution of Major User Industries in 2013 Change vs. prior year Tires AutoAgro­ Con­ In contrast with previous years, global tire production increased by just in real terms (%) motive chemicals struction (projected) 3.1% in 2013. This growth was centered on the Chinese economic region, which expanded by 9.3% due to higher exports to the United Americas (0.2) 5.3 4.5 3.1 NAFTA (2.0) 4.7 7.3 3.1 States following expiration of punitive import tariffs. In the NAFTA Latin America 5.0 7.5 2.5 2.9 region, production declined by 2.0%. The trend in the original equipEMEA (0.6) (2.4) 1.8 (1.2) ment business was largely in line with automobile production. Outside Germany (0.2) (1.7) (4.1) (1.0) ­Europe, the market for replacement tires in general proved robust. In Western Europe (4.1) (2.3) (0.5) (1.3) the heavy-duty commercial vehicle sector, demand for replacement Central and Eastern Europe 4.6 0.9 7.4 (5.8) tires declined in the NAFTA region but expanded in Europe and Brazil. Asia-Pacific 5.8 4.0 3.5 5.7 World 3.1 2.7 3.4 2.6 The pace of growth in global automotive production slowed significantly to 2.7% in 2013, compared with 4.9% in 2012. The Chinese economic region was the strongest performer with an increase of 12.0%, which significantly contributed to expansion of 4.0% overall Key events influencing the company’s business in Asia. By contrast, India posted very weak development, with production declining by 12.6%. Latin America and the NAFTA region saw Fiscal 2013 was characterized by ongoing pressure to consolidate growth rates of 7.5% and 4.7%, respectively. With many countries in public budgets in many European countries and recurring uncertainty the eurozone facing the need to consolidate public budgets and reduce surrounding the development of public spending in the United States debt levels, automotive production in Western Europe remained weak associated with the debt ceiling. In addition, expansionary monetary and shrank by 2.3%. policies resulted in some marked shifts in exchange rates for the currencies of relevance to world trade: the euro, the U.S. dollar and the Global production of chemicals for the agricultural industry expanded Japanese yen. by 3.4% due to continued high demand for agricultural products for the manufacture of food, animal feed and biofuels. Output in the In the industrialized countries, efforts to consolidate public budgets NAFTA region was up 7.3% on the weak prior year, which had been and a certain degree of private spending restraint held back growth impacted by drought. Whereas Latin America posted growth of 2.5%, in some customer industries, such as automotive and tires. In turn, Asia expanded output by 3.5% in line with the overall market trend. this had a knock-on effect on industrial production in the emerging By contrast, production in Western Europe dipped slightly by 0.5%. economies. The construction industry worldwide posted growth of 2.6%. The The market environment impacted fundamental price structures, Chinese economic region especially saw positive development, with especially in our Performance Polymers segment. In principle, the deexpansion of 8.8% driven by infrastructure projects. Compared to cline in procurement costs for key raw materials, especially butadiene, a weak prior year marked by the crisis, the construction sector in resulted in corresponding adjustments to our selling prices. Pricing the NAFTA region grew by 3.1%, despite cuts in public budgets. underwent additional structural changes as new suppliers entered Residential construction in particular proved robust. In Latin America, the market and established suppliers expanded existing capacities too, construction was up 2.9%. By contrast, Europe continued to feel for certain products, causing shifts in the previous supply situation. the effects of the financial and sovereign debt crises, which saw the The regional differences in price trends for butadiene and the strong ­construction industry in Western Europe contract by 1.3%. At 5.8%, depreciation of the Japanese yen against the euro and the U.S. ­dollar the decline was even more pronounced in Central and Eastern Europe. gave Japanese and other Asian manufacturers competitive advantages during 2013. This led to some increases in the supply of rubber products from Asia, which resulted in additional price p ­ ressure in all Combined Management Report – Economic Report 71 Business conditions | Key events influencing the company’s business | Comparison of forecast and actual business regions. The EPDM rubber business underwent structural changes: €257 million, which were recorded in other operating expenses as Expanding production capacities increased the pressure on prices exceptional charges with no impact on EBITDA. Our Keltan Elastowhile our competitive situation worsened compared with that of U.S. mers and High Performance Elastomers business units (Performance producers who have access to cheaper raw materials and energy supPolymers segment) recognized impairment charges of €174 million plies thanks to shale gas extraction in the United States. In addition, and €54 million, respectively, while our Rubber Chemicals business production costs in the reporting year were impacted by start-up costs unit (Performance Chemicals segment) posted a figure of €29 million. in the Butyl Rubber business unit associated with our butyl rubber Other write-downs totaled €22 million, of which €13 million were plant in Singapore and in connection with new capacities in other recorded as exceptional charges. business units of the segment. Steady demand for agricultural products stabilized volume sales of Comparison of forecast and actual business our products for agrochemicals. At the end of 2012, we had assumed that important customer inThe development in the automotive and tire industries also impacted dustries like the automotive and tire sectors would perform well in business performance in the Performance Chemicals segment. Howfiscal 2013, especially in the Americas and Asia. We also expected ever, the broad customer diversification of this segment cushioned positive momentum to come from the agrochemical industry. Looking these effects. back, our expectations were partially fulfilled: Adjusted for portfolio and currency effects, sales of the Performance Polymers segment in All regions saw sales declines. The Asia-Pacific region proved the most Asia grew by around 2% but contracted by a double-digit percentage robust with a low-single-digit percentage decrease compared to the in North America and Latin America. The decline in sales resulted other regions. After adjustment for currency and portfolio effects, North from decreasing selling prices on account of increasing competition, America recorded the strongest business contraction. especially for standard rubber products. An additional factor was the downward trend in raw material prices. The demand for agrochemicals The changes in the competitive environment resulted in a negative remained strong. impact on anticipated cash flows at the time our consolidated financial statements were prepared. In some of our business units, these cash In our half-year report, we had predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals flows no longer reflected the carrying amounts at that time. As a result, for the full year 2013 would come in at between €700 million and impairment testing in the reporting year led to impairment charges of €800 million. We narrowed this guidance to between €710 million Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2013 Forecast for 2013 in Forecast for 2013 in Forecast for 2013 in Actual 2013 Annual Report 2012/ H1 Interim Report Q3 Interim Report Q1 Interim Report Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals Below €1 billion €700 million €710 million €735 million to €800 million to €760 million Business development: segments Performance Polymers Most dynamic Continuing weak Continuing difficult market Difficult market environment; most development in the demand; most dynamic environment; stimulus from dynamic development in China emerging markets development in the USA and China of Asia emerging markets of Asia Advanced Intermediates Good demand for Continuing good demand Unchanged Continuing good demand agrochemicals for agrochemicals Performance Chemicals Demand stimulus from Unchanged Unchanged Demand stimulus from North America and Asia Asia, especially in the second half of the year Raw material prices Sideways movement in Unchanged Unchanged Significantly lower price level procurement costs and continuing volatility Financial condition: Group Cash outflows for capital expenditures €650 million Approx. €600 million Approx. €600 million €624 million to €700 million 72 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 and €760 million in our third-quarter report. A result of €735 million Sales and earnings was posted in the year under review, which is in the middle of the guidance range. Group Sales € million We had forecasted volatile lateral development of raw material prices 2013 8,300 in 2013 and initially assumed a comparatively high price level. By contrast, price trends for butadiene significantly drove down procure2012 9,094 ment prices. As a result, the price level for our raw materials at year end was some 10% below the prior year end. 2011 8,775 At the end of 2012, we had anticipated cash outflows for capital expen2010 7,120 ditures of between €650 million and €700 million. After focusing the allocation of resources on key strategic projects, we targeted around 2009 5,057 €600 million. Cash outflows for capital expenditures of €624 million in 2013 were slightly above this target. 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 For L ­ ANXESS AG, we had assumed net income in 2013 on the level of the previous year. However, due mainly to the reduction in income In 2013, ­LANXESS Group sales declined by 8.7% from €9,094 milfrom investments in affiliated companies, net income of €35 million lion in the prior year to €8,300 million. An increase of 1.6% in sales was substantially below the prior-year value of €104 million. generated by volume growth did not offset the impact of lower selling prices. After adjustment for negative currency effects and positive portfolio effects, operational sales dropped by 6.9%. Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group Effects on Sales • Substantial and largely price-driven sales decline of 8.7% € million/% • All regions below prior-year level 9,094 • EBITDA pre exceptionals down some 40% to €735 million +1.6% +0.3% 8,300 • EBITDA margin pre exceptionals at 8.9% (8.5)% (2.1)% • Net loss of €159 million due especially to write-downs totaling €279 million, €257 million of which were recognized in the business units of the Performance Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments following impairment testing Key Financial Data 2012 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2013 € million 2012 2013 Change % Sales 9,094 8,300 (8.7) Gross profit 2,106 1,548 (26.5) EBITDA pre exceptionals 1,223 735 (39.9) Sales in our Performance Polymers segment decreased by a substantial EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 13.4% 8.9% – 13.3% in 2013 and thus contributed in large part to ­LANXESS’s negaEBITDA 1,186 624 (47.4) tive business performance. The dominant factor in this development Operating result (EBIT) was the significant decline in selling prices of 15.1%, driven primarily pre exceptionals 847 288 (66.0) Operating result (EBIT) 808 (93) < (100) by decreasing raw material prices and the challenging competitive EBIT margin 8.9% (1.1)% – situation. This decline was partly offset by volume growth of 3.5%, Financial result (148) (146) 1.4 especially in the second half of the year, which was facilitated by facIncome before income taxes 660 (239) < (100) tors such as newly available capacities for high-performance rubber Net income 508 (159) < (100) products and high-tech plastics. A negative currency effect resulted Earnings per share (€) 6.11 (1.91) < (100) in a decrease of 2.0%, more than offsetting a positive portfolio effect 2012 figures restated of 0.3% from the acquisition of Bond-Laminates GmbH. The Advanced Intermediates segment posted a slight sales decrease of 1.6%. Price increases canceled out the negative development of Combined Management Report – Economic Report 73 Comparison of forecast and actual business | Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group sales volumes, which were characterized by contrasting trends in the Gross profit coatings market on the one hand and the agrochemicals market on the other hand. There was also a negative currency effect of 1.5%. The cost of sales decreased by 3.4% from the prior year to €6,752 million, which was lower in percentage terms than sales. Gross profit fell In our Performance Chemicals segment, sales declined by 3.2%. back by €558 million, or 26.5%, to €1,548 million. The gross profit This was attributable above all to negative currency effects of 3.0%. margin fell accordingly, from 23.2% to 18.7%. One main reason for Selling prices were mostly stable over the reporting period. Recovery this development was the decline in selling prices, which exceeded the in demand in the second half of the year raised volume sales to just decrease in procurement prices for raw materials, especially b ­ utadiene. below the prior-year level. There was a slightly positive portfolio efMoreover, production costs increased because of inflation and newly fect from the acquisitions made in 2012 and 2013. These activities available capacities, mainly in the Performance Polymers segment. were assigned to the Rhein Chemie, Material Protection Products and The gross profit margin was additionally impacted by net negative Functional Chemicals business units. currency effects. In the second half of the year, demand started to recover and made a net positive contribution to gross profit. This was Sales by Segment slightly underpinned by portfolio effects from businesses acquired in € million 2012 2013 Change Proportion 2012 and 2013. Capacity utilization, at roughly 78%, was 3 percent% of Group age points below the prior-year level because the positive demand sales % trend which developed in the second half of the year was served in part from inventories. The resulting idle capacity costs adversely Performance Polymers 5,176 4,486 (13.3) 54.1 Advanced Intermediates 1,674 1,647 (1.6) 19.8 ­affected earnings. Performance Chemicals 2,203 2,132 (3.2) 25.7 Reconciliation 41 35 (14.6) 0.4 9,094 8,300 (8.7) 100.0 EBITDA and operating result (EBIT) Selling expenses declined by €8 million to €755 million in 2013, Sales declined in all regions, especially in North America and Latin mainly due to lower personnel expenses. America. The Performance Polymers segment was affected by this development in almost all markets in both absolute and relative terms. Research and development costs were down 3.1%, to €186 million. Business in the Asia-Pacific region proved comparatively robust, with The number of employees in R&D grew to 931 as of December 31, sales declining by 2.5%. 2013, up substantially from 843 on December 31, 2012. General administrative expenses decreased from €339 million to Order book status €301 million in 2013, mainly due to lower personnel expenses. At 3.6%, the ratio of general administrative expenses to sales was slightly Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on below the prior-year figure of 3.7%. fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master The other operating result, which is the balance between other operatagreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with ing income and expenses, decreased substantially by €395 million to relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for forwardminus €399 million. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other operatlooking statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. Our ing result came to minus €18 million, which was €53 million lower business is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide than in 2012. Net exceptional charges of €381 million were incurred forecasts of the Group operating target. For additional information, in the reporting year, €111 million of which impacted EBITDA and please see “Company-specific lead indicators.” mainly related to the Advance program for improving competitiveness across all segments as well as to expenses associated with the Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given reportdesign and implementation of IT projects. The exceptional charges ing date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s shortor of €270 million that had no impact on EBITDA were primarily due medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is to impairment charges recognized in the Keltan Elastomers, High made in this report. Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals business units. In the prior year, net exceptional items amounted to €39 million, €37 million of which impacted EBITDA. Exceptional charges related primarily to reorganization projects and portfolio measures as well as expenses for improvements to the IT infrastructure. 74 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment s­ elling price effects were positive, the increase in production costs € million 2012 2013 Change % and exchange rate trends in particular had a negative impact. The Performance Polymers Performance Chemicals segment posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of 817 389 (52.4) Advanced Intermediates 305 286 (6.2) €231 million, a decrease of €50 million or 17.8%. This was primarily Performance Chemicals 281 231 (17.8) due to increased production costs, declining volumes and net negative Reconciliation (180) (171) 5.0 price effects. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the reconciliation improved 1,223 735 (39.9) by €9 million to minus €171 million. 2012 figures restated The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating result (EBIT) was as follows: Our operating result before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals decreased by €488 million, or 39.9%, to €735 million in Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to Operating Result (EBIT) 2013, from €1,223 million the year before. This decline was primarily € million 2012 2013 Change % due to the fact that selling prices fell more than raw material prices and EBITDA pre exceptionals 1,223 735 (39.9) to the largely production-related increase in costs. Negative currency Depreciation and amortization (378) (717) (89.7) effects also had a downward impact. Positive volume trends and slight Exceptional items in EBITDA (37) (111) < (100) portfolio effects were not sufficient to offset the decline. The Group’s Operating result (EBIT) 808 (93) < (100) EBITDA margin pre exceptionals fell to 8.9% from 13.4% in 2012. 2012 figures restated EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals € million The operating result (EBIT) dropped very substantially from €808 million to minus €93 million in fiscal 2013. 2013 735 8.9% Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss) 2012 1,223 13.4% € million 2012 2013 Change % 2011 1,146 13.1% Operating result (EBIT) 808 (93) < (100) Income from investments ­accounted for using the 2010 918 12.9% equity method 1 0 (100.0) Net interest expense (96) (106) (10.4) 2009 465 9.2% Other financial income and expense (53) (40) 24.5 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 Financial result (148) (146) 1.4 Income (loss) before 2012 figures restated income taxes 660 (239) < (100) Income taxes (151) 71 > 100 Income (loss) after EBITDA pre exceptionals in our Performance Polymers segment income taxes 509 (168) < (100) of which: ­receded by €428 million, or 52.4%, against the prior year. The posiattributable to non-controlling tive volume trend could not compensate for the lower selling prices. interests 1 (9) < (100) EBITDA pre exceptionals was held back by lower selling prices, which attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders [net income (loss)] 508 (159) < (100) declined by more than the amount of the decrease in raw material 2012 figures restated prices on account of the increasing competitive pressure. Inventory effects, exchange rate developments and start-up costs additionally had a negative impact. The Advanced Intermediates segment posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of €286 million, a decline of 6.2% from €305 million in the prior-year period. While raw material and Combined Management Report – Economic Report 75 Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group | Business trends by region Financial result Business trends by region The financial result came in at minus €146 million in fiscal 2013, Sales by Market compared with minus €148 million for the prior year. The pro-rated % income from investments accounted for using the equity method, primarily Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, came 24.2 25.8 to €0 million, against €1 million the previous year. Interest expense Asia-Pacific was up slightly year on year. The capitalization of a portion of bor13.0 11.6 Latin America rowing costs, some of which related to the construction of the new 17.7 16.0 butyl rubber plant in Singapore, had a positive effect on the financial North America result. The amount capitalized was lower than the previous year and 17.3 17.6 Germany was not sufficient to offset the decline in interest income. In total, net 27.8 29.0 interest expense was €10 million higher than in the previous year at €106 million. The balance of other financial income and expense items EMEA (excluding Germany) also included a value adjustment of €6 million in the carrying amount 2012 2013 of the interest in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, in light of that company’s share price performance. For the same reason, a value adjustment of €18 million was made in the carrying amount of the interest in Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, in 2012. Sales by Market 2012 2013 Change Income before income taxes € million % € million % % EMEA (excluding Due to the negative EBIT, income before income taxes declined by Germany) 2,526 27.8 2,404 29.0 (4.8) €899 million to minus €239 million. Germany 1,577 17.3 1,458 17.6 (7.5) North America 1,611 17.7 1,332 16.0 (17.3) Latin America 1,185 13.0 966 11.6 (18.5) Asia-Pacific Income taxes 2,195 24.2 2,140 25.8 (2.5) 9,094 100.0 8,300 100.0 (8.7) In fiscal 2013, the Group had tax income of €71 million, compared with tax expense of €151 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was 29.7%, after 22.9% in the previous year. EMEA (excluding Germany) Net income/Earnings per share/Earnings per share Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) receded by €122 milpre exceptionals lion, or 4.8%, to €2,404 million in 2013. Adjusted for slight portfolio effects, sales decreased by 4.6%. Sales of the Advanced IntermeThe ­LANXESS Group posted a net loss of €159 million, a decline diates segment were slightly above the prior-year level. Our Perforof €667 million year on year. A loss of €9 million was attributable to mance ­Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments, by contrast, non-controlling interests. posted sales declines in the highand low-single-digit percentage range. Especially in Western Europe – above all in France, Belgium, With the number of ­LANXESS shares in circulation unchanged, earnthe Netherlands and Spain – sales decreased by mostly low-doubleings per share dropped very sharply from €6.11 in 2012 to minus digit percentages compared to the previous year. However, sales were €1.91. bolstered by positive growth in demand in other countries such as Italy and Turkey. Business also trended positively in the Czech Republic, Earnings per share pre exceptionals were €1.37, against €6.44 the Slovenia and Portugal. year before. This value was calculated from the earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and attributable tax effects. In the reporting The EMEA region (excluding Germany) accounted for 29.0% of Group year, exceptional items came to €381 million after €39 million in 2012. sales, up 1.2 percentage points on the prior-year level. 76 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Germany Asia-Pacific In Germany, our sales came to €1,458 million in 2013, down Sales in the Asia-Pacific region dipped slightly by €55 million, or 2.5%, €119 million, or 7.5%, on the previous year. Whereas Performance to €2,140 million in 2013. After adjustment for currency effects and Chemicals and Performance Polymers saw business contract by singleportfolio effects resulting from the 2012 acquisition of Bond-Laminates to double-digit percentages, our Advanced Intermediates segment GmbH and the purchase in 2013 of PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. posted sales close to the prior-year level. Ltd., Singapore, sales grew by 1.0%. Our Performance Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments achieved operational growth Germany’s share of Group sales rose slightly from 17.3% to 17.6%. in the lowto mid-single-digit range, while sales in the Advanced ­Intermediates segment declined by a low-single-digit percentage. We posted a pleasing development of business in China and Singapore, North America but saw tangible decreases especially in Japan and also in Malaysia and Indonesia. Sales in this region came to €1,332 million, down €279 million or 17.3% from the previous year. Adjusted for negative currency effects Asia-Pacific’s share of Group sales increased year on year, from 24.2% and slight portfolio effects, sales were down by 14.8%. This decrease to 25.8%. Thus, it expanded its position as the second-strongest region was due mainly to the development of business in the Performance behind EMEA (excluding Germany) in terms of sales. Polymers segment, which posted a sales decline well into the doubledigit percentage range. The positive performance of the Advanced Intermediates segment and the largely unchanged sales of the PerforSegment information mance Chemicals segment could not offset this decrease. • Performance Polymers: lower selling prices outweigh impact of At 16.0%, North America’s share of Group sales was 1.7 percentage higher volumes on sales and earnings points lower than in the prior year. • Advanced Intermediates: higher selling prices mostly offset lower volumes; negative currency effects impact sales; agrochemicals business remains good Latin America • Performance Chemicals: lower sales resulting from reduced volumes and negative currency effects; higher production costs Sales in Latin America receded by €219 million, or 18.5%, to weigh down earnings €966 million in the reporting period. After adjusting for negative currency effects, sales declined by 14.6%. This trend resulted from tangibly weaker business performance in the Performance Polymers Sales by Segment and Advanced Intermediates segments, which saw sales declines % in the double-digit percentage range. By contrast, the Performance Reconciliation Chemicals segment posted sales just above the prior-year level. Brazil 24.2 0.5 25.7 0.4 was the main driver of development in the region. Performance Chemicals 18.4 19.8 Latin America’s share of Group sales dropped from 13.0% to 11.6%. Advanced Intermediates 56.9 54.1 Performance Polymers 2012 2013 Combined Management Report – Economic Report 77 Business trends by region | Segment information Performance Polymers expansion of its compounding activities. Sales were also supported by portfolio effects resulting from acquisitions. The Keltan Elastomers Overview of Key Data and High Performance Elastomers business units were impacted by 2012 2013 Change lower selling prices. The exchange rate effect was negative in all of the € million Margin € million Margin % segment’s business units. Sales declined, in part substantially, in all % % reporting regions but especially in North America, Latin America and Sales 5,176 4,486 (13.3) Germany, where decreases were in the double-digit percentage range. EBITDA pre ­exceptionals 817 15.8 389 8.7 (52.4) EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals EBITDA 808 15.6 372 8.3 (54.0) € million Operating result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals 608 11.7 135 3.0 (77.8) 2013 389 8.7% Operating result (EBIT) 599 11.6 (117) (2.6) < (100) 2012 817 15.8% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 434 385 (11.3) Depreciation and 2011 768 15.2% amortization 209 489 > 100 Employees as of 2010 548 14.8% Dec. 31 5,348 5,379 0.6 2009 250 10.5% Business in our Performance Polymers segment declined in 2013 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 compared to the strong prior year. Sales decreased by 13.3% to €4,486 million. A persistently difficult market environment coupled with significantly lower and volatile prices for raw materials, especially EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment the key raw material butadiene, resulted in a negative price effect of decreased by €428 million, or 52.4%, to €389 million. Increasing 15.1%. This was mitigated by a volume effect of 3.5%, due in part to competition and lower raw material prices resulted in declining selling capacity expansions. The acquisition of Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon, prices. The cost relief derived from lower raw material prices and the Germany, in September 2012 produced a positive portfolio effect of positive development of the segment’s volumes could not compen0.3%, which was outweighed by negative exchange rate developments. sate for the effects of lower selling prices. Earnings were additionally hampered by inventory devaluations, destocking, start-up costs for a All business units in this segment were impacted by declining selling new plant and shifts in exchange rates. This was mitigated by a slight prices, whereas volumes developed differently. The Butyl Rubber busiportfolio effect from Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon, Germany, which ness unit posted higher volumes, due in part to the capacity added by was acquired in September 2012. The segment’s EBITDA margin the completion of the butyl rubber facility in Singapore. By contrast, pre exceptionals declined from 15.8% to 8.7%. the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, which, like Butyl Rubber, has close ties to the tire industry and thus to the replacement Exceptional items amounted to €252 million, €17 million of which tire and original equipment manufacturer markets, registered a drop impacted EBITDA. Most of the exceptional charges were impairment in selling prices driven by raw material prices as well as slightly lower charges recognized by the Keltan Elastomers and High Performance volumes. Our High Performance Materials business unit saw a posiElastomers business units. The exceptional charges that impacted tive volume trend that was attributable to, among other things, the EBITDA were largely related to measures associated with the Advance program. The exceptional charges of €9 million from the previous year that fully impacted the segment’s EBITDA included expenses relating to the integration of acquired business activities. 78 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Advanced Intermediates EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment decreased by €19 million, or 6.2%, to €286 million. Higher selling Overview of Key Data prices and relief provided by lower raw material costs were coun2012 2013 Change teracted by lower volumes, especially in the Advanced Industrial € million Margin € million Margin % Intermediates business unit. Performance was additionally hampered % % by higher production costs and negative exchange rate trends. The Sales 1,674 1,647 (1.6) EBITDA margin pre exceptionals fell from 18.2% to 17.4%. EBITDA pre ­exceptionals 305 18.2 286 17.4 (6.2) Exceptional income in the reporting year amounted to €1 million. EBITDA 311 18.6 287 17.4 (7.7) The reversal of provisions for the realignment of the Saltigo busiOperating result (EBIT) ness unit was offset by expenses for further measures relating to the pre ­exceptionals 238 14.2 209 12.7 (12.2) Advance program. Operating result (EBIT) 244 14.6 210 12.8 (13.9) Cash outflows for capital expenditures 92 96 4.3 Performance Chemicals Depreciation and amortization 67 77 14.9 Employees as of Overview of Key Data Dec. 31 2,841 2,854 0.5 2012 2013 Change € million Margin € million Margin % % % Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of €1,647 milSales 2,203 2,132 (3.2) lion in 2013, slightly below the prior-year level. Selling price increases EBITDA generated a positive price effect of 1.0% that was offset by a negative pre ­exceptionals 281 12.8 231 10.8 (17.8) EBITDA 264 12.0 181 8.5 (31.4) volume effect of almost the same magnitude. Exchange rates also had Operating a negative effect on sales of 1.5%. result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals 196 8.9 139 6.5 (29.1) Operating result Both of the segment’s business units were able to impose higher selling (EBIT) 177 8.0 54 2.5 (69.5) prices. Whereas the Saltigo business unit also profited from a slight Cash outflows for increase in demand, volumes in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates capital expenditures 135 111 (17.8) Depreciation and business unit were just below the prior-year level. Both business units amortization 87 127 46.0 saw stable demand for agrochemicals in particular but were hampered Employees as of by negative exchange rate movements. Sales in Latin America and Dec. 31 6,031 5,837 (3.2) Asia-Pacific decreased. By contrast, Germany and EMEA (excluding Germany) saw a constant trend and business performance in North America was gratifying. Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment declined by €71 million, or 3.2%, to €2,132 million in 2013. The decrease was mainly attributEBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals able to negative currency effects of 3.0%, additionally exacerbated by € million slightly negative price and volume effects. These were mitigated by a small portfolio effect of 0.5% related to businesses that had been 2013 286 17.4% acquired for our Material Protection Products, Functional Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units. 2012 305 18.2% Overall, the segment’s volumes and selling prices were below the prior2011 264 17.1% year level although the individual business units trended d ­ ifferently. The Functional Chemicals, Rhein Chemie and Liquid Puri­fication 2010 259 18.4% Technologies business units saw a positive volume effect. In the Liq2009 uid Purification Technologies business unit, the business with water 154 13.9% treatment products posted pleasing development. The Rhein Chemie 0 100 200 300 400 business unit benefited particularly from increased volumes on the Asian market. By contrast, the Material Protection Products, Inorganic Pigments and Leather business units were hampered by negative volume trends. Our Rubber Chemicals business unit was able to grow Combined Management Report – Economic Report 79 Segment information | Statement of financial position and financial condition prices, thus compensating for lower volumes. Currency effects had a EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Reconciliation came to minus negative impact in all of the segment’s business units. The percentage €171 million, compared with minus €180 million in the prior year. sales decrease was largest in Latin America and Germany. The exceptional charges of €45 million, which fully impacted EBITDA, primarily related to measures associated with the Advance program, EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals expenses for the design and implementation of IT projects and for € million portfolio adjustments, to the extent that these expenses could not be allocated to specific segments or business units. The exceptional 2013 231 10.8% charges of €17 million reported in the Reconciliation in 2012, all of which impacted EBITDA, related to expenses for the design and 2012 281 12.8% implementation of IT projects and for portfolio adjustments, to the extent that these expenses could not be allocated to specific seg2011 289 13.6% ments or business units. 2010 281 14.2% 2009 182 11.9% Statement of financial position and financial condition 0 100 200 300 400 Statement of financial position • Reduction in total assets, mainly due to a decrease in working EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals segment capital and impairment charges in the Performance Polymers receded by €50 million, or 17.8%, from the prior year to €231 miland Performance Chemicals segments lion. This decline was attributable above all to increased production • Equity ratio below prior year, primarily due to net loss costs and slightly higher raw material prices alongside decreasing • Net financial liabilities above prior year at €1,731 million volumes and lower selling prices. A small portfolio effect was more than offset by adverse exchange rate movements. The EBITDA margin Structure of the Statement of Financial Position pre exceptionals receded from 12.8% to 10.8%. Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Change € million % € million % % The segment recorded exceptional items of €85 million in the reportAssets ing year, €35 million of which did not impact EBITDA. They were Non-current assets 3,747 49.8 3,592 52.7 (4.1) mostly accounted for by impairment charges recognized by the RubCurrent assets 3,772 50.2 3,219 47.3 (14.7) ber Chemicals business unit. The exceptional charges that impacted Total assets 7,519 100.0 6,811 100.0 (9.4) EBITDA related especially to measures associated with the Advance Equity and program. ­liabilities Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,330 31.0 1,900 27.9 (18.5) Reconciliation Non-current ­liabilities 3,559 47.3 3,029 44.5 (14.9) Current liabilities 1,630 21.7 1,882 27.6 15.5 Overview of Key Data Total equity € million 2012 2013 Change % and liabilities 7,519 100.0 6,811 100.0 (9.4) Sales 41 35 (14.6) 2012 figures restated EBITDA pre ­exceptionals (180) (171) 5.0 EBITDA (197) (216) (9.6) Operating result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals (195) (195) 0.0 Operating result (EBIT) (212) (240) (13.2) Cash outflows for capital expenditures 35 32 (8.6) Depreciation and amortization 15 24 60.0 Employees as of Dec. 31 2,957 3,273 10.7 2012 figures restated 80 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Structure of the statement of financial position Total assets of the to €12 million. This change resulted mainly from the net-asset driven ­LANXESS Group amounted to €6,811 million as of December 31, adjustment to the carrying amount of the interest in Currenta GmbH & 2013, a decrease of €708 million, or 9.4%, on the prior-year figure. Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and to the change in the accounting This was primarily due to the decline in near-cash assets, the reducfor L ­ ANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, tion of working capital and write-downs. The latter mainly impacted China, in the consolidated financial statements. By contrast, the decline the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber in investments in other affiliated companies was mostly influenced Chemicals business units. The sum of depreciation, amortization and by the fair-value remeasurement of the strategic minority interest in write-downs exceeded capital expenditures for property, plant and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, in light of that company’s equipment. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets increased recent share performance. At €55 million, other non-current financial from 49.8% to 52.7%. On the equity and liabilities side, equity deassets were substantially below the prior-year level, primarily due to creased due to negative currency translation adjustments in other the decrease in receivables associated with pension obligations. The equity components and to the net loss recorded. At the end of 2013, ratio of non-current assets to total assets was 52.7%, up from 49.8% the equity ratio was 27.9%, after 31.0% in the previous year. on December 31, 2012. Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets Current assets decreased by €553 million, or 14.7%, against the € million prior-year value of €3,772 million, to €3,219 million. The ratio of current assets to total assets declined to 47.3% from 50.2% in the 7,519 6,811 previous year. On account of lower raw material prices and targeted Other current assets 331 797 inventory reductions, also supported by exchange rate development, Cash and cash equivalents 317 2,644 533 inventories decreased by €228 million, or 14.9%, to €1,299 million. 2,369 Days of sales in inventories (DSI) improved from 64.7 to 58.0. Trade Inventories and receivables receivables decreased by €47 million to €1,070 million against the Other non-current assets 363 previous year, mainly due to negative currency effects. Days of sales 366 3,384 3,226 outstanding (DSO) were virtually unchanged at 47.8. Minimal portfolio Intangible assets and property, effects from the acquisitions made during the reporting year had no plant and equipment significant influence on net working capital. Near-cash assets decreased by €305 million to €106 million following the sale of shares 2012 2013 in money market funds. Cash and cash equivalents rose by €41 million compared to the end of 2012, to €427 million. This development was also influenced by the sale of money market paper. Non-current assets fell by €155 million, or 4.1%, to €3,592 million. Additions from capital expenditures for intangible assets and propThe ­LANXESS Group has significant internally generated intangible erty, plant and equipment totaled €676 million, against the prior-year assets that are not reflected in the statement of financial position due to ­figure of €734 million. They were offset primarily by depreciation and accounting rules. These include the brand equity of L ­ ANXESS and the amortization of €438 million, against €374 million in the previous value of other brands of the Group. A variety of measures was deployed year, and by write-downs on intangible assets and property, plant in the reporting period to continually enhance these assets, which and equipment of €279 million, against €4 million in 2012. Cash helped us to maintain our business units’ sound market positions. outflows for purchases of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets, at €624 million, were below the prior-year figure of €696 milOur established relationships with customers and suppliers also conlion on account of our stringent ­project prioritization. The first-time full stitute a significant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based consolidation of L ­ ANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., partnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent Ltd., Nantong, China, previously accounted for as an associate, and service quality, have made it possible for us to compete successthe first-time consolidation of PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., fully – also in a more challenging business environment. Our specific Singapore, which was acquired in April 2013, led to additions in the competence in technology and innovation, also a valuable asset, is mid-double-digit million euro range. The carrying amount of investrooted in our expertise in the areas of research and development ments accounted for using the equity method increased by €4 million and custom manufacturing. It enables us to generate added value for our customers. Combined Management Report – Economic Report 81 Statement of financial position and financial condition The know-how and experience of our employees are central pillars of Non-current liabilities decreased by €530 million to €3,029 million our corporate success. In addition, we have sophisticated production as of December 31, 2013. This resulted mainly from the other nonand business processes that create competitive advantages for us in current financial liabilities, which were €518 million lower than the the relevant markets. previous year at €1,649 million. The decrease was largely due to the reclassification into other current financial liabilities of the €500 million Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities Eurobond maturing in April 2014. By contrast, provisions for pensions € million and other post-employment benefits increased by €50 million as against the end of 2012, to €943 million. This increase mainly related 7,519 6,811 to the Advance program and additional vested rights established in the 658 reporting period. Other long-term provisions decreased by a similar Other current liabilities 972 502 1,380 magnitude for reasons that include a decline in long-term personnel1,388 Current financial liabilities related commitments. The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets 1,368 was 44.5%, slightly down from 47.3% at the end of 2012. Other non-current liabilities 2,171 1,661 Non-current financial liabilities Current liabilities increased by a substantial €252 million, or 15.5%, 2,330 to €1,882 million against December 31, 2012. This was largely the 1,900 Equity result of the aforementioned reclassification into other current financial liabilities of the €500 million Eurobond. At €690 million, trade 2012 2013 payables were down substantially on the €795 million reported at 2012 figures restated the end of 2012 due to a slight decrease in purchasing volumes and lower prices for our strategic raw materials. The increase in current liabilities was also curtailed by the decrease in other current provisions, Equity, including non-controlling interests, amounted to €1,900 milprimarily due to their utilization for bonus payments to employees for lion, down from €2,330 million in the previous year. The equity ratio fiscal 2012 and to lower allocations in the reporting year. The ratio of was 27.9% after 31.0% at the end of 2012. Prominent factors in current liabilities to total assets was 27.6% at December 31, 2013, the equity decrease were negative currency translation adjustments compared with 21.7% at the end of 2012. in other equity components and the net loss recorded. The dividend payout of €83 million to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders in May 2013 Net financial liabilities increased by €248 million from the previous also had an effect. year to €1,731 million. Cash outflows for capital expenditures, interest and dividends exceeded cash inflows from operating activities. The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios % 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 28.5 31.1 30.2 31.0 27.9 Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 47.0 48.3 50.7 49.8 52.7 Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 60.7 64.3 59.4 62.2 52.9 Asset coverage II Equity1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 165.8 153.9 137.3 157.2 137.2 Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 30.9 37.2 43.5 31.4 38.3 1) Including non-controlling interests 82 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Capital expenditures In 2013, capital expenditures for property, plant Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised and equipment and intangible assets came to €676 million, comour investments to increase capacities and modernize facilities in pared with €734 million the year before, and led to cash outflows of all segments, especially capacity improvements for the Advanced €624 million (2012: €696 million). Depreciation and amortization Industrial Intermediates business unit and the expansion of several totaled €717 million in the same period (2012: €378 million). This plants for the High Performance Elastomers business unit. The configure included €270 million in write-downs reported as exceptional tinued large share of capital expenditures made in the Asia-Pacific items (2012: €2 million). Adjusted for these write-downs, capital region in the reporting year is due primarily to the construction of ­expenditures in support of our growth strategy exceeded depreciaa new production plant for high-performance neodymium-based tion and amortization by a substantial 51% (2012: 95%). performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) for the Performance Buta­ diene Rubbers business unit in Singapore and the construction of Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization a new production plant for EPDM rubber for the Keltan Elastomers € million business unit in Changzou, China. 2013 624 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 717 € million 2012 696 378 385 96 111 32 2011 679 2013 624 325 2010 501 434 92 135 35 283 2009 2012 696 275 273 Performance Polymers 0 200 400 600 800 Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals Cash outflows for capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization Reconciliation In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures amountareas: ed to €405 million (2012: €455 million), €385 million (2012: €434 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amor• construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance tization amounted to €489 million (2012: €209 million). The major of existing facilities; capital expenditures in this segment were made in the Performance • measures to increase plant availability; Butadiene Rubbers business unit. Capital expenditures in the Ad• projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply vanced Intermediates segment amounted to €113 million (2012: with environmental protection requirements. €104 million). Cash outflows came to €96 million (2012: €92 million), exceeding the depreciation and amortization of €77 million Less than two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2013 went toward (2012: €67 million). This figure includes capital expenditures in the expansion or efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit for expansion of the to maintain existing facilities. This underlines our goal of generatcresol plant in Leverkusen, Germany. In the Performance Chemiing further organic growth through investment, as described under cals segment, capital expenditures came to €117 million (2012: “Earnings strategy” in the “Strategy” section of this combined man€139 million), €111 million (2012: €135 million) of which were agement report. cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization stood at €127 million (2012: €87 million). Key capital expenditures were the construcIn regional terms, 34% of our capital expenditures in the reporting tion of a new CO2 concentration unit in Newcastle, South Africa, for period were made in Germany, 20% in the EMEA region (excluding the Leather business unit and the construction of a state-of-the-art Germany), 7% in North America, 7% in Latin America and 32% in plant for iron oxide red pigments in Ningbo, China, for the Inorganic Pigments business unit. Combined Management Report – Economic Report 83 Statement of financial position and financial condition The following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the ­LANXESS Group. Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2013 Segment Site Description Performance Polymers Butyl Rubber Singapore Construction of a new butyl rubber plant, start-up in the first quarter of 2013 Performance Butadiene Rubbers Singapore Construction of a new butadiene rubber plant, start-up in the first half of 2015 High Performance Elastomers Dormagen, Germany Expansion of production capacities for chloroprene rubbers Keltan Elastomers Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Investment to convert EPDM rubber production to the innovative Keltan® ACE™ technology, completion in 2013 Keltan Elastomers Changzhou, China Construction of an EPDM rubber plant, start-up in 2015 High Performance Materials Porto Feliz, Brazil Construction of a new compounding plant for high-tech plastics, completion in 2014 High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Expansion of glass fiber capacities High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Construction of a new polyamide plastics plant, completion in 2014 Advanced Intermediates Advanced Industrial Intermediates Leverkusen, Germany Expansion of cresol production, completion mid-2013 Performance Chemicals Rhein Chemie Porto Feliz, Brazil Construction of a plant for high-performance curing bladders, start-up in 2013 Rhein Chemie Lipetsk, Russia Construction of a new plant for rubber additives and release agents, start-up in 2013 Liquid Purification Technologies Leverkusen, Germany Construction of a production line for weakly acidic cation exchange resins, completion mid-2014 Inorganic Pigments Ningbo, China Construction of a state-of-the-art production facility for iron oxide red pigments Leather Changzhou, China Construction of a new plant for leather chemicals, start-up in April 2013 Leather Newcastle, South Africa Construction of a CO2 concentration unit, start-up in the fourth quarter of 2013 Expansion of the Group portfolio Please see “Additions to the Group The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash and cash portfolio” in this combined management report for more information equivalents by type of business operation. on the subsidiaries and affiliates added to our portfolio in fiscal 2013. Cash Flow Statement € million 2012 2013 Change Financial condition Income before income taxes 660 (239) (899) Depreciation and amortization 378 717 339 • Business-related decline in operating cash flow to below Other items (82) 53 135 prior-year level Net cash provided by ­ operating activities before • Inflow from reduction in cash tied up in working capital change in working capital 956 531 (425) due to lower inventories Change in working capital (118) 110 228 • Cash used for investing activities reflects extensive capital Net cash provided by expenditures for growth projects operating activities 838 641 (197) Net cash used in • Liquidity position remains sound investing activities (674) (342) 332 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 46 (260) (306) Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 210 39 (171) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 386 427 41 2012 figures restated 84 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in working Net cash used in financing activities came to €260 million, against a capital, decreased by €425 million to €531 million in fiscal 2013. net inflow of €46 million the year before. Cash outflows of €58 milThis was mainly due to the €899 million decrease in income before lion were attributable to the net repayment of borrowings. Interest income taxes to minus €239 million. Due to the expanded asset base, payments and other financial disbursements of €119 million were resulting from our extensive investment activities in recent years, and comparable with the previous year’s amount of €123 million. An write-downs recognized especially in the Keltan Elastomers, High outflow of €83 million was accounted for by the dividend paid to the Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals business units, deprestockholders of ­LANXESS AG for fiscal 2012 (2012: €71 million). ciation and amortization increased from €378 million to €717 million. The other items in 2012 included payments that had to be made to The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities counterparties under roll-over hedges for intra-Group foreign currency in fiscal 2013 was €39 million, against €210 million the previous loans due to the marked decrease in the value of the euro. These year. After taking into account currency-related and other changes in payments did not affect earnings. cash and cash equivalents of €2 million, cash and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to €427 million, against €386 million The decrease in working capital compared to December 31, 2012 at the previous year’s closing date. Taken together with near-cash asresulted in a cash inflow of €110 million. The outflow from the change sets (short-term investment of liquid assets in money market funds) in working capital in 2012 was €118 million. The development during of €106 million, against €411 million the previous year, the Group the reporting period was mainly attributable to changes in inventories retained a sound liquidity position of €533 million as of December 31, resulting from lower raw material prices and the specific reduction of 2013, compared to €797 million at the end of 2012. inventories. This was offset in part by a decrease in trade payables. The net cash provided by operating activities was €641 million, against Principles and objectives of financial management ­LANXESS pursues €838 million in 2012. a conservative financial policy characterized by the forward-looking management of financial risks. Our aim is to be able to provide sufLANXESS’s investing activities in fiscal 2013 resulted in a cash outflow ficient liquidity to our business operations at all times, regardless of of €342 million, down from €674 million in the previous year. Disbursecyclical fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The debt ments for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment came to level is largely aligned to the ratio systems of the leading rating agen€624 million, which was below the prior-year level of €696 million. The cies for investment-grade companies. Measured as the ratio of net cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, financial debt to EBITDA pre exceptionals, the debt level should stay net of acquired cash and cash equivalents and subsequent purchase within a range of 1.0 to 1.5 through a normal business cycle. In addiprice adjustments, amounted to €15 million, against €44 million tion to liquidity risk, financial management also covers other financial the previous year. The acquisitions made in the reporting year were risks, such as interest and foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd.. Singapore, and the phosphorus mitigate the financial risks that arise and increase planning reliability, chemicals portfolio of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France. partly by using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information Cash inflows from financial assets came to €290 million and mainly about the management of these risks is contained in the “Risk report” comprised the proceeds from the sale of shares in money market funds. in this combined management report and under Note [35], “Financial These were diminished by a cash outflow to offset the loss reported instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements. by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from operatrelations with German and international commercial banks are essening activities and the cash used in investing activities – increased by tial for achieving our financial management objectives. Accordingly, €135 million to €299 million. ongoing dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agencies are of crucial importance. In fiscal 2013, the latter assessed ­LANXESS’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB and Baa2, but with a negative outlook. Justifying this change in outlook, the rating agencies cited factors such as the currently weaker financial data and the uncertainty as to how soon these can be brought back into line with their specifications. Combined Management Report – Economic Report 85 Statement of financial position and financial condition Development of ­LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Standard & Poor’s BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/negative May 28, 2009 Sep. 1, 2010 Aug. 23, 2011 Aug. 31, 2012 June 27, 2013 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/negative May 26, 2009 May 19, 2010 Nov. 23, 2011 Sep. 26, 2012 Aug. 14, 2013 Fitch Ratings BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/negative July 20, 2009 Dec. 17, 2010 Nov. 22, 2011 Sep. 13, 2012 Aug. 15, 2013 Financing analysis LANXESS started fiscal 2013 with a very sound We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as financial and liquidity position. financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2013, the financial liabilities from finance leases amounted to Over the course of 2013, we made no significant changes to our €49 million, against €78 million in the previous year. The L ­ ANXESS financial portfolio, which we had already substantially improved in fiscal Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and not as 2012. These improvements included the timely creation of financial a means of financing. Minimum future payments relating to operating reserves for redemption of the €500 million bond that matures in April leases totaled €492 million, against €496 million the previous year. 2014. We funded our growth program from business operations and using existing liquidity and credit lines. As of December 31, 2013, ­LANXESS had no material financing items not reported in the statement of financial position in the form LANXESS launched a €2.5 billion debt issuance program in March of factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. 2009. On this basis and aligned with the prevailing market conditions, bonds can be placed on the capital market very flexibly with respect to LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, declined timing and volume. As of December 31, 2013, just under €2.0 billion from €2,280 million in 2012 to €2,264 million at December 31, of the €2.5 billion financing facility had been utilized to issue bonds and 2013. Net financial liabilities – the total financial liabilities net of cash private placements. Utilization will be correspondingly reduced after and near-cash assets – rose by €248 million, from €1,483 million to redemption of our €500 million bond when it matures in April 2014. €1,731 million. Capital market financing is an important component in ­LANXESS’s financing mix and ensures the diversification of our financing sources. Of the total financial liabilities, 98% bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which is almost level with the previous Current financial liabilities increased from €167 million in 2012 to year. ­Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect €668 million at December 31, 2013. This increase was primarily due on ­LANXESS’s financial condition considering the current financing to the reclassification from non-current into current financial liabilities structure. The proportion of loans and bonds denominated in euros of the €500 million bond which matures in April 2014. averaged 96% in the reporting year, which was level with the prior year. The weighted average interest rate for our financial liabilities was unchanged at 4.8% at year end 2013. The overview on the following page shows ­LANXESS’s financing structure as of December 31, 2013 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves. 86 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Financing Structure Liquidity analysis In addition to cash of €427 million and investments Instrument Amount Term Interest Financial in highly liquid AAA money market funds of €106 million, ­LANXESS € ­million rate covenant 1) has additional sizeable liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn credit % facilities. The investments in money market funds are undertaken only Eurobond 2009/2014 April at European Group companies that are not subject to restrictions on (€500 million) 500 2014 7.750 no Eurobond 2009/2016 September foreign exchange and capital transfers. We can therefore freely dispose (€200 million) 199 2016 5.500 no of the funds. Around 90% of our cash is held in Group companies in Eurobond 2011/2018 May countries with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. (€500 million) 497 2018 4.125 no Eurobond 2012/2022 November Only about 10% of our cash is held in companies in regulated capital (€500 million) 493 2022 2.625 no markets where cash transfers are restricted. Private placement 2012/2022 April (€100 million) 100 2022 3.500 no Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was assured at all Private placement times in fiscal 2013. This is an aspect that was assessed positively 2012/2027 April (€100 million) 99 2027 3.950 no by the rating agencies in their credit ratings in 2013. CNH bond 2012/2015 February (CNH 500 million) 60 2015 3.950 no By far the most important of ­LANXESS’s credit lines is the syndicated Investment loan December 55 2017 no credit facility of €1.25 billion, which has not been significantly drawn Development bank loan September upon to date. In February 2014, we extended this facility by one year 109 2018 no until February 2019, with the option to extend for a further year. This Other loans 103 n/a no credit facility is designed as an operating line of credit and to provide Finance lease 49 n/a no funds for capital investment. It corresponds to market requirements in Total financial ­liabilities 2,264 the European syndicated loan market for investment-grade companies Cash and with a BBB rating. Another important credit line is the €200 million cash equivalents 427 ≤ 3 months facility we have with the European Investment Bank. None of our major Near-cash assets 106 ≤ 3 months Total liquidity loan agreements contains a financial covenant. ­LANXESS had unused 533 Net financial liabilities 1,731 credit lines totaling around €1.5 billion as of December 31, 2013, 1) Ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals unchanged against the end of the previous year. The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidity Due to extensive financing measures taken in past fiscal years, we have scope of around €2.0 billion, compared to €2.3 billion in the prior continually improved the maturity structure of our financial liabilities. At year. In view of our growth targets and the prevailing economic envithe time this combined management report was finalized, ­LANXESS ronment, this liquidity reserve is an expression of our forward-looking was not exposed to any refinancing risks as it had taken early action and conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the to refinance those financial liabilities that are due to mature. The other short and long term. loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities by subsidiaries in Brazil, China, India and Argentina, some of which mature in 2014 Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2013 An important and are extended on a regular, e.g. annual, basis. indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific to the issuer in comparison to Maturity Profile of ­LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2013 a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is expressed in what € million 800 is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher default risk associated with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds generally feature a wider 700 credit spread. This, and factors such as liquidity and trading volume, 600 also apply to the various ­LANXESS bonds. The chart below shows the 500 evolution of the credit spreads of our bonds and the average credit 400 spread of corporate bonds with a BBB rating and a five-year maturity 300 in comparison to the interest rate swap curve. 200 100 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 after 2018 800,000000 666,666667 533,333333 400,000000 300 200 Combined Management Report – Economic Report 87 Statement of financial position and financial condition | Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year 100 0 01.01.2008 31.12.2008 ­LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index p ­ rogram and impairment charges in the Performance Polymers and Basis points Performance Chemicals segments had a negative impact on net income and drove earnings per share substantially below the prior-year 150 150 value. 120 120 We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy. In accor90 dance 90 with the consistency principle, we essentially applied the same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in the 60 60 previous year. Our equity ratio stood at 27.9%. Total assets decreased 30 mainly due to the decline in near-cash assets, the reduction of working 30 capital and write-downs. For further information about the write-downs, 0 please 0 see the explanations under “Estimation un­certainties and exerJan. 1, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 cise of discretion” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements ­LANXESS Eurobond 2014 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2022 as of December 31, 2013. ­LANXESS Eurobond 2016 BBB Corporates, 5 years ­LANXESS Eurobond 2018 Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total financial liabilities, The credit risk premiums on corporate bonds were less volatile in 2013 some 98% bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, and declined year on year, reflecting the overall positive situation on which is comparable to the previous year. Interest rate changes do not Europe’s capital markets. have a material effect on the ­LANXESS Group’s financial condition considering the current financing structure. Our financial liabilities are The credit risk premiums on ­LANXESS bonds moved laterally throughfree of financial covenants. out much of the fiscal year, putting them below or on the same level as those for the BBB-rated reference group. The development of our Net financial liabilities are above the prior-year level at €1,731 million credit spreads underscores the fact that we have good access to the and, combined with the weaker earnings performance, result in a net capital market at costs lower than or similar to those of other BBBdebt ratio of 2.4, which is outside the target range of 1.0 to 1.5 for a rated companies. normal business cycle. In fiscal 2013, the rating agencies reconfirmed the ­LANXESS Group’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB and Baa2. However, in light of the company’s currently weaker financial data, the Management’s summary of business development outlook has been changed to negative. and the fiscal year We made appropriate corrections to our assets affected by the risks Business development in 2013 was unfavorable and largely characterassociated with the changed competitive situation resulting from ized by declining raw material prices, especially for our key raw material growing capacities, lower selling prices and less favorable prices for butadiene, and the resulting adjustment of selling prices. In all regions, raw materials and energy, especially compared to competitors with sales were below the prior-year level, although to a differing degree. access to less expensive shale gas. Despite the outflow of liquid and near-cash assets in fiscal 2013, we believe that our company’s busiOverall, sales were down 8.7% compared to the previous year. Adjusted ness situation remains positive on account of its balanced financing for currency and portfolio effects, operational sales decreased by position in the long term and the intactness of the megatrends in the 6.9%, which impacted the Performance Polymers segment especially medium term. in nearly all regions. The Advanced Intermediates segment benefited from predominantly solid demand in the agrochemicals area, while coatings trended downward. In the Performance Chemicals segment in particular, business performance was hampered by exchange rate movements. EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2013 came in at €735 million, almost 40% below the prior-year level. The EBITDA margin declined to 8.9% from 13.4% in 2012. Exceptional charges relating to the Advance 88 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview € million 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Earnings performance Sales 5,057 7,120 8,775 9,094 8,300 EBITDA pre exceptionals 465 918 1,146 1,223 735 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 9.2% 12.9% 13.1% 13.4% 8.9% EBITDA 422 890 1,101 1,186 624 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 204 635 826 847 288 Operating result (EBIT) 149 607 776 808 (93) EBIT margin 2.9% 8.5% 8.8% 8.9% (1.1)% Net income (loss) 40 379 506 508 (159) Earnings per share (€) 0.48 4.56 6.08 6.11 (1.91) Liquidity Cash flow from operating activities 565 430 672 838 641 Depreciation and amortization 273 283 325 378 717 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 275 501 679 696 624 Net financial liabilities 794 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 Assets and liabilities Total assets 5,068 5,666 6,878 7,519 6,811 Non-current assets 2,382 2,738 3,489 3,747 3,592 Current assets 2,686 2,928 3,389 3,772 3,219 Net working capital 1,096 1,372 1,766 1,849 1,679 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,445 1,761 2,074 2,330 1,900 Pension provisions 569 605 679 893 943 Indicators ROCE 5.9% 17.0% 17.2% 15.6% 5.8% Equity ratio 28.5% 31.1% 30.2% 31.0% 27.9% Non-current asset ratio 47.0 48.3 50.7 49.8 52.7 Asset coverage I 60.7 64.3 59.4 62.2 52.9 Net working capital/sales 21.7% 19.3% 20.1% 20.3% 20.2% Employees (as of December 31) 14,338 14,648 16,390 17,177 17,343 2012 figures restated Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG cation with the company’s key stakeholders. The economic performance of ­LANXESS AG depends principally on that of the operating LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding company companies in the ­LANXESS Group and on the development of the for the L ­ ANXESS Group. The principal management functions for chemical industry. the entire Group are performed by the Board of Management. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource The financial statements of ­LANXESS AG are prepared in accordance allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock company, ­LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and communiCorporation Act (AktG). Combined Management Report – Economic Report 89 Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year | Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG Sales and earnings of ­LANXESS AG The financial result, which comprises the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net interest position, and LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance with the other financial income and expense, decreased by €134 million, or German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged 65.7%, to €70 million. This change was primarily due to the profit € million 2012 2013 Change % transfer of €169 million from L ­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which Sales 5 4 (20.0) was €114 million lower than in the previous year. The €14 million Cost of sales (5) (4) (20.0) increase in net interest expense to €85 million had an adverse effect Gross profit 0 0 0.0 and was mainly attributable to additional borrowings by subsidiaries. General administration expenses (44) (39) (11.4) Income before income taxes came to €31 million, following €158 milOther operating income 1 2 100.0 Other operating expenses (3) (2) (33.3) lion in the previous year. A net gain from income taxes of €4 million Operating result (46) (39) (15.2) comprised €3 million in tax expenses for 2013 and a tax gain of €7 million for the previous years. Net income decreased by €69 milIncome from investments lion to €35 million. in affiliated companies 283 169 (40.3) Net interest expense (71) (85) 19.7 Other financial income Taking into account the profit carryforward of €13 million, the distribut­ and expenses – net (8) (14) 75.0 able profit decreased to €48 million as of December 31, 2013. Financial result 204 70 (65.7) Income before income taxes 158 31 (80.4) Asset and capital structure of ­LANXESS AG Income taxes (54) 4 < (100) Net income 104 35 (66.3) LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged Carryforward to new account 44 13 (70.5) Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Change Allocation to retained earnings (52) 0 (100.0) € million % € million % % Distributable profit 96 48 (50.0) Assets Financial assets 757 22.3 757 23.5 0.0 The earnings of ­LANXESS AG are determined largely by profit or loss Non-current assets 757 22.3 757 23.5 0.0 transfers from ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and ­LANXESS InternaReceivables from affiliated companies 1,850 54.6 1,967 61.1 6.3 tional Holding GmbH, which hold the shares of the other subsidiaries Other assets 39 1.2 25 0.7 (35.9) and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. Liquid assets and securities 734 21.7 467 14.5 (36.4) Current assets 2,623 77.5 2,459 76.3 (6.3) Sales of ­LANXESS AG stood at €4 million, which was slightly lower Prepaid expenses 6 0.2 5 0.2 (16.7) than the prior-year level of €5 million. They related to services provided Total assets 3,386 100.0 3,221 100.0 (4.9) to L­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after Equity and deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel exLiabilities penses and appropriate shares of the general administration expenses. Equity 1,219 36.0 1,171 36.4 (3.9) Provisions 117 3.4 101 3.1 (13.7) General administration expenses decreased against the previous year, Liabilities to banks 68 2.0 59 1.8 (13.2) Payables to affiliated down €5 million, or 11.4%, to €39 million. They principally comprised companies 1,973 58.3 1,886 58.6 (4.4) personnel and other business expenses not directly related to the Other liabilities 9 0.3 4 0.1 (55.6) services provided to Group companies. The operating result improved Liabilities 2,050 60.6 1,949 60.5 (4.9) by €7 million to minus €39 million. Total assets 3,386 100.0 3,221 100.0 (4.9) 90 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the statement In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees of financial position of ­LANXESS AG is dominated by financial assets as of December 31, 2013 was 3,444, up from 3,442 in the previand by receivables from, and payables to, subsidiaries. ous year. In Germany, the headcount grew from 8,072 to 8,117. The number of employees in the North America region fell to 1,526, LANXESS AG had total assets of €3,221 million as of December 31, from 1,553 as of December 31, 2012, while Latin America saw its 2013, which was €165 million, or 4.9%, below the prior-year figure. workforce shrink from 1,626 at the end of last year, to 1,560. At Non-current assets were constant at €757 million and primarily includthe reporting date, we employed 2,696 people in the Asia-Pacific ed the carrying amount of the investment in ­LANXESS Deutschland region, which is 212 more than a year ago. GmbH, which stands at €739 million. The share of non-current assets in total assets increased from 22.3% to 23.5%. Current assets declined Personnel expenses totaled €1,339 million in fiscal 2013 (2012: by €164 million to €2,459 million and accounted for 76.3% of total €1,392 million). Wages and salaries, at €1,006 million (2012: assets, compared with 77.5% in 2012. Receivables from subsidiaries €1,097 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social accounted for 61.1% of total assets and related principally to financial security contributions were €194 million (2012: €193 million), while transactions and short-term loans. The share of bank balances and pension plan expenses totaled €128 million (2012: €92 million), and securities in total assets decreased from 21.7% to 14.5%. social assistance benefits came to €11 million (2012: €10 million). Equity decreased by €48 million to €1,171 million due to the dividend Employees by Region payout for 2012, which was higher than net income for the reporting % period. The equity ratio was 36.4%, after 36.0% at the end of 2012. 15.5 19.9 Liabilities decreased by €101 million to €1,949 million, largely on Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) account of payables to subsidiaries, which were €87 million lower than 9.0 the previous year at €1,886 million. The provisions fell by €16 million Latin America to €101 million and related mainly to commitments to employees and statutory obligations. 8.8 North America 46.8 Employees Germany As of December 31, 2013, the LANXESS Group had a total of 17,343 employees, against 17,177 at the closing date of the prior year. This represented a slight year-on-year increase of 166 worldEmployees by Segment wide, resulting from longer-term growth and investment projects. % Headcount was slightly higher during 2013 but toward the end of the year was impacted by Advance, our extensive efficiency and 18.9 31.0 restructuring program that is expected to lead to headcount reducOther Performance Polymers tions of 1,000 employees worldwide by 2015. 14,139, or 81.5%, of our employees were men and 3,204, or 18.5%, were women. The number of employees who were non-German nationals was 9,639. In addition, we had 819 employees worldwide working on temporary employment contracts. LANXESS AG had 144 employees as of the reporting date, versus 141 the year before. 33.7 16.4 Performance Chemicals Advanced Intermediates Part-time employees accounted for 7.6% of the workforce at our German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals with severe disabilities made up 5.4% of the workforce at our German companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to work centers for the disabled. Combined Management Report – Economic Report 91 Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG | Employees Employees by Functional Area (Annual Average) and have made this the focus of our Board of Management’s Diversity % & Inclusion initiative. As part of this initiative, we have set a clear goal for the company: to voluntarily increase the proportion of women in 5.2 Research middle and upper management to 20% by 2020. The figure cur71.5 Production rently stands at around 15.1%. We continually develop new tools 11.4 Administration for positioning LANXESS as an employer brand that enables us to recruit, integrate and retain talented young people and experienced 11.9 professionals for the company worldwide. We involve our existing Marketing employees at numerous internal and external events to provide an authentic picture of LANXESS as an employer. Working together with our specialist departments, we have systematically expanded our network of contacts and built alliances with research institutes, colleges and universities, and student initiatives worldwide. This includes the “Germany Scholarship” program, a German government initiative. In the year under review, we again funded scholarships for a total of 50 students at eight universities. Working conditions and HR policy Our management training programs focus on a holistic leadership apOur entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on the perforproach. These programs and ILSA, our global sales academy, support mance, implementation skills and commitment of our employees. the sustainable growth of our company worldwide by enhancing our Only through their ongoing training and development – especially organization’s productivity and openness to change. with regard to change and innovation – can we safeguard our ability to pursue our corporate goals and further enhance LANXESS’s competiA key pillar of our HR policy is close cooperation between employee tiveness in the long term, even in a challenging business environment. representatives and management, including trade unions and employBy actively exercising social responsibility, providing attractive jobs in ers’ associations, in line with the principle of active codetermination. an international environment, offering performance-based, marketWorldwide, 68% of our employees are covered by the terms of colrate compensation, and promoting a culture that inspires diversity, lective agreements; in Germany, this figure is nearly 90%. leadership and openness to change, we give our employees access to career development opportunities, also outside their home countries. We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our In fiscal 2013, several national and international awards underscored corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change the success of our HR policy. For the first time, we took top place in processes at an early stage. In Germany, the minimum notice period the annual sentiment survey conducted by the VAA (Association of for any substantial operational changes is four weeks. Academic and Managerial Employees in the German Chemical Industry). In China, the CRF Institute named us China’s Top Employer for the third time, after honoring us in 2009 and 2011. Employee compensation and benefits A major focus of our HR activities in the year under review was on idenWe strive for a merit-based compensation system that reflects both tifying internal and external drivers of change for which we could define our company’s success and employees’ individual performance. strategically coherent responses for global application throughout the Compensation systems that include variable compensation compoorganization. The areas of activity include quality management, leadernents in addition to fixed compensation have been implemented for ship and dialogue, diversity and inclusion, organizational consulting 88% of our employees. Our managers are able to reward outstanding and change management. employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically. In fiscal 2013, this resulted in payments of €9.1 million worldwide for outstanding In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for individual performance. addressing the challenges resulting from demographic change, our top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate a range of talented employees for LANXESS. We aim to strengthen our diversity, particularly in terms of age, national origin and gender, 92 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 We again offered an employee stock plan in 2013. All LANXESS 34 women) began their vocational training with LANXESS. A further Group employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy 18 young people have chosen our five combined vocational training LANXESS shares at a 50% discount. The shares were purchased at and study programs. In 2013, we gave permanent and temporary an average price of €44.59 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The positions to almost 80% of those who completed their training with participation rate was 76%. At the reporting date, our employees us in Germany. and Board of Management members held around 1% of LANXESS shares through stock plans. Each year, under the motto “Prepare for the Future,” our LANXESS international corporate trainee program attracts highly skilled university For the period 2010 to 2013, a new long-term compensation comgraduates. Our aim is to prepare the participants for an international ponent was introduced for the Board of Management and other career within the LANXESS Group and establish a global pool of young senior managers to replace LANXESS’s Long-Term Incentive Plan managers with international experience. In fiscal 2013, the focus was (LTIP). The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013 (LTSP) on controlling, finance and engineering. Since the initiative started, comprises four tranches, each lasting four years. The plan compares we have offered a wide range of entry-level trainee positions to 67 the performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX university graduates with an interest in embarking on an international 600 ChemicalsSM Index over a period of four years. The participation career. We also offer local trainee programs in various countries such rate is 89%. as Brazil, China, India and the United States. Vocational training Employee development LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a We assign great importance to motivating employees throughout their means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of entire career to undertake continuing professional development and our social responsibility. In 2013, we once again strengthened the accept new challenges within the Group regardless of their age. To marketing activities for our vocational training programs using a range promote the talents of individual employees, LANXESS has established of media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools. a systematic, multi-tiered process of global HR development conferThrough events of our own such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Apprentice), ences where future managerial employees from around the world are we address young people with an interest in our company and give regularly evaluated with regard to their performance and potential. them valuable guidance for their later career choices. We again took part in Girls’ Day in 2013. In addition, our one-year orientation program The LANXESS Academy continued offering special modular and XOnce provides young people with useful guidance on their way to multi-dimensional programs to prepare trainee managers for their subsequent vocational training if they are not ready to take this route future tasks. In the period under review, 188 employees – 43 of them at the current time. women – took part in these corporate programs. As part of our Advance efficiency program, we have consolidated the leadership seminars for In Germany, young people can opt to combine vocational training at our managers at various levels and introduced a novel form of training LANXESS with university studies, or they can complete a traditional which focuses on practical leadership skills and motivation for teams scientific, technical or commercial training program in our plants and undergoing change processes. departments. To ensure the long-term availability of skilled workers, we added a combined vocational training and study program in engineerIn 2013, we continued offering functional training in optimized form ing sciences during the reporting period. for our global sales employees through the LANXESS Academy. The International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) is a one-year modular Across Germany, 456 young people were being trained in 19 different program designed to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft career paths as of the December 31, 2013 reporting date. In the previskills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements the programs ous year, we trained 386 young people in 16 different career paths. already in place in the business units and countries by facilitating comWe provide solid training opportunities for significantly more young munication and the sharing of best practices across business units people than we need to meet our own requirements. At the start of and national borders. We consider the targeted qualification of our the new training year in fall 2013, 159 young people (125 men and global sales employees to be a significant success factor in the further improvement of our customer relationships. It also gives us a competitive edge in today’s global markets. To date, some 250 first-level sales employees from all over the world have participated in the program. Combined Management Report 93 Employees | Compensation report Occupational safety The compensation system that was introduced for members of the Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual StockholdThe lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for ers’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010. This compensation every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator used to system was applied when concluding the service contracts with all assess occupational safety within the LANXESS Group. In 2013, the Board of Management members. LTIFR was 3.2, compared with 3.4 in 2012. Our analyses have shown that the number of lost days per accident has decreased significantly, The components of the compensation for members of the Board of which indicates a decline in the severity of accidents. This can be attribManagement are the annual base salary; the variable components, uted to our employees’ raised awareness for occupational safety, which which are the Annual Performance Payment, the Long-Term Incentive was enhanced by our stronger focus on this issue throughout 2013. Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term Performance Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable components are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and, particularly, Idea management to its corporate success over a number of years. The compensation mix of 31% annual base salary and 69% variable compensation comWhen LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work proceponents, assuming 100% target attainment, is strongly aligned with dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management the company’s performance and long-term value creation. The pressystem fosters the development, processing and implementation of ent service contracts for members of the Board of Management set suggestions for improvements to ensure that we continually receive out the annual base salary and limits on the amounts for the variable proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety and compensation components. They do not provide for a separate limit environmental protection. In 2013, employees at LANXESS’s Geron total compensation, even taking into account a possible discreman companies submitted a total of 3,085 new suggestions, a rate tionary bonus. of 417 per thousand employees. In the same period, 1,306 ideas were implemented, yielding total savings of €2.4 million. As well as Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management cutting costs, 824 of these ideas led to improvements in occupational % safety and environmental protection. Annual base salary 31 Annual Performance Payment 35 Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 20 Long-Term Performance Bonus 14 Compensation report 100 Compensation of the Board of Management Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensabase salary and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly tion for the members of the Board of Management are determined of the tax value of perquisites such as the use of a company car. The by the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation annual base salary of the members of the Board of Management is is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriatemarket-oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable comness of the compensation for an individual Board of Management panies. The aggregate amount of the fixed compensation came to member include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, €3,124 thousand in fiscal 2013 (2012: €2,678 thousand). the economic situation, and the success and sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also given to compensation Variable compensation The annual performance-based component at comparable companies and the company’s overall compensation of the variable compensation, known as the Annual Performance structure, including as well the ratio between the compensation of Payment (APP), is based on corporate business targets and other the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior executives conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA targets, and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms of time. The which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning of compensation structure is also designed to be competitive in the interthe respective fiscal year. The APP is equivalent to 115% of the annual national market for highly qualified executives and provide the motivabase salary in the case of 100% target attainment, with the maximum tion to successfully work toward sustainable corporate development. payment limited to 200% of this variable compensation component. Compensation from the performance-based APP in 2013 totaled €1,653 thousand. Actual payments in 2014 may differ from this amount, which was calculated in advance. 94 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is another element of variable For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters compensation. This compensation component is based on the perforapplied, please see Note [14] to the consolidated financial statements. mance of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The LTIP responds to the call by legislators The fair values of the LTSP entitlements that already existed at the start for a stronger focus on long-term company performance. It is divided of 2013 declined significantly, which resulted in a net gain from shareinto three three-year tranches, with the first tranche having begun in based compensation in fiscal 2013 (2012: expense). Of this amount, 2008. Participation required a prior personal investment each year €385 thousand (2012: €1,726 thousand) relate to the entitlements in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary. The granted to Dr. Heitmann, €56 thousand (2012: €118 thousand) to shares are subject to a five-year lock-up period. First payments from Dr. Düttmann’s entitlements and €223 thousand (2012: €991 thouthe LTIP are made three years after the start of a tranche, provided sand) each to the entitlements for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel. defined conditions are satisfied. 100% target attainment brings a payment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income, which is the The LTPB, which is the third variable compensation component, is annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment. likewise aligned to long-term corporate performance. It rewards target attainment only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for calculatThe LTIP was succeeded effective fiscal 2010 by two other long-term ing the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the fiscal years variable compensation components: the Long-Term Stock Performance in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the average Plan (LTSP) and the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of 100%, the LTPB amounts to The LTSP is divided into four four-year tranches and is also based on 45% of the annual base salary. Rights worth €977 thousand (2012: the performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX €1,843 thousand) were earned under the performance-based LTPB 600 ChemicalsSM reference index. Compared to the previous LTIP, the in fiscal 2012 and 2013 (2012: 2011 and 2012). Actual payments possible payment per tranche under the new plan has been reduced in 2014 and 2015 may differ from this amount, which was calculated from 50% to 30% of the individual target income, assuming 100% in advance. target attainment. The condition for participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares to a value of 5% Retirement pensions On termination of their service contracts, the of the annual base salary. The shares are subject to an average fivemembers of the Board of Management receive benefits under the year lock-up period. company pension plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary reaches age 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work. They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s death. Compensation of the Board of Management € ’000 Fixed compensation Variable compensation Payments from LTSP rights Year Annual CompenPerforPayLTPB Total cash Number Fair Total base sation in mance ment for (multicompenof rights values compensalery kind bonus1) previous year)3) sation sation years2) 2013 1,000 130 615 4) 34 323 2,102 596,625 328 2,430 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 2012 900 119 1,798 320 703 3,840 564,375 282 4,122 2013 613 51 346 5) 0 218 1,228 322,500 177 1,405 Dr. Werner Breuers 2012 500 54 972 200 380 2,106 322,500 161 2,267 2013 613 57 346 5) 0 218 1,234 322,500 177 1,411 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann 2012 500 61 972 110 380 2,023 322,500 161 2,184 2013 613 47 346 5) 0 218 1,224 322,500 177 1,401 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2012 500 44 972 200 380 2,096 322,500 161 2,257 2013 2,839 285 1,653 34 977 5,788 1,564,125 859 6,647 Total 2012 2,400 278 4,714 830 1,843 10,065 1,531,875 765 10,830 1) Payment in 2013 and 2014, respectively 2) Payment in 2012 and 2013, respectively 3) Payment of 50% each in 2014 and 2015 4) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 6% of the annual base salary. 5) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary. Combined Management Report 95 Compensation report The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a Payments of €308 thousand (2012: €479 thousand) were made to defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution to be made former members of the Board of Management. by the company equal to 25% of the annual base salary and APP. From fiscal 2013, the maximum amount that will be taken into acIn fiscal 2013, the members of the Board of Management had incount for calculating the APP contribution will be that due on 100% demnification rights should their service contracts be terminated for target attainment, irrespective of the actual target attainment. Moredefined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of a over, the members of the Board of Management must themselves material change of control over the company. The terms depended on pay an amount from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5% of the respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining term the APP. The members of the Board of Management may increase of the service contract, included severance payments amounting to their personal contribution to up to 25% of the APP. From the date up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change of of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB interest thereon – may be converted to a pension benefit. There are assuming 100% target achievement. claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are granted as vested rights to individual members of the Board of Management. If No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board the service contract ends before the beneficiary reaches the age of 60, of Management in the event of termination of their service. In 2013, no the company pays certain additional benefits up to a defined ceiling. member of the Board of Management received benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties in respect of their duties as members of LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of the Board of Management. Management members. The total service cost recognized under IFRS accounting rules in the 2013 consolidated financial statements for this No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in purpose was €1,264 thousand (2012: €815 thousand). The present fiscal 2013. value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2013 was €21,740 thousand (2012: €18,248 thousand). Under IFRS accounting principles, the service Compensation of the Supervisory Board cost for pension entitlements earned in 2013 and the present value of the obligations, including acquired rights, as of December 31, 2013 The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Secamounted, respectively, to €376 thousand and €12,743 thousand tion 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members of (2012: €257 thousand and €10,924 thousand) for Dr. Heitmann, the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compensation €376 thousand and €2,323 thousand (2012: €271 thousand and of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board €2,173 thousand) for Dr. Breuers, €394 thousand and €1,584 thoureceives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this sand (2012: €204 thousand and €944 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervisory Board comand €118 thousand and €5,090 thousand (2012: €83 thousand mittees is compensated separately in accordance with the German and €4,207 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board members who belong to a committee receive one half of the fixed compensation amount The total service cost recognized under HGB accounting rules in the in addition. The chair of the Audit Committee receives a further half. 2013 annual financial statements for this purpose was €3,470 thouSupervisory Board members who chair a committee other than the sand (2012: €2,199 thousand). The present value of the obligations for Audit Committee receive a further quarter. However, no member may the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, receive in total more than three times the fixed compensation amount. 2013 was €18,565 thousand (2012: €15,095 thousand). Under HGB accounting principles, the present value of the obligations, includSupervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in ing vested rights, for the members of the Board of Management serving addition and also receive an attendance allowance of €1.5 thousand as of December 31, 2013 amounted, respectively, to €10,712 thoufor each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting sand (2012: €8,882 thousand) for Dr. ­Heitmann, €2,028 thousand they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed (2012: €1,850 thousand) for Dr. Breuers, €1,348 thousand (2012: pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination €769 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, and €4,477 thousand (2012: Act and meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their €3,594 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. membership on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members of the Supervisory Board were remunerated only As of December 31, 2013, obligations to former members of the Board for their service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland of Management totaled €11,578 thousand (2012: €11,411 thouGmbH in the amount of €5 thousand each. sand) under IFRS accounting rules and €9,734 thousand (2012: €9,313 thousand) under HGB accounting rules. 96 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive sand for this five-year period; if it has outperformed the index by bebased on the company’s performance during the standard term of an tween 10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike the degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation the fixed compensation component, this variable compensation comis €150 thousand. ponent is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, No variable compensation was paid in fiscal 2013. the amount is prorated. The expected compensation payable for the term of office that began Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESS’s with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 2010 and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meetindex during a member’s five-year term. The average price of LANXESS ing that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members’ actions stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days for fiscal 2014 was valued at a total of €1,800 thousand (2012: prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Supervisory €1,800 thousand) at December 31, 2013 and reported as a provision. Board members were elected are each compared with the respective average for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ None of the members of the Supervisory Board received benefits for Meeting at the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The services provided individually during the reporting period. No loans or variable compensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed advances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during the benchmark index. The exact amount of the variable compensathe reporting year. tion depends on the extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has The following table breaks down the compensation received by each outperformed the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to 10 member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the Supervisory percentage points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thouBoard in fiscal 2013. Compensation of the Supervisory Board1) € Year Fixed Compensation as Attendance Fixed compensation Total compensation committee member allowance ­LANXESS ­LANXESS AG ­LANXESS AG Deutschland GmbH 2013 240,000 0 16,500 5,000 261,500 Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman 2012 240,000 0 16,500 5,000 261,500 2013 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman 2012 120,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 178,500 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Axel Berndt 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Rudolf Fauss 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2013 80,000 96,548 18,000 5,000 199,548 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2012 80,000 80,000 15,000 5,000 180,000 2013 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Robert J. Koehler 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Rainer Laufs 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Thomas Meiers 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Ulrich Middelmann 2013 40,110 20,055 7,500 2,507 70,172 (deceased July 2, 2013) 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Claudia Nemat 2013 35,068 0 3,000 2,192 40,260 (effective July 25, 2013) 2012 0 0 0 0 0 2013 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Hans-Jürgen Schicker 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2013 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Gisela Seidel 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Theo H. Walthie 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2013 1,155,178 476,603 183,000 59,699 1,874,480 Total 2012 1,160,000 480,000 184,500 60,000 1,884,500 1) Figures exclude value-added tax. Combined Management Report 97 Compensation report | Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and ­Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 require a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a capital majority and ­Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German is required, a simple majority of the capital stock, unless otherwise Commercial Code required by law or provided by the articles of association. The articles of association contain no further provisions in this regard. Section 10, Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 and Section 315, Paragraph 9 of the articles of association of LANXESS AG authorizes Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial Code, we hereby the Supervisory Board to resolve on amendments relating solely to make the following declarations: the form of the articles of association. 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €83,202,670 as 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized of December 31, 2013 and is composed of 83,202,670 no-par to issue or repurchase shares as follows: bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The  Own shares The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed by the May 18, 2011 authorized the Board of Management until May 17, German Stock Corporation Act. 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold. subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender 3. We received no reports of direct and indirect equity investments in offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights. purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockhold4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. ers, or transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity interests in 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG companies or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on to use them to satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. bonds and/or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the company and to grant 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and Secholders of convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation tion 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the appointrights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) ment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under the issued by the company or its direct and indirect affiliates that grant provisions of these sections, Board of Management members are a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding five obligation the number of shares for which such parties would be years. Such appointment may be renewed or the term of office may entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option be extended, provided that the term of each such renewal or extenrights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The sion shall not exceed five years. Appointments require a majority of stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. Secwhere the shares are retired. tion 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that the Board of Management must consist of at least two members. Over and Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of above this, the number of members of the Board of Management ­LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011 authorized the Board of Manis determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board agement until May 17, 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and a vice Board, to issue – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/ chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members of the or convertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory Board or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred to as may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of Manage“bonds”) – as either registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal ment or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the Board value of up to €2,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and of Management for cause (Section 84, Paragraph 3 of the German to grant option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders Stock Corporation Act). or creditors of warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that a resto, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors olution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for any amendment of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or conto the articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17, Paragraph 2 of vertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company the articles of association, resolutions of the Stockholders’ Meeting representing a total pro-rata increase of up to €16,640,534 in the 98 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these bonds. until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of association, to increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing the capital stock of ­LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exerrights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant cise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory in the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds payment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of if cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with shares issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new company are used to service the option or conversion rights. shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. in the following cases: In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; ­articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued May 28, 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights 2015, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the to the number of new shares to which they would be entitled company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new to subscribe as stockholders upon exercise of their option or no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total conversion rights or fulfillment of their option or conversion amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are obligations; generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription price is not significantly below the theoretical market value rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant of the bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company obligations, as determined using accepted pricing models; if and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for bonds are issued by application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act, in which of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights case the issued shares may not exceed a total of 10% of the can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when capital stock either at the time this authorization takes effect the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in or at the time it is utilized; kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory or conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds bond-like characteristics. issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new ­LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the Meeting on May 23, 2013 authorized the Board of Management time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. Combined Management Report 99 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and ­Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German ­Commercial Code | Events after the end of the reporting period | Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives 8. The service contracts between the company and the members Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions ­Commercial Code regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board of Management in the context of a change of control. These are The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued the outlined in the compensation report in this combined management corporate governance statement pursuant to Section 289a of the Gerreport. Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist man Commercial Code (HGB). This has been made available to the between the company and members of the first and second levels stockholders and can be found on our website at www.lanxess.com of upper management. In addition, the terms for placing bonds under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. under the company’s existing debt issuance program may contain a change-of-control clause which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond should certain events occur that affect its rating. Events after the end of the reporting period This applies to the €500 million Eurobond and the €200 million Eurobond issued by ­LANXESS Finance B.V. in the 2009 fiscal No events of particular significance took place after December 31, year, the €500 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance 2013 that could be expected to have a material effect on the finanB.V. in the 2011 fiscal year, the CNH 500 million bond issued by cial position and results of operations of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012 and the €500 million ­LANXESS AG. Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in November 2012, which are all guaranteed by L ­ ANXESS AG. The terms for two At an extraordinary meeting, the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG private placements with a volume of €100 million each made by resolved to terminate Dr. Axel C. Heitmann’s appointment as a ­member LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance program in the and Chairman of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG. The 2012 fiscal year likewise contain corresponding change-of-control Supervisory Board has appointed Matthias Zachert as his successor clauses. These placements are also guaranteed by ­LANXESS AG. effective April 1, 2014. Until Mr. Zachert joins the Board of ManageThe company has signed an agreement with one major bank for a ment, ­LANXESS’s Chief Financial Officer Dr. Bernhard Düttmann will loan of €92.5 million. This agreement may be terminated without perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Management. notice or repayment of the outstanding loan may be required if another company or person gains control of more than 50% of ­LANXESS AG. The same applies to two additional loan agreements Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives for €200 million and €120 million that LANXESS Finance B.V. signed with investment banks in fiscal 2011. The company also Expected changes in business conditions entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility that is currently at €1,250 million. This agreement General business conditions LANXESS expects a faster pace of global can also be terminated without notice if another company or person growth in 2014 than in the previous year and that the gross domestic takes control of more than 50% of ­LANXESS AG. Furthermore, product (GDP) will increase by 3.0%. In the industrialized nations, the according to agreements between the company and ­LANXESS outlook for growth should improve compared to 2013. We are also Pension Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable projecting a recovery in the eurozone, despite the continued existence payments to ­LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a change of risk factors such as the sovereign debt resulting from the financial of control. and economic crisis. Therefore, we anticipate slight growth of 1.0% for Western Europe. We believe that growth in Central and Eastern 9. The service contracts between the company and the members of Europe in 2014 will be slightly higher at 2.5%. We also expect an the Board of Management of L ­ ANXESS AG as well as between improvement on the previous year for the NAFTA region and assume the company and members of the first and second levels of upper GDP growth there of 2.5%. Given the more positive construction secmanagement of ­LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements tor environment and expanding industrial output, we believe that the applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is United States in particular could contribute to this growth. more particularly described in the respective contracts. Compared to 2013, we also anticipate better growth perspectives for the emerging economies. In 2014, the Chinese economic region should benefit from the slow recovery of its export markets. However, growth is likely to still be comparatively restrained at 7.5%. We are also 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 forecasting an improvement to India’s economic situation, although Expected Growth in Chemical Production momentum is expected to remain muted in the midterm. On this basis, Change vs. prior year in Chemical production growth in India could be as high as 5.5% in 2014. In our view, Brazil real terms (%)1) 2014 2015 2016 –2018 should also post more dynamic growth than in the previous year, with Americas 3.0 3.0 3.5 expansion of 3.0%. NAFTA 3.0 2.5 4.0 Latin America 4.0 3.5 3.5 Over and above the aforementioned risks pertaining to Europe, risks in EMEA 1.5 2.5 2.5 the emerging and developing economies could impact global growth Germany 1.5 1.5 1.0 in 2014. Among these are the political instability in Thailand and the Western Europe 1.0 1.5 1.5 possibility of a further escalation in the territorial dispute between China Central and Eastern Europe 3.0 4.0 3.5 Asia-Pacific 6.0 7.0 6.0 and Japan. Additional risk factors could result from an escalation of World 4.0 4.5 4.5 the geopolitical crises in Syria and the Korean peninsula. 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in January 2014 Expected Growth in GDP Change vs. prior year Gross domestic product Future evolution of selling markets According to our forecasts, the in real terms (%)1) global tire industry will increase production slightly on the previous 2014 2015 2016 –2018 year for growth of 4.0%. We expect Asia to be the strongest region Americas 2.5 3.5 3.5 with growth of 5.5%. The Chinese economic region will contribute to NAFTA 2.5 3.0 3.0 Latin America 3.5 4.0 4.0 this growth with expansion of 8.0%. Production in the ASEAN region EMEA 2.0 2.5 2.5 should also substantially increase. We expect Brazil to trend similarly Germany 2.0 2.0 1.5 to the Asian markets and post growth of 5.5%. Compared to the prior Western Europe 1.0 1.5 1.5 year, we anticipate recovery and a 3.0% increase in production in the Central and Eastern Europe 2.5 3.5 4.0 NAFTA region. In our estimation, Western Europe will see a marked Asia-Pacific 4.5 5.0 4.5 negative trend resulting in a further deterioration over the previous World 3.0 3.5 3.5 year. We believe production there will decline by 5.5%. 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in January 2014 The automotive industry is expected to post more dynamic growth in 2014 than was the case in 2013. Overall, we forecast growth of Future performance of the chemical industry Against the backdrop 5.0% in global automobile production, although this is likely to differ of possible global economic recovery, we are assuming that chemical very widely from region to region. In this industry, too, we expect Asia industry production will also trend better than in the previous year. to deliver the strongest momentum with growth of 7.0%. We see the We are expecting growth of 4.0% in 2014. In our view, the emerging engines for this growth in the Chinese economic region with expansion economies in particular will contribute to this growth. We believe that of 11.5% and the ASEAN region with 11.0%. Automotive production growth of the Chinese economic region will come in slightly below in Brazil could increase by 4.0% in 2014. For the NAFTA region, we the prior-year level at 7.5%. In our estimation, India should see growth are forecasting slightly weaker expansion of 3.0% compared to the above the previous year at 7.0%. We expect growth in the NAFTA previous year. We are again expecting a drop in production in ­Western region to be roughly level with the prior year at 3.0%. Production in Europe. However, the decline should be slightly lower than in the Western Europe is likely to increase only slightly, by 1.0%. By contrast, previous year at 2.0%, indicating that the industry may have reached growth in Central and Eastern Europe should be somewhat stronger the bottom of its cycle. By contrast, we are projecting growth of 7.5% at 3.0%. for Central and Eastern Europe. The market for agrochemicals should remain robust and post growth of 3.0%, although performance is likely to be slightly below the prior-year level. With an increase of 4.0% in 2014, Latin America is expected to post the strongest growth. We are anticipating average growth of 3.0% for both Asia and the NAFTA region, which would be below the prior-year level – especially in the NAFTA region. For Europe we are Combined Management Report 101 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Expected Evolution of Major User Industries Change vs. prior year in Tires Automotive Agrochemicals Construction real terms (%)1) 2016 – 2016 – 2016 – 2016 – 2014 2015 2018 2014 2015 2018 2014 2015 2018 2014 2015 2018 Americas 3.0 4.0 0.5 3.5 4.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 5.0 6.5 6.5 3.0 NAFTA 3.0 3.0 (1.0) 3.0 4.0 2.5 3.0 2.5 6.0 7.0 7.0 3.5 Latin America 3.0 7.0 5.0 4.5 6.0 4.5 4.0 3.0 4.0 4.0 5.5 3.0 EMEA (0.5) (0.5) 1.5 3.0 4.0 5.0 2.5 3.0 3.0 1.0 2.0 2.0 Germany 0.0 0.5 0.0 (2.0) 1.5 2.5 1.0 0.5 0.5 2.0 2.0 1.0 Western Europe (5.5) (7.5) (2.5) (2.0) 2.0 4.5 1.0 1.5 1.5 0.0 1.0 1.5 Central and Eastern Europe 4.5 4.5 4.5 7.5 6.5 5.0 1.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 4.0 3.0 Asia-Pacific 5.5 7.0 6.5 7.0 7.5 6.0 3.0 3.5 3.5 6.0 6.5 5.5 World 4.0 4.5 4.5 5.0 6.0 5.0 3.0 3.0 3.5 4.0 5.0 4.0 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight, LMC and other sources in January 2014 again projecting slight growth of 1.0%, which would be roughly on a Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system par with the previous year. In our view, the demand for food and animal does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent feed will continue to be the main driver of growth in agrochemicals. business risks from having a material impact on the company with a sufficient degree of certainty. Global growth in the construction industry in 2014 is expected to be more dynamic at 4.0%. We believe that demand will come from Asia in Structural basis The principles of our opportunity and risk management particular, with an increase of 6.0%. Above all, the Chinese economic system are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, region and India should contribute to this development. We believe which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management framethat recovery will continue in the NAFTA region, where growth could work, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into reach a mid-single-digit percentage. By contrast, Europe is expected business processes through the company’s organizational structure, to post only slight growth. We believe that the pace of growth will its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems, increase again in Central and Eastern Europe in particular. and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards. The system is based on an integration concept, i.e. the early identificaRisk report tion of opportunities and risks is an integral part of the management system and not the object of a separate organizational structure. The Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly management of opportunities and risks is therefore a primary duty of dependent on identifying opportunities and risks in our business activithe heads of all business units, as well as of those people in Group ties and actively managing them. The goal of the risk management companies who hold process and project responsibility. This is why our system is to safeguard the company’s existence for the long term and opportunity and risk management is based on clearly defined business ensure its successful future development by identifying opportunities processes, the precise assignment of responsibilities throughout the and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately considering Group, and reporting systems that ensure the timely provision of the these in strategic and operational decisions. Risks and opportunities information required for decision-making to the Board of Management are understood as possible future developments or events that may or other management levels. result in either negative or positive deviations from business objectives. Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units Our management system is based both on internal organizational workeach conduct their own operations, for which they have global profit flows that are managed by way of control and monitoring mechanisms responsibility. Group functions and service companies support the busiand on early warning systems that are used to closely observe changes ness units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized in external conditions and systematically implement the appropriate services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units measures. This approach applies equally to risks and opportunities. and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required proximity to markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure. 102 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility, i.e. Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating defined the risk owners, for the following: risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally by the Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in “Risks of • identification and assessment of risks and opportunities; future development.” • implementation of control measures (measures taken to avoid, minimize or diversify risk); Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes, • monitoring the development of risks and opportunities (e.g. on the we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps also, early warning business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning indicators); the Group’s risks and opportunities. This enables us to react quickly • risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrence and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company. of a risk event); • communication of the key risks and opportunities to the manageIn addition, a Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer ment committees of the business units and group functions. analyzes the material risks and their development for their potential impact on the company as a whole. The Risk Committee brings The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting together representatives from selected group functions to analyze and aggregating key information across the Group at the following existing measures to counter risks, initiate additional measures, define intervals: Group-wide risk management standards and guidelines and, if necessary, initiate further analyses of individual risks and opportunities that • twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process; have been identified. • once per year as part of the budget and planning process for the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon. Risk assessment Risk management is integrated into the planning and forecasting process and identifies risks and opportunities as poThe reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database tential deviations from planned or forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory or Group net income. Board. This ensures that when new risks and opportunities arise or when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information Depending on the type of risk, different calculation methods are applied can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board in risk assessment. These may include sensitivity analyses or scenario of Management and therefore also be specifically integrated into the analyses for distribution risks. The latter are described by fluctuations general management of the company. in planning parameters such as exchange rates, raw material prices and economic development assumptions. They may result either in The reporting threshold for opportunities and risks is an effect of positive or negative deviations from planned or forecast figures. €1 million on Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. This low reporting threshold guarantees that the information gathered Event risks that would only impact earnings if they actually occur are about opportunities and risks is comprehensive and that the collecevaluated on the basis of the expected probability of their occurrence tion of information is not just limited to material risks or risks that and the predicted effect on EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net could jeopardize the future of the company as a going concern. The income. Corporate Controlling Group Function centrally determines the top opportunities and risks only after the information has been gathered. Significance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. OpportuniThe Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes ties and risks with a high probability of occurrence flow directly into the and measures significant and strategic opportunities and risks with planning process. Key budget values are calculated and those risks the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term and opportunities considered relatively probable are presented as strategy. worst-case/best-case scenarios. The processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecasting as well as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action are steered by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works closely in this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given fiscal year by regularly updating our expectations for business development. Combined Management Report 103 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on specific dated financial statements. The Board of Management prepares the risk issues such as unexpected operational events with a significant annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements, impact on earnings. In 2013, there was no cause for immediate rewhich are then forwarded to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee porting of this kind. without delay. Upon recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements Compliance as an integral component Risk management also includes are adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we obtain statements meeting. The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate Committee, deal with major questions relating to LANXESS’s accountemployees by means of our compliance code to observe the law and ing and risk management, the audit mandate and the areas of focus to act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial statements. compliance management system that has been structured in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized framework Consolidated interim financial statements are prepared each quarfor enterprise risk management (COSO). A Compliance Committee ter. The condensed consolidated half-year financial statements are promotes and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its reviewed, while the annual financial statements and the consolidated work is supported by compliance officers who have been appointed for financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the each country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance Commitcompany’s annual financial statements and consolidated financial tee is chaired by a Group Compliance Officer, who reports directly and statements. regularly to the Board of Management. In addition, there is provision for immediate notification of the Board of Management and Supervisory LANXESS AG’s uniform accounting in compliance with the German Board in the event of serious compliance violations. In 2013, there Commercial Code is based on a structured process with appropriate was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind. organizational structures and workflows, including the related working instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-control (Group) accounting aspects of the internal control and risk manageprinciple and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental moniment system The aspects of the internal control and risk management toring tools during the financial statement preparation process. On the system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the prinIT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an integrated IT ciples, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, and compliance by security measures against unauthorized access. The correctness with applicable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, conof the automatically generated postings and the master data required trol and monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive for them is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a sysfeatures of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used tematic voucher system, documented to the necessary extent and regularly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition verified downstream. to the (Group) accounting process in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting process, The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial and extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness and reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements Guideline. reliability of the internal control and risk management system can be This governs the way the provisions of the International Financial restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or ­Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied by the other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the guideline also defines applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) acthe chart of accounts that is binding throughout the Group. On the IT counting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. side, the guideline is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software The Accounting Group Function, which reports to the Chief Financial and is protected by security measures against unauthorized access. Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting process and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting proconsolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. It is also cess, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in line responsible for ensuring the uniform preparation of the single-entity with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee the financial statements of the subsidiaries that are included in the consolireliability of our financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related internal control system we use is based on generally accepted standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this system during the period under review. Corresponding standards also apply to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. 104 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based on a Monitoring of risk management system and internal control system detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement cal(ICS) Within the Group, the Internal Auditing Group Function is tasked endar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further with overseeing whether the internal control and monitoring system component is regular reviews of the correctness and completeness is functioning properly and whether organizational safeguards are of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of being observed. The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) duties as expressed in structured authorization and approval proceand audit methods applied by this group function are correspondingly dures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, operatconsolidation process. ing units and group functions. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the auditor as part of the audit of the annual financial For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries subject to statements. The Supervisory Board also exercises control functions, reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the including regular monitoring of the efficiency of the management above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated into systems described above by the full Supervisory Board and by its the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are consisAudit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews reports about the tent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring the Compliance Committee’s activities and findings, the work of the Internal correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting deAuditing Group Function, and the status of the risk management and partments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting Department internal control system. within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed testing of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the department Risks of future development The identified risks of future development evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain material of the LANXESS Group can be categorized according to the sources facts relevant to financial reporting. After the process-based controls of risk shown in the table below: have been applied, Group consolidation including currency translation is carried out in the same system, without additional interfaces, Main Sources of Risk utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of Macroeconomic Regional differences in performance the automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary (long-term) Long-term exchange-rate parities for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that Demographic trends must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the Strategic Corporate strategy Investments extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented by Information technology validation rules that are integrated into the system. Human resources Operational Sales markets Regular coordination with other financial group functions, particularly Plant operations the Treasury, Tax and Controlling group functions, assists the financial Environmental risks reporting process. A continual exchange of information with the opProcurement markets erating business units and other group functions makes it possible Financial risks Regulatory Legal aspects for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues Regulatory measures arising outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks, Taxes projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to the valuation Regional differences in economic trends LANXESS is inherently exof pensions and other post-employment benefits. posed to the general economic and political opportunities and risks in the countries and regions in which the LANXESS Group operates. Regional differences in economic performance and the associated demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential in its various geographical markets, with corresponding effects on its earnings. We address these issues with our broad regional presence and by expanding our profile in selected growth regions. This approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report. Combined Management Report 105 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Long-term exchange rate trends Depending on the country of proThe success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally duction, shifts in exchange rate parities can affect sales revenues as subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) dereported in the Group’s currency and the gross profit margins on sales velopments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned as they relate to the production costs of products. In addition to the measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment hedging we perform as described under “Financial risks,” we also make could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to a point of expanding our production sites in the key growth regions in be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systemorder to build a natural hedge position by matching production and atically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making. sales in the regional markets. During this process, the business units affected and the Board of Management receive support from departments with the requisite Demographic trends We actively manage the risk of demographic expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. change as well. To ensure continued access to a highly skilled workforce, we launched a comprehensive package of measures known as When gathering information about potential M&A candidates, it is XCare in 2009, starting in Germany. Interdisciplinary working groups possible that certain facts required to assess a candidate’s future are collaborating closely with employee representatives at LANXESS performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or to develop innovative concepts to preempt and actively address shifts are not correctly interpreted. We reduce this risk by conducting wellresulting from demographic change – ranging from increasing the structured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding number of vocational training positions to measures allowing older appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of employees to enjoy a longer working life. acquired companies or businesses can result in expected developments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place Thus far, we have not experienced a major shortage of labor in our with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. If asglobal markets, not least because the Advance program of extensive sumptions concerning future developments – such as the realization efficiency and restructuring measures reduced our specific need for of synergies – do not materialize, this might result in a write-down skilled employees in the reporting period. However, a forward-looking on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying out impairment testing at and sustainable HR policy will remain important. For this reason, we least once a year. are consistently expanding our cooperations with research institutes, universities, colleges and high schools in Germany and other target Investment risks The preparatory work for investments that exceed markets – activities we also pursued in the year under review. At many a specified significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant events around the world, we positioned our company as an attractive business units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this employer and sought contact with highly talented young people. We purpose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for have established a LANXESS program to provide both financial and a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments expert support for undergraduate and postgraduate students. In the are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and reporting period, we also initiated a loyalty program for particularly security requirements. outstanding interns. Both these programs focus on the natural and engineering sciences and are being extended outside Germany to the If there is any indication of a decline in the value of non-current assets, BRICS countries especially, taking into account local requirements. impairment testing is performed and, if necessary, write-downs are recognized. As described under “Corporate strategy risks,” any change Corporate strategy risks We actively pursue the strategic optimization to the parameters relevant to impairment testing may yield the risk of of the enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, write-downs on assets. Such risks could be changes to the expected strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio management and cash flows or assumed interest rates. proactive participation in industry consolidation through partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. IT risks Our IT systems support LANXESS’s business activities worldwide, including the processes from receiving an order to receiving payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It is important that the people who use the systems receive correct and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing in the expansion and improvement of IT services worldwide. 106 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For example, netRisks in sales markets The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of works or systems may fail, or data and information may be comprothe global chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on mised or destroyed because of operator and programming errors or developments in customer industries harbor risks to LANXESS’s busiexternal factors. In both cases, this can cause serious business interness. As well as the general risk of lower GDP growth, the particular ruptions. To mitigate such risks, we invest in suitable data protection dependence of the rubber business on the tire and automotive indussystems, such as mirror databases designed to prevent the loss of data tries can result in sales volatility. In addition to being subject to these and information. Various security and monitoring tools, like firewalls demand-side market risks, LANXESS’s risk profile is influenced, and and access restriction and authorization systems, are used to ensure its earning power can be weakened, by structural changes in markets, the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information and such as the entry of new suppliers and the availability of additional the trouble-free operation of systems. The risk management practices capacities, regional shifts, the migration of customers to countries with employed by the Information Technology Group Function comply with lower costs, and product substitution or market consolidation trends recognized standards. in some sectors. We counter such trends by systematically managing costs and continuously adjusting our product portfolio, sharpening HR risks The risk of industrial actions in some countries resulting from its focus and aligning our offering to innovative customer segments disputes in connection with negotiations concerning future collective which will enable us to operate successfully in the long term. pay agreements or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We counter this risk by fostering open communication with In our Performance Polymers segment, the synthetic rubber business our employees and their representatives in a culture of active labor faces increasing competition, partly from new manufacturers entering relations. The employee representatives in various countries have the market. In some business units, this may result in overcapacities been consulted with regard to our Advance program of efficiency and and stronger competition on prices. LANXESS is pursuing a productrestructuring measures. Continuous use is made of existing dialogue specific strategy in these areas based on factors such as product and platforms such as the European Forum, which brings together the process differentiation and global positioning. In addition, LANXESS works councils in Europe. We also actively seek dialogue with emhas launched Advance, a Group-wide program aimed at increasing ployee and trade union representatives in the other regions in which efficiency and reducing costs. we operate. Risks in the course of operations A lack of plant availability and disrupOur employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and issues tions of plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the efficiency production targets and adequately service existing demand, resulting in of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate the a loss of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees’ loyalty to to counter this scenario. These include proactive facility maintenance, the company, including attractive compensation models, challenging regular compliance checks, the preparation of risk assessments and jobs and international career options. We continue to invest in the next systematic training of employees to improve standards and safety. generation of employees by increasing the number of training opportunities in Germany. We have also launched and expanded regional Environmental risks from production processes Although LANXESS internship, trainee and loyalty programs in, for example, Brazil, India applies high technical and safety standards to the construction, operaand China as well as Germany. These early loyalty programs coexist tion and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in operawith our established central Corporate Trainee Program offering intertions, including those due to external factors, such as natural disasters national assignments and with our regional trainee programs. In some or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to explosions, the regions and countries, including China, we go into schools in search release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which people, of interesting talents we can develop. One indicator of our success property or the environment are harmed. In addition to systematically so far in limiting the loss of know-how is the low employee turnover in monitoring compliance with quality standards in order to avoid such all regions and constant applicant numbers, for example from highly stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the resulting talented university graduates. damage to the extent usual in the industry. LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chemi­ cals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. The possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during Combined Management Report 107 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives this time that has not been discovered to date. We are committed sources of supply. We also face increases in our personnel expenses to the Responsible Care® initiative and pursue active environmental because of future wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of humanagement and proactive environmental protection management. man resources can be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in This includes constant monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater raw material prices, as described above, but in the case of personnel we and air and of various emissions. We have set up sufficient provisions cannot hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our customers. for necessary containment or remediation measures in areas with In order to cushion the impact of such negative developments on our identified contamination. cost base, we pursue a market-oriented pricing policy. Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so LANXESS’s product portfolio includes substances that are classified that we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our Financial risks The Treasury Group Function centrally manages financustomers’ attention to the risks associated with their use. We also cial risks. The chief financial risks are: carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry. Financial Risks In line with LANXESS’s forward-looking approach, product monitorPrice risks Liquidity and Default risks Investment risks ing enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associated ­refinancing risks with our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if relevance Currencies Availability of cash Customers Investments in pension assets is established. Raw materials Access to multiBanks and bilateral capital Risks in procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal markets Energy risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy prices and in Interest the availability of raw materials. If the price of the materials we use increases, our production costs increase. If the price of the materials we use decreases, write-downs may have to be recognized on inven• Price risks tories. In addition, changes in raw material prices impact our selling Price risks arise from buying and selling goods and services in foreign prices. We mitigate these risks by following a sensible inventory and currencies, the procurement of raw materials and energies, and the procurement policy. Most of the company’s raw material needs are company’s financing. met by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price escalation clauses. Many agreements with customers also contain Currencies Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in price escalation clauses. We also have the option of hedging this risk various currencies, it is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the relative via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available for value of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, against the euro. hedging raw material and energy price risks (see also “Financial risks”). Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruLANXESS operates in energy-intensive industries that face international ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly competition and are dependent on competitive market conditions. when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other We believe that Germany’s change in energy policy entails the risk of than the company’s local currency. a unilateral increase in the country’s energy costs, thus substantially weakening the competitive position of German companies in internaCurrency risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitional markets. With a view to mitigating this risk, we are discussing tored and analyzed. While the risks relating to changes in the value of the economic consequences of increasing energy prices with the aureceivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are fully thorities and government – either directly or in cooperation with other hedged, the scope of hedging for currency risks relating to forecast energy-intensive companies via industry organizations. transactions is subject to regular review. A significant proportion of the currency risks arising from contracts are hedged using derivative To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors such as financial instruments. the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative Currency risks arising on financial transactions, including the interest component, are generally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. 108 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The business units calculate gross currency risks, i.e. before hedging • Counterparty risks measures, that are then included in risk reporting. Since the LANXESS Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationships with Group concludes derivative contracts for the greater part of its curcustomers and dealings with banks and other financial partners, esperency risks, it believes that, in the short term, a rise or fall in the euro cially with regard to the investment business and financial instrument against other major currencies would have no material impact on transactions. future cash flows. Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed Raw materials/energies The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes using both internal and external information sources. Customer portin the market prices for the energies and raw materials used in its folios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk business operations. Increases in energy and raw material procureprofile is elevated. ment costs are generally passed on to customers. Where such risks cannot be passed on in their entirety, the related risks may be hedged The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity contracts in order to all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize reduce the volatility of cash flows. the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted based on the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally As in the previous year, LANXESS had no forward commodity contracts based on the customary payment terms for the business or country. as at the reporting date. Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue. Interest rate risks Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuaCredit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European tions in the fair value of a financial instrument. Interest rate risks affect credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from both financial assets and financial liabilities. customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in Europe, that could arise up to the end of the fiscal year in the Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed mid-double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk is further interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will have reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain cases, only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner. • Liquidity and refinancing In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until the We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency through contracting partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast ­majority a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure that is of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing. largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating agencies. Our conservative financing policy takes into account the risk of a change The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the to our rating and the associated effects on financial risk management, ­financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, even though LANXESS has no direct influence on the assessments especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital by independent rating agencies. investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility, financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating. which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. In February The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date 2014, its original term was extended by one year to February 2019; it were almost all concluded with banks with an investment-grade rating. can be renewed once more for a further year. A further material credit line of €200 million with the European Investment Bank was undrawn Credit risk management also includes global management of the at year-end 2013. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has shortcounterparty risk relating to all existing banks and financial partners. term liquidity reserves of €533 million in the form of cash and cash The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to risk diversification to equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money market prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize its continued existence. funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position based Through master agreements, the market values of open trading posion a broad range of financing instruments. tions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. Combined Management Report 109 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives • Investment risks in fines, trade sanctions and loss of reputation. The LANXESS Group Risks associated with the investment of pension assets are monitored ensures compliance in foreign trade and export control through the by the Pension Committee, which is made up of the Chief Financial global implementation and optimization of appropriate and stable Officer and representatives from the Treasury, Accounting and Human control instruments and automated screening processes. By proactively Resources group functions. monitoring trade policy developments, timely information is provided to both the operating units and the management organs concerning Additional information on our financial risks can be found under changes to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the consolidated financial stateand appropriate recommendations for action are made. ments. Tax risks Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms Legal risks Companies in the LANXESS Group are parties to various of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other counlitigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted tries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been reported with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different conclusion in each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event that the in individual cases. outcome of such proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into account existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements Significance of risks and result of risk assessment The significance of reached with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal risks lies in their potential impact on EBITDA pre exceptionals. Risks disputes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will which may produce a deviation of more than 5% from our projected materially affect our future financial position. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to high significance. Risks from regulatory measures Possible tightening of safety, quality and environmental regulations or standards can lead to additional Within the context of risk management, procurement market risks costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the (primarily influenced by the raw material price risk), the sales market implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, risk (especially general economic development risks) and financial Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). risks (almost exclusively the currency risk) were identified as the top As well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures three risks in the planning year. Based on the assumed probability of ­necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could occurrence, each of these risks could produce a negative deviation change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and of up to 15% from our projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is customers to regions outside Europe. our key controlling parameter. On the other hand, favorable trends in our sales markets, raw material prices and exchange rates could also Changes in the legislative framework may entail additional costs which each result in a positive deviation of up to 12%. Further information disadvantage our business units. Owing to the uncertain outcome of about opportunities can be found in the opportunity report. the government aid procedure initiated by the European Commission in association with the German Renewable Energy Act (EEG), there In light of its extensive global activities and its dependence on raw is a risk that waived surcharges will have to be backpaid and new materials characterized by volatile price trends, our Performance Polycharges will be introduced in the future, resulting in increasing energy mers segment especially may be vulnerable to these risks, which we prices. Additional information on the risk of increasing energy prices seek to mitigate by means of suitable countermeasures. is contained in the section headed “Risks in procurement markets” in this risk report. Summary of LANXESS’s overall risk exposure Despite mixed economic developments across regions and sectors, our risk exposure during the Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in prohibitions and reporting year was not fundamentally or materially different from our restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the loss of its privileges risk exposure during the previous year due to our broadly diversified in respect of export procedures. In individual cases, this may also result product and customer portfolios. Nonetheless, we would like to point to the increasing competitive pressure facing our synthetic rubber 110 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 business. All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting vehicle tires on the basis of their rolling resistance, wet grip and noise risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments to rapidly changing emissions or durability. A good rating can only be achieved using business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true high-performance rubber. In automotive engineering, it is above all the in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in general have become efforts to achieve substantial weight reductions using high-performance somewhat less reliable due to the drastic changes observed recently plastics that are providing us with opportunities for growth. in our global procurement and customer markets. Agriculture: The demand for agricultural products driven by the growing In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity posiworld population and the urgent need to improve efficiency in agricultion, and our demonstrated ability to adapt our businesses, even on ture associated with the limited availability of arable land are crucial short notice, to significant changes in the business environment, we issues for our customers in the agrochemical industry in particular. Our are confident that we will be able to successfully master any risks that products help protect crops and increase agricultural yields. materialize in the future. Urbanization: Urban expansion and the development of more new Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the megacities can be observed especially in the fast-growing emerging Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any sufeconomies such as Brazil, China and India. The need for new buildficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the ings and an efficient infrastructure is correspondingly large. Moreover, continued existence of LANXESS. demand for better consumer goods and a higher standard of living is evolving with the growing middle class in these countries. This trend is benefiting our customers in the construction and consumer goods Opportunity report industries in particular. Strategic opportunities The LANXESS product portfolio is systematiWater: Given escalating environmental pollution and the steady rise cally aligned to key global trends that promise continuous growth in in water consumption because of ongoing population growth and the coming years. With our products, we offer innovative solutions for industrial requirements, the demand for clean water will continue these trends and generate measurable added value for our customers. to rise. With our innovative solutions for purifying and treating drinkWe are successfully positioned in those markets in which our product ing water, wastewater and industrial process water, we are therefore portfolio will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in the serving a high-growth market. The BRICS countries (which include medium and long term. The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China India, China and Brazil) are major growth markets in terms of water. and India – will retain a central role in this regard. Sustainable expansion in the growth regions In recent years, we have Product portfolio aligned to four global megatrends With its product substantially strengthened our business activities in Asia, Central and portfolio, LANXESS has a presence in all key customer industries. Eastern Europe and Latin America and will continue to expand our Our broad diversification of this portfolio ensures that we are not primarket positions there in the future. Our growing presence in these marily dependent on any single product or process. We are focused key economic regions will enable us to participate in their dynamic on strengthening the individual product segments with optimized economic development. We have laid the foundation for further growth production processes and methods, ongoing innovation, capacity in Asia, in particular, by making targeted investments in China and expansion measures, new production facilities or acquisitions. Our Singapore. work in this regard is aligned to the global megatrends that are most relevant to us: Strengthening the Group through acquisitions At the present time, we are not planning to make any fundamental changes to our corporate Mobility: The increasing demand for vehicles, especially in the emergstructure. However, strengthening our segments through targeted ing economies, and the need to improve the environmental compatacquisitions will remain an important element of our strategy, alongside ibility of mobility throughout the world are providing key impulses for organic growth. growth in tire production and automotive engineering, both of which are important customer industries for LANXESS. At both European Focused research and development activities We make targeted and international level, existing laws and ongoing legislative initiatives investments in the research and development of new solutions that seek to improve quality standards by requiring the classification of underscore the premium nature of our products and generate added value for our customers. We intend for customerand market-oriented innovations to continue playing a large role in supporting organic growth and further cementing our competitive positions as a supplier of high-quality solutions. Process and product innovations will remain the focus of our research and development activities. Combined Management Report 111 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Operational opportunities Unlocking and exploiting operational opporIn the year under review, we commissioned our new butyl rubber plant tunities is an important aspect of LANXESS’s entrepreneurial activities. in Singapore, enabling us to supply our customers in Asia’s growth We are committed to using existing products and new solutions to markets from within the region. We plan to increase the output of our advance our growth and sustainably strengthen our position in global new plant to 70,000 tons in 2014. Overall, the plant is designed for markets. Investing in new plants as well as expanding the capacities an annual capacity of 100,000 tons. With the construction of our and increasing the productivity of existing ones are key elements in world-scale butyl rubber plant, we have established an early position these efforts. Sales and earnings effects expected from our investin Asia to meet the mediumand long-term growth in demand for ments and acquisitions are already considered in our forecasts. These butyl rubber for tires. targeted investments may also generate further operational opportunities because they give us access to new potential and advance our In China, we are also investing around €235 million in our producpositioning in key markets. Against this background, we made the key tion plant for EPDM synthetic rubber. Assigned to the Keltan Elastoinvestments described below. mers business unit, the plant will have a maximum annual capacity of 160,000 tons and is due on stream in 2015. Despite the changes In addition, we constantly review our existing portfolio and production in the market and competitive environment for EPDM rubber, our network. In the challenging reporting year, we initiated and in some presence in China is crucial to our ability to benefit from the longcases already implemented targeted efficiency-enhancing measures term growth opportunities in the market and region with the highest within the context of our Advance program in order to improve the growth potential. competitiveness of individual businesses. The identification of further measures may unlock additional opportunities. In support of our business with high-tech plastics, which provide innovative solutions for lightweight construction to serve the mobility trend, As we already reported, the Performance Polymers segment faced we will be bringing a new polymerization plant on stream in Antwerp, mounting competition in fiscal 2013. However, in light of tire labeling Belgium, during the third quarter of 2014. The plant represents an initiatives, demand for high-quality tires may increase further. Thanks investment volume of about €75 million and will have an annual capacto our global production network, our market position and our longity of around 90,000 tons. It will strengthen the production network for standing customer relationships, our rubber activities remain well high-tech plastics in our High Performance Materials business unit. In positioned. the future, we will be able to supply our global compounding network from Antwerp, which is also home to the facility for caprolactam – the We will continue to drive forward key investment projects in the Perkey precursor for plastics manufacturing – and glass fiber production. formance Polymers segment to ensure that we can benefit from our assumed operational opportunities in the medium and long term With the commissioning of the new compounding plant in Porto Feliz, and achieve sustainable and competitive positions in major growth Brazil, in the first half of 2014, we will also be expanding our global markets. In 2012, we started construction of a new production facility compounding network and will be able to directly supply high-tech in Singapore for high-performance neodymium-based performance plastics to our customers in the growth market of Latin America. This butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) for our Performance Butadiene Rubbers site expansion will also enable us to develop individual solutions for business unit. Investment in the new plant on Jurong Island will total our customers in Latin America within the region. around €200 million. With an annual capacity of up to 140,000 tons, the plant is scheduled to come on stream in the first half of 2015. In the High Performance Materials business unit, the successful inteOur high-performance Nd-PBR contributes to optimizing the rolling gration of Bond-Laminates GmbH – which we acquired in 2012 – and resistance and wet grip of tires, which are key criteria for a good tire the ongoing trend toward weight reduction in vehicles offer us further classification, as increasingly required of tire manufacturers worldwide options in the business with lightweight plastics. Having added Tepex® following the example of the European Union. lightweight plastics to our portfolio, we are now investing in this growth area by significantly expanding capacities at the Bond-Laminates site in Brilon, Germany, by summer 2014. Depending on their field of application, the innovative composite materials are reinforced with different fibers such as carbon or glass fibers. They are being increasingly used to replace heavier metal components in many assemblies, especially in vehicles. 112 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 We are also driving forward the development of innovative products In other business units in the segment, we made important investments and see the optimization of our production processes as the key eleas the cornerstone for future developments. ment in sustainably improving our competitiveness and exploiting additional opportunities to strengthen our market position. Against this In the important growth market of China, our Inorganic Pigments background, one of our major innovations in the Performance Polymers business unit is continuing the expansion of its production network segment is the development of two new grades of neodymium-based to increase its future participation in the urbanization megatrend. In performance butadiene rubber. These have the high molecular weights Ningbo, we are constructing a new facility for iron oxide red pigments that are essential for the production of tires with particularly low rolling with an initial annual capacity of 25,000 tons. The plant will fulfill the resistance. Thanks to the new polymer chain modification technology highest environmental standards and raise the bar for the industry in we use, these rubber grades have properties that greatly facilitate terms of water treatment, waste gas cleaning and energy consumpprocessing by our customers. tion. This investment will enable our Inorganic Pigments business unit – a leading producer of high-quality and sustainably manufactured With our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business units pigments – to strengthen its global production network and further in the Advanced Intermediates segment, we are well positioned in the enhance its position in Asia. market to meet the growing demand for agrochemicals that is rooted in the agriculture megatrend. At the end of the year under review, In the year under review, our Leather business unit commissioned we completed the expansion of cresol capacities in the Advanced its new production plant for leather chemicals in China, which is the Industrial Intermediates business unit so we can now offer the market world’s largest market for leather chemicals. Representing an investfurther capacities from our aromatic network for this high-quality inter­ ment of about €30 million, the new plant has an annual capacity of mediate that is used in, for example, agrochemicals. By supporting up to 50,000 tons and satisfies the highest environmental standards. our customers’ growth through the expansion of capacities for highIt enables us to offer our entire range of leather chemicals in China quality intermediates like cresol, we are also taking advantage of the and should help us to further improve our position in the key Chinese opportunity to strengthen the position of the Advanced Intermediates market. In addition, we are strengthening our reputation as a company segment in the medium and long term. that utilizes environmentally compatible production processes, which is becoming increasingly important in China. Also in the Leather business We already took measures in 2012 to align our Saltigo business unit unit, we commissioned a new CO2 concentration unit in Newcastle, more strongly to the agrochemicals business, thereby enabling us to South Africa, in the fourth quarter of 2013, thereby strengthening our increasingly participate in this key growth market in the future. Saltigo value chain in this business area. This plant makes us independent of is seeking to extend its offering of tailor-made end-to-end solutions for external CO2 supplies, enabling us to individually steer our production customers in the agrochemical industry and will additionally focus on of sodium dichromate for chrome tanning salts, which is also located attractive projects in the pharmaceuticals sector. By aligning Saltigo in Newcastle. to key growth markets, we see a possibility for exploiting operational opportunities in the future – as we did already in the year under review. In 2013, the Liquid Purification Technologies business unit was able to successfully position our company as an end-to-end supplier of In our Performance Chemicals segment, we are implementing a range water treatment solutions with our products for ion exchange and of measures as part of the Advance program in order to place the membrane filtration. We are now seeking to drive forward this developRubber Chemicals business unit on a more competitive footing in the ment. Against the backdrop of an anticipated increase in demand for market. In 2013, we began consolidating the production of rubber innovative water purification and treatment solutions, we are expanding chemicals for the tire industry at our sites in Belgium and the United production capacities for ion exchange resins in Leverkusen, Germany, States, a process that will be completed in 2014. Also in 2013, we at a cost of around €10 million. In 2014, we expect to be able to withdrew from the market a number of products that had reached supply the market with additional quantities of weakly acidic cation the end of their life cycle. In this connection, we closed the Rubber exchange resins which are used especially in the growing cartridge Chemicals site in South Africa. By focusing on key products in our business for household water filtration systems. business unit and on streamlining our plant network, we will be able to improve our productivity and increase our competitiveness. Combined Management Report 113 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives We have also extended our product portfolio with, for example, new set us apart from our competitors. We countered the weak demand Lewabrane® grades for treating water with fouling potential, also by at the start of 2013 and the growing competitive pressure on our synmembrane technology. Further growth prospects are offered by the thetic rubber businesses with our extensive Advance program and have certification received in 2013 from the U.S. National Sanitation Foundaalready successfully implemented the first efficiency-enhancing and tion (NSF International) attesting to the safety of all currently available restructuring measures. Our global position and our flexible corporate LANXESS membrane elements in drinking water treatment applicastructures enable us to rapidly respond to the challenges we face and tions. This quality certificate, which is essential in the drinking water successfully utilize the strategic and operational opportunities that arise industry, confirms the high quality of our membranes and enhances in the future over and above the fundamental opportunities that already customers’ confidence in our products. In most countries, compliance exist. Further information can be found under “Significance of risks with NSF Standard 61 is a basic prerequisite for usage in drinking and result of risk assessment” in this combined management report. water applications and therefore a key quality indicator. We have also received approval for drinking water applications from the Russian and Czech authorities. Future perspectives As well as investing in innovations to benefit from future operational Expected results of operations of the LANXESS Group Following the opportunities for growth, we strengthened the business units in our very challenging fiscal year 2013, we are currently anticipating a slight Performance Chemicals segment with targeted acquisitions. Through increase in our key performance indicator, EBITDA pre exceptionals, in the acquisition of Singapore-based PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., 2014. Alone the absence of one-time effects, such as start-up costs or we expanded the biocides portfolio of our Material Protection Products inventory write-downs due to raw material prices, should contribute to business unit and became one of the leading suppliers of biocides for this improvement – even if selling prices remain at a low level. coatings in Asia. We are now able to provide our customers there with products and expertise from within the region. PCTS specializes in the At the present time, we do not expect any tangible effects on our production of biocides for environmentally friendly water-based coatearnings from the forecast growth in the global economy. Existing ings that meet stringent health, safety and environmental standards. uncertainties such as the development of market capacities for synthetic rubber, sovereign debt in European countries and global politiWe also expanded the phosphorus chemicals portfolio of our Func­ cal crises could impact economic momentum and thereby also our tional Chemicals business unit by acquiring the activities of the French company’s performance. subsidiary of the insolvent Thermphos International B.V. of ­Vlissingen, Netherlands. This move enables us to supply additional intermediates Against the background of the earnings forecast made for the for flame retardants and pharmaceuticals, thus strengthening our LANXESS Group, we assume the following development for the 14 market position in this product segment. business units in our three segments. The expected differences in development in the segments are based on the underlying global The development of innovative products and the ongoing development megatrends and the changes in the market environment. of our production processes remain a central element in cementing our current market position and increasing our competitiveness. Other For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect a slight improveexamples of our research and development activities are described in ment in demand from the main customer industries – automotive the “Research and development” section of this combined manageand tires – in 2014 compared to the low level of demand in the ment report. previous year. Summary of overall opportunities In recent years, LANXESS has consistently aligned its product portfolio to the key growth trends and is successfully positioned in major growth markets. Through targeted investments, we are continuing to strengthen our segments worldwide and are pursuing our research and development activities to deliver process and product innovations in all segments that will continue to 114 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 We believe the most dynamic growth will be in the Asian growth marIn 2014, we are assuming a continuing volatile trend for raw matekets of China and India. In our opinion, demand stimulus in Europe will rial costs, which were at a comparatively moderate level at the end of be only low. In the tire industry, Europe’s legislation for the classification the year under review. We are generally assuming that price trends and labeling of tires that was passed at the end of 2011 and similar for the individual strategic raw materials will vary and that the trend global labeling initiatives could help support demand for our synthetic toward higher procurement costs, particularly for petrochemical raw rubber products. However, in this segment we expect continued strong materials, will also continue, with corresponding volatility. We believe competition – especially for our synthetic rubber products – from new energy costs are likely to increase slightly in 2014. producers entering the market and from new capacities. Exchange rate fluctuations may impact our earnings. We have already In the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect a continuation entered into hedging transactions to ward off the effects of such deof good customer demand for our agrochemical products from the velopments in 2014 as well as 2015. Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business units. We are assuming further solid development of this business. However, we are The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for LANXESS’s businesses. planning more scheduled plant shutdowns in the Advanced Industrial We expect this currency to remain volatile against the euro in 2014, Intermediates business unit in 2014, which was taken into account moving within the range of US$1.25 and US$1.45. in the earnings forecast for the segment. For 2014, we are assuming lower depreciation and amortization In the Performance Chemicals segment, we are expecting a slight compared to the year under review, following the impairment charges improvement in demand overall in 2014. Among other things, we recognized in the Performance Polymers and Performance Chemicals believe that the construction industry will post more dynamic growth, segments in 2013. The start-up of new plants will result in additional especially in Asia and North America. Following the successful start-up depreciation expense in 2014. We project depreciation and amorof its CO2 concentration unit, our Leather business unit should benefit tization of between €400 million and €420 million in fiscal 2014. from an improved competitive situation. The forecast improvement in Higher costs are to be expected as a result of the increase in wages demand from the automotive industry should also provide impetus and salaries associated with the collective bargaining agreement. for our Rhein Chemie and Rubber Chemicals business units. In this connection, the cost position of the Rubber Chemicals business unit The effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group is significantly influshould be enhanced by the restructuring measures that have been enced by the regional distribution of its earnings. For the medium implemented. For our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit, term, LANXESS is targeting a tax rate of between 22% and 25%. On which serves the key water megatrend, we expect further growth opaccount of the currently challenging business environment, it will likely portunities given the continued good demand for our water treatment be higher in 2014. However, an exact forecast is difficult. products following successful product diversification through the introduction of our membrane technology in the current year. Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group Expected cost development of the LANXESS Group On account Liquidity situation LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking of the challenging economic environment in the year under review, and conservative financial policy. With more than €2.0 billion in cash LANXESS initiated the Advance program with extensive measures and undrawn credit lines, as described under “Financial condition,” aimed at countering the effects of weak demand. In connection with we have a very good liquidity and financing position which will enable this program, exceptional charges of around €150 million have been us to fund our selective growth strategy. budgeted until 2015. In 2013, we brought forward some €30 million in exceptional charges for the program, which diminished earnings Capital expenditures We will continue to pursue our investment and overall by around €110 million. growth strategy in fiscal 2014. The cash outflows for capital expenditures will again relate to the expansion of existing plants, the conIn addition to the Advance program, we have continued to flexibilstruction of new production facilities and the maintenance of existing ize our cost base through flexible asset management and high cost discipline. We seek to respond quickly and as necessary in adapting our cost development to the economic environment. Combined Management Report 115 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives production facilities. For 2014, we are projecting cash outflows for However, we currently anticipate very low demand stimulus in light of capital expenditures in line with the previous year. We expect a signifithe forecast development of the global economy. We also expect the cant investment volume of around €110 million for the construction situation for our business units with synthetic rubber products to remain of our world-scale facility for high-performance Nd-PBR in Singapore challenging in 2014 owing to new competitive and capacity situations. and about €130 million for the EPDM rubber facility in China. In our view, the development of raw material costs – especially for butaFinancing measures LANXESS is in a good position due to the longdiene – is a further key factor that could impact business performance term nature of its financing and ensures the financing for planned in 2014. We assume that prices will remain volatile at a comparatively capital expenditures by future cash flows, available liquidity and existmoderate level. We expect a slight increase in energy costs in 2014. ing lines of credit. The same also applies to the expected dividend payment and the pending redemption of the bond which matures Against the backdrop of the factors we have described, we are currently in April 2014. Thanks to the extensive measures taken in previous anticipating a slight increase overall in our key performance indicator, years to improve the company’s financial position, there will be no EBITDA pre exceptionals, in 2014. Alone the absence of one-time significant need for refinancing in connection with the redemption effects should contribute to this improvement – even if selling prices of this bond. In addition, LANXESS will continue its efforts to secure remain at a low level. long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy by further diversifying its financing sources and implementing forward-looking At the start of 2014, we are seeing a continuation of the challenges financing measures. for our synthetic rubber businesses in the Performance Polymers segment and so far no sign of any demand stimulus. Expected results of operations of LANXESS AG We expect the administration expenses that ­LANXESS AG incurs in performing its tasks However, we are confident of being able to continue growing organ­ as a management holding company to increase slightly in 2014 and ically and through targeted acquisitions in the medium term and 2015. Apart from this, the earnings position of ­LANXESS AG will be ­assume that our efficiency-enhancing and consistent restructuring dominated by the financial result, especially the net interest position measures will make a major contribution here. We have set and conand the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated tinue to pursue a mid-term target of €1.8 billion EBITDA pre excepcompanies. In 2014, we expect the net interest position to be negationals in 2018, although that target has become considerably more tive on account of the financing structure. The balance of income and ambitious in light of the current business trend. losses from investments in affiliated companies and the corresponding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend in large measure on the profit transfers and dividends paid by the other companies of the LANXESS Group. We will maintain our consistent dividend policy. In 2014, we expect net income of LANXESS AG to come in slightly higher than in 2013. Dividend policy LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. As in the past, our future dividend proposals will take into account the business performance of the relevant fiscal year, the Group’s financing goals and development trends in the new fiscal year. Summary of Group’s projected performance The ­LANXESS Group remains well positioned with its product portfolio in the relevant ­customer industries and will continue its efforts to expand its presence in the world’s growth regions this year. We assume that the efficiencyenhancing and restructuring measures we are taking as part of the Advance program will help to increase LANXESS’s competitiveness in what remains a challenging environment. 116 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Corporate Gazette with the exceptions described in the declaration of 13 December 2012 in Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1 and Section Governance Report 5.4.5, Sentence 2. LANXESS AG has and will henceforth comply with the recommendations of the Government Commission as amended on 13 May 2013, which was published on 10 June 2013, with the following exceptions: 1. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 6 The amount of compensation shall be capped, both overall and The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein report on for variable compensation components. corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Management The current employment contracts for Board of Management memalso issues its corporate governance statement pursuant to Section bers are besides the fixed compensation capped regarding the 289a of the German Commercial Code. variable compensation components and the fringe benefits. They do not provide in addition a separate overall cap of the compensaThe Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are tion also including a possible discretionary bonus. However, the committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate Supervisory Board will rightfully exercise its discretion regarding a governance and control. They place high value on the standards of discretionary bonus as shown in the past. good corporate governance with a view to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. 2. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1 In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken to ensure that payments made to a Management Board member Implementation of the German Corporate on premature termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, Governance Code do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation (severance pay cap) and compensate no more than the remaining term of the As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German stock excontract. change, corporate governance at the company is aligned with Germany’s securities and capital market legislation and the German The employment contracts for Board of Management members Corporate Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations limit payments to a Board of Management member on premature and suggestions concerning corporate governance. There is no obtermination of his contract, including fringe benefits, to two years’ ligation to comply with this code. However, pursuant to Section 161 compensation, except in the event of a change of control. However, of the German Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management they do not contain the additional limitation that no more than the and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are required to issue an annual remaining term of the contract shall be compensated. The Superdeclaration of compliance in line with the recommendations of the visory Board does not consider it appropriate to base the absolute German Corporate Governance Code, providing information about amount of any severance payment on the date of termination. and stating the reasons for any deviations from these recommendations. Shareholders can view the declaration of compliance on the 3. Section 5.1.2, Paragraph 2 Sentence 3 company’s website at any time. There they will also find the now invalid An age limit for the members of the Board of Management shall declarations made in the previous five years. be specified. On December 11, 2013, the Board of Management and Supervisory The Supervisory Board does not anymore consider an age limit to Board issued the following joint declaration pursuant to Section 161 the members of the Board of Management as appropriate. The abilof the German Stock Corporation Act: ity to successfully manage a company does not necessarily cease when a specific age is reached. It rather may be in the interest of “I. Recommendations the company to appoint a member of the Board of Management Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 13 Decembeyond a defined age limit. The Supervisory Board has therefore ber 2012, LANXESS AG has complied with the recommendations of set aside the initially defined age limit of 65 years for the members the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance of the Board of Management. Code (“Government Commission”) as amended on 15 May 2012, which was published on 15 June 2012 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Corporate Governance Report 117 4. Section 5.4.1, Paragraph 2 Sentence 1 1. Section 2.3.2, Sentence 2, 2nd Half-Sentence The Supervisory Board shall specify concrete objectives regardThe Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a ing its composition which, whilst considering the specifics of the representative to exercise shareholders’ voting rights in accordance company, take into account the international activities of the comwith instructions; this representative should also be reachable durpany, potential conflicts of interest, the number of independent ing the General Meeting. Supervisory Board members within the meaning of section 5.4.2, an age limit to be specified for the members of the Supervisory The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise Board and diversity. stockholders’ voting rights in accordance with instructions can be reached at the Stockholders’ Meeting until the voting is held. The Supervisory Board does also not adhere to the rigid age limit Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representafor the Supervisory Board members. The age of Supervisory Board tives up to the previous evening. members is not a criteria for their qualification and competence. The company does not want to waive longtime experiences. Moreover, 2. Section 2.3.3 the company would restrict itself regarding the appointment of The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow adequate members to the Supervisory Board. the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g. Internet). 5. Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2 Members of the Management Board of a listed company shall not The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the accept more than a total of three Supervisory Board mandates in Stockholders’ Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued non-group listed companies or in the supervisory bodies of nonbroadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contrigroup companies with comparable requirements. butions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the stockholders’ rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not Supervisory Board member Robert J. Koehler, currently Chairman plan to broadcast the further proceedings.” of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, is a member of the supervisory boards of three listed companies outside the SGL Carbon SE Group and holds two supervisory board mandates Other key principles of the management practices in a non-listed company outside the SGL Carbon SE Group with applied by LANXESS comparable requirements. However, we do not believe that this detracts from Mr. Koehler’s ability to diligently perform his duties Prominent among the other relevant management practices applied as a member of the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board. Mr. Koehler throughout the company are the principles of business conduct. will resign from the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE as LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the of 1 January 2014. The recommendation of Section 5.4.5, Senbasis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees’ integrity tence 2 will then be observed by LANXESS AG. and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success of our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustainII. Suggestions able environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product In addition to its recommendations, the Corporate Governance Code safety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for also contains a number of suggestions for efficient, responsible corLegal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which porate governance compliance which is not required to be disclosed is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards under the statutory provisions. LANXESS currently complies with these and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these suggestions as well, with only a few exceptions. standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www. lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/Responsibility/SustainIn accordance with Section 3.10 Sentence 2 of the German Corporate able Management. Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration: An effective compliance management system has been established to implement the compliance code. This system was globally audited Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 13 Dein 2012 by Deloitte & Touche GmbH, which applied the AuS 980 cember 2012, LANXESS AG has complied with the suggestions of standard promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Inthe Government Commission as amended on 15 May 2012, which stitute of Public Auditors in Germany). The system was rated favorably, was published on 15 June 2012 by the Federal Ministry of Justice and there were no objections. Components of this system include a in the official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, with the following exceptions and will continue to comply the suggestions of the Government Commission as amended on 13 May 2013, which was published on 10 June 2013, with the following exceptions: 118 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS agement board and supervisory board. This system is characterized Group organization, risk identification and assessment, a compliance by a clear separation between the management board as the body program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge sharthat manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that ing, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed advises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the supercompliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is visory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture the benefit of the company. of compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code. Board of Management As an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment. Following the mutually agreed termination of Dr. Axel C. Heitmann’s Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility. Safety, appointment as a member and Chairman of the Board of Management environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic of LANXESS AG, this currently comprises three members: Dr. ­Bernhard efficiency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The company’s Düttmann, Dr. Werner Breuers and Dr. Rainier van ­Roessel. Informaobjective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets the tion about the members of the Board of Management is available on demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. The our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/ greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility activities are achieved Corporate Governance/Board of Management. The Supervisory Board if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially, economic appointed Matthias Zachert as a member and Chairman of the Board objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core business or to of Management, originally effective May 15, 2014. In agreement our available expertise. An overview of the implementation of corporate with Mr. Zachert, the Supervisory Board has now decided that he will responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded from the Corporate already assume his functions on April 1, 2014. Until Mr. Zachert joins Responsibility section of our website at http://www.lanxess.com/. the Board of Management, Dr. Düttmann will perform the duties of the Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global Compact Chairman of the Board of Management. initiative in July 2011 and has supported and consistently applied the Responsible Care® Global Charter adopted by the International The Board of Management is appointed to manage and represent the Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) since 2006. company. It is responsible for conducting business in the company’s interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal LANXESS has supplemented German legislation prohibiting insider tasks of the Board of Management include defining the company’s trading with a Group-wide insider directive. This defines rules of congoals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operatduct for trading in the company’s securities so that insider trading ing units, setting human resources policy, arranging the company’s violations can be avoided. The names of persons with authorized financing, and establishing an effective risk management system. It access to insider information required for the performance of their is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and half-year financial professional duties are included in an insider register that is regularly statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated updated. The directive also stipulates the reporting and disclosure financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the management obligations for transactions with LANXESS shares (directors’ dealings). report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. Corporate policies on other important issues such as occupational The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Management. safety and diversity are implemented throughout the Group on the As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with a simple basis of Board of Management initiatives. With its Diversity & Inclusion majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting vote. Resoinitiative, LANXESS aims to promote equal opportunity for employees lutions of the Board of Management are generally passed at regularly and facilitate work/life balance. Additional information is available on held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of Management our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under About LANXESS/Who that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations we are/Diversity & Inclusion. concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. In deciding the composition of the Board of Composition and work of the Board of Management Management, the Supervisory Board gives consideration to profesand of the Supervisory Board and its committees sional suitability, leadership qualities and diversity. LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law is the two-tier management system with the governing bodies of manCorporate Governance Report 119 Supervisory Board down the Board of Management’s notification and reporting requirements in detail in its rules of procedure. The Chairman of the Board The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of twelve memof Management regularly exchanges information with the Chairman bers, with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and ­employee of the Supervisory Board in order to discuss matters of strategy, planrepresentatives in accordance with the provisions of the German ning, business performance, risks, risk management and compliance. Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are Certain transactions and measures of major or long-term importance elected by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas the employee require the Supervisory Board’s approval. Measures requiring approval representatives are elected in accordance with the provisions of the include, but are not limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; the Codetermination Act and its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board acquisition, sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings or members normally serve for a five-year term. other assets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transactions. Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions. Gisela Seidel, Axel Berndt, Dr. Rudolf Fauss, Ulrich Freese, Thomas Meiers and Hans-Jürgen Schicker serve as the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board. Claudia Nemat, Dr. Friedrich Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board ­Janssen, Robert J. Koehler, Rainer Laufs, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Theo H. Walthie serve as the stockholder representatives. The Local Court of Section 5.4.1, Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance Cologne appointed Ms. Nemat as a member of the Supervisory Board Code states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on July 25, 2013. She will stand for election by the regarding its composition and the status of the implementation of these stockholders at the 2014 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Chairobjectives are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report. man of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. Information about the members of the Supervisory The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are expected Board is available on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under to possess the necessary expertise, skills and professional experiInvestor Relations/Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. ence to perform their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board autonomously undertake the necessary training required for their The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management tasks and are supported in their efforts by the company. In making in its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible business. The Supervisory Board discusses business performance, and fair selection criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also ingives consideration to the nominated candidates’ integrity, commitclude appointing the members of the Board of Management as well ment and independence. as reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure the provision Board reaches its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a of impartial advice and supervision to the Board of Management. All different majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chaircurrent stockholder representatives on the Supervisory Board are man of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on independent. The Supervisory Board also assumes the independence the resolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codeterof the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board and that mination Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. their ability to act independently is not affected by their status as emThe Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the ployees of the company or members of labor unions. No member of Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of the Supervisory Board has a personal or business relationship with the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted the company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or any at regularly held meetings. enterprise affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may cause a material and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No former The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, which, member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all Board and the personal qualifications of its members, establishes the future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent within processes for convening, preparing and chairing meetings as well as the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance the procedures for voting. Code and free of conflicts of interest. The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid 120 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The Supervisory Board no longer applies a rigid age limit for its memsuccession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the bers and has revoked the corresponding provision in its rules of proCommittee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the cedure. The Supervisory Board does not consider the age alone of its Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regardmembers to be a measure of their qualification and competence. The ing the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In company should not have to forgo extensive experience. place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel, contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Janssen. of LANXESS AG has been reflected in the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system, abroad for a long period or in an international field. One member of as well as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. The members of the the work additionally performed by the auditor, and compliance. It Supervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical indusprepares the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the annual try and other sectors that are important for the company’s business. financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and recommends an auditor whom With the election of stockholder and employee representatives in the Supervisory Board then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ fiscal 2010, the composition of the Supervisory Board – with the Meeting for appointment. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is exception of the appointment of Ms. Nemat – was fixed for the current an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge and term ending in 2015. Two of the twelve members currently serving experience in the field of accounting acquired through his professional on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board are women. With a view activities. The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairto ensuring appropriate representation of women, the number of man), Mr. Berndt, Dr. Fauss, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie. women members of the Supervisory Board is to be increased. The Supervisory Board aims to have at least three women members from The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German the start of its next term. Stockholder and employee representatives Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31, to the Supervisory Board view it as their joint responsibility to ensure Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. The members of the appropriate representation of women. They aim to work together this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Nemat in fulfilling this responsibility. Future nominations to the relevant bodies and Mr. Schicker. of candidates for membership of the Supervisory Board should support the attainment of this goal. In setting this goal, the Supervisory The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder repreBoard is assuming that it will be able to identify women candidates sentatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to with the requisite professional and personal qualifications for election. nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members of this committee are Dr. ­Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Mr. Walthie. Composition and work of the Supervisory Board committees The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory Board on the work of the committees. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from Stockholders and stockholders’ meetings among its members. The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetStockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submitings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions ted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also recompany. Each share confers one vote. solve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term Corporate Governance Report 121 The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include Reportable securities transactions appropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the actions taken by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Pursuant to Section 15a, Paragraph 1 of the German Securities TradBoard, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder ing Act (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ members of a management board or supervisory board, must be Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association, reported if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of intercalendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Individuals who are closely company agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ related to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and firstMeeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board degree relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. Reportgive an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation able securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain situations. The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of December 31, All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend 2013 was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’ Accounting and auditing Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through a company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements and interim financial statements in accordance with the International Finan­cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union. The Compensation report separate financial statements of LANXESS AG for any given fiscal year (“financial statements”) are prepared in accordance with the German The compensation report, which describes the compensation system Commercial Code (HGB). The financial statements, consolidated and the amount of compensation paid to the members of the Board of financial statements and combined management report are published, Management and Supervisory Board for their service in fiscal 2013, once adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board, within 90 days is part of the combined management report for LANXESS AG and of the end of the fiscal year. The company’s accounting for the 2013 the LANXESS Group. fiscal year was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), the auditors chosen at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting held in 2013. PwC also reviewed the Risk management 2013 half-year financial report. The audits are conducted in accordance with German auditing regulations and the generally accepted Corporate governance also includes the responsible handling of busistandards for auditing promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer ness risks. Therefore, a systematic and effective risk management (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). It was agreed with system is the basis for professional corporate governance. Our risk the auditors that they would report to the Supervisory Board without management system aims to identify risks and opportunities at an delay concerning any possible grounds for their disqualification or early stage and to steer and minimize the risks that materialize. It is bias as well as any significant findings or incidents that came to light subject to ongoing optimization and adaptation to changing condiduring the audit. tions. The Board of Management informs the Supervisory Board about the existence and development of potential risks on a regular basis. The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk Corporate governance statement management, internal control and auditing systems. On March 6, 2014, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG issued its declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Liability insurance Code, which is published together with the Corporate Governance Report on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor The company maintains a directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurRelations/Corporate Governance. ance policy for members of the Board of Management and Super­visory Board. The suitable deductible required by Section 93, Paragraph 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act has been agreed for members of the Board of Management, and the recommended deductible within the meaning of Section 3.8 of the German Corporate Governance Code has been agreed for the members of the Supervisory Board. 122 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Offices held by Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2013) Member of External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group the Board of Management Dr. Axel C. • Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) • Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Heitmann • Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business (APA) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Chairman of • Member of the Board of Management and Presidium of OAV-German-AsiaCo. Ltd. the Board of Pacific Business Association Management • Chairman of the Foreign Trade Committee of the Federation of German (no longer on Industries (BDI) the Board of • Member of the Advisory Board of NRW.Bank Management) • Member of the Presidium of stiftung neue verantwortung • Member of the Executive Committee of the Stifterverband für die Deutsche ­Wissenschaft • Member of the Advisory Board of Goethe-Institut e.V. • Member of the Association of Friends of Philharmonie KölnMusik e.V. • Member of the Board of Trustees of Konvent für Deutschland e.V. Dr. Werner • Member of the Supervisory Board of Currenta Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Breuers Leverkusen • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH Member of • Member of the Supervisory Board of Messer Group GmbH, Bad Soden • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aliseca GmbH the Board of • Member of the Board of Trustees of the VCI’s Chemical Industry Fund • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. ­Management • Member of the Board of Trustees of the DWI of RWTH Aachen University • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS International S.A. • Member of the German Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd. • Member of the Advisory Board of the Association for Chemistry & Economics • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. (VCW) • Member of the Senate of the Deutsche Akademie der Technik­wissenschaften • Member of the Board of Directors of the German American ­Chamber of Commerce Dr. Bernhard • Member of the Supervisory Board of GfK SE, Nuremberg • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Düttmann • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI) • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. Chief Financial • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmens­führung e.V. Officer (GEFIU) Dr. Rainier • Member of the Board of the VCI Regional Association in North Rhine-Westphalia • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH van Roessel • Member of the VCI Trade Policy Committee • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. Member of • Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the German ­Association • Executive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. the Board of for Personnel Management (DGFP) • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH ­Management • Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Federation (BAVC) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. and ­Industrial • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Holding Hispania S.L. ­Relations • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemicals S.L. ­Director • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Chairman of the Governing Board of LANXESS Srl. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. LANXESS AG Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) Ulrich Freese (Vice Chairman) • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG • Member of the Bundestag • Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of • Former Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. Union, Hannover • Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., Further offices: London, U.K. • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Vice Chairman) Further offices: • Vattenfall Europe Mining AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) • ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Chairman) • Vattenfall Europe Generation AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) • ­Biesterfeld AG, Hamburg* • Vattenfall GmbH, Berlin* (Vice Chairman) • ­HOYER GmbH, Hamburg • DMT GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • ­KEMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg • Vivawest Wohnen GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • ­OAO Severstal, Cherepovets, Russia • Vivawest GmbH, Essen (Vice Chairman) • ­Ruspetro plc, London, U.K. • GSB – Gesellschaft zur Sicherung von Bergmannswohnungen mbH, Essen (Vice Chairman, until December 31, 2013) • GSG Wohnungsbau Braunkohle GmbH, Cologne (Vice Chairman, until December 31, 2013) Corporate Governance Report 123 Axel Berndt Thomas Meiers • Specialist for Portfolio & Change Management in the IT department, District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Cologne • Former member of the Works Council at the Leverkusen site Further offices: Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne* • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen* (until June 13, 2013) • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* Dr. Rudolf Fauss Prof. h.c. (CHN) Dr.-Ing. E.h. Dr. Ulrich Middelmann (deceased July 2, 2013) • Head of Central Functions in the HR Services Germany Group Function • Chairman of the LANXESS AG Group Managerial Employees’ Committee Former Vice Chairman of the Executive Board of ThyssenKrupp AG, Duisburg/Essen • Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee Further offices: Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn* • Commerzbank AG, Frankfurt am Main* • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman) Dr. Friedrich Janssen Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen Claudia Nemat (Member of the Supervisory Board since July 25, 2013) Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn • National-Bank AG, Essen* Further offices: • E.ON Energy Trading SE, Düsseldorf* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • E.ON Hanse AG, Quickborn* • Buyln SA, Brussels, Belgium (Chairwoman) • E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen* • Everything Everywhere Limited, London, U.K. • Avacon AG, Helmstedt* • Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (OTE S.A.), • Stadtwerke Göttingen AG, Göttingen* Maroussi, Athens, Greece • HDI-Gerling Sach Serviceholding AG, Hannover • Thüga Assekuranz Services München Versicherungsmakler GmbH, Munich • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman) Hans-Jürgen Schicker Chairman of the Works Council at the Uerdingen site Further offices: Robert J. Koehler • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Former Chairman of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, Wiesbaden Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Gisela Seidel • Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Heidelberg* (Chairman) • Klöckner & Co. SE, Duisburg* Chairwoman of the Works Council at the Dormagen site • Freudenberg SE, Weinheim* (since January 1, 2013) Further offices: • Benteler International AG, Salzburg, Austria (Chairman) • ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • SGL Carbon S.p.A., Lainate, Milan, Italy (until December 31, 2013) • SGL Carbon SDN BHD, Banting, Malaysia (until December 31, 2013) • SGL Carbon S.A., La Coruña, Spain (until December 31, 2013) Theo H. Walthie Self-employed consultant Rainer Laufs Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • Self-employed consultant • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basle, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration, • Former Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Shell AG, Hamburg since December 1, 2013) Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • WCM Beteiligungsund Grundbesitz AG, Frankfurt am Main* (Chairman) The information about offices held refers to memberships of other • Petrotec AG, Düsseldorf* (Chairman) • Bilfinger Industrial Services GmbH, Munich supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies • Bilfinger Industrial Technologies GmbH, Frankfurt am Main in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2013). • Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, Hamburg* (since February 15, 2013) • Asklepios Kliniken Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Königstein im Taunus* (since February 15, 2013) * Statutory supervisory boards 124 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, 2013 was a very difficult year for LANXESS. While the company had posted very good growth in the prior years, demand in the rubber business began to slacken in 2012, a development which continued in the reporting year. In addition, the effects of a supply overhang caused by higher production capacities became evident in 2013. Changes in the competitive environment led to the recognition of impairment charges of €257 million in the fourth quarter. As a result of the difficult business situation overall, LANXESS saw a substantial decline in earnings compared to previous years and posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of just €735 million in fiscal 2013. Against the backdrop of the difficult business environment, LANXESS resolved in 2013 to take a range of efficiency measures and is continuing to implement these in 2014. At the beginning of the current fiscal year, the Supervisory Board decided on a change of leadership of the Board of Management and approved the mutually agreed termination of the appointment of Dr. Axel C. Heitmann as member and Chairman of the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board appointed Matthias Zachert as the new Chairman of the Board of Management. Until he joined Merck KGaA in 2011, Mr. Zachert was Chief Financial Officer of LANXESS. He will take up his new position on April 1, 2014. During 2013, the Supervisory Board duly and fully performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It advised the Board of Management regularly on the management of the company and monitored its work. In particular, the Supervisory Board concerned itself with the company’s below-forecast business performance. The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management informed us regularly in written and oral reports about business perforReport of the Supervisory Board 125 mance, the situation of the Group, including the risk situation, strategic The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 19, 2013 development and current issues. On the basis of these reports, we was the review of the annual financial statements and consolidated discussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly financial statements for fiscal 2012, the proposal for use of the disexamined the reports and the resolutions proposed by the Board of tributable profit, and preparation of the motions for resolution by the Management and discussed them at length in meetings of the full Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board also dealt at Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles of associalength with issues relating to corporate governance and defined the tion or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to approve the variable compensation components on the basis of target attainment in actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these actions and fiscal 2012, which had been highly successful. Another of the human adopted resolutions on them. resources issues addressed by the Supervisory Board was the adjustment of the base salary and pension entitlements of the members of The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Board the Board of Management. of Management and the other members of the Board of Management were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. At the meeting on May 7, 2013, the Supervisory Board approved the We regularly discussed the present state of the company, matters of extension of Dr. Bernhard Düttmann’s term of office as a member of strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and the Board of Management by five years from April 1, 2014. In addition, compliance, as well as material events. the Board of Management reported on the status of construction of the butyl rubber plant in Singapore. We were also informed of the measures taken by the company in the areas of environmental protection Principal topics discussed by the Supervisory Board and occupational and plant safety. The potential impact on LANXESS of the shale gas boom in the United States was also discussed. The Supervisory Board met a total of six times in 2013. At the meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual StockWe regularly discussed the challenging sales and earnings perforholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013, the Board of Management remance of the company and its segments, as well as the financial posiported on the status of preparations for the relocation of company tion. Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about headquarters to Cologne and on human resources initiatives and the overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, measures. the performance of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition plans. Other important issues addressed by the Supervisory Board On August 2, 2013, the Supervisory Board elected Dr. Janssen to are presented below. succeed Dr. Middelmann as a member of the Presidial Committee of the Supervisory Board. The Board of Management informed us about the portfolio and restructuring measures in the Saltigo business unit. The Supervisory Board also continued its discussion of the human resources issues that were the subject of the meeting immediately prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. 126 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 In the meeting held on November 8, 2013, the Board of ManageCodetermination Act. The committees are tasked with preparing the ment reported on the company’s financial policy. We also discussed topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full Superthe compliance situation in the LANXESS Group. In addition, the visory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making powers Board of Management updated us about the status of the Performance conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. ­Butadiene Rubbers business unit’s investment project in Singapore. In light of the revision of Section 4.2.2, Paragraph 2, Sentence 3 of the The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in parGerman Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board approved ticular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG for fiscal peer groups for assessing the appropriateness of the compensation 2012, the consolidated financial statements and combined managepaid to members of the Board of Management within the context of ment report for fiscal 2012, the interim reports issued during fiscal vertical comparability. 2013, and the condensed consolidated financial statements and interim management report included in the 2013 half-year financial At its meeting on December 11, 2013, the Supervisory Board reviewed report. It also extensively reviewed the risk management and internal in full and approved the corporate planning for 2014 proposed by the control systems. Other topics discussed were the significant findings Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s strategic alignby the internal audit department, corporate planning, corporate govment and capital expenditure policy. The Supervisory Board approved ernance, compliance, IT security and know-how protection, and the the revocation of the age limit for members of both the Board of Mandetermination of the principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2013 agement and the Supervisory Board and correspondingly amended financial statements. The external auditor attended two of the Audit the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board. Theo Walthie was Committee’s four meetings and reported on the auditing activities. appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee and Claudia Nemat as a member of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, The Presidial Committee convened five times during 2013 to prepare Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act, thus concluding the the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the decisions to be reached elections to the committees. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the by the full Supervisory Board concerning human resources issues. conditions for the variable compensation components for the members of the Board of Management for fiscal 2014 and approved the The Nominations Committee met once in fiscal 2013. The Comparticipation of the members of the Board of Management in a new mittee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Long-Term Stock Performance Plan for the period from 2014 to 2017. Codetermination Act did not have to convene. All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Board’s the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory meetings in 2013 were attended by all members, with the exception Board. of one meeting at which two of the twelve members were absent. Committee meetings were attended by all members, with the exception of one meeting that one member was unable to attend. The stockholder Corporate governance and declaration of compliance representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetIn the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the German ings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and its further development arising from the amendments of May 13, 2013. The joint declaration of compliance made on December 11, 2013 by the Board of Work of the committees The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Committee, the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Report of the Supervisory Board 127 Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the the German Stock Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory at any time on the company’s website. As expressed in the declaraBoard has approved the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG tion, LANXESS AG complies with the Code’s recommendations and and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, suggestions except in a few justified cases. No conflicts of interest which were prepared by the Board of Management. The Supervisory on the part of Supervisory Board members became known last year. Board endorsed the Board of Management’s proposal for use of the Further information about corporate governance can be found in the distributable profit after close examination and extensive deliberaCorporate Governance Report. tions that carefully weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders. Financial statements of LANXESS AG and ­consolidated financial statements Composition of the Supervisory Board of the LANXESS Group The composition of the Supervisory Board changed during fiscal 2013. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial With the unexpected death of Dr. Middelmann in early July 2013, we statements for the 2013 fiscal year in accordance with the rules of the lost an experienced Supervisory Board member who had been with us German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements for from the start. The Supervisory Board greatly valued Dr. Middelmann’s fiscal 2012 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting commitment and input and will continue to hold his memory in high Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2012. esteem. On July 25, 2013, the Local Court of Cologne appointed These were all audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Ms. Claudia Nemat to replace him as a stockholder representative Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual and member of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG. She will be Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The standing for election by the stockholders at the 2014 Annual Stockauditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case. holders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence of the The Supervisory Board thanks the Board of Management, all of the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. Group’s employees and the employee representatives for their enormous dedication and tremendous work. The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 10, 2014. They Cologne, March 18, 2014 were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 18, 2014. The responsible auditor was present for The Supervisory Board the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to Dr. Rolf Stomberg the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional Chairman information. Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal 128 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 168 Notes to the Income Statement 129 Statement of Financial Position 168 (20) Sales 130 Income Statement 168 (21) Cost of sales 131 Statement of Comprehensive Income 168 (22) Selling expenses 132 Statement of Changes in Equity 169 (23) Research and development expenses 133 Statement of Cash Flows 169 (24) General administration expenses 169 (25) Other operating income 134 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 (26) Other operating expenses 134 General information 169 (27) Financial result 134 Structure and components of the 170 (28) Income taxes consolidated financial statements 171 (29) Earnings and dividend per share 134 Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied 171 (30) Personnel expenses 135 Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory 172 Other Information 136 Presentation changes and restatement of 172 (31) Employees prior-year figures 172 (32) Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments 136 Consolidation 173 (33) Related parties 137 Currency translation 173 (34) Compensation of the Board of Management 138 Accounting policies and valuation principles and the Supervisory Board 144 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion 174 (35) Financial instruments 147 Companies consolidated 182 (36) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 183 (37) Segment reporting 151 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 185 (38) Audit fees 151 (1) Intangible assets 185 (39) Declaration of Compliance pursuant to 152 (2) Property, plant and equipment Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 153 (3) Investments accounted for using the equity method 185 (40) Exemptions under Section 264, Paragraph 3 153 (4) Investments in other affiliated companies of the German Commercial Code 154 (5) Derivative financial instruments 154 (6) Other non-current and current financial assets 186 Responsibility ­Statement 155 (7) Other non-current assets 187 Auditor’s Report 155 (8) Inventories 155 (9) Trade receivables 156 (10) Near-cash assets 156 (11) Other current assets 156 (12) Equity 158 (13) Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 164 (14) Other non-current and current provisions 167 (15) Other non-current and current financial liabilities 167 (16) Non-current and current income tax liabilities 168 (17) Other non-current and current liabilities 168 (18) Trade payables 168 (19) Further information on liabilities Consolidated Financial Statements 129 Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position ­LANXESS Group € million Note Jan. 1, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Assets Intangible assets (1) 373 390 323 Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,679 2,994 2,903 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 12 8 12 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 19 18 13 Non-current derivative assets (5) 8 16 20 Other non-current financial assets (6) 82 8 11 Non-current income tax receivables 0 0 1 Deferred taxes (28) 196 211 254 Other non-current assets (7) 120 102 55 Non-current assets 3,489 3,747 3,592 Inventories (8) 1,386 1,527 1,299 Trade receivables (9) 1,146 1,117 1,070 Cash and cash equivalents 178 386 427 Near-cash assets (10) 350 411 106 Current derivative assets (5) 8 28 58 Other current financial assets (6) 27 6 6 Current income tax receivables 64 41 55 Other current assets (11) 230 256 198 Current assets 3,389 3,772 3,219 Total assets 6,878 7,519 6,811 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 889 889 889 Other reserves 1,449 1,238 1,690 Net income (loss) 0 508 (159) Other equity components (280) (321) (525) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 16 16 5 Equity (12) 2,074 2,330 1,900 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (13) 679 893 943 Other non-current provisions (14) 331 304 258 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 13 4 12 Other non-current financial liabilities (15) 1,465 2,167 1,649 Non-current income tax liabilities (16) 63 35 49 Other non-current liabilities (17) 89 74 89 Deferred taxes (28) 75 82 29 Non-current liabilities 2,715 3,559 3,029 Other current provisions (14) 446 440 355 Trade payables (18) 766 795 690 Current derivative liabilities (5) 40 10 22 Other current financial liabilities (15) 633 167 668 Current income tax liabilities (16) 49 45 21 Other current liabilities (17) 155 173 126 Current liabilities 2,089 1,630 1,882 Total equity and liabilities 6,878 7,519 6,811 2012 figures restated 130 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Income Statement ­­ ­LANXESS Group € million Note 2012 2013 Sales (20) 9,094 8,300 Cost of sales (21) (6,988) (6,752) Gross profit 2,106 1,548 Selling expenses (22) (763) (755) Research and development expenses (23) (192) (186) General administration expenses (24) (339) (301) Other operating income (25) 186 128 Other operating expenses (26) (190) (527) Operating result (EBIT) 808 (93) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 1 0 Interest income 5 2 Interest expense (101) (108) Other financial income and expense (53) (40) Financial result (27) (148) (146) Income (loss) before income taxes 660 (239) Income taxes (28) (151) 71 Income (loss) after income taxes 509 (168) of which attributable to non-controlling interests 1 (9) of which attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders [net income (loss)] 508 (159) Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (29) 6.11 (1.91) 2012 figures restated Consolidated Financial Statements 131 Income Statement | Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income ­LANXESS Group € million 2012 2013 Income (loss) after income taxes 509 (168) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (210) (4) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method 0 26 Income taxes 69 5 (141) 27 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (81) (199) Financial instruments 58 (7) Income taxes (18) 3 (41) (203) Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (182) (176) Total comprehensive income 327 (344) of which attributable to non-controlling interests 1 (8) of which attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders 326 (336) 2012 figures restated 132 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Statement of Changes in Equity ­LANXESS Group € million Capital Capital Other Net Other equity components Equity Equity Equity stock ­reserves reserves income ­attributable attribut(loss) Currency Financial to able to nontranslation instruments ­LANXESS AG controlling adjustment stockholders interests Dec. 31, 2011 83 806 954 495 (248) (32) 2,058 16 2,074 Allocations to retained earnings 495 (495) 0 0 Dividend payments (71) (71) (1) (72) Stock-based compensation 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income (141) 508 (81) 40 326 1 327 Income after income taxes 508 508 1 509 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (141) (81) 40 (182) 0 (182) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (210) (210) (210) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (81) (81) 0 (81) Financial instruments 58 58 58 Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments ­accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Income taxes on other ­comprehensive ­income 69 (18) 51 51 Dec. 31, 2012 83 806 1,238 508 (329) 8 2,314 16 2,330 Allocations to retained earnings 508 (508) 0 0 Dividend payments (83) (83) (83) Total comprehensive income 27 (159) (200) (4) (336) (8) (344) Income (loss) after income taxes (159) (159) (9) (168) Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 27 (200) (4) (177) 1 (176) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (4) (4) (4) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (200) (200) 1 (199) Financial instruments (7) (7) (7) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments ­accounted for using the equity method 26 26 26 Income taxes on other ­comprehensive ­income 5 3 8 8 Other changes 1) 0 (3) (3) Dec. 31, 2013 83 806 1,690 (159) (529) 4 1,895 5 1,900 2012 figures restated 1) Effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Statement of Changes in Equity | Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows ­LANXESS Group € million Note 2012 2013 Income (loss) before income taxes 660 (239) Amortization, depreciation and write-downs of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 378 717 Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0 (2) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method (1) 0 Financial losses 113 111 Income taxes paid (109) (41) Changes in inventories (164) 186 Changes in trade receivables 8 5 Changes in trade payables 38 (81) Changes in other assets and liabilities (85) (15) Net cash provided by operating activities 838 641 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (696) (624) Cash inflows from financial assets 41 290 Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents and net of subsequent purchase price adjustments (44) (15) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 5 5 Interest and dividends received 20 2 Net cash used in investing activities (36) (674) (342) Proceeds from borrowings 893 105 Repayments of borrowings (652) (163) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (123) (119) Dividend payments (72) (83) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (36) 46 (260) Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 210 39 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 178 386 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents (2) 2 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (36) 386 427 2012 figures restated 134 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the ­calendar year. LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, Germany. Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, to which the auditors, The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group as of PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ Decem­ber 31, 2013 were prepared in accordance with the Intergesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified auditor’s national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the ­reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundes­anzeiger). European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together with the additional requirements of Section 315a, Paragraph 1 of the The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal German Commercial Code (HGB). 2013 were prepared by the Board of Management of ­LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory Board on March 6, 2014. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to examine Fair value measurement the consolidated financial statements and declare whether or not it approves them. In May 2011 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) published IFRS 13, a new standard that addresses questions relating to measurement at fair value. IFRS 13 also prescribes additional Structure and components of the consolidated disclosures in the notes to the financial statements relating to fair value financial statements measurement. Its application had no material impact on the financial position or results of operations. The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of financial position, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement Presentation of items of other comprehensive income and the notes, which include the segment information. In accordance with the amendments to IAS 1 issued in June 2011, The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros (€). items of other comprehensive income are now segregated according Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except where other­ to whether or not they may subsequently become reclassifiable to wise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified in the statement of profit or loss if certain conditions are met. financial position as current or non-current. Further details of their maturities are provided below in certain cases. Accounting for pensions and other The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of post-employment benefits historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these Starting on January 1, 2013, the LANXESS Group applied the revised are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies version of IAS 19 issued in June 2011. The revisions address the and valuation principles. recognition and measurement of expenses for defined benefit pension plans and termination benefits. In compliance with the respective The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. financial reporting standards, the accounting changes were applied retrospectively. There are also changes with respect to the disclosures required in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 135 General information | Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements | Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied | Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory Since the option used by the LANXESS Group in accounting for actuFinancial reporting standards and interpretations arial gains and losses already corresponded to the mandatory method, issued but not yet mandatory application of the revised version of IAS 19 had no material impact on the financial position or results of operations. In 2013 the LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further financial reporting standards and interpretations that had already been The accounting changes did not affect the amount of provisions issued by the IASB and the IFRS Interpretations Committee but were for pensions and other post-employment benefits as of January 1, not mandatory for that year. The application of these standards and 2012. The changes had the effect of increasing the provisions for interpretations is in some cases contingent upon their endorsement pensions and other post-employment benefits and the other reserves by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates for mandatory apas of December 31, 2012, by €1 million and €5 million, respectively. plication may ultimately be later than indicated below. Net income for 2012 was reduced accordingly, taking into account deferred tax income of €3 million. Accordingly, earnings per share In November 2009 the IASB published IFRS 9. The new requirements for 2012 decreased from €6.18 to €6.11. The other reserves as of this standard introduced for classifying and measuring financial asDecember 31, 2013 were increased by €5 million and net income sets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the for 2013 was reduced accordingly, taking into account deferred tax measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial income of €4 million. In both years, €2 million of the reduction in instruments. In November 2013, the IASB published amendments net income pertained to the operating result and €7 million to the to IFRS 9 containing new rules on hedge accounting. These amendfinancial result. The related tax effects are mainly reflected in other ments allow early adoption of the requirement that fair value changes comprehensive income as deferred tax expense. The application of attributable to changes in the credit risk of a liability designated as at the revised version of IAS 19 diminished earnings per share in 2013 fair value through profit or loss be presented in other comprehensive from minus €1.85 to minus €1.91. income under certain conditions even if the other rules of IFRS 9 are not simultaneously applied. Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities On February 20, 2014, the IASB tentatively decided to select January 1, 2018, as the effective date for mandatory application of IFRS 9. In December 2011 the IASB published amendments to IFRS 7 requirHowever, application of this standard by LANXESS is dependent on its ing additional disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and endorsement by the E.U. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating financial liabilities. Details of any netting arrangements for amounts the impact the application of IFRS 9 will have on its financial position that do not meet the criteria for offsetting under IFRS must also be and results of operations. disclosed. Since the changes solely relate to disclosure requirements, their first-time application had no impact on the financial position or In May 2011 the IASB published three new standards – IFRS 10, results of operations of the LANXESS Group. IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 – and two revised standards – IAS 27 and IAS 28 – on accounting for participating interests in other entities. In June 2012 the IASB issued amendments to the transition guidance Further changes for the three new standards. The application of all of these standards is mandatory in the E.U. for annual periods beginning on or after JanuThe mandatory first-time application of the following financial reporting ary 1, 2014. The LANXESS Group does not expect their application to standards and interpretations in 2013 currently has no impact, or no have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. material impact, on the LANXESS Group: • Amendments to IAS 12: Deferred Tax – Recovery of In May 2013, the IASB published amendments to IAS 36. The new Underlying Assets rules make it clear that the recoverable amount of an asset or cash• Amendments to IFRS 1: Severe Hyperinflation and Removal generating unit now only has to be disclosed for periods in which a of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters write-down has been recognized or reversed. Additional disclosures • IFRIC 20: Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of are required when a write-down is recognized or reversed and the a Surface Mine recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal. Ap• Amendments to IFRS 1: Government Loans plication of the revised standard is mandatory in the E.U. for annual • Various IAS and IFRS 1: Annual Improvements to IFRSs, periods beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Since the changes 2009 – 2011 Cycle solely relate to disclosure requirements, the first-time application of the revised version of IAS 36 will have no impact on the financial position or results of operations of the LANXESS Group. 136 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The following financial reporting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group. Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory for Endorsed ­publication ­LANXESS as of by the E.U. fiscal year IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32 Dec. 16, 2011 2014 yes IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Investment Entities – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 and IAS 27 Oct. 31, 2012 2014 yes IFRIC 21 Levies May 20, 2013 2014 no IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting – Amendments to IAS 39 June 27, 2013 2014 yes IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19 Nov. 21, 2013 2015 no Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2010 – 2012 Cycle Dec. 12, 2013 2015 no Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2011 – 2013 Cycle Dec. 12, 2013 2015 no IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Jan. 30, 2014 – no Presentation changes and restatement Scope of consolidation of prior-year figures The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include Non-current income tax assets are no longer included in other nonLANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the direct or indirect control current assets but are disclosed in a separate line item in the statement of LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG holds more than half of financial position. of the voting rights in a company or is otherwise able to govern the company’s financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits Prior-year figures have been restated to reflect the application of the from its activities. Special purpose entities in which control is exercised revised version of IAS 19. Further details can be found in the section from an economic viewpoint are also included in the consolidated headed “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied” financial statements. A company is consolidated as of the date from under “Accounting for pensions and other post-employment benefits.” which ­LANXESS AG is able to exercise control (acquisition date) and A presentation change in the statement of comprehensive income is deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. explained in the same section under “Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.” Investments in entities in which the ­LANXESS Group exerts a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest between 20% and 50%, are accounted for using the equity method. Consolidation Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s financial posiThe financial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared tion and results of operations are not consolidated, but are included in using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles. the consolidated financial statements at cost of acquisition. If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on DecemChanges in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed ber 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the purpose of “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies. consolidation. Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and payables are eliminated. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory | Presentation changes and restatement of prior-year figures | Consolidation | Currency translation Fully consolidated companies Joint ventures Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The joint venture DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, was included The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the in the consolidated financial statements by proportionate consolidation. fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and Currency translation liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts. In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and liabilities are transfair value as of the acquisition date. lated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. Forward contracts serving as economic hedges against fluctuations in exchange For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares rates are reflected at fair value. not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro-rata share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis of financial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests. of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the are translated at closing rates, while income and expense items are consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests translated at average rates for the year. and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate, been re-examined. irrespective of the date on which it arose. Equity (other than income and expenses recognized in other comInvestments accounted for using the equity method prehensive income) is translated at historical rates, while income and expenses are translated at average rates. The differences between the The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity resulting amounts and those obtained by translating at closing rates method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any are reported separately in other comprehensive income as exchange change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone. in the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated non-current If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated assets reversed and recognized in profit or loss. are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligation, e.g. to offset pro-rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investments using the equity method are determined according to the same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate. 138 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The principal exchange rates used for currency translation in the for impairment annually, or more often if events or a change in cirLANXESS Group were: cumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment charges are recognized in other operating expenses. Impairment charges on Exchange Rates goodwill are not reversed. €1 Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application 2012 2013 2012 2013 development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected Argentina ARS 6.49 8.99 5.85 7.28 useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service. Brazil BRL 2.70 3.23 2.51 2.87 China CNY 8.22 8.35 8.11 8.16 United Kingdom GBP 0.82 0.83 0.81 0.85 Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated India INR 72.56 85.23 68.62 77.82 free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) Japan JPY 113.61 144.72 102.61 129.62 or comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized Canada CAD 1.31 1.47 1.28 1.37 at a value of zero. Singapore SGD 1.61 1.74 1.61 1.66 South Africa ZAR 11.17 14.57 10.55 12.83 United States USD 1.32 1.38 1.29 1.33 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or Accounting policies and valuation principles construction less depreciation for wear and tear. LANXESS does not use the revaluation model. Write-downs are recognized for any reducThe accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as those tion in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In compliance with used in the previous fiscal year and have been consistently applied. IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by comparing the carrying However, certain changes have resulted from the mandatory first-time amounts to the discounted cash flows expected to be generated by application in 2013 of new or amended financial reporting standards the assets in the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future and interpretations. These changes are explained in the section headed cash flows to specific assets, the impairment charge is assessed on “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.” In the the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to LANXESS Group, joint ventures are no longer accounted for using the which the asset belongs. Write-downs are reversed if the reasons for equity method, but by proportionate consolidation. Further details are them no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying given in the section headed “Companies consolidated.” amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would have been recognized if they had not been written down or their current recoverable amount. Intangible assets The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, and apas software, concessions, industrial property rights, similar rights and propriate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads and an assets, and licenses to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible appropriate share of the depreciation and write-downs of assets used assets with a definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized in construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company over their respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that are attributamortization period for intangible assets other than goodwill is between able to construction. 3 and 20 years. Amortization for 2013 has been allocated to the respective functional areas. Any further decline in value is recognized Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at by means of a write-down. Write-downs are reversed in the following the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition, year if the reasons for them no longer exist, provided that this does the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost not cause the carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is amortized cost at which they would have been carried if the writerecognized. downs had not been recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of these two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 139 Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. Lia­ a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to bil­i­ties under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of the the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition leased asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of the or construction. minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease payments are divided into financing costs and the portion repExpenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly resenting repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are that do not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards capitalized if they will result in future economic benefits and can be incidental to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the reliably determined. lease payments as current expenses. Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recogProperty, plant and equipment also includes assets that LANXESS nized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets leases or rents out to third parties under agreements other than ­finance and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner the next using the straight-line method. of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments. Where assets comprise material components with different purposes, different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capiLeasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where talized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the components of the contract are recognized and measured separately. When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. Financial instruments Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the folFinancial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to lowing useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group: a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or equity instrument for another. These include primary financial instruments, such Useful Lives as trade receivables or payables and other financial assets or liabilities, Buildings 20 to 50 years as well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years risks arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material Plant installations 6 to 20 years prices or interest rates. Machinery and equipment 6 to 12 years Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Group Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derecog­ Vehicles 5 to 8 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years nized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them expire Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years or the financial assets are transferred together with all substantial opportunities and risks. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire. Leasing In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks assets in the financial statements. and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases) are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially recogthe minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are deprecinized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost ated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased using the effective interest method. Write-downs are recognized for asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated any decline in value using separate accounts. useful life and the lease term. 140 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments included are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the in non-current assets are classified as “available-for-sale” financial underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here ­assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value canare subsequently reclassified to other operating income or production not be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost. costs, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired, an profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives impairment charge is recognized on the basis of an impairment test. deemed to be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized directly in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method are derivatives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s shares in rates – provided such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are their equity in accordance with IAS 28. recognized in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss as interest income/expense at the same time as Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain the income from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected in the income statement. Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering nonfinancial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and All other primary financial assets are classified as “available-for-sale” held for this purpose are recognized not as financial derivatives but as and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and pending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives, receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement, the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract, with the exception of write-downs and of gains and losses from curprovided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded rency translation, is recognized in other comprehensive income until derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract. the asset is derecognized. Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value less Determination of fair value any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective-interest method. The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents initial recognition. are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value. Derivative financial instruments and hedging transactions The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated from dislosses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit counted future interest payments and capital repayment amounts. or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to hedge future cash flows from pending business or The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are forecasted transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant the prices determined and published by the market. If no liquid market financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments price is available for a bond, its fair value is determined on the basis of observable inputs, using a risk-related discount rate. The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial liabilities due within one year is normally their carrying amount. That of all other liabilities is determined by discounting them to present value where feasible. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 141 Accounting policies and valuation principles The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance leases Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are market rate for comparable lease agreements. not manufactured using long-term production processes. Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the end of the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped reporting period pertain exclusively to forward exchange contracts together. and are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods based on observable Cash and cash equivalents market data. In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s own credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with the respective net positions. banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of their high liquidity. Inventories Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the be individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups) lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining liabil­ities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part production costs and selling expenses. of the transaction. The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed and recognized at the lower of fair value less costs of disposal and the variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity carrying amount. utilization, where these are attributable to production. It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare Provisions facilities and discretionary employee benefits that can be allocated to production. Administrative costs are included where they are attributProvisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37 able to production. and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions of material provisions due in more than one year are discounted to present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reason­able certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the time of performance approaches (interest effect), the related expense is recognized in other financial expense. 142 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the Liabilities estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption provision was originally recorded. amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are esSubsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or constructablished for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is measured tion of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated and released to the income statement over the underlying period or using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are fully recognized in other Sales and other revenues comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions. Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus This is normally the case when the significant risks and benefits associpayments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and ated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also other personnel costs. be sufficiently probable that the economic benefits will be obtained and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable. The stock-based employee compensation programs (Long Term ­Incentive Plan – LTIP and Long Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revenues provide for cash settlement. Provisions are established for the obligaare realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest tions entered into under such programs on the basis of the proporincome or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent fiscal year tionate fair value of the rights allocated to employees. The fair value are accrued. is determined using the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and the expected payment is calculated from the value The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders. of the rights based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to returns. The fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro-rata provision determine when revenues are realized. during the vesting period. The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending Research and development expenses legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas and the cost of potential settlements. The amounts of such provisions development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, specific narrowly are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the Group’s defined conditions are fulfilled. Development costs must be capitallegal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed together with the ized if it is sufficiently certain that the future economic benefits to the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. company will cover not only the usual production, selling and administrative costs but also the development costs themselves. However, since the development and optimization of products and processes Contingent liabilities frequently involves uncertainties, the conditions for capitalization of development costs are generally not met. Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. They are not recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been entered into in connection with a business combination. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Accounting policies and valuation principles Income taxes capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the basis of local tax rates. Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows from operating activities. Disbursements made under finance leases where Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise the LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows for financing liabilities relating to 2013 and any liabilities from previous years. activities, while cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities in the Cash outflows relating to the financing of pension obligations are statement of financial position and the tax base and for differences arisallocated to cash flows for operating activities. ing from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which – on the basis of the Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in relation to future divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in periods, as of the closing date – are expected to apply in the individual the investing cash flow after deducting cash and cash equivalents countries at the time of realization. acquired or divested. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flow, date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flow. income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized. Global impairment testing procedure and impact Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authorities. In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment charges need to be recognized or previously recognized impairment charges Statement of cash flows reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, the residual carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared to its reThe statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows coverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these impairment tests are during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS performed at least once a year. Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. The cash flow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects of changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized in the items on the statement of financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement of financial position. Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities after deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance leases, along with 144 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested annually commenced are not taken into account for this purpose. The forecasts for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances normally cover a period of five years. The present value of future cash indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying amount of each flows is calculated by discounting them using a weighted capital cost cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is compared factor. The capital cost factor is derived according to IAS 36 from capital to its recoverable amount. market models, taking into account the capital structure and business risks specific to the chemical industry. The LANXESS Group defines its business units as the cash-generating units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current When a decline in value has been determined, an impairment charge assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective strategic at this level and impairment charges recognized in the income statebusiness unit. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among ment where necessary. the other non-current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to the carrying amounts on which the impairment test was based. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs The recoverable amount of any non-current assets below the level of of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a cash-genthe cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss is allocated, but only erating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment charge is up to the recoverable amount of these assets. Any further impairment recognized. The fair value less costs of disposal – which represents the charge that would have been allocated to these assets is allocated best estimate of the potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective proportionately to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. impairment test – is the amount obtainable from the sale of a cashgenerating unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income statement under willing parties, less the costs of disposal. The value in use is defined as other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in the the present value of future cash flows based on the continuing use of expenses of the respective segments. the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful life. The first step in an impairment test is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2013 are outlined If this is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit the in the following section. value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs of disposal is generally calculated using a capital value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under “Fair value measurement” Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion in Note [35]). The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair value less with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation costs of disposal relies on a forecast of future cash flows. This is based principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates on estimates of expected market conditions, including assumptions that may affect the measurement of assets and liabilities, income and regarding future raw material prices, functional cost items, exchange expenses, and contingent liabilities. rates and management’s past experience. These estimates also take into account capital expenditures for capacity expansions and the reAll assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial lated future cash flows. Determination of the value in use is also based statements are based on management’s expectations. Information on a forecast of future cash flows. Expansion projects that have not yet that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and liabilities. Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are explained below. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 145 Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion The LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at for the business of the Keltan Elastomers cash-generating unit. To least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount determine the fair value less costs of disposal, the terminal value ac(for further information see the section headed “Global impairment cording to the five-year plan was therefore assessed over a five-year testing procedure and impact”). The test is based on forecasts of future period and the outcome of this assessment taken into account in cash flows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the the valuation. The impairment charge deemed necessary as a result management’s best assessment of the economic circumstances at was recognized in the income statement under other operating exthe time of the impairment test. Management’s expectations of future penses. Of the impairment charge recognized, €11 million pertained cash flows therefore indirectly affect the measurement of goodwill to goodwill, €16 million to other intangible assets and €147 million and other assets. to property, plant and equipment. The assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test conIn view of the challenging competitive environment and the change ducted on assets in fiscal 2013 could differ from the actual values in the assessment of growth prospects, additional impairment tests in subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustwere performed as of the end of the reporting period on the High ments. The annual impairment tests are based on a discount rate Performance Elastomers cash-generating unit in the Performance after taxes of 7.9% (2012: 7.9%), while the impairment tests as of Polymers segment and the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit the closing date are based on a discount rate after taxes of 7.8% in the Performance Chemicals segment. (2012: 7.9%), without using growth rates to extrapolate the last year of the forecasting period. The business activities of the High Performance Elastomers cashgenerating unit comprise the production and distribution of synthetic The annual testing of cash-generating units for indicators of possible rubber with special technical properties for the manufacturing industry, impairment showed the need to recognize an impairment charge of especially the automotive and construction sectors, and mechanical €174 million for the cash-generating unit Keltan Elastomers in the engineering. The impairment test as of year end led to the recognition Performance Polymers segment. This reduced the carrying amount of of a €54 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount this cash-generating unit to its fair value less costs of disposal. to the recoverable amount less costs of disposal. This impairment charge is recognized in the income statement under other operating The Keltan business was acquired from Royal DSM N.V., Netherlands, expenses. Of the impairment charge recognized, €1 million pertained in 2011 and integrated with the existing activities of the business unit to intangible assets and €53 million to property, plant and equipment. known at that time as Technical Rubber Products. As of January 1, 2013, the Technical Rubber Products business unit was split into The business activities of the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating Keltan Elastomers and High Performance Elastomers. The business unit comprise the production and marketing of specialty rubber activities of the Keltan Elastomers business unit comprises the producchemicals sold mainly to manufacturers of tires and technical rubber tion and marketing of ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM) products. The impairment test as of year end led to the recognition synthetic rubber. of a €29 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount less costs of disposal. This impairment In view of the temporary overcapacities anticipated for the coming years charge is recognized in the income statement under other operating combined with the increasing production of shale gas in the United expenses. Of the impairment charge recognized, €5 million pertained States and the resulting cost advantages for local manufacturers, to intangible assets and €24 million to property, plant and equipment. changes are forecasted in the market and competitive environment The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items was performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal by testing the goodwill from previous years for impairment after adjusting for currency translation effects. This mainly comprised the goodwill of €80 million 146 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 (2012: €95 million) recognized upon the acquisition of Petroflex in Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by a number of legal dis2008 and carried by the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business putes. As an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to unit in Brazilian real. The carrying amount of this goodwill equaled administrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business approximately 7% (2012: 6%) of the Performance Butadiene Rubbers and may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedcash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal. The forecasts ings generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are pertain to a five-year planning period. therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. It is The goodwill of €2 million recognized upon the acquisition in 2013 therefore possible that legal judgments could give rise to expenses of PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, was allocated to that are not covered, or not fully covered, by recognized provisions the Material Protection Products business unit in the Performance or equivalent insurance and that could materially affect the business Chemicals segment and tested for impairment as of the end of the operations, revenues, earnings or cash flows of the LANXESS Group. reporting period. There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of The goodwill of €11 million pertaining to the Keltan Elastomers cashcertain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS generating unit was impaired to zero (see above). Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities The impairment tests performed on other goodwill items did not indimay occasionally reach different conclusions. Provisions have been cate any need for recognition of impairment charges. Neither a oneestablished for this. percentage-point increase in the discount rate nor a 10% reduction in expected future cash flows would have led to the recognition of an Other significant estimates are used to assess the useful lives of inimpairment charge on any other goodwill items. tangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the probability of collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected by and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. The first-time discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS Group consolidation of business operations also involves estimation uncerperformed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of Decemtainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of ber 31, 2013 as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. impact of variations in the parameters used, especially the probability of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome On December 18, 2013, the European Commission launched an of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions investigation to determine whether certain provisions of the German described above would not have a material impact on the level of other Renewable Energy Act of 2012 are legally admissible under European provisions reported in the consolidated financial statements of the Union rules on government aid. It is not currently considered likely LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses that the investigation will result in claims. In the event of an unfavorrelating to provisions for pension and other post-employment benefits, able ruling, however, LANXESS could face payment claims in the see Note [13]. mid-double-digit millions of euros with respect to energy surcharges from which it had been exempted. Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial computations and measurements. The section on provisions for pensions and other Up to the time these consolidated financial statements were authorized post-employment benefits contains information on the assumptions for issue, no circumstances had become known that would necessitate on which the actuarial calculations and estimates were based (see a major change in the estimates. Note [13]). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 147 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion | Companies consolidated Companies consolidated The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign ­affiliates. EMEA (excl. Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2013 22 13 5 6 18 64 Additions 1 2 3 Subtractions (1) (1) Mergers (1) (1) Reclassification from non-consolidated companies 1 1 Reclassification to non-consolidated companies (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2013 23 12 5 5 20 65 Consolidated associates and joint ventures Jan. 1, 2013 1 2 3 Additions 1 1 Subtractions (2) (2) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Dec. 31, 2013 0 2 0 0 0 2 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2013 2 2 1 3 1 9 Additions 1 1 Subtractions 0 Reclassification from consolidated companies 1 1 Reclassification to consolidated companies (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2013 2 2 1 3 2 10 Total Jan. 1, 2013 24 16 6 9 21 76 Additions 1 2 3 Subtractions (1) (1) Mergers (1) (1) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 Dec. 31, 2013 25 16 6 8 22 77 148 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Also consolidated are two special purpose entities in the EMEA (exOn September 14, 2013, LANXESS acquired the phosphorus chemicluding Germany) region. cals portfolio of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France, by way of an asset deal. The acquired activities were assigned to the Functional On April 5, 2013, LANXESS acquired all of the shares of SingaporeChemicals business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. based PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd. First-time inclusion in the consolidated financial statements was effected from that date. The acThe acquisition was accounted for as a business combination pursuquisition was funded from existing liquidity of the LANXESS Group. The ant to IFRS 3. Thus, in allocating the purchase price, the acquiree’s company was assigned to the Material Protection Products business identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities were included unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. The acquisition mainly at fair value. This transaction principally comprised property, plant and strengthens LANXESS’s portfolio of biocides for paints and coatings. equipment with a fair value of €4 million at the acquisition date. Further, non-current liabilities of €2 million were assumed. The acquisition The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination pursuwas funded from existing liquidity of the LANXESS Group. The Dutch ant to IFRS 3. Thus, in allocating the purchase price, the acquiree’s parent company of Thermphos France was insolvent at the date of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities were included at acquisition. The purchase price agreed upon in the negotiations was fair value. The purchase price allocation was carried out in light of the below the fair value of the net assets. The resulting gain of €2 milinformation available at and immediately after the date of acquisition. lion was recognized in other operating income. The purchase price According to IFRS, it can be adjusted within one year after the date allocation is provisional and was carried out with the aid of reports of acquisition to reflect new information and findings. from external experts and in light of the information available at and immediately after the acquisition date. According to IFRS, it can be The goodwill of €2 million resulting from the acquisition reflects, in adjusted within one year after the date of acquisition to reflect new particular, additional sales opportunities to existing and new custominformation and findings. ers, primarily in the Asian market. The acquisitions made in 2013 did not have a material impact on The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on the Group’s Group sales or earnings, nor would they have had if the business had financial position. already been consolidated from January 2013. Additions from the Acquisition of PCTS Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, Little Rock, United States, which was ac€ million IFRS carrying Purchase Carrying quired in the previous year, was consolidated for the first time as of amounts prior price amounts upon March 14, 2012. The first-time consolidation of Bond-Laminates to first-time allocation first-time consolidation consolidation GmbH, Brilon, Germany, was effected from September 12, 2012. The provisional purchase price allocations made with respect to Intangible assets 0 6 6 Property, plant and these transactions were not adjusted in light of any new information ­equipment 0 5 5 or knowledge within twelve months from the respective acquisition Other assets 7 0 7 dates and are therefore final. Total assets 7 11 18 Non-current liabilities 0 1 1 Current liabilities 1 0 1 Total liabilities 1 1 2 Net acquired assets (excluding goodwill) 6 10 16 Acquisition costs 18 Acquired goodwill (provisional) 2 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Companies consolidated Due to the transfer of control to LANXESS AG, the investment in Other information on companies consolidated LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, has no longer been accounted for using the equity method The following table lists the affiliated companies pursuant to Secsince the first quarter of 2013. Instead, the company was fully contion 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code: solidated for the first time as a subsidiary. LANXESS AG’s ability to determine key elements of financial and business policy is derived Company Name and Domicile from the shareholder agreement. The transition to full consolidation % Interest held had no effect on earnings. Upon the first-time full consolidation, the Fully consolidated companies 50% equity attributable to non-controlling interests was included at its pro-rata share of the fair value of the fully consolidated company’s Germany net assets. ­LANXESS AG, Cologne – Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen 100 The company OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia, was consoliBond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 dated for the first time. This had no material impact on the LANXESS ­LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 Group’s financial position or results of operations. ­LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 Starting in the third quarter of 2013, the investment in DuBay Polymer ­LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 GmbH, Hamm, Germany, was no longer fully consolidated due to the ­LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne 100 LANXESS Group’s loss of control but accounted for as a joint venture Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen 100 instead. Joint control exists in this case because the strategic financial Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim 100 Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 and operational decisions regarding the business activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. It was accounted for EMEA (excluding Germany) by proportionate consolidation because this best reflects the economic Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 substance and circumstances of the arrangement. The change to the ­LANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 latter method had no effect on earnings. ­LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100 ­LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 LANXESS’s interest in the earnings, assets and liabilities of DuBay ­LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 L ­ ANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Polymer GmbH in 2013 are presented in the table: Modderfontein, South Africa 100 ­LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 Earnings of DuBay Polymer GmbH ­LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 € million 2013 ­LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France 100 ­LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 Sales 10 ­LANXESS Finance B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 Operating result (EBIT) 4 ­LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 Income after income taxes 2 ­LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland 100 ­LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 ­LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100 Assets and Liabilities of DuBay Polymer GmbH ­LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 ­LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 € million Dec. 31, 2013 ­LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 Non-current assets 20 ­LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 Current assets 4 OOO ­LANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 Total assets 24 OOO ­LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 Non-current liabilities 4 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Current liabilities 3 Newbury, U.K. 100 Total liabilities 7 150 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile % Interest held % Interest held Fully consolidated companies Joint ventures North America Germany ­LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 ­LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 ­LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Associates accounted for using the equity method Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A. 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 Latin America ­LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 100 L ­ ANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda., Consolidated special purpose entities São Paulo, Brazil 100 ­LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) ­LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Dirlem (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 49 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, ­Modderfontein, South Africa 0 Asia-Pacific ­ ANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., L Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Shanghai, China 100 ­LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 Germany ­LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 ­LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 ­LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China 100 Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 ­LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 ­LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) ­LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 ­LANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 ­LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 ­LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 ­LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100 North America ­LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 ­LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 ­LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia 100 ­LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 Latin America ­LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 L ­ ANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile 100 Nantong, China 50 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 ­LANXESS (Wuxi) Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 100 Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 100 Asia-Pacific PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 Bond-Laminates HK Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Companies consolidated | Notes to the statement of financial position Notes to the statement of financial position 1 Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2012 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2011 168 297 14 479 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 18 23 0 41 Capital expenditures 0 12 19 31 Disposals 0 (4) (4) Reclassifications 5 (5) 0 Exchange differences (11) (8) 0 (19) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2012 175 325 28 528 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2011 (1) (105) 0 (106) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Amortization and write-downs in 2012 (40) (40) of which write-downs 0 Disposals 3 3 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences 0 5 5 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (1) (137) 0 (138) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2012 174 188 28 390 Changes in Intangible Assets in 2013 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2012 175 325 28 528 Changes in scope of consolidation1)/acquisitions 2 8 10 Capital expenditures 18 6 24 Disposals (7) 0 (7) Reclassifications 14 (14) 0 Exchange differences (18) (16) 0 (34) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2013 159 342 20 521 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (1) (137) 0 (138) Changes in scope of consolidation1) 0 0 Amortization and write-downs in 2013 (11) (65) 0 (76) of which write-downs (11) (23) 0 (34) Disposals 7 7 Reclassifications 0 0 0 Exchange differences 0 9 9 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (12) (186) 0 (198) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013 147 156 20 323 1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation The write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets in the Percash-generating units as a result of the respective impairment tests. formance Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments in fiscal Further information is provided in the section headed “Estimation 2013 mainly comprised impairment charges recognized on the Keltan uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals 152 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 2 Property, plant and equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2012 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2011 1,302 5,774 252 748 8,076 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 1 6 0 0 7 Capital expenditures 43 202 18 440 703 Disposals (29) (43) (8) (1) (81) Reclassifications 102 307 19 (428) 0 Exchange differences (20) (45) (3) (13) (81) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2012 1,399 6,201 278 746 8,624 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2011 (856) (4,354) (187) 0 (5,397) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Depreciation and write-downs in 2012 (41) (270) (27) 0 (338) of which write-downs (2) (2) (4) Disposals 28 42 7 77 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences 5 20 3 28 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (864) (4,562) (204) 0 (5,630) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2012 535 1,639 74 746 2,994 Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2013 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2012 1,399 6,201 278 746 8,624 Changes in scope of consolidation1)/acquisitions 15 (8) 0 0 7 Capital expenditures 44 165 29 414 652 Disposals (24) (104) (24) (5) (157) Reclassifications 113 431 19 (563) 0 Exchange differences (52) (159) (11) (25) (247) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2013 1,495 6,526 291 567 8,879 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (864) (4,562) (204) 0 (5,630) Changes in scope of consolidation1) 3 19 0 22 Depreciation and write-downs in 2013 (95) (446) (33) (67) (641) of which write-downs (38) (140) 0 (67) (245) Disposals 23 103 23 5 154 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 18 93 8 0 119 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (915) (4,793) (206) (62) (5,976) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013 580 1,733 85 505 2,903 1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation In addition to the impairment charges recognized in the Keltan on buildings and infrastructure, technical equipment and machinery ­Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals and assets under construction due to restructuring projects or other cash-generating units as explained in the section headed “Estimation events that gave rise to a decline in value. uncertainties and exercise of discretion,” write-downs were recognized Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Notes to the statement of financial position Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets with the The €4 million increase in the carrying amount of investments acfollowing gross and net values held under finance leases: counted for using the equity method in 2013 arose from gains of €26 million recognized in other comprehensive income. The €4 million Assets Held Under Finance Leases decrease in 2012 was based on income of €1 million from investments € million Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 accounted for using the equity method. The carrying amount was Gross Net Gross Net further reduced by disbursements of €12 million (2012: €32 million) carrying carrying carrying carrying from reserves and the €2 million effect of the pro rata income transfer amount amount amount amount (2012: €2 million effect of the pro rata transfer of 2011 income). In Buildings 3 3 3 3 2012, an obligation to offset a loss of €29 million also had an impact. Technical equipment The first-time full consolidation of LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical and machinery 151 50 62 37 Fittings and equipment 5 3 10 6 Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, reduced the carrying amount of 159 56 75 46 investments accounted for using the equity method by €8 million. The divestment of Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, had no impact on the carrying amount of the investments. Directly attributable borrowing costs of €15 million (2012: €23 million) were capitalized. The average cost of debt for the LANXESS In fiscal 2012 a share of the losses of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Group was 4.5% in 2013 (2012: 5.1%). Leverkusen, Germany, amounting to €3 million was not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013 there were no accumulated losses that were not recognized (2012: 3 Investments accounted for using the equity method €3 million). As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. As of the first 4 Investments in other affiliated companies quarter of 2013, the investment in LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, was no longer accounted for This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling using the equity method. Instead, the company was fully consolidated €13 million (2012: €18 million). The decrease resulted mainly as a subsidiary. The shares in Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Chemical Co., from a valuation adjustment for the interest held in BioAmber Inc., Ltd., Tongling, China, were divested. ­Minneapolis, United States, due to the development of this company’s share price. Further, OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia, was The following tables show the main items of the income statements fully consolidated as a subsidiary for the first time and is therefore no and statements of financial position of investments accounted for longer recognized under this item. using the equity method: As of December 31, 2013, all the other investments classified as Income Statement Data available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in Gevo Inc., € million 2012 2013 Englewood, United States, and BioAmber Inc. – comprised unlisted Sales 1,399 1,386 equity instruments. Since the fair values of these instruments at the Income (loss) after income taxes (26) 14 closing date could not be reliably determined, they were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. Data from the Statement of Financial Position € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2012 2013 Assets 1,093 999 Liabilities 1,062 941 Equity 31 58 Adjustment of ­LANXESS’s interest and equity valuation (23) (46) Investments accounted for using the equity method 8 12 154 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 5 Derivative financial instruments and negative fair values of €30 million (2012: €8 million). Contracts with a total notional amount of €712 million (2012: €649 million) The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS Group were due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized comprise forward exchange contracts and are capitalized in the conwithin the next three years. solidated financial statements for fiscal 2013 at a total fair value of €78 million (2012: €44 million). Instruments with a negative fair value The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized gains on curtotaling €34 million (2012: €14 million) are recognized as liabilities. rency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income in 2013, €7 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in 2014, Derivative Financial Instruments while €2 million of the unrealized losses will be reclassified in 2015 € million Dec. 31, 2012 (2012: €3 million of unrealized gains in 2013 and €5 million of Notional Positive Negative unrealized gains in 2014). amount fair values fair values Current forward Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities exchange contracts 2,000 28 (10) is given in Note [35]. Non-current forward exchange contracts 470 16 (4) 2,470 44 (14) 6 Other non-current and current financial assets Derivative Financial Instruments Other Financial Assets € million Dec. 31, 2013 € million Dec. 31, 2012 Notional Positive Negative Non-current Current Total amount fair values fair values Receivables under finance leases 2 2 4 Current forward Available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 2 exchange contracts 2,037 58 (22) Other financial receivables 5 3 8 Non-current forward exchange contracts 401 20 (12) 8 6 14 2,438 78 (34) Other Financial Assets Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2013, the unrealized gains € million Dec. 31, 2013 recognized in other comprehensive income in 2013 or earlier periNon-current Current Total ods from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accountReceivables under finance leases 0 2 2 ing amounted to €5 million (2012: €8 million). In 2013, €5 million Available-for-sale financial assets 1 0 1 was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to the realization of Other financial receivables 10 4 14 the hedged transactions and recognized as a gain (2012: €23 mil11 6 17 lion recognized as a loss). Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in foreign currencies had a total notional amount of €967 million (2012: €945 million). As of December 31, 2013, these Accounts receivable of €2 million (2012: €4 million) relate to lease contracts had positive fair values of €35 million (2012: €21 million) agreements in which the other party, as lessee, is to be regarded as the economic owner of the leased assets (finance leases). The increase in other financial receivables resulted mainly from changes in connection with the accounting for DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, by proportionate consolidation. Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to €7 million (2012: €8 million) and related entirely to other financial receivables. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 155 Notes to the statement of financial position The leasing receivables are due as folllows: 8 Inventories Maturity Structure of Lease Payments The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: € million Dec. 31, 2012 Inventories Lease Interest Leasing ­ ayments p ­portion receivables € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2012 2013 Up to 1 year 2 0 2 1 to 5 years 2 0 2 Raw materials and supplies 273 238 4 0 4 Work in process, finished goods and merchandise 1,254 1,061 1,527 1,299 Maturity Structure of Lease Payments € million Dec. 31, 2013 Inventories of €246 million (2012: €217 million) are reflected at net Lease Interest Leasing realizable value. ­payments ­portion receivables Up to 1 year 2 0 2 The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows: 1 to 5 years – – – 2 0 2 Write-Downs of Inventories € million 2012 2013 Balance at beginning of year (101) (86) Additions charged as expenses (37) (36) 7 Other non-current assets Reversals/utilization 51 28 Exchange differences 1 2 Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less any writeBalance at end of year (86) (92) downs. No write-downs were made in 2012 or 2013. Other non-current assets comprised: 9 Trade receivables Other Non-Current Assets € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, All trade receivables – totaling €1,070 million (2012: €1,117 mil2012 2013 lion) – are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million Receivables from pension obligations 64 22 (2012: €4 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the Other receivables 38 33 equity method and €1,067 million (2012: €1,113 million) to other 102 55 customers. The €42 million decline in receivables from pension obligations was Trade receivables are stated after write-downs of €18 million (2012: mainly attributable to the change in the effects of the asset ceiling. €13 million) on gross receivables of €19 million (2012: €21 million). The other receivables included periodic accruals and other reimbursement claims. The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: Write-Downs of Trade Receivables € million 2012 2013 Balance at beginning of year (13) (13) Additions charged as expenses (4) (9) Reversals/utilization 4 3 Exchange differences 0 1 Balance at end of year (13) (18) 156 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows: company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/ or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a conver2012 2013 sion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties Carrying amount 1,117 1,070 would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or of which neither impaired nor past due 973 939 option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The of which unimpaired but past due by stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except up to 30 days 112 106 where the shares are retired. between 31 and 60 days 10 12 between 61 and 90 days 3 7 more than 90 days 11 5 Capital stock The capital stock of LANXESS AG was €83,202,670 and thus unchanged from the previous year. It is divided into 83,202,670 no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations. Authorized capital As of December 31, 2013 the company’s authorized capital comprised the following: 10 Near-cash assets Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ The near-cash assets of €106 million (2012: €411 million) comprise Meeting on May 23, 2013 authorized the Board of Management units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date. increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally 11 Other current assets entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can Other receivables and other assets totaling €198 million (2012: be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of €256 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs. They warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds amounting to subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such par€128 million (2012: €181 million), mainly pertaining to sales taxes, ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion and other reimbursement claims from goods and service transactions. or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the 12 Equity acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its afLANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management filiates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription until May 17, 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing up rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitif the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the ted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. acquired either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the com­ companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude pany’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 157 Notes to the statement of financial position shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of or conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares in entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for payWith the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can ment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented if be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, shares warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed company subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parare used to service the option or conversion rights. ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the in the following cases: acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued opof convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its aftion or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the filiates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subrights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board scribe as stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the rights or fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further price is not significantly below the theoretical market value of the details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued Conditional capital As of December 31, 2013 the company’s conby application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the ditional capital comprised the following: German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either at the Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is utilized; on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17, • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with bondmore installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitlike characteristics. participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered Capital reserves The capital reserves of LANXESS AG were unchanged or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, from the previous year at €806,195,490. with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, Other reserves The €452 million increase in other reserves to profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, €1,690 million was entirely attributable to the increase in retained and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligaearnings from €1,079 million to €1,531 million. tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income of bearer shares of the company representing a total pro-rata increase companies included in the consolidated financial statements. They of up to €16,640,534 in the company’s capital stock on the terms also contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability from to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of post-employment benefit plans and the related tax effects. the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). Other equity components The other equity components mainly comprise exchange differences from the translation of operations outside The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the the eurozone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exerflow hedge accounting. cise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option 158 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprised the Defined contribution plans In the case of defined contribution plans, interests held by other stockholders in the equity of Europigments, S.L., the company pays contributions into separate pension funds. These Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao, contributions are included in the functional cost items as expenses China. Changes in non-controlling interests in 2013 are due to the for the respective year, and thus in the operating result. Once the fact that, starting in the third quarter of 2013, the investment in DuBay contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is no longer fully consolidated due obligations. Payments to defined contribution plans in 2013 totaled to the LANXESS Group’s loss of control but is accounted for as a joint €49 million (2012: €54 million). venture instead. Since the first quarter of 2013, LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, which was Multi-employer plans The pension plan in Germany financed through previously accounted for using the equity method, has been included the Bayer Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated as a fully consolidated subsidiary with disclosure of non-controlling financial statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts interests. include contributions of €28 million (2012: €28 million) to this pension fund. Contributions of about the same amount are expected for Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the following fiscal year. the LANXESS Group is to ensure the long-term viability of business operations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared to The Bayer Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy defines company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Super­ a second key criterion for capital management, which is to maintain vision Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities are not an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group has to confined to payment of the contributions for the respective fiscal year, meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are derived the Bayer Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit multi-employer from the statement of financial position, the income statement or the plan and therefore would normally have to be accounted for pro rata statement of cash flows. In addition, LANXESS has defined a target as a defined benefit plan. debt corridor. Over a normal business cycle, the ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals – the “net debt ratio” – should The Bayer Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage be between 1.0 and 1.5. Details can be found in the section headed for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence “Value management and control system” in the combined manageprinciple, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum ment report for fiscal 2013. Capital management in the LANXESS of existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions Group entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies on the capital must be at least equal to the present value of the future benefits paystructure shown on the statement of financial position, the appropriate­ able under the plan. The LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the ness of the company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, the actuarial risks of the other entities participating in the Bayer Pensions­ amount of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and kasse. Thus no consistent or reliable basis exists for allocating the thus on issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association benefit obligation, plan assets and costs that would enable LANXESS of LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. to account for the Bayer Pensionskasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. As contributions are based on future coverage of the total obligation, all participating entities pay contributions 13 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment at the same rates based on the employee income levels on which benefits social security contributions are payable. The Bayer Pensionskasse is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution plan and not as Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement a defined benefit plan. benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or defined There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any inforbenefit plans. mation that could be used to estimate the future contributions on the basis of current underor overfunding. The statutes do not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event that the Bayer Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to participate. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 159 Notes to the statement of financial position LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to the Bayer PensionsOnly limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the basis of kasse was unchanged from the previous year at approximately 17%. statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligations to make The Bayer Pensionskasse has been closed to new members since a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. The amount of this January 1, 2005. payment mainly depends on years of service and final salary. Defined benefit plans The global post-employment benefit obligations The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate to are calculated at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an the reimbursement of retirees’ health care costs in North and South independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. ComAmerica. The other post-employment benefit obligations in Germany prehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for comprise other long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits all major post-employment benefit plans. payable upon termination of employment. These are mainly earlyretirement benefits and collectively agreed salary components granted The principal contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist in the form of pension benefits. They are included in pension provisions in Germany, Canada and Brazil. as they are by nature pension entitlements. The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly relate to The defined benefit pension obligations are financed both internally lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when the through provisions and externally through legally independent pension employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are determined on the basis funds. The pension obligations in Germany are partly covered on a of the total annual pension increments earned during the period of voluntary basis via LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. employment and depend on employees’ individual salaries. Additional The allocation of funds to the LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. is dependent pension entitlements exist that are related to deferred compensation on future decisions by the company. In Canada and Brazil, pension and are payable when employees reach retirement age. Alongside obligations have to be financed through pension funds. Allocations direct commitments, the pension adjustment obligation assumed by to pension funds in these countries are determined by the regulatory the Bayer Pensionskasse is accounted for in a separate defined benenvironments and the need to comply with funding regulations. Conefit plan in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational tributions are paid mainly by the employer. The investment strategy is Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG). determined principally by the LANXESS Corporate Pension Committee and is designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, take In Canada, the defined benefit obligations comprise, in particular, into account changes in pension obligations and ensure the timely lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event of disability availability of plan assets. At the regional level, the strategy is generally or death or when the employee reaches retirement age. The level of directly coordinated and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via these benefits is determined from the total annual pension increments the relevant committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension earned during the period of employment, depending on individual Trust e.V., taking regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the salary and the actual date of retirement. Some of the existing defined investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension fund’s benefit pension plans are closed to new members. overall investment strategy and is basically managed and supervised by the pension fund. In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong benefits, principally in the event of death or disability or when the employee Minimum funding requirements may have to be met for defined benefit reaches retirement age. The benefits are calculated according to the obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These depend on the local total annual pension increments earned during the period of employregulatory framework and are reflected in additional pension proviment and also depend on individual salary, the number of years for sions. Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans are recognized which statutory social insurance contributions have been paid, and as receivables relating to pension obligations to the extent that they comparable statutory pension benefits. The principal defined benefit can be used to reduce future contributions, taking into account the pension plans are closed to new members. asset ceiling. These mainly relate to defined benefit plans in Brazil. The respective calculations are based on actuarial valuations. 160 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Adjustments occasioned by applying the revised version of IAS 19 Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income are explained in the section headed “Financial reporting standards € million Pension plans Other post-­ and interpretations applied.” employment benefit plans In 2013, total expenses of €106 million (2012: €63 million) for 2012 2013 2012 2013 defined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss and are split Return on plan assets excluding amounts recognized as interest (13) (45) 0 0 between the operating result and the financial result as follows: Actuarial gains/losses from ­changes in demographic Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans assumptions 0 0 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses from € million Pension plans Other post-­ changes in financial ­assumptions (291) 101 0 7 employment benefit Actuarial gains/losses from plans ­experience adjustments (17) (37) 5 4 2012 2013 2012 2013 Changes in effects of the asset ceiling 52 (61) – – Operating result Changes in effects of minimum Current service cost 27 34 11 36 funding requirements 49 (2) – – Past service cost 0 17 – (9) Amounts recognized in other Gains/losses from settlements (1) 0 – – comprehensive income (220) (44) 5 11 Administration expenses/taxes 1 1 0 0 2012 figures restated Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial valuation ­assumptions – – 1 0 The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-employment Financial result benefit plans is shown in the following table: Net interest 17 22 7 5 Recognized in profit or loss 44 74 19 32 Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability 2012 figures restated € million Pension plans Other post-­ employment benefit plans Administration expenses in the operating result contain expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly attributable to the earning 2012 2013 2012 2013 of income on plan assets. Costs of managing plan assets that are directly Net defined benefit liability, January 1 472 708 122 121 attributable to the earning of income on plan assets are recognized in Recognized in profit or loss 44 74 19 32 other comprehensive income. Recognized in other comprehensive income 220 44 (5) (11) The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current employee Employer contributions (20) (13) (1) 0 Benefits paid (18) (21) (11) (10) benefits or termination benefits that are included in pension provisions Business combinations because they are by nature retirement benefits. and disposals 3 1 0 0 Exchange differences 7 4 (3) (8) The net interest is the balance of the interest expense for pension Net defined benefit liability, December 31 708 797 121 124 provisions, interest expense from changes in the effects of the asset Recognized in the statement ceiling and minimum funding requirements, and interest income from of financial position plan assets. Receivables from pension obligations (64) (22) – – Provisions for pensions and other The table shows the amounts recognized in other comprehensive post-employment benefits 772 819 121 124 income rather than profit or loss in 2013: Net defined benefit liability, December 31 708 797 121 124 2012 figures restated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 161 Notes to the statement of financial position The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized liability Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to actuarial gains are explained in the following tables, which show the development of and losses resulting from changes in financial assumptions are mainly the defined benefit obligation, the external plan assets and the effects attributable to changes in the discount rates for defined benefit obligaof the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements and explain tions in the main countries of relevance for LANXESS. the major changes. The changes in past service cost for pension obligations and in curThe defined benefit obligation developed as follows: rent service cost for the other post-employment benefit obligations result mainly from the Advance cost-saving program in Germany and Change in Defined Benefit Obligation relate to early-retirement agreements and improvements to existing € million Pension plans Other post-­ benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement. On the employment benefit other hand, the other post-employment benefit obligations include a plans negative change in past service cost in the United States due to the 2012 2013 2012 2013 new regulatory requirements aimed at securing health care benefits. Defined benefit obligation Defined benefit obligation, The gain from plan settlements in 2012 related to the closure of a January 1 1,534 1,854 126 125 Current service cost defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands. 27 34 11 36 Interest expense 92 90 7 5 Actuarial gains/losses The other additions in 2013 mainly resulted from the reclassification from changes in demographic of existing pension plans in Belgium as defined benefit plans rather assumptions 0 0 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses from than defined contribution plans following the decrease in insurance changes in financial assumptions 291 (101) 1 (7) companies’ guaranteed interest rates to less than the statutory miniActuarial gains/losses from mum return on contributions to corporate pension plans. experience adjustments 17 37 (5) (4) Past service cost 0 17 – (9) Gains/losses from settlements (4) 0 – – The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obligations Employee contributions 2 1 – – mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian Benefits paid (69) (70) (12) (10) dollar and the Brazilian real. Disbursements for settlements – – – – Business combinations The change in external plan assets is shown in the following table: and disposals 4 1 – – Other additions – 33 – – Administration expenses/taxes 0 0 0 0 Change in External Plan Assets Exchange differences (40) (109) (3) (8) € million Pension plans Other post-­ Defined benefit obligation, employment benefit December 31 1,854 1,787 125 128 plans 2012 figures restated 2012 2013 2012 2013 Plan assets at fair value Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany accounts Plan assets, January 1 1,156 1,146 4 4 Interest income 82 68 0 0 for 56% (2012: 50%), Canada for 22% (2012: 25%) and Brazil for Return on plan assets excluding 17% (2012: 21%). amounts recognized as interest (13) (45) 0 0 Gains/losses from settlements (3) – – – The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise €63 milEmployer contributions 20 13 1 0 lion (2012: €89 million) for the reimbursement of health care costs Employee contributions 2 1 – – Benefits paid (51) (49) (1) 0 and €65 million (2012: €36 million) for miscellaneous other benefit Disbursements for settlements – – – – obligations. Business combinations and disposals 1 – – – Other additions – 33 – – Costs of managing plan assets/ taxes (1) (1) 0 0 Exchange differences (47) (120) 0 0 Plan assets, December 31 1,146 1,046 4 4 2012 figures restated 162 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Of the plan assets, Canada accounts for 37% (2012: 38%), Brazil for Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the Brazilian 36% (2012: 40%) and Germany for 20% (2012: 18%). defined benefit pension plans, while changes in minimum funding requirements relate to the Canadian plans. The loss on plan settlements in 2012 related to the closure of a defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands. This did not involve The fair value of plan assets is comprised as follows: any cash outflows to third parties. Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 The other additions resulted from the reclassification of pension plans € million 2012 2013 in Belgium as defined benefit plans rather than defined contribution Cash and cash equivalents 75 69 plans. of which quoted in an active market 75 69 Equity instruments 260 231 Employer contributions are used both for external funding of penof which quoted in an active market 132 120 sion obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursements of Government bonds 439 245 of which quoted in an active market 439 245 pension payments and for external funding of pension obligations Corporate bonds 258 372 where subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of of which quoted in an active market 182 304 external plan assets. Investment funds 47 35 of which quoted in an active market 12 16 The latter type of obligations existed mainly outside Germany and Real estate 28 27 totaled €13 million in 2013 (2012: €21 million). External funding Insurance contracts 28 55 where LANXESS can assert reimbursement claims mainly pertains Other 15 16 1,150 1,050 to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. No additional funding was provided to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V in 2013 or 2012. The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the company, The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly resulted nor do they normally include any financial instruments owned by the from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar and the company. However, plan assets could conceivably include index prodBrazilian real. ucts containing LANXESS securities. Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding The following material weighted valuation parameters were used to requirements are shown in the following table: calculate the benefit obligation and determine the benefit expense: Changes in Effects of the Asset Ceiling and Minimum Funding Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans % Pension plans Other post-­ € million Effects of the Minimum funding employment benefit asset ceiling requirements plans 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 January 1 48 0 46 0 Discount rate 5.1 5.3 4.4 4.0 Interest expense 5 0 2 0 Germany 3.8 3.8 1.5 1.4 Additions (+) / deductions (–) (52) 61 (49) 2 Canada 4.3 4.5 4.3 4.8 Exchange differences (1) (7) 1 0 Brazil 9.7 12.3 9.7 12.3 December 31 0 54 0 2 Expected salary increases 3.6 3.4 3.7 3.2 2012 figures restated Expected benefit increases 2.4 2.2 – – Expected increases in medical costs – – 7.9 7.3 Expected long-term increases in medical costs – – 5.3 5.2 2012 figures restated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Notes to the statement of financial position The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obSensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all ligation at year end. The discount rates used for Germany and Canada the others unchanged. The method used is the same as for the acare derived from high-quality fixed-interest corporate bonds with the tuarial valuation of benefit obligations. However, sensitivity calculasame maturities. In Brazil, however, there is no liquid market for such tions depend on interest rate effects and the absolute change in the bonds so the discount rate is based on those for government bonds parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that only one parameter with the same maturities. This method of deriving the discount rates is would change, so the change in a parameter could correlate with other unchanged from the previous year in the principal countries. assumptions. Where the expected development of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation was based on a different variation in the The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place parameter, the stated change in the benefit obligation was approxi­ within about 13 years (2012: 11 years). mated using the straight-line method. The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for The average duration of defined benefit pension obligations was 16 the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national years (2012: 16 years). This figure is based on the average duration biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations at of 20 years (2012: 21 years) for Germany, 11 years (2012: 10 years) other Group companies. for Canada and 12 years (2012: 11 years) for Brazil. The average duration of the defined benefit obligations for other post-employment A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in the benefits was 9 years (2012: 11 years). following percentage changes in the benefit obligation: The funded status is reported in the following table as the underor Sensitivities of Benefit Obligations as of December 31, 2013 overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after deduction of plan % Pension plans Other post-­ assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the asset employment ceiling or minimum funding requirements: benefit plans Discount rate Funded Status as of December 31 +0.5%-pt. (8.1) (3.3) € million Pension plans Other post-­ – 0.5%-pt. 8.7 3.7 employment benefit Expected salary increases plans +0.25%-pt. 0.5 0.2 2012 2013 2012 2013 – 0.25%-pt. (0.4) (0.2) Funded status Expected benefit increases Defined benefit obligation for +0.25%-pt. 3.6 – funded plans 1,579 1,497 8 12 – 0.25%-pt. (3.2) – External plan assets (1,146) (1,046) (4) (4) Mortality Underfunding of funded plans 433 451 4 8 – 10% 2.7 3.2 Defined benefit obligation for Expected increases in medical costs unfunded plans 275 290 117 116 +1%-pt. – 3.7 Funded status, December 31 708 741 121 124 – 1%-pt. – (3.4) The expected cash outflow for pension fund contributions and benefit The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the countries payments in 2014 is €38 million based on year-end 2013 exchange with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases rates. the individual life expectancy of beneficiaries. A 10% reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS by about one year. 164 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 14 Other non-current and current provisions On the closing date, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €355 million (2012: €440 million) and other non-current provisions of €258 million (2012: €304 million). The maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following table: Other Provisions € million Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 218 82 32 332 100 49 39 188 Environmental protection 13 18 77 108 16 18 71 105 Trade-related commitments 74 5 – 79 96 6 – 102 Restructuring 20 22 3 45 39 14 5 58 Miscellaneous 115 55 10 180 104 44 12 160 440 182 122 744 355 131 127 613 The total of other provisions declined in 2013 from €744 million to €613 million. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2013 € million Jan. 1, 2013 Allocations Interest effect Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, 2013 ­differences Personnel 332 95 3 (203) (28) (11) 188 Environmental protection 108 11 2 (6) (3) (7) 105 Trade-related commitments 79 61 1 (32) (5) (2) 102 Restructuring 45 37 0 (10) (11) (3) 58 Miscellaneous 180 67 0 (64) (10) (13) 160 744 271 6 (315) (57) (36) 613 Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions are mainly rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstandestablished for annual performance-related compensation and multiing tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs year compensation programs. is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. Awards are based Multi-year compensation programs on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. Stock-based compensation LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program to members of the Management Board and certain LTIP 2008 – 2010 If LANXESS stock outperforms this index, a payother managers. The program provides for cash settlement. Following ment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point the granting of rights under two consecutive three-year Long Term up to 5% by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.05 is paid in Incentive Plans (LTIP 2005 – 2007 and LTIP 2008 – 2010) launched addition. For each percentage point above 5%, €0.06667 is paid in in 2005 and 2008, respectively, a new Long Term Stock Performance addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. Plan (LTSP) was introduced in 2010 under which rights were granted in the years 2010 – 2013 (LTSP 2010 – 2013). The date of issue of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Notes to the statement of financial position LTIP 2010 – 2013 If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payLANXESS shares were trading at €48.48 at year-end 2013, and the ment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point reference index stood at 755.72 points. by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. The fair values of the LTSP entitlements that already existed at the start of 2013 declined significantly, resulting in a €3 million net gain Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are valued on from the stock-based compensation in 2013 (2012: net expense the basis of the following principal parameters: of €27 million). The rights from the 2009 and 2010 tranches were exercised at maximum value. A provision of €12 million existed as Principal Parameters as of December 31 of December 31, 2013 (2012: €41 million). Of this amount, the % 2012 2013 intrinsic value of rights exercisable as of the closing date accounted for €0 million (2012: €0 million). Expected share price volatility 41.0 37.0 Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 Expected index volatility 23.0 20.0 L ­ ANXESS stock plan This is an employee stock plan under which Correlation between ­LANXESS stock LANXESS staff may purchase shares in the company at a 50% disand the index 82.0 77.0 count. Employees acquired a total of 225,419 LANXESS shares under Risk-free interest rate 0.0 0.6 this program in 2013 (2012: 165,446 shares). These shares must be retained for at least three years. Since there are no further conditions The relevant risk-free interest rate in 2013 was 0.63% (2012: 0.02%). attached to this stock plan, the discount was expensed immediately. Expenses of €5 million were recognized for the stock plan in 2013 The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of (2012: €5 million). Participation in this program does not confer any LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index right to similar benefits in the future. in the past four years (2012: three years). At the start of 2013, there were no longer any rights outstanding from the tranches issued in the years 2005 through 2008. The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding as of December 31, 2013: LTIP and LTSP LTIP LTSP 2008 – 2010 2010– 2013 Tranche 2009 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Tranche 2013 Duration 6 years 6 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 3 years 3 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Holding period for personal investment shares Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Initial ­LANXESS share price €12.86 €27.28 €27.28 €55.60 €44.54 €63.25 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index price 317.39 points 432.44 points 432.44 points 564.17 points 533.45 points 665.98 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2012 €2.00 €2.00 €1.81 €0.55 €0.71 – Fair value per right as of December 31, 2013 – €0.90 €0.92 €0.15 €0.26 €0.25 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2013 126,794 11,852,462 10,232,882 11,213,452 12,276,066 – Rights granted – – – – – 13,361,266 Rights exercised 126,794 11,842,574 – – – – Rights compensated – – 624,480 457,203 440,234 351,374 Rights forfeited – – 82,882 262,705 303,256 234,894 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2013 0 9,888 9,525,520 10,493,544 11,532,576 12,774,998 166 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Environmental provisions The Group’s activities are subject to extenno future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures. sive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Costs are estimated based on significant factors such as previous Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances levels and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site current environmental laws and regulations, the number of other poowner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing tentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard to liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence of the contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal many of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial requirements and the information available about conditions in the use, it is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such various countries and at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility cannot be currently available information. However, the possibility that additional excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have occurred costs could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be exat its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be brought cluded. LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs, by government agencies, private organizations or individuals. Such should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s financial claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or areas of land position or results of operations. owned by the LANXESS Group where products were manufactured by third parties under contract manufacturing agreements or where Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments waste from production facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product retreated, stored or disposed of. turns, outstanding invoices, impending losses and onerous contracts. Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation Provisions for restructuring Provisions for restructuring totaled €58 milsuch as the U.S. environment law commonly known as “Superfund.” lion on December 31, 2013 (2012: €45 million). Of this amount, At locations in the United States, numerous companies, including €38 million (2012: €27 million) comprised provisions for severance LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. authorities or private indipayments and other personnel expenses, and €20 million (2012: viduals consider such companies to be potentially responsible parties €18 million) comprised provisions for demolition and other expenses. under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS may be the sole responsible party. Remediation measures have already been Sundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guaraninitiated at most of the sites concerned. tees and product liability, and provisions for other liabilities. Provisions for waste management that are not included in environmental proviThe existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate sions and provisions for legal risks that are not included in a different primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of category within other provisions are also included in sundry provisions. landfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The provisions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 167 Notes to the statement of financial position 15 Other non-current and current financial liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of other financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2012 € million Current Non-current 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 > 2017 Total Bonds 498 60 199 1,189 1,946 Liabilities to banks 75 41 34 34 39 22 170 Liabilities under finance leases 35 8 6 5 4 20 43 Other primary financial liabilities 57 3 2 2 0 1 8 167 550 102 240 43 1,232 2,167 Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2013 € million Current Non-current 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 > 2018 Total Bonds 500 60 199 497 692 1,448 Liabilities to banks 105 46 46 39 22 153 Liabilities under finance leases 9 6 6 5 4 19 40 Other primary financial liabilities 54 2 1 2 3 8 668 114 252 46 523 714 1,649 The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2013: Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of €53 million (2012: €54 million) on financial liabilities. Of this amount, €52 million Bonds (2012: €52 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds. Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity amount amount rate Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually million € million % agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35]. April 2009 500 EUR 500 7.750 April 2014 September 2009 200 EUR 199 5.500 September 2016 May 2011 500 EUR 497 4.125 May 2018 16 Non-current and current income tax liabilities February 2012 500 CNH 60 3.950 February 2015 April 2012 100 EUR 100 3.500 April 2022 April 2012 100 EUR 99 3.950 April 2027 The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised: November 2012 500 EUR 493 2.625 November 2022 Income Tax Liabilities € million Dec. 31, 2012 The weighted average interest rate for financial liabilities in the Non-current Current Total LANXESS Group at year end was 4.8% (2012: 4.8%). Provisions 35 43 78 Payables – 2 2 Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased as35 45 80 sets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments totaling €60 million (2012: €92 million), including €11 million (2012: €14 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective lessors in future years. 168 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Income Tax Liabilities 19 Further information on liabilities € million Dec. 31, 2013 Non-current Current Total Of the total liabilities, €721 million (2012: €1,238 million) had maturities of more than five years. The decrease compared with the Provisions 49 20 69 previous year was mainly due to the change in the maturity profile of Payables – 1 1 non-current financial liabilities, particularly the bond issues, in line with 49 21 70 the contractual redemption dates. 17 Other non-current and current liabilities Notes to the income statement The other non-current liabilities totaling €89 million (2012: €74 mil20 Sales lion) mainly include asset subsidies of €83 million (2012: €67 million) granted by third parties. Sales, which amounted to €8,300 million (2012: €9,094 million), mainly comprised goods sold less discounts and rebates. The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They comprise: A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [37]). Other Current Liabilities € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2012 2013 21 Cost of sales Tax liabilities 66 45 Social security liabilities 23 20 Cost of Sales Payroll liabilities 19 15 € million 2012 2013 Miscellaneous liabilities 65 46 173 126 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 4,664 4,234 Direct manufacturing and other production costs 2,324 2,518 6,988 6,752 Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax liabili2012 figures restated ties, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf of third parties. Direct manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation, Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contriamortization, write-downs, energies, and goods and services procured. butions that had not been paid by the closing date. The other production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies. The miscellaneous liabilities include commission payments to customers and accruals for outstanding invoices relating to the reporting period. As in the previous year, there were no such liabilities to other 22 Selling expenses affiliated companies. Selling Expenses € million 2012 2013 18 Trade payables Marketing costs 484 471 Outward freight charges and Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the previous other selling expenses 279 284 year, the entire amount totaling €690 million (2012: €795 million) 763 755 is due within one year. Trade payables of €40 million (2012: €38 million) related to investments accounted for using the equity method and €650 million (2012: €757 million) to other suppliers. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Notes to the statement of financial position | Notes to the income statement The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and exterThe impairment charges recognized on cash-generating units mainly nal marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing, related to the Performance Polymers segment and, to a lesser extent, packaging and the provision of advice to customers. the Performance Chemicals segment and were primarily allocable to the cost of sales. Further information on the background to and the extent of the impairment charges recognized can be found in the sec23 Research and development expenses tion headed “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” The total of write-downs recognized on past-due receivables was higher The research and development expenses of €186 million (2012: than in the previous year. €192 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternaOf the net miscellaneous operating expense, €112 million related tive products and production processes, and costs for applying the to the Advance program and was partially reflected as an allocation results of research. to provisions for restructuring. Of the amount relating to Advance, €72 million was allocable to the cost of sales in line with its economic relevance, while €22 million was allocable to administration expenses 24 General administration expenses and €9 million each to selling and research and development expenses. Miscellaneous operating expenses also included those for designing The general administration expenses, amounting to €301 million and implementing IT projects. In 2012 this item also included alloca(2012: €339 million), comprise costs not directly related to operations to restructuring provisions. tional business processes and the costs for the country organizations. 27 Financial result 25 Other operating income The financial result is comprised as follows: Other Operating Income € million 2012 2013 Financial Result Income from non-core business 91 92 € million 2012 2013 Income from hedging with Income from investments accounted derivative ­financial ­instruments 0 7 for ­using the equity method 1 0 Income from the reversal of provisions 41 5 Interest income 5 2 Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 2 3 Interest expense (101) (108) Income from reversals of write-downs of Net interest expense (96) (106) r­ eceivables and other assets 2 1 Interest portion of interest-bearing provisions (30) (33) Miscellaneous operating income 50 20 Net exchange loss (5) (1) 186 128 Miscellaneous financial expenses (1) 0 Dividends and income from other affiliated companies (17) (6) Other financial income and expense (53) (40) Financial result (148) (146) 26 Other operating expenses 2012 figures restated Other Operating Expenses € million 2012 2013 Impairment charges recognized on cash-generating units 0 257 Expenses for non-core business 82 84 Write-downs of trade receivables and other current assets 4 9 Losses from the disposal of non-current assets 2 1 Expenses for hedging with derivative financial instruments 33 0 Miscellaneous operating expenses 69 176 190 527 170 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Interest expense mainly included payments of bond interest. The The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result amount recognized was adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of is as follows: €15 million (2012: €23 million). The interest portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting to €3 million (2012: €4 milReconciliation to Reported Tax Income lion), is included in interest expense. The income from other affiliated € million 2012 2013 companies was reduced by €6 million due to a valuation adjustment Income (loss) before income taxes 660 (239) for the interest held in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, Aggregated income tax rate of ­LANXESS AG 31.5% 31.8% resulting from that company’s stock performance. In 2012, this item Expected tax expense (208) 76 contained an €18 million write-down due to a valuation adjustment Tax difference due to differences between local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 55 (8) for the interest held in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, also Reduction in taxes due to because of the company’s stock performance. tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 8 4 utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards 0 0 Increase in taxes due to 28 Income taxes non-tax-deductible expenses (11) (7) Other tax effects 5 6 Actual tax result (151) 71 This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual Effective tax rate (22.9)% 29.7% countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the basis 2012 figures restated of local tax rates. Adjustments occasioned by applying the revised version of IAS 19 are explained in the section headed “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.” The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items of the statement of financial position as follows: The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: Deferred Taxes Income Taxes by Origin € million Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 € million 2012 2013 Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred tax tax tax tax Current taxes (118) (17) assets ­liabilities assets ­liabilities Deferred taxes resulting from temporary differences (58) 62 Intangible assets 14 55 11 52 statutory changes in tax rates 0 0 Property, plant and equipment 3 160 32 119 loss carryforwards 25 26 Inventories 27 3 20 3 Income taxes (151) 71 Receivables and other assets 2 44 8 24 Pension provisions 153 0 157 0 2012 figures restated Other provisions 98 11 96 11 Liabilities 39 3 28 3 The actual tax income of €71 million for 2013 was €5 million less Loss carryforwards 69 – 85 – than the expected tax income of €76 million. (In 2012, the actual tax 405 276 437 212 expense of €151 million was €57 million less than the expected tax of which non-current 239 237 264 179 Set-off (194) (194) (183) (183) expense of €208 million.) 211 82 254 29 In calculating the expected tax result for the LANXESS Group, an overall tax rate of 31.8% (2012: 31.5%) was applied to the German companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 171 Notes to the income statement The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: the section headed “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.” Since there are currently no equity instruments in issue that Changes in Deferred Taxes could dilute earnings per share, basic and diluted earnings per share € million 2012 2013 are identical. Further information on equity instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future is contained in Note [12]. Deferred taxes as of January 1 121 129 Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement (33) 88 Earnings per Share Changes in scope of consolidation (7) (5) 2012 2013 Change % Taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 51 9 Exchange differences (3) 4 Net income (loss) (€ million) 508 (159) < (100) Deferred taxes as of December 31 129 225 Number of outstanding shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 0.0 Earnings per share 2012 figures restated (­undiluted/diluted) (€) 6.11 (1.91) < (100) 2012 figures restated Of the deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income, €6 million (2012: €69 million) related to remeasurements of the net LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €48 million for fiscal defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans and €3 mil2013 (2012: €96 million). The dividend payment made to stock­ lion (2012: minus €18 million) to financial instruments. holders of LANXESS AG during fiscal 2013 amounted to €1.00 per share (2012: €0.85 per share). Deferred tax assets of €75 million (2012: €16 million) related to tax jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2013 or 2012. In this respect, the LANXESS Group has taken into consideration tax planning 30 Personnel expenses calculations and customary and feasible tax strategies. The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of €85 million (2012: €69 million) were recognized on the €292 million Personnel Expenses (2012: €225 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income € million 2012 2013 likely to be realized in the future. Wages and salaries 1,097 1,006 Social security contributions 193 194 Deferred taxes were not recognized for €192 million (2012: €182 milRetirement benefit expenses 92 128 lion) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €147 million (2012: Social assistance benefits 10 11 €154 million) can theoretically be used over more than five years. 1,392 1,339 Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2013 for taxdeductible temporary differences of €29 million (2012: €63 million). Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €52 million (2012: Total personnel expenses declined in 2013. The fact that personnel €49 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary expenses were lower than in the previous year despite the higher differences of €11 million (2012: €22 million) were not recognized. average headcount and Group-wide salary increases was mainly due to adjustments to performance-related compensation. The personnel expenses shown here do not contain the interest portion of personnel29 Earnings and dividend per share related provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the financial result (see Note [27]). The calculation of earnings per share for 2013 was based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding (83,202,670 shares) and only included earnings from continuing operations. Adjustments occasioned by applying the revised version of IAS 19 are explained in 172 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Other information The minimum non-discounted future payments relating to operating leases totaled €492 million (2012: €496 million). The total future 31 Employees leasing and rental payments relating to operating leases was thus on the level of the prior year. The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in 2013 was 17,430 (2012: 16,962). The increase compared to the previous The respective payment obligations mature as follows: year was mainly due to new hires at various sites and to additions to the companies consolidated. Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Employees by Function 2012 2013 2012 2013 Up to 1 year 54 61 1 to 2 years 53 54 Production 12,222 12,456 2 to 3 years 47 49 Marketing 2,050 2,082 3 to 4 years 41 41 Administration 1,873 1,980 4 to 5 years 35 40 Research 817 912 More than 5 years 266 247 16,962 17,430 496 492 32 Contingent liabilities and other Payments under operating leases in 2013 amounted to €61 million financial commitments (2012: €48 million). The year-on-year increase was partly attributable to the Group’s new headquarters in Cologne and to higher usageContingent liabilities as of December 31, 2013 amounted to €8 million based charges in Singapore. (2012: €28 million). They include contingent liabilities of €0 million (2012: €22 million) to investments accounted for using the equity Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purmethod. Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar instruchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure ments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential projects in the area of property, plant and equipment and intangible future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events assets totaled €283 million (2012: €261 million). Of the respective would create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing date. An payments, €233 million are due in 2014 and €50 million in 2015. obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency of the debtor. Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that was concluded between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Lever­ Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, kusen, Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification into this company in the future. for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial of product liability, environmental contamination and antitrust violations. commitments also exist under operating leases. The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles, to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off. operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Other information 33 Related parties Details of the compensation system for members of the Board of Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation are In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources materials, given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined manageinventories and services from a large number of business partners ment report for fiscal 2013. around the world. These include companies in which LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies In addition, service cost of €1,264 thousand (2012: €815 thousand) are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. relating to defined benefit pension plans was incurred in 2013 for members of the Board of Management as part of their compensation Transactions with investments accounted for in the consolidated finan­ package. The present value of the benefit obligation as of Decemcial statements using the equity method and their subsidiaries mainly ber 31, 2013 was €21,740 thousand (2012: €18,248 thousand). comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, infrastructure and logistics totaling €455 million (2012: €479 million). The total net expense for the compensation of the members of As of December 31, 2013, trade payables of €40 million (2012: the Board of Management in 2013 was €6,165 thousand (2012: €38 million), trade receivables of €3 million (2012: €4 million) and €14,706 thousand). a dividend receivable of €2 million (2012: €0 million) existed as a result of such transactions. There were also payment obligations to The balances outstanding to members of the Board of Managethese companies amounting to €5 million (2012: €4 million) under ment totaled €4,706 thousand as of December 31, 2013 (2012: operating leases and obligations of €3 million (2012: €3 million) under €13,157 thousand), comprising provisions of €1,653 thousand purchase agreements. Contingent liabilities to investments accounted (2012: €4,714 thousand) for annual bonuses, €1,899 thousand for using the equity method are outlined in the previous section. (2012: €2,587 thousand) for the LTPB and €1,154 thousand (2012: €5,856 thousand) for the LTSP. In 2013, production services totaling €6 million were provided to the LANXESS Group by joint ventures. As of December 31, 2013 there Payments of €308 thousand (2012: €479 thousand) were made to was a loan receivable of €5 million from one joint venture. former members of the Board of Management. The total obligation toward former members of the Board of Management as of DecemInformation on the compensation of the Board of Management and ber 31, 2013 was €11,578 thousand (2012: €11,411 thousand). Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation of €1,874 thousand in 2013 (2012: €1,885 thousand), which 34 Compensation of the Board of Management was paid at the start of the following year. The provisions established and the Supervisory Board for stock-based compensation for Supervisory Board members as of December 31, 2013 amounted to €1,800 thousand (2012: Total compensation of €6,647 thousand (2012: €10,830 thousand) €1,800 thousand). was paid to the members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2013, comprising €4,777 thousand (2012: €7,392 thouIn addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board sand) in short-term compensation (fixed compensation, annual bonus, who are on LANXESS’s payroll received compensation under their benefits in kind and other), €34 thousand (2012: €830 thousand) in employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented compensation relating to the previous year, and other long-term comappropriate compensation for the employees’ functions and tasks pensation components totaling €977 thousand (2012: €1,843 thouwithin the Group. sand) as part of the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation paid under the stock-based Long-Term Details of the compensation system for members of the Supervisory Stock Performance Plan (LTSP), under which 1,564,125 compensaBoard and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained tion rights were granted in 2013 (2012: 1,531,875 rights). The fair in the combined management report for fiscal 2013 in the section value of these rights at the grant date was €859 thousand (2012: headed “Compensation report.” €765 thousand). The fair values of the LTSP rights that already existed at the start of 2013 declined significantly, which resulted in a net gain No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or of €887 thousand from the stock-based compensation in fiscal 2013 the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2013 or 2012. (2012: net expense of €3,826 thousand). 174 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 35 Financial instruments Currency risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored and analyzed. While the risks relating to changes in the value of Primary financial instruments are reflected in the statement of financial receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are fully position. In compliance with IAS 39, financial assets are categorized hedged, the scope of hedging for currency risks relating to forecasted as “loans and receivables,” “held at fair value through profit or loss,” transactions is subject to regular review. A substantial proportion of “held to maturity” or “available for sale” and, accordingly, recognized at currency risks arising from contracts are hedged using derivative financost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading cial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instruments are nor constitute derivatives are recognized at amortized cost. recognized in the financial result or, in the case of cash flow hedges, in other comprehensive income. Realized income/expense from the Risks and risk management The global alignment of the LANXESS effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognized in other operatGroup exposes its business operations, earnings and cash flows to a ing income/expenses. variety of market risks. Material financial risks to the Group as a whole, such as currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price Currency risks arising on financial transactions, including the interest risks, are centrally managed. component, are fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. These risks could impair the earnings and financial position of the Since the LANXESS Group concludes derivative contracts for the LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management greater part of its currency risks, it believes that, in the short term, a system for the LANXESS Group are outlined below. rise or fall in the euro against other major currencies would have no material impact on future cash flows. In the long term, however, these The principles of risk management are defined by the Board of Manexchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows agement. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Comshould the LANXESS Group not be in a position to absorb them, for mittee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reports on example, through the pricing of its products in the respective local the outcome of financial risk management and on current risks levels currencies. are presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against the of the Financial Risk Committee’s decisions and ongoing risk managehedged currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a ment are undertaken centrally by the Treasury Group Function. The €19 million (2012: €20 million) effect, mainly on other compreaim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and hensive income, which would have improved accordingly. This effect to manage and limit their effects as appropriate. mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the euro would have had basically the opposite effect. Currency risks Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in numerous currencies, it is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the Many companies in the LANXESS Group are based outside the eurorelative value of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, against zone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated financial statements the euro. in euros, the annual financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the averCurrency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruage exchange rate for a given local currency from one period to the ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly next can materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other reported in this currency into euros (translation risk). Unlike the effect than the company’s local currency. of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of transaction risk, translation risk has no impact on Group cash flows in the local currency. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Other information The LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses The maximum risk of default on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, outside the eurozone that are reported in local currencies. The related near-cash assets, derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in long-term currency risks are estimated and evaluated on a regular their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position (disregardbasis. In view of these risks, however, foreign currency transactions ing netting arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial are only concluded if consideration is being given to withdrawing position). from a particular business and it is intended to repatriate the funds released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate fluctuations Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European on the translation of net positions into euros are reflected in other credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables comprehensive income. from customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in ­Europe, that could arise up to the end of the fiscal year in the Interest rate risks Fluctuations in market interest rates can cause mid-­double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk is further fluctuations in the fair value of a financial instrument. Interest rate risk reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain cases, affects both financial assets and financial liabilities. prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner. Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will only the contracting partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast mahave a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. The available liquidity jority of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing. is invested in instruments with short-term fixed interest rates, so that the LANXESS Group benefits quickly from rising interest rates. A general The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, finan­cial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, 2013 would have altered Group net income by €1 million (2012: especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital €3 million). investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other Credit risks Credit risks arise from trade relationships with customers financial counterparties that have at least an investment grade rating. and dealings with banks and other financial partners, especially with The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date regard to the investment business and financial-instrument transactions. were almost all concluded with banks with an investment grade rating. Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed, Credit risk management also includes global management of the using both internal and external information sources. Customer portcounterparty risk relating to banks and financial partners. The LANXESS folios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk Group pays particular attention to risk diversification to prevent any profile is elevated. cluster risks that could jeopardize its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted based Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential financial shortfalls on the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally and the resulting increase in refinancing costs. The aim of liquidity based on the customary payment terms for the business or country. management in the LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue. sufficient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the liquidity balance within the Group. 176 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 The main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility, which was not significantly drawn upon as of year end. Its original term was extended by one year in February 2014 to run until February 2019, and it can be renewed one more time for a further period of one year. A further material credit line of €200 million with the ­European Investment Bank remained undrawn as of year end 2013. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has short-term liquidity reserves of €533 million (2012: €797 million) in the form of cash and cash equivalents and AAA rated money market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position based on a broad range of financing instruments. The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components thereof and derivative financial instruments: Dec. 31, 2012 € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 > 2017 Bonds (42) (593) (115) (252) (41) (1,343) of which interest (42) (93) (55) (52) (41) (143) Liabilities to banks (80) (46) (38) (37) (41) (22) of which interest (5) (5) (4) (3) (2) 0 Trade payables (795) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (38) (10) (7) (7) (5) (25) of which interest (3) (2) (2) (2) (1) (4) Other primary financial liabilities (57) (3) (3) (2) 0 (2) of which interest (54) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (170) (20) Receipts 162 19 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (260) (13) (19) (25) (9) Receipts 257 12 17 23 8 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (331) (172) Receipts 343 180 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (952) (5) (27) Receipts 967 5 28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Other information Dec. 31, 2013 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 > 2018 Bonds (542) (114) (252) (41) (541) (802) of which interest (42) (54) (52) (41) (41) (102) Liabilities to banks (108) (62) (37) (41) (22) 0 of which interest (3) (4) (3) (2) 0 0 Trade payables (690) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (11) (8) (8) (6) (5) (22) of which interest (2) (2) (2) (1) (1) (3) Other primary financial liabilities (57) (3) (1) (2) 0 0 of which interest (54) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (136) (48) Receipts 116 39 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (182) (14) (24) (6) (6) Receipts 180 13 23 5 5 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (415) (131) (3) Receipts 444 138 3 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (972) (32) (1) (3) Receipts 1,002 38 5 4 The contractually agreed payments on other primary financial liabilities LANXESS did not have any forward commodity contracts at year end due within one year following the reporting date include accrued inter2013 or 2012. est of €53 million (2012: €52 million) that mainly relates to the bonds. Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruRaw material price risks The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes ments The table shows the carrying amounts of the individual classes in the market prices of energies and raw materials used for its business of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of operations. Increases in energy and raw material procurement costs are measurement is also shown: generally passed on to customers. Where such risks cannot be passed on in their entirety, the related risks may be hedged on a case-by-case basis through forward commodity contracts to reduce the volatility of cash flows. Where cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction is realized. 178 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­category Dec. 31, 2012 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,117 Receivables under finance leases – 4 Other financial receivables LaR 8 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 386 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 411 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 20 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 21 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 23 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,946) Liabilities to banks FLAC (245) Trade payables FLAC (795) Liabilities under finance leases – (78) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (65) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (8) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (6) Dec. 31, 2013 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­category Dec. 31, 2013 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,070 Receivables under finance leases – 2 Other financial receivables LaR 14 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 427 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 106 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 14 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 35 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 43 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,948) Liabilities to banks FLAC (258) Trade payables FLAC (690) Liabilities under finance leases – (49) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (62) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (30) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (4) LaR Loans and Receivables AfS Available-for-Sale Financial Assets FAHfT Financial Assets Held for Trading FLAC Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost FLHfT Financial Liabilities Held for Trading Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Other information Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2012 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,117 1,117 4 4 8 8 386 386 411 411 15 5 5 21 21 23 23 (1,946) (2,128) (245) (245) (795) (794) (78) (78) (65) (65) (8) (8) (6) (6) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2013 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,070 1,070 2 2 14 14 427 427 106 106 9 5 5 35 35 43 43 (1,948) (2,032) (258) (264) (690) (690) (49) (51) (62) (62) (30) (30) (4) (4) 180 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 of the Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.” However, € million Dec. 31, 2012 one bond with a fair value of €103 million is allocated to Level 2 as Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 there is no liquid market for it. Fair value measurement of non-current Non-current assets liabilities to banks is also allocated to Level 2. Investments in other affiliated companies 3 – – Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category Non-current derivative assets – 16 – Other non-current financial assets – 1 – € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2012 2013 Current assets Near-cash assets 411 – – Loans and receivables 1,511 1,511 Current derivative assets – 28 – Available-for-sale financial assets 431 120 Other current financial assets 1 – – Financial assets held for trading 23 43 Non-current liabilities 1,965 1,674 Non-current derivative liabilities – 4 – Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (3,051) (2,958) Current liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading (6) (4) Current derivative liabilities – 10 – (3,057) (2,962) Fair value measurement The measurement of fair value is based on a Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The € million Dec. 31, 2013 fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 three levels: Non-current assets Investments in other affiliated Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for companies 4 – – identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access Non-current derivative assets – 20 – at the measurement date Other non-current financial assets – 1 – Current assets Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 Near-cash assets 106 – – that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Current derivative assets – 58 – or indirectly Other current financial assets 0 – – Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability Non-current liabilities Non-current derivative liabilities – 12 – The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities that Current liabilities were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end of the Current derivative liabilities – 22 – reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into which the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification between the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There were no reclasThe investments in other affiliated companies measured at fair value sifications in 2012 or 2013. pertain to shares in the listed companies Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States. The item “Investments in other affiliated companies” in the statement of financial position also includes €9 million in non-listed equity instruments whose fair values at the end of the reporting period could not be reliably measured and which are therefore recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 181 Other information Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The following table shows how legally enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position: Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2012 € million Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,117 (32) (1) 1,084 Derivative assets 44 (9) 0 35 Financial liabilities Trade payables (795) 32 0 (763) Derivative liabilities (14) 9 0 (5) Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2013 € million Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,070 (36) (1) 1,033 Derivative assets 78 (7) 0 71 Financial liabilities Trade payables (690) 36 0 (654) Derivative liabilities (34) 7 0 (27) Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or liability contracts with the same counterparty. 182 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the Net cash flow provided by operating activities The net cash inflow net results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: from operating activities in 2013 amounted to €641 million (2012: €838 million). Income before income taxes, which is the starting point Net Results by IAS 39 Category for the statement of cash flows, was minus €239 million in 2013 € million 2012 2013 (2012: €660 million) after depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €717 million (2012: €378 million). Income taxes paid in 2013 Loans and receivables (11) (27) Available-for-sale financial assets (9) (6) amounted to €41 million (2012: €109 million). The balance of other Assets and liabilities held for trading 27 41 assets and liabilities showed a year-on-year decrease of €15 million Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (108) (121) (2012: €85 million). (101) (113) Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets, Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense property, plant and equipment led to a cash outflow of €624 million in and remeasurement effects. 2013 (2012: €696 million). Cash inflows from financial assets mainly comprised proceeds from the sale of units in money market funds. A In 2012, the net result for available-for-sale financial assets included loss of €17 million for 2012 was assumed for Currenta GmbH & Co. gains of €10 million which were reflected in other comprehensive OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity income. method, after offsetting against reserves. The acquisition of subsidiaries resulted in a cash outflow of €15 million (2012: €44 million) In addition, fees of €9 million were incurred in 2013 (2012: €6 milnet of acquired cash and cash equivalents totaling €3 million (2012: lion) in connection with financial instruments. €1 million) and retrospective purchase price adjustments. The cash inflows comprised €2 million (2012: €5 million) in interest received Collateralization of financial liabilities Financial liabilities of €0 miland €0 million (2012: €15 million) in receipts from other affiliates. lion (2012: €4 million) were collateralized by mortgages or other The net cash outflow for investing activities was €342 million (2012: property claims. €674 million). Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participaNet cash provided by (used in) financing activities A net cash outtion rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. flow of €260 million (2012: inflow of €46 million) was recorded for Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in financing activities. This included a €58 million net outflow (2012: Note [12]. €241 million net inflow) from proceeds and repayments of borrowings, a €119 million (2012: €123 million) outflow for interest paid and other financial disbursements, and an €83 million (2012: €72 million) 36 Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows outflow for the dividend paid by LANXESS AG, including €83 million (2012: €71 million) to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. Details of Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash flows unused credit facilities are given in Note [35]. For a general explanation, please see the comments on the statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies and Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, which comvaluation principles.” prise cash, checks and bank balances, amounted to €427 million (2012: €386 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 183 Other information 37 Segment reporting Key Data by Segment € million Performance Advanced Performance Reconciliation ­LANXESS Polymers Intermediates Chemicals 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 External sales 5,176 4,486 1,674 1,647 2,203 2,132 41 35 9,094 8,300 Inter-segment sales 0 1 53 51 9 8 (62) (60) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 5,176 4,487 1,727 1,698 2,212 2,140 (21) (25) 9,094 8,300 Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 817 389 305 286 281 231 (180) (171) 1,223 735 Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (9) (17) 6 1 (17) (50) (17) (45) (37) (111) Segment assets 3,779 3,294 1,030 1,026 1,452 1,392 151 161 6,412 5,873 Segment acquisitions 36 5 18 41 18 Segment capital expenditures 455 405 104 113 139 117 36 41 734 676 Depreciation and amortization 207 253 67 76 85 87 15 22 374 438 Write-downs 2 236 0 1 2 40 0 2 4 279 Segment liabilities 988 817 505 577 598 671 588 396 2,679 2,461 Employees (December 31) 5,348 5,379 2,841 2,854 6,031 5,837 2,957 3,273 17,177 17,343 Employees (average for the year) 5,237 5,419 2,862 2,857 6,019 5,928 2,844 3,226 16,962 17,430 2012 figures restated Key Data by Region € million EMEA (exclud­ Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific ­LANXESS ing Germany) 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 External sales by market 2,526 2,404 1,577 1,458 1,611 1,332 1,185 966 2,195 2,140 9,094 8,300 Non-current region assets 746 631 1,043 1,039 454 388 397 319 781 882 3,421 3,259 Acquisitions 36 5 18 41 18 Capital expenditures 157 135 211 229 68 46 46 50 252 216 734 676 Employees (December 31) 3,442 3,444 8,072 8,117 1,553 1,526 1,626 1,560 2,484 2,696 17,177 17,343 184 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s place of segment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation business. In fiscal 2013, no individual customer of the LANXESS principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in Group accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. accordance with IFRS. The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in On December 31, 2013 the LANXESS Group comprised the followthe LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and ing reporting segments: amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the section headed “Value management and control system” in the combined management report Segment Operations for 2013). This is disclosed as the “segment result.” The starting point Performance Polymers Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber prod­ for calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), ucts, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires, ­construction and which comprises gross profit, selling expenses, general administration footwear; engineering plastics, polyamide compounds expenses, research and development expenses and other operating Advanced Intermediates Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings industries; fine chemicals as precursors and intermediincome and expenses. EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from ates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty EBIT by adding back depreciation and write-downs of property, plant chemicals; custom manufacturing and equipment, amortization and write-downs of intangible assets, Performance Chemicals Material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other disregarding exceptional items. The latter are effects of an unusual coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; nature or magnitude. They may include write-downs, restructuring ­rubber chemicals; reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment; expenses, expenses for the design and implementation of IT projects plastics additives such as flame retardants and or expenses for portfolio adjustments. plasticizers In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest income The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in at segment level. The write-downs recognized in the Performance particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. The reconciliaPolymers and Performance Chemicals segments in fiscal 2013 mainly tion also includes the investments of €12 million (2012: €8 million) comprised impairment charges resulting from the impairment tests accounted for using the equity method and the income of €0 million carried out for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers (2012: €1 million) from these investments (see note [3]). and Rubber Chemicals cash-generating units. Further information is contained in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are exercise of discretion.” calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable circumstances Reconciliation of Segment Sales (arm’s-length principle). € million 2012 2013 Total segment sales 9,115 8,325 The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide serOther/Consolidation (21) (25) vices for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. Group sales 9,094 8,300 The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa), Reconciliation of Segment Result Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. € million 2012 2013 Total segment results 1,403 906 Depreciation and amortization (378) (717) Exceptional items in EBITDA (37) (111) Net interest expense (96) (106) Other financial income and expense (53) (40) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 1 0 Other/Consolidation (180) (171) Income (loss) before income taxes 660 (239) 2012 figures restated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Other information Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant 38 Audit fees and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax In 2013, total audit fees of €2,151 thousand (2012: €2,429 thoureceivables, receivables from derivatives, or other financial assets. sand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount, Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. This €1,333 thousand (2012: €1,292 thousand) related to the auditing mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta GmbH of financial statements, €485 thousand (2012: €916 thousand) to & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated among the audit-related services and €333 thousand (2012: €221 thousand) segments. to other services rendered to Group companies. The fees for financial statements audit services comprise all fees, including incidental exReconciliation of Segment Assets penses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, statements of the LANXESS Group and the mandatory financial state2012 2013 ments of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. Total segment assets 6,261 5,712 Cash and cash equivalents 386 427 Deferred tax assets 211 254 39 Declaration of Compliance pursuant to Near-cash assets 411 106 Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act Derivative assets 44 78 Income tax receivables 41 56 Other financial assets 14 17 Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Other/Consolidation 151 161 Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Group assets 7,519 6,811 Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the LANXESS website. Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. 40 Exemptions under Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code All depreciation, amortization and write-downs in fiscal 2012 and 2013 were recognized directly in profit or loss. In 2013, the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and Commercial Code (HGB): other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other financial liabilities. • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen • Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities • IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, • LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 2012 2013 • LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl Total segment liabilities 2,091 2,065 • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne Other financial liabilities 2,334 2,317 • LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen Income tax liabilities 80 70 • LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne Derivative liabilities 14 34 • Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen Deferred tax liabilities 82 29 • Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim Other/Consolidation 588 396 Group liabilities 5,189 4,911 • Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen • Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 2012 figures restated 186 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Responsibility ­Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, March 6, 2014 ­LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne The Board of Management Dr. Bernhard Dr. Werner Dr. Rainier Düttmann Breuers van Roessel Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Responsibility ­Statement | Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by and the combined management report are examined primarily on the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, comprising the statea test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes ment of financial position, the income statement and the statement assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and together with the group management report, which is combined with significant estimates made by the company’s Board of Management, the management report of the company, for the business year from as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated January 1 to December 31, 2013. The preparation of the consolifinancial statements and the combined management report. We dated financial statements and the combined management report believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) Our audit has not led to any reservations. 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are the responsibility of the parent company’s Board In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U. consolidated financial statements and the combined management and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant report based on our audit. to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements with these provisions. The combined management report is consistent in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the oppor­ Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) tu­nities and risks of future development. (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the conCologne, March 7, 2014 solidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined management PricewaterhouseCoopers report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the Aktiengesellschaft business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence Bernd Boritzki Carsten Manthei supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements German Public Auditor German Public Auditor 188 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 About this Report Reporting methodology and data collection GRI The full report made here is aligned to national and international The report is compiled in accordance with GRI Guidelines. We used standards for financial and sustainability reporting: the International the G3.1 Guidelines, issued in March 2011, which include more than Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Global Reporting Initiative 120 indicators that describe the company, its sustainability information (GRI) and the principles of the Global Compact. It thus combines and the report itself. GRI reporting is performed annually. financial and sustainability reporting by the LANXESS Group. In the GRI Content Index, we list which criteria from the current GRI The reporting period is 2013. In compiling the data, we applied the Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual Report 2013. In principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary inforreliability. The report covers the Group companies that are included mation can be found on the LANXESS Group website. Our disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. have been made in accordance with GRI Application Level B. This has been confirmed by the Global Reporting Initiative in the context of an Environmental protection data are gathered only at those production audit (B+). To ensure the quality of the data, PricewaterhouseCoopers sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. On achas audited selected indicators with limited assurance. These are count of their recent acquisition by the LANXESS Group, the followidentified accordingly in the report. ing production sites are not yet included: Little Rock, United States; PCTS Singapore, Singapore; Epierre, France; and Lipetsk, Russia. By contrast, the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, applies to all sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50%. In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the report. We use a proprietary electronic system for the systematic global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. With regard to data collection, we have additionally taken the following recommendations into consideration: Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), International Energy Agency (IEA). We use the global HR productive system to collect HR data worldwide. Further Information 189 About this Report | GRI Statement 190 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report This responsibility includes the selection and application of appro­ priate methods to prepare the environmental and safety performance The review performed by PwC relates exclusively to the German print data as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual version of the CR Report. The following text is a translation of the environmental and safety performance data which are reasonable in original German Independent Assurance Report. the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant To LANXESS AG, Cologne for the preparation of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2013. We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement for selected environmental and safety performance data including supplementing annotations for the period January 1, 2013 to DecemPractitioner’s Responsibility ber 31, 2013. These data can be found in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work perclimate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate formed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2013 of LANXESS AG, cause us to believe that the selected environmental and safety perforCologne (hereinafter LANXESS). mance data in the “Health, safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the ­Annual Report 2013 of LANXESS have not been prepared, in all Management’s Responsibility material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the ­Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 of the GRI. The environ­ The Board of Management of LANXESS is responsible for the prepamental and safety performance data subject to our procedures are ration of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual ­Report marked with c). We also have been engaged to make recommen­dations 2013 in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reportfor the further development of CR management and CR reporting ing Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 – 17) of the Global Reporting Initiative based on the results of our assurance engagement. (GRI): • Materiality We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard • Stakeholder Inclusiveness on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that • Sustainability Context we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assur• Completeness ance engagement to express our conclusion with limited assurance. • Balance • Clarity • Accuracy • Timeliness • Comparability • Reliability Further Information 191 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code), and recommendations for the further development of CR management therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance and CR reporting: engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s • Consistent implementation of the internal control system for the judgement. HSE data based on the defined target processes particularly with respect to organizational changes and new business units; Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the • Perpetuation of the quarterly data collection that has been estab­following procedures: lished in 2013; • Interviews with employees who are responsible for reporting the • Further development of controlling ability at the different group environmental and safety performance data regarding the prolevels to ensure consistent data quality; cesses and controls in place when collecting the environmental • Further development of links to the financial controlling and and safety performance data; ­accounting for achieving further synergies. • Inventory of the processes and inspection of the systems and processes that are implemented to collect, calculate, analyze, verify and aggregate the environmental and safety performance data as Munich, February 28, 2014 well as sample testing; • Analytical evaluations of the environmental and safety perforPricewaterhouseCoopers mance data based on samples in line with the quarterly and annuAktiengesellschaft ally data collection; Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft • Review of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of external services providers. Bernd Boritzki Hendrik Fink Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer Conclusion (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected environ­ mental and safety performance data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2013 for the period January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. 192 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Board p. 2 of Management 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pp. 8 –10, pp. 104 –113 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization ­LANXESS AG 2.2 Primary brands, products or services Segment overview, inside front cover; pp. 57 – 58 2.3 Operational structure, business units p. 57, pp. 149 –150 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Cologne, Germany 2.5 Countries where the organization operates pp. 58 – 59, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ sites-worldwide/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 57 2.7 Markets p. 65, pp. 75 – 79 2.8 Scale of the organization Table of key data, inside front cover; p. 38 2.9 Significant changes in the organization’s size, p. 57, pp. 149 –150 structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 18, p. 19, p. 24, p. 28, p. 53, p. 91 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period p. 188 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 188 3.4 Contact point regarding the report Masthead 3.5 Process of defining report content pp. 17 –18 3.6 Boundary of the report pp. 149 –150, p. 188 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary p. 38, p. 188 of the report 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced pp. 136 –137, p. 188 operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques p. 38, pp. 143 –146, and the bases of calculations p. 188 3.10 Effects of any re-statements of information p. 38, p. 136 provided in earlier reports 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary or p. 38, p. 57, pp. 149 –150 measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index pp. 192 –197 3.13 External assurance for the report pp. 190 –191 Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 193 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Governance, commitments 4. and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization p. 14 1–10 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the pp. 118 –119 1–10 ­Supervisory Board 4.3 Independent members of highest governance Not applicable, 1–10 body see p. 118 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees p. 19, p. 27, p. 50, 1–10 to provide recommendations or direction to the pp. 120 –121 highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members p. 27, pp. 93 – 95 1–10 of the highest governance and management bodies and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interpp. 15 –16 1–10 est are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of p. 3, 1–10 the highest governance body for guiding the http://lanxess.com/en/ organization’s strategy on economic, environcorporate/about-lanxess/ mental and social topics management/board-ofmanagement/ 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and pp. 14 –16, p. 68 1–10 principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body pp. 7– 8, pp. 14 –16 1–10 for overseeing the organization’s economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest goverpp. 93 – 95 nance body’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle pp. 66 – 67, pp. 101 –104 7 is addressed 4.12 Participation in and endorsement of externally p. 16 1–10 developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles or other initiatives 4.13 Important memberships p. 16, p. 63 1–10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups pp. 17–18 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholder groups pp. 17–18 4.16 Engagement of stakeholder groups pp. 17–19, p. 65 4.17 Response to key topics and concerns raised pp. 17–19 by stakeholder groups Economic performance indicators Management approach pp. 6 –11, pp. 40 – 43 1, 4, 6, 7 EC1 Direct economic value generated p. 40, p. 82, pp. 89 – 90, and distributed p. 130 EC2 Financial implications of climate change pp. 8 –11 7 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s p. 27, p. 90 defined-benefit plan obligations EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC6 Selection of locally based suppliers p. 63 EC7 Hiring of local human resources pp. 20 – 22, p. 24 6 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services p. 21, pp. 40 – 43 ­provided primarily for public benefit 194 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Environmental performance indicators Management approach pp. 14 –16, pp. 30 – 33, 7, 8, 9 pp. 36 – 37, p. 39, p. 63 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 63 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities 8–9 input materials of recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 38 8 source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 38 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation p. 33 Quantifies all savings achieved by investments made as part of our LEEP 8–9 and efficiency improvements project; efficiency enhancements resulting from modernization measures etc. were not taken into account. EN6 Initiatives to increase energy efficiency p. 33, pp. 65 – 66, 8–9 or based on renewable energies http://green-mobility. com/en/home/, http:// webmagazin.lanxess.de/ nimms-leicht/nimms-leicht. html (German only) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy p. 33 8–9 consumption and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 36, p. 38 8 EN11 Land in or adjacent to protected areas p. 32 8 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored p. 32 8 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions pp. 33 – 35, p. 38 8 by weight EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions p. 36 8 by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions pp. 33 – 35 7–9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 38 8 by weight EN20 NOX, SOX and other air emissions by type p. 38 8 and weight EN21 Total water discharge p. 36, p. 38 8 EN22 Quantity of waste by type and disposal method pp. 37– 38 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 1. During repair work to a corroded flange in Kallo, Belgium, around 8 220 m³ of sulfuric acid leaked and were contained by the safety pit. 2. Following a leak in a heat exchanger in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, around 39 tons of chloromethane and ethylene were released. They were burned off from the flare stack in accordance with regulations. The presence of small amounts of oil in the mixture gave a bluish color to the smoke from the flare stack, causing unease among the neighboring population. In all cases, the necessary legal and safety engineering measures were taken. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts p. 31, p. 36, 7–9 http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ megatrends/water/ EN27 Reclaiming of packaging materials 8–9 EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental 8 laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transportp. 35 8 ing products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 195 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Labor practices and decent work Management approach p. 14, p. 19, pp. 22 – 24, 1, 3, 6 pp. 28 – 29, p. 39 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, p. 25, pp. 90 – 91 • 17,344 employees (14,140 men and 3,204 women) region and gender have permanent employment contracts. • 819 employees (575 men and 244 women) have temporary employment contracts. • 16,821 employees (13,929 men and 2,892 women) have full-time positions. • 1,342 employees (786 men and 556 women) have part-time positions. LA2 Employee turnover by age group, p. 20, pp. 90 – 91 6 gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees pp. 26 – 27, pp. 91– 92 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining p. 27 1, 3 ­agreements LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant p. 27 3 ­operational changes LA6 Workforce representation in health 1 and safety ­committees LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases pp. 29 – 30, p. 38, p. 93 1 and work-related accidents LA8 Measures regarding serious diseases pp. 26 – 27, p. 29 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal pp. 26 – 27 1 ­agreements with trade unions LA10 Hours of training per employee pp. 22 – 23 LA11 Programs for skills management pp. 22 – 24 and lifelong learning LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular pp. 22 – 23 ­performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies p. 3, p. 25, pp. 122 – 123 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 1, 6 of women to men LA15 Take-up of parental leave, by gender p. 26 196 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Human rights Management approach pp. 14 –16, p. 19, 1– 6 pp. 24 – 27, p. 63 HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are subject to a 1– 6 include human rights clauses or that have careful due diligence process to ensure that human rights are also respectundergone human rights screening ed by the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In fiscal 2013, we received no reports or other indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. HR2 Percentage of suppliers and contractors that p. 16, p. 63 1– 6 have undergone human rights screening HR3 Employee training on human rights aspects We do not implement training dedicated to the topic of human rights. In 1– 6 our view, the principles set forth in human rights are so firmly anchored in LANXESS’s corporate culture that no further training appears to be necessary. There was no statistical measurement of the amount of time devoted to the topic of human rights in general compliance training. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken We have received no reports nor are we aware of any systematic discrimi1, 2, 6 nation of employees by LANXESS with regard to race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or political opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will never tolerate such misconduct, if verifiable, and it will always result in disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are processed decentrally at LANXESS and there is no central reporting system. HR5 Violation of the right to exercise freedom 1– 3 of ­association or collective bargaining HR6 Principles and measures to eliminate The LANXESS Group does not use child labor. By accepting our Supplier 1, 2, 5 child labor Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use child labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of child labor by our suppliers. HR7 Principles and measures to eliminate forced The LANXESS Group does not use forced or compulsory labor. By accept1, 2, 4 or compulsory labor ing our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use forced or compulsory labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of forced or compulsory labor by our suppliers. HR8 Security personnel training LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but 1, 2 procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. HR9 Violations involving rights of indigenous people In fiscal 2013, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving 1, 2 the violation of indigenous rights. HR10 Operations that have been subject to human Our global Compliance Management System (CMS) covers all of rights reviews and/or impact assessments LANXESS’s business activities. Like all LANXESS’s business entities, the CMS itself is subject to internal and external audits. On account of the full integration of our CMS in the LANXESS organization, all business activities are subject to permanent compliance monitoring, which also covers the respect of human rights. In respect of our suppliers, LANXESS is actively involved in the Tf S (Together for Sustainability) initiative, which was established and is operated by a number of major chemical companies. Respect for human rights is one of the main objectives and criteria of the supplier evaluations and audits that are jointly performed by this initiative. HR11 Number of grievances related to human In fiscal 2013, we received no reports or other indications of grievances rights filed related to human rights. Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 197 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Society Management approach pp. 14 –16, p. 18, 10 pp. 40 – 43, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented pp. 40 – 43 local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption are the 10 to corruption responsibility of our Internal Auditing Group Function. Various analytical approaches and scopes are applied: 1. Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general monitoring of the internal control system: all business units 2. Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption in the standard SAP system: approximately 80% of all transactions 3. Dedicated corruption scans in seven countries which Transparency International deems to be particularly at risk: approximately 20% of all transactions SO3 Percentage of employees trained in antiLANXESS applies a risk-oriented training concept. Corruption training 10 corruption policies and procedures targets exposed professional groups and countries. The proportion of employees from the total workforce who have received classroom-based training is around 15%. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In fiscal 2013, we received no reports or other indications of cases of active 10 of corruption corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive corruption), we take disciplinary action (usually dismissal) and, if the legal chances of success are high enough, initiate civil damage claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2013, we recorded a single-digit number of cases of passive corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying p. 18, 1–10 http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO8 Penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual pp. 32 – 35, pp. 106 –107 ­negative impacts on local communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures pp. 32 – 37 implemented Product responsibility Management approach pp. 14 –16, pp. 28 – 31 1, 8 PR1 Health and safety impacts during product pp. 28 – 32, p. 63, 1 life cycles pp. 65 – 67 PR3 Type of product and service information pp. 30 – 31 8 required by legislation PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations At the present time, neither our compliance organization nor the Internal 8 and voluntary codes concerning product and Auditing Group Function yet has a system for recording such cases. We met service information the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the REACH and GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio. PR5 Customer satisfaction including results of pp. 17–18 surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards Our communication and marketing activities comply with the relevant and voluntary codes related to advertising laws and regulations, our corporate values and the Code for Legal ­Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS. The same applies to product marketing and advertising. PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer In fiscal 2013, we received no reports or other indications of complaints 1 privacy and losses of customer data regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and ­regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 198 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Glossary ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental management system. ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. Industry-specific terms ISO 9001 International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered into force. REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, A ­ uthorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipuThis new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of lates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals ­before Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ­marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. ­determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and e ­ stimate The use of internationally agreed classification criteria and ­labeling their impact on health and the environment. elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at ­protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic that may be caused by chemicals. ­polymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the ­starting product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60 percent share of Compounding facility A facility for processing and finishing engineerproduction volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important ing plastics to enhance their functional properties. of the synthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of car tires. Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example. VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for organic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become Eutrophication Eutrophication is a technical term used in ecology to gaseous at low temperatures. describe the concentration of nutrients in an ecosystem. When used in connection with aquatic systems, eutrophication generally means Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and the unwanted, human-caused increase in the level of nutrients such as ­pressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the nitrates and phosphates, either through the discharge of wastewater plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic. or through runoff from agricultural land on which large amounts of fertilizers have been applied. The excessive use of fertilizers results in needless or even harmful plant growth. One example of this are algal blooms, which disrupt the ecological balance. Further Information 199 Glossary Financial glossary GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Capital employed This is defined as total assets less deferred tax for consumption. assets and interest-free liabilities. Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Corporate governance Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain the o ­ bservance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and clearly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest recommen­dations as well as the implementation and application rate changes. of company guidelines and management and control structures. IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of ­assets and with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial stateliabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused ments and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. loss carryforwards or tax credits. Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a c­ ompany, concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial ­condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and nonenvironment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) involved in ­acquisition projects. less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts deduction of interest and income taxes. receivable less trade accounts payable. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­ Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing. Ratings are issued assets. by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region banks applying their own criteria. Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. changes in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets of the affiliated company. Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and b ­ rokerages. They produce industry-specific analyses of listed companies. ­These Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreeare used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to ments and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises make investment recommendations. Published in the form of by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement, ­research s­ tudies, these recommendations are targeted at external for example, that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined users, ­especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. ­investment ideas. 200 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Index H High Performance Elastomers 58, 77 High Performance Materials 58, 77, 111 HR policy 19ff. HSEQ targets 39 I Income statement 72ff., 130, 168ff. Inorganic Pigments 58, 78, 112 K A Keltan Elastomers 57f, 77, 111 Acquisitions 10f, 57, 147f L Advanced Industrial Intermediates 58, 78, 112 Leather 58, 78, 112 Advanced Intermediates 58, 78, 82f, 112, 114 Liquid Purification Technologies 58, 78, 112f Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 50, 120f Liquidity 86, 114 Awards 18, 19, 28, 41, 53 M B Markets 58, 64f, 69f, 99ff. Board of Management 3, 93ff., 118, 122 Material Protection Products 57f, 78, 113 Bonds 51, 85ff. Megatrends 8ff., 59f, 110ff. Business conditions 69f, 99ff. Multi-period overview 88 Butyl Rubber 58, 77, 111 N C Net financial liabilities 62, 85, 87 Capital expenditures 10, 82f, 111ff. Compensation 27, 93ff. O Compliance 15f, 117f Offices 122f Corporate governance 116ff. Opportunities 110ff. Corporate responsibility 7f, 14ff., 68 P Customer industries 58, 65, 70, 100f Performance Butadiene Rubbers 58, 77, 111 D Performance Chemicals 58, 78f, 82f, 112ff. Declaration of compliance 116f Performance Polymers 58, 77, 82f, 111f, 113f Demography 25ff. Products 30f, 65ff., 110ff. Directors’ dealings 121 R Diversity 24f Dividend 50, 115 Rating 51, 84f Research and development 65ff. E Rhein Chemie 58, 78 Earnings per share 75, 171 Risk management 101ff., 174ff. EBITDA pre exceptionals 8, 73ff., 115 Rubber Chemicals 58, 78f, 112 EBITDA margin 74, 77ff. S Education initiative 40ff. Employees 19ff., 90ff. Sales 72ff. Environmental protection 28ff. Saltigo 58, 78, 112 Equity 81, 132, 156ff. Segment reporting 76ff., 183ff. Sites 58f F Stakeholders 17f Financial management 84ff. Statement of cash flows 83f, 133, 182 Forecasts 99ff., 113ff. Statement of financial position 79ff., 129, 151ff. Functional Chemicals 58, 78, 113 Stock 46ff. Strategy 6ff., 59f, 110ff. G Subsidiaries 57, 149f GRI Content Index 192ff. Supervisory Board 118ff., 124ff. Growth 6ff., 59f, 110ff. Supervisory Board committees 120 Sustainability 6ff., 14ff. T Targets 6ff., 39, 110ff. Technical Rubber Products 57f Further Information 201 Index | Graphics and Tables Graphics and Tables Combined Management Report 57 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG 58 Performance Polymers in Brief 58 Advanced Intermediates in Brief 58 Performance Chemicals in Brief 59 LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World 61 Value Management and Control System 62 Net Financial Liabilities 65 Selling Costs 65 Shares of Sales by Industry Sector 66 Research and Development Expenses Cover 66 Number of Employees in Research and Development F2 LANXESS Group Key Data 69 GDP and Chemical Production in 2013 F2 Sales by Region 69 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro F2 Employees by Region 70 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2013 C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Polymers 71 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2013 C2 Performance Indicators: Advanced Intermediates 72 Key Financial Data C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Chemicals 72 Group Sales 72 Effects on Sales Strategy 73 Sales by Segment 6 Business Model 74 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment 7 Market Positions 74 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 8 Corporate Responsibility 74 Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to EBIT 11 Acquisitions 74 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income 75 Sales by Market Corporate Responsibility 76 Sales by Segment 16 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 77 Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data 17 The Most Important CR Issues 77 Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 19 HR Strategies 78 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 20 New Employees 78 Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 20 Turnover 78 Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data 25 LANXESS Employee Structure 79 Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 30 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence 79 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data from Work (LTIFR) 79 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 31 REACH Implementation Schedule 80 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets 32 Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region 81 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 33 Energy Consumption 81 Ratios 33 Energy Consumption by Segment 82 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 34 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 82 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 34 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 83 Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2013 35 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 83 Cash Flow Statement 36 VOC Emissions 85 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2009 36 Water Consumption 86 Financing Structure 36 Wastewater 86 Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2013 37 Total Waste 87 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 37 Waste for Disposal 88 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 38 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 89 LANXESS AG Income Statement 39 HSEQ Targets 89 LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position 41 Social Activities by Topic 90 Employees by Region 41 Social Activities by Region 90 Employees by Segment 91 Employees by Functional Area Investor Information 93 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 47 Stock Performance since Listing 94 Compensation of the Board of Management 47 Stock Performance 2013 96 Compensation of the Supervisory Board 48 Performance Data 2013 100 Expected Growth in GDP 48 Capital Market Information 100 Expected Growth in Chemical Production 49 Stockholder Profile as of January 31, 2014 101 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries 49 Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2014 104 Main Sources of Risk 50 Recommendations as of January 31, 2014 107 Financial Risks 51 Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds Corporate Governance 122 Offices Held by Board of Management Members 122 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 202 LANXESS Annual Report 2013 Financial Calendar 2014 May 22 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting August 6 Interim Report H1 2014 November 6 Interim Report Q3 2014 Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or comments. Contact Corporate Communications Tel. +49 221 8885 6251 E-mail: mediarelations@­lanxess.com Contact Investor Relations Tel. +49 221 8885 3851 E-mail: ir@­lanxess.com This Annual Report was published on May 22, 2014. Masthead ­LANXESS AG Kennedyplatz 1 50569 Cologne Germany Tel. +49 221 8885 0 www.lanxess.com Agency Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Illustrations Jan Schmitt, Hamburg, Germany Photography (Management) Claudia Kempf, Wuppertal, Germany English edition Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG Language Service Printed by Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany Publisher: lanxess AG 50569 Cologne Germany www.lanxess.com
