ScienceFirst’s Communication on Progress Period covered by this COP submission: November 2012 – November 2014. United Nations Global Compact: On behalf of ScienceFirst employees, I am pleased to reiterate our support and commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. At ScienceFirst we are devoted to ensuring that all our operations and strategies are aligned with our core values, which fully incorporate the 10 principles. We strongly believe that every business regardless of its size can have an important impact in societies’ values and we trust that leading by example is the best way to spread these universal principles that will benefit us all. That is why, during 2013-2014, we continued to take actions to support the UN COP goals and aspirations. Thank you for reading and considering this Communication on Progress. Sincerely, Ed Jarbath Managing Director, ScienceFirst LLC Introduction ScienceFirst joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2009, submitted its first COP in November 2011, and has practiced the principles of the Compact through active participation, promotion of its principles, and voluntary initiatives in the spirit of the Compact’s global mission. ScienceFirst is a US based company, with offices in Europe and Latin America, which provides scientific strategy and medical communications services to global biopharmaceutical and medical device companies, medical research institutions and non-profit organizations. ScienceFirst is located in Cedar Knolls, NJ but it conducts business with global partners and for global clients worldwide. While the majority of ScienceFirst’s business comes from the US and Europe, the company implements a growing number of projects in the developing world. Labor Rights and Human Rights ScienceFirst employs a highly educated and professional workforce. In order to maintain an atmosphere where our clients’ needs are met, SF provides a comfortable and progressive workplace, fair living wage and social benefits to all employees. SF upholds the Compact’s labor and human rights principles in general and specifically as it applies to: . o Harassment and Discrimination and Equal Employment Opportunity Policies – ScienceFirst management and staff judge harassment and discrimination to be unacceptable and intolerable and are committed to working in an environment that is free of any harassment and discrimination. ScienceFirst is committed to not discriminating against employees or applicants on any legally recognized basis, and to hiring and promoting solely on the basis of ability, training and experience. ScienceFirst employees are the powerhouse of our company and their diversity brings a unique mix of talent, creativity and value to the organization. Therefore, attracting and retaining a diverse and engaging global workplace is critical to our business. Our hiring, talent retention and promotion policies and practices reflect our commitment to maintaining the progressive workplace, free of harassment and discrimination by promoting inclusiveness, development and engagement. Implementation: We prove our commitment to these policies by being sensitive to the specific needs of our employees. We provide flexible business policies which allow our workforce to adhere to religious practices of their choosing, to provide care for their children and elderly, and to work from their home office when practical. Additionally, ScienceFirst’s open-door culture, which makes employees feel comfortable bringing their concerns and suggestions to Senior Management, encourages employees to respond immediately in case of harassment and/or discrimination. Finally, we are always seeking new opportunities to promote diversity and avoid discrimination within our company as well as in society as a whole. Measurement of outcomes: Senior management periodically reviews and analyzes the level of diversity of the company’s employees to set an example as well as to benefit from having a diverse workforce. Currently, some of the company’s demographics are as follows: Age range: 20-70 years old Gender distribution: ~40% male, 60% female Ethnicity: ~5 different ethnicities represented in 15-20 employees Additionally, in 2013-2014, ScienceFirst reaffirmed its commitment to these principles by partnering with life sciences companies and companies that represent minorities, to promote initiatives to combat health disparities making the most of the Affordable Care Act which is making health insurance coverage more accessible for millions of Americans. o Code of Business Ethics ScienceFirst conducts its business with healthcare, biopharmaceutical and health education professionals in strict observance of both the letter and spirit of all applicable US and international laws and codes of business ethics. Implementation: Our commitment to high standards of business ethics is reflected in virtually all operations of the company, including record keeping, gifts and entertainment, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, attendance and punctuality, access to personal files, personal calls, protecting company and client information, recording devices in workplace, etc. Measurement of outcomes: During 2013-14, ScienceFirst continued its efforts to set high standards for employee behavior with respect of its Code of Business Ethics and continued to adhere to the Transparency Reports (Sunshine Act) enacted by the US Congress in 2011. In accordance with this law, we record all payments to US physicians who are also medical care providers, enabling our biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturer clients to report these payments to the US federal and state authorities. o Workplace Violence and Safety in Workplace – Year after year, ScienceFirst continues to provide a safe workplace for all employees. The company’s policies reflect this commitment and encourage each employee, supervisor and manager to anticipate unsafe situations, think defensively and report unsafe conditions immediately. ScienceFirst also complies with the US OSHA standards and/or applicable state job safety and health standards as written in our safety procedures manual. Implementation: Our commitment to workplace safety is evident in our everyday operations, whether it is allowing employees to work from their home office when there is inclement weather or developing a medical emergency plan tailored to an employee’s special needs, the safety and security of our employees is at the forefront of our values. Measurement of outcomes: During 2013-2014 a simple but effective “inclement weather alert” was put in place in which Senior Management would receive weather forecast alerts on his phone 24/7 and immediately make a resolution on any actions that needed to be taken and communicated them to the Office Manager who would consequently communicate it via email (and/or phone, if necessary) to all employees. o Anti-Corruption/Transparency – ScienceFirst management continues to expect its employees to safeguard the trust in which our company is held by its clients and the organizations we collaborate with. Implementation: When working on behalf of our clients in the US and overseas, SF adheres to the same high standards of business conduct which allow no room for corruption, extortion and bribery. On certain occasions, the company requests our overseas customers to sign formal letters of commitment to high standards of business conduct. In adherence to the US transparency laws, we record all payments made to the US medical care providers on behalf of our clients, enabling the clients to report these expenses to the US federal and state authorities. Measurement of outcomes: ScienceFirst actively monitors the interaction of its employees with its clients to ensure that all regulatory and legal obligations are upheld and that client policies and procedures are adhered too. Towards that end, we provide monthly reports to our clients regarding transactions in order to ensure full transparency. There reports are subsequently provided to the appropriate governmental bodies as necessary. Sustainability Program – During 2013-14, ScienceFirst continued to promote sustainable business practices in every aspect of our company’s operations. Implementation: ScienceFirst staff and management enthusiastically support and implement the following important environmental initiatives, among others:  The company provides recycling bins which are easily accessible to all employees  We continue our efforts in minimizing environment impact and waste by providing reusable cups, silverware, and plates for use in our employee eating area  We utilize new environment-friendly printing equipment which minimizes the use of ink; we recycle printing cartridges and use recycled paper for printing. We continue to encourage our employees to dramatically reduce the use of paper in daily operations through the use of new information technologies and simple awareness of the unnecessary paper use. All ScienceFirst employees have personal computers (laptops) and use shared drives; these practices allow for easy viewing and sharing of files without printing. Measurement of outcomes: During 2013-2014 ScienceFirst trained all its employees in Project Management skills and incorporated new environmentally friendly technological tools to support the effective and efficient implementation and execution of projects, which results in a more efficient use of resources by maximizing the use of resources and reducing waste. This initiative allows employees to virtually share documents more easily and reduce the number of documents that are printed. These initiatives have resulted in a reduced number of document printing and printer toner cartridge disposals. Moreover, the introduction and use of technology, in combination with our flexible employee work scheduling has resulted in a better work and life balance for our employees through more effective telecommuting. This has resulted in less travel by car and air by our employees. Social Responsibility Initiatives At ScienceFirst, management and staff recognize our responsibility to invest in and support the communities we serve. ScienceFirst encourages employees to volunteer their time and expertise in their communities. ScienceFirst's core community investment activities are supported by the entire organization including company senior management and staff. During 2013-14, ScienceFirst staff contributed to many important social initiatives including the following:  Created and managed social media initiative dedicated to educating patients and communities about important health issues  Contributed funds to “Doctors Without Borders”/Medicins Sans Frontieres”  Participated in the Morris County, New Jersey Heart Walk/Run and CancerCare Walk  ScienceFirst Managing Director Ed Jarbath volunteers his time serving on the board of CancerCare of NJ, and on the standing committee for the National CancerCare organization. Continuing Commitment In the years ahead, ScienceFirst looks forward to building on its initial Global Compact commitment by strengthening its existing programs and committing to new, innovative programs and initiatives.
