Demonstrating our commitment When we signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, we promised to uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles and to make steady progress toward aligning our corporate policies and management systems with those principles. We further committed to sharing that progress with the UNGC office through our annual sustainability report. Our Business Conduct Guidelines articulate our values, particularly as they relate to human rights, fair labor practices, anti-corruption and the environment. They Communication apply to all Huntsman associates, all over the world, and guide our engagements with all our stakeholders – on Progress associates, communities, customers and investors. United Nations During 2013 and early 2014, we implemented and expanded our corporate programs concerning human Global Compact rights and global privacy, and extended a program addressing corruption risk to include Huntsman logistics vendors. More detail is available at www.Huntsman.com. 2013 COR P OR ATE A DVA NCE ME NTS Human Rights: Huntsman’s human rights policy international personal data transfers between organizademonstrates our commitment to developing a culture tions. But because handling and protecting data is a that supports internationally recognized standards for global concern, we have introduced new privacy guidehuman rights and avoids complicity in human rights lines that meet or exceed local personal data protection abuses. We support, demonstrate and promote the requirements where they exist. These new guidelines protection of human rights around the world and work provide all associates throughout Huntsman with notice to ensure individual rights within our area of influence. about the collection and use of their personal data and Our principles support and are consistent with those establish handling and protection requirements that contained in the Universal Declaration of Human apply to the personal data not only of Huntsman Rights, the Organization for Economic Cooperation associates, but to customers and vendors, as well. and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations Global Compact and Anti-Corruption: As a global manufacturer and transthe International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration porter of chemicals, Huntsman considers compliance on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. with international laws and regulations governing the movement of shipments across borders a critical priorGlobal Privacy: As a global corporation, Huntsman ity. In 2009, we initiated a vendor-consolidation program believes it is imperative to build a privacy-conscious in North America to reduce corruption risk by third-party culture that respects the personal privacy needs of our logistics vendors who conduct business on Huntsman’s associates, customers and others with whom we do behalf. In 2013, in line with the Foreign Corrupt Practices business. We have long respected privacy protection Act (FCPA) and UK bribery legislation, the initiative was as a member of the European Union and Swiss Safe extended to logistics service providers outside North Harbor Certification programs, which facilitate certain America. Huntsman 2013 Sustainability Report A LE TTE R FROM THE PRESID ENT AND CHIEF EXE CUTIVE OFFIC ER Bonding: ChallengesSolutions s a leading supplier of chemicals, Huntsman is Our success over the past year is positive proof that a company helping provide solutions to some of the world’s that focuses on all three legs of sustainability – people, planet A leading challenges. With a global population expected to reach an estimated 9 billion people by 2040, there is increasing pressure on food, drinking water and energy supplies. Our associates are developing solutions and profit – is a sustainable company. We had record earnings and record safety and environmental performance in 2013, including one of the lowest OSHA recordable injury rates in the chemical industry. However, while we celebrate our conto solve some of these problems – from products that reduce tinued improvement in personal safety, we also grieve the loss energy use and decrease the strain on our natural resources of one of our associates in north China, who died last year in to those that promote cleaner air and energy conservation. a public bus accident while traveling on company business on We’re also looking internally at ways we can reduce our own a highway in Shandong Province. Our thoughts are with his environmental footprint, from more efficient manufacturing family. processes to energy conservation and pollution reduction. Our continued commitment to the United Nations Global In order to continue to be a sustainable, long-term supplier Compact (UNGC) ensures we’re representing the highest stanof chemical products, we also have to address the challenges dards of ethics in our human rights, employment practices, that threaten our sustainability. That means looking both and environmental and anti-corruption efforts. internally and externally to our stakeholders to identify and address the economic, business, financial, operational and We will continue to address the issues and challenges that we environmental risks we face in order to be a sustainable partshare with our stakeholders to ensure we have a viable, longner, supplier, customer and employer. Over the pages of this term business that provides innovative products that improve report, you will read how we are addressing five key areas that lives and contributes to safer, healthier communities. form a common bond between our license to operate with the interests of our key stakeholders. Peter R. Huntsman President and Chief Executive Officer Huntsman’s Angela Garibay Huntsman 2013 Sustainability Report
