UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report POMPdeLUX ApS 2013 The nature of our business POMPdeLUX ApS is a Danish fashion house founded in 2006 in Aarhus, Denmark by two women, Marianne Hoffmann Dyrbøl and Pia Holmen Møller. We design and sell our classic Scandinavian inspired kids clothing and it is our mission to dress children of the world in quality clothes with a Nordic twist. It is the key to our success that we are able to design clothes at favorable prices, which are inspired by the latest trends within adult fashion without forgetting that is to be worn by children. Besides the high quality demand it has always been our goal to deliver a unique style, which emphasizes children's personality. Therefore we design and produce everything ourselves – from buttons to fabric and prints. We have a vision to always develop when it comes to design, quality, price and customer satisfaction. All products are designed in Denmark and produced by our suppliers in Turkey, China and India. In order to keep the clothes at a low price, we made a decision not to sell through traditional shops, but via Home Shopping events and in our Online shop. It is our vision to be engaged and to act responsible locally and globally. About us Communication of Progress (COP) information Date 30. September 2014 Document type COP Member since 01-07-2011 Company information Company name POMPdeLUX ApS CVR number 29622035 Address Møgelhøj 8 8520 Lystrup Denmark Sector Textile Contact person Lotte Brændstrup Executive assistant & HR lbr@pompdelux.dk tel:+45 86787871 Employees 62 Website www.pompdelux.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitment From the very first day social responsibility has been a key corner in our company set-up and through the years we have supported several charity programs. Today we work with corporate social responsibility in a strategic way in order to support the development of our company. At the same time we up-hold our support to the poorest people in the world and every year and we donate considerable amounts to various projects. In 2013 we have been working on developing a CSR-strategy 2013-2015 support us achieving our company goals. The strategy contains the 10 UN Global Compact principles and we are pleased to introduce our CSRprogramme and disclose the Key Performance Indictors we have chosen. It is an obligation for us in Denmark always to comply with all national laws relevant to human rights issues as well as the collective agreements we follow. We are convinced that our company is successful also because we have a multicultural culture and welcome all nationalities. We are committed to uphold the human rights principles and we want our suppliers to secure proper labor standards in the factories where our clothes are produced. We are committed to ensure influence on human rights and working conditions in our supply chain and we endeavor to improve our social performance in a valid, transparent and trustworthy way. We are very proud of our responsible supplier program and the progress we have achieved in the last three years. We are committed to take into account the UN Guiding Principles in our CSR work in the coming year. What we do in our company Our CSR-policy is covering all human rights issues and we have a policy of diversity and equality. According to our policy we have a zero tolerance against discrimination and we encourage everyone to inform their leader if discrimination is observed. 85 % of all employees with CSR training including BSCI, Occupational Health and Safety and anti-corruption. CSR training is conducted annually in December for the coming year in different relevant CSR topics. According to our policy all employees and all suppliers to POMPdeLUX must always respect and protect the internationally proclaimed human rights and national legislation. In Denmark we also respect two collective agreements and we follow a third one on a voluntary basis. We strive to create a workplace where everyone is giving opportunities regardless to gender or nationality. We endeavor to give men and women equal opportunities for promotion, career and a good family life. We arrange in-house training in human rights issues and labour standards for all permanent staff. We up-hold our engagement in charity programs with considerable donations and we are proud to be able to support some of the less fortunate people in the world. We have a whistleblower system for the staff to have an anonymously place to put forward claims or suspicious observations. In 2013 we received very few suggestions and all claims were solved. We are confident, that our policies and values and our in-house awareness training of employees will prevent us against discrimination. However we will act with due diligence and perform a risk analyze amongst our staff in order to prevent any discrimination. What we do in relation to our suppliers We mainly operate in long terms relationships with a group of core suppliers with whom we have been doing business with for a longer time. We have influenced our core suppliers by upholding a constant pressure and demand for complying with the basic human rights principles. POMPdeLUX ApS joined the European Initiative BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) in 2010 and through this concept we are obliged to respect human rights and basic labour standards in our supply chain and to have the factories audited through third part auditors. Through our membership and all the working tools we have gained access to, we have implemented the BSCI Code of Conduct successfully in our supply chain. We visit our suppliers at least ones a year. With the BSCI concept we are also able to measure our progress year by year. Since 2010 two third of our suppliers have had a first audit in their factories and we assist suppliers with working tools, awareness training and make sure that all health and safety issues are understood and implemented. Outcome • POMPdeLUX ApS comply with Danish labor legislation and thus we are confident that we have no violation of human rights. • In 2012 we have implemented a whistleblower for the staff to have an anonymously place to put forward claims or suspicious observations. In 2013 we received very few suggestions and all claims were solved. • Basic job satisfaction survey was completed. • In 2013 85 % of all employees with CSR training(10.12.2012). • In 2013 87 % of all employees are following a collective agreement. • In 2013 38 % of employees on management level or in a position of trust were women. • In 2013 19 % of all employees are of other nationality than Danish. • In 2013 POMPdeLUX donated 80.000 Euro to charity programs. • In 2013 72 % of our suppliers (buying volume) have implemented a first audit. 65 % of B.V with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating system. All suppliers have signed the BSCI Code of Conduct. Next Year • In 2014 our CSR-responsible person in the organization will renew our system for measuring our job satisfaction. • In 2014 95 % of all permanent staff will have basic training in CSR and the BSCI-concept. • In 2014 20 % of all employees will have other nationality than Danish. • In 2014 67 % of our suppliers (buying volume) must have first audit. 55 % shall be with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating and the rest shall be screened with a self assessment tool. Labour Principles Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Our CSR-policy is covering all international labor principles and we regulate our staff according to Danish legislation and the collective agreements in our area of business. We strive to create a safe and sound workplace for permanent workers as well as all our temporary workers. We uphold the right to collective bargaining and the freedom of association. We are confident, that our policies, our values and our in-house awareness training of employees will help us to comply with all national labor laws and basic labor standards. What we do in our company We have an occupational health and safety policy and we have worked with our working environment for several years in our Occupational Health and Safety committee. According to Danish legislation standards we assess any labor related risks or accidents at POMPdeLUX ApS professionally and we have 4 meeting every year in the OHS committee. Compensation and overtime payment meet the Danish minimum standard or the relevant collective agreement. For monthly paid workers flexible working hours is a possibility. We have a health insurance covering all permanent employees. We have 6 weeks of vacation and paid sick leave. We have a canteen with daily lunch facilities at favorable prices and free coffee and fruit. All permanent workers have a private pension of 12 % of the salary paid by the employer. We focus on a good cooperation with the staff by educating our staff in leading positions always to involve human understanding in all decisions. We focus on a good cooperation and helpfulness among colleagues by valuing the ability to corporate and work in teams. We show humanity towards our staff whenever they have an unfortunate private situation and we are confident that they will pay us back in their own way. We have a whistleblower system for the staff to have an anonymously place to put forward claims or suspicious observations. In 2013 we received very few suggestions and all claims were solved. What we do in relation to our suppliers We are committed to ensure influence on human rights and working conditions in our supply chain and we endeavor to improve our social performance in the supply chain in a valid, transparent and trustworthy way. Through our membership in BSCI we have implemented our policies and Code of Conduct in our supply chain. Since 2010 to third of our suppliers have had a first audit in their factories. Additionally we try to help our suppliers with working tools, awareness training courses, and management manuals and make sure that all health and safety issues are understood. We visit our suppliers at least once a year. Outcome • POMPdeLUX ApS comply with Danish labor legislation and thus we are confident that we have no violation of working environment laws, basic working rules or the right to freedom of association. • In 2013 85 % of all employees have participated in CSR training incl. labour standards. • In 2013 87 % of all employees are regulated according to collective agreements. • In 2013 all permanent workers have an employer paid pension of 12 %. • In 2013 8 % of all permanent staff is employed on special terms. • In 2013 33% of all permanent workers have received first aid training. • In 2013 we spend 80.000 EURO on a donation to the great Denmark Collection 2013 and other charity programs. • In 2013 72 % of our suppliers (buying volume) have implemented a first audit. 65 % of B.V with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating system. All suppliers have signed the BSCI Code of Conduct. Next Year • In 2014 our CSR-responsible person in the organization will strengthen the work in our CSR-team to cover the Global Compact four areas and set up a new CSR-strategy for 2015-2017. • In 2014 our CSR-responsible person in the organization will renew our system for measuring our job satisfaction. • In 2014 95 % of permanent staff shall participate in a basic CSR-course with BSCI introduction. • In 2014 we will spend 67.000 Euro on charity programs. • In 2014 all permanent workers will have an employer paid pension of 12 %. • In 2014 67 % of our suppliers (buying volume) must have first audit. 55 % shall be with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating and the rest shall be screened with a self assessment tool. Environmental Principles Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment We strive to reduce the impact we have worldwide from running our business. We are committed to up-hold the EC restricted chemicals legislation in REACH as a minimum for all products. Our effort on restricted chemicals has contributed to a general higher awareness of avoiding harmful chemicals in our clothes. We are committed to offer our customers as many products as possible with Oeko-Tex 100 label and the organic label, GOTS. What we do in our company We uncover our resources on essential and relevant areas and strive to reduce our consumption pr. employee. An area of focus is our recycling of cardboard which we increase year by year. In 2012 we developed relevant KPI’s for our environmental effort. Our position on transportation is clear and demands us to prevent from flying clothes to Denmark unless absolutely necessary. Good preparation is the key to the solution in that respect and we endeavor to influence our suppliers to have the same attitude. We have experienced a minor decline in that respect . • We strive to have as much of our clothes labeled with the health label, Oeko-Tex 100 to create confidence for our consumers. We also support the organic clothing industry by using the GOTS label on as much organic cotton products as possible. We have an organic collection of underwear/nightwear produced according to the international global standard GOTS. The figure has decreased due to replacement of suppliers. We follow our measurements (for 2014) seriously regarding Oeko-Tex 100 and GOTS. As a supplement we intent that the limit values in REACH shall form the general standard for our restricted chemical programme. What we do in relation to our suppliers Through our membership in BSCI we have implemented our policies, restricted chemicals programme and the BSCI Code of Conduct in our supply chain. Additionally we try to help our suppliers with working tools, awareness training courses, management manual and make sure that all health and safety issues are understood. We have 100 % signed commitments to our restricted chemicals programme from suppliers and all our core suppliers have obtained a higher awareness on environmental challenges in general. We perform in-house testing on a random basis. Outcome • POMPdeLUX ApS comply with Danish environmental legislation and thus we are confident that we have no violation of environmental laws in Denmark. • In 2013 our measurements of water, heating, electricity and waste are the following: (pr. worker) 2012 2013 Water in m3 7,8 7,5 Waste in KG 269 208 Cardboard for recycling in KG 1500 1225 Heating in MWh og m3 4,3/175 1,9/74 Electricity in KwH 4130 3132 Transportation by ship/ plane/truck 70/5/25 % 80/12/8 % % of BV with Oeko-Tex 100 50 % 39 % % of BV is cotton according to GOTS 5% 5% • In 2013 we had the following grouping of transportation ways: ship 80 % / plane 8 % truck 12 % • In 2013 85 % of permanent staff with CSR-training. • We have 100 % signed commitments to our restricted chemicals program from suppliers. • In 2013 39 % of our products are of fabric with Oeko-Tex 100 label. The figure has decreased due to replacement of suppliers. • In 2013 5 % of our products are organic cotton fabric with the GOTS label. Next Year • In 2014 we expect an increase of all measurements of water, heating, electricity and waste pr. Employee, due to establishing new warehouse. • We expect the following grouping of transportation ways: ship 80 % / plane 10 % / truck 10 %. • In 2014 we plan to extend our chemical program with random tests at origens by third party labartories on readymade garment every season. • In 2014 we expect that 30 % of our products are with Oeko-Tex 100 label. • In 2014 we expect that 7 % of our products are organic with GOTS label. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its froms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment We strongly distance ourselves from using bribery or corruption where ever we do business. We strive to influence our suppliers that corruption should be avoided everywhere in their own range of influence. What we do in our company We have a clear and unambiguous anti-corruption policy. Our policy is covering bribery, corruption, gifts and other facility payments. All employees should work active to prevent all forms of corruption. We have implemented our policy in our organization and we strive to influence our suppliers and business partners that corruption should be avoided everywhere in their own range of influence. What we do in relation to our suppliers Through our membership in BSCI we have implemented our policies and Code of Conduct in our supply chain. Since 2010 several of our suppliers have had a first audit in their factories. Additionally we try to help our suppliers with working tools, awareness training courses, management manual and make sure that all terms are understood. Outcome Bribery and corruption is very rare in Denmark due to tradition and strict legislation. We are confident that POMPdeLUX ApS complies with Danish bribery and anti-corruption legislation and thus we have no violation of national laws in our headquarters in Denmark. We believe that our effort on anti-corruption and bribery have raised awareness among our staff. Until now we have never been involved in a legal dispute regarding corruption. • In 2012 we have implemented a whistleblower for the staff to have an anonymously place to put forward claims or suspicious observations. In 2013 we received very few suggestions and all claims were solved. • In 2013 85 % of permanent staff has participated in CSR training and anti-corruption. • In 2013 72 % of our suppliers (buying volume) have implemented a first audit. 65 % of B.V with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating system. All suppliers have signed the BSCI Code of Conduct. Next Year • In 2014 95 % of our permanent staff shall have CSR training including anti-corruption. • In 2014 67 % of our suppliers (buying volume) must have first audit. 55 % shall be with the result GOOD or IMPROVEMENT NEEDED according to the BSCI rating and the rest shall be screened with a self assessment tool. Communication with shareholders Commitment We intent to expand the knowledge of POMPdeLUX ApS as a responsible brand for children’s wear. What we do We teach our employees and Shopping Advisors in our CSR-strategy and communicate directly with our customers through Face Book, Instagram and newsletters, and we warmly welcome feedback from our many Shopping Advisors. We attend various CSR arrangements and share our knowledge. Outcome We finish our work with a CSR-strategy folder 2013-2015 which can be found on www.pompdelux.dk. This Communication on Progress report 2013 is available at the Global Compact homepage and on our staff blackboard.
