COP 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS2013 TATA SPONGE IRON LIMITED Bileipada, At/P.O.Joda, Keonjhar, Orissa758034 -1COP 2013 -2COP 2013 As a responsible corporate citizen, Tata Sponge Iron Limited recognizes the fact that the long-term future of the company is best served by addressing the interest of all its stakeholders in a balanced manner. To reinforce the Tata group’s founder Jamshetji Nusserwanji Tata that “In the free enterprise, community is not just another stakeholder, but is, in fact, the very purpose of its existence”, we at Tata Sponge , have been over the years relentlessly pursued to improve the quality of life in its immediate surroundings. Thus social responsibility forms an integral part of its business. In line with the ethos of the House of Tata’s, Tata Sponge believes in “ What comes from the people must go back to people, many times over…”, thereby institutionalizing a welldefined comprehensive approach for community development that is linked to various national schemes and Millennium Development Goals. Even before a single ton of steel & mortar was used for the construction of the sponge Iron project, in the year 1983, Tata Sponge began its Corporate Social Responsibility journey in a humble way by venturing into massive tree plantation in & around the factory’s periphery. With this afforestation program, today the >1.7 lakhs trees form a thick foliage that stands out as a testimony of its’ endeavor for environmental care and community concern. All these years the company’s periphery development work was within the five surrounding Gram Panchayat of Joda Block covering 38 villages, benefitting approximately more than 35000 inhabitants. The focus was on Education, Health & Sanitation, Drinking Water, Agriculture & Sports. Subsequently with the allotment of a coal block at Chendipada in Angul where the project work is expected to start shortly, periphery development work in the 5 villages in the proximity of the operational area, have also started in full swing. The outreach of these initiatives will benefit 10000 villagers. As a mark of company’s values towards “Social Equity” and the culture of “Welfare to surrounding community”, and to drive CSR at both the locations a dedicated department identifies the needs & aspiration of local community, develops & implements social welfare & periphery development programs in tandem with the beneficiary groups, and continuously explores opportunity for further improvement in the relationship & commitment towards them. To supplement this voluminous task of reaching out to the people, the company has established a Trust by the name Vidya Shakti Niyas (VSN) mostly spouses of officers as trustee; act as an extended arm of the company in fulfilling its obligation on social welfare schemes. In order to meet their portion of expenditure, this team of dedicated ladies operates & manages a brick manufacturing plant from the fly ash generated by the boiler plant of the company. The profit earned from its operation is exclusively utilized for the benefit of society in the area of Education, Employment & Employability, Entrepreneurship promotion, Health Care for Mother & Child. Thus Tata Sponge’s effort to bring about a social transformation and work towards inclusive growth has been a turning point in creating a difference in the lives of the surrounding community. An overview of various developmental initiatives undertaken during the past five years that are enumerated below depicts the company’s intent and efforts in bringing about this change: Education: Through the education Programme TSIL has focused on strengthening the existing education system by bridging the gaps both in services and infrastructure. The various initiatives taken over the years is given in -3COP 2013 the table below. Upto Facilities provided Dec. 13 New School building 14 Building renovation 10 Kitchen-cum-dining unit 5 Dual bench desk 1050 Boundary wall 18 Almirah / Book shelves 21 Water Filters 15 Scholarship / Financial Aid Level Beneficiary Financial support to meritorious SC/ST students pursuing professional courses, National 1 through FAEA Financial support to a local student for pursuing a 4 yr degree course at NIT, National 1 Patna Tuition fee to Teachers for taking extra coaching classes for improving the State >50 standards of SC/ ST students in a nearby college Financial support for Financial Mgmt course in ICFAI, Bhubaneswar State 1 2 years Technical course in Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) State 26 Complete waiver of tuition fee for nursery students State 10 Financial support to 2 ST student for her college academics State 2 Financial support to 1 ST student for his 2 year MBA Course at Hyderabad National 1 University Financial assistance to 1 ST student for 3-year diploma course at OSME, State 1 Keonjhar Financial support to 1 ST student for 4-year degree engineering course at State 1 Bhubaneswar Scholarship for poor students in Pry. Schools District 7 Tuition fees for Extra Coaching Classes in +2 College District 312  Adoption of village School: In order to minimize school dropouts and to encourage children from the village to attend school, the Company has adopted a School project at Lahanda Munda Sahi village where 100% of the students belong to the Schedule Tribe (Munda) community. The school started in the year 2009 with only 26 students and over the period today the strength has increased to 133 students and the school currently conducts classes upto Class-V. The average attendance of >90% and there has been no dropouts. 200 150 Boys 100 Girls Total 50 0 Start 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The Company’s intervention has not only increased the total strength but has also augmented the number of girl child. Today an equal no. of girls are attending schooling. -4COP 2013 Community Health: Taking in account the poor health condition and inaccessibility of many periphery villages, TSIL has undertaken community health programme focusing on both preventive and curative healthcare. Health checkup camps are held on regular basis focusing on both curative and preventive issues. In collaboration with Govt. programs community immunization, mother and childcare, nutrition supplements initiatives are conducted in regular intervals. Orientation of adolescent girls on reproductive healthcare. To promote hygiene and sanitation and further the National cause on total sanitation, several individual household toilets (30 nos.) have been constructed. To address one of the major issue i.e. malaria, mosquito nets have been distributed (15,000) in these villages and fogging in the villages are regularly undertaken. Cancer and Tumor operation cases were supported in case of poor and marginalized families. Periodic health checkup camps in the schools for early detection of disabilities. Promotion of voluntary family planning with emphasis on “Small Family is Happy Family”. The men and women in the reproductive age group are encouraged to adopt safe contraceptive methods. The employees engage themselves for volunteering and participate in ICDS Block level camps. World AIDS Day is celebrated annually through Employees CSR Volunteering Camps in the villages. Livelihood Promotion: Considering Joda is predominantly a mining area, where agriculture receives least priority, The Company has made conscious effort to promote agricultural livelihood generation practices. Promoted 4 Kissan SHGs and provided Power Tillers. Conducted orientation programs on Agarwati, Soap and Phenyl making and supported for marketing of their products. Girls from underprivileged families are sent for Nursing / Tailoring trainings. Duckery and Paper packet training are given to the villagers for generating additional livelihood. Seasonal vegetable Seeds are distributed to encourage vegetable farming. -5COP 2013 Affirmative Action: The Company promotes inclusion of the underprivileged SC/STs community through its Affirmative Action Programme under the 4 Es. Tuition fees was given for SC/ST students in MGS College, Naradpur Scholarship was given to TWO needy and outstanding students pursuing their 3 year Diploma Engineering course in OSME College and 4 year Degree Engineering. Scholarship provided to 5 ST students in Sarswati Sishu Mandir at Beleipada Stipend given to 10 ST ITI Apprentice Trainees. Culture & Sports: Volley ball, Valley ball net, football and other sports materials were provided to the youth groups and supported to various sports and tournaments both at Joda and Angul. Various local puja, festivals, cultural meets supported during this period. Environment: Awareness and Sensitization programmes were undertaken for the school children and rural youths and TSIL internal staff on plantation, use of biodegradable and recyclable products. Series of plantation programmes were organized on the community land, school campuses, and colonies, involving the school children, Youths and TSIL staff. Miscellaneous / Other: Street lights provided in 42 locations, which are used as street lights, lighting at Panchayat bhawan, and other community locations, which are managed by the community representatives and respective institutions. Supported administration and people’s need outside the project areas in the form of supporting seminar, workshops, etc DRINKING WATER: The Company over the years has provided the following safe drinking water units in and around the 38 villages, benefiting 32000 villagers : Tube wells: 90 Ring wells: 45 Deep bore wells: 18 Besides the Company undertakes preventive maintenance of all these drinking water units for availability of water round the year. -6COP 2013 Principles Company’s Policy Key Results & Measurement Human Rights Principle – 1 We review our HR Business should policies periodically to  We have standard operating procedures, contractors support and ensure that human rights produce list of laborers with their age/identity proof respect the are not violated. with photograph. After verification get passes issued protection of  We ensure that to enter to work premises. Security personnel check internationally contractors do not the get passes on regular basis to ensure that no proclaimed employ child delicacy and no child labour entering to work human rights labourers in our premises. premises. (HR 1,2,3,4)  Factories Act &  In terms of working hour we are abide by Factories Act Rules, Contractor & Rules, Contractor Labour (R&A) Act & Rules. Each Labour (R&A) Act & shift runs for eight hours. In terms of welfare Rules are strictly amenities we have provided subsidized canteen facility adhered in terms to company employees and free canteen facility to of working hours contract workers. We are maintaining both the and welfare canteen as per factories act and ISO norms and conditions. All the employees are provided restroom inside the work premises. Contractor workers are provided with rest male and female rest shed and male and female bath house inside the plant premises.  A copy of Tata Code of Conduct has been given to each  TATA Code of employees working in our company. To create Conduct awareness, classes are being taken on regular basis to reinforce its clauses, training programme named as “JAGRUTI” for company employees and “ADHAR” for contract workers are being taken on regular basis. Every department is being advised to discuss clauses of TCoC in their monthly departmental meeting.  Human rights  We have a HR committee functioning properly which issues reviews human right issues on regular basis. In every coordination meeting human rights issues are taken care.  We ensure that all  To ensure that all contract labourers are getting contract labourers minimum wages, we verify monthly wages register get minimum duly sign by their contractor and workers. Monthly wages. wages to the labourers are disbursed in the presence of company’s authorised representatives to ensure that there is no violation. A survey is being conducted every year to know that the contract workers are getting right wages in right time. -7COP 2013 Principle – 2 We emphasize on Make sure they bipartite / collaborative / are not consultative decision complacent to making to address HR human rights issues proactively to abuses avoid conflict with the union and Associates. (HR 2,3)  Company’s  Before engaging any agencies in our business we business relations. thoroughly verify their ethical practices, including compliance to all statutory regulations.  Various bipartite  We have various Bipartite Committee representing foras representing Management and Associates to resolve various issues Management & and bring out development. We have committee like Associates JCCM, JDCs, Welfare committee, safety committee, canteen management committee. Town development committee, grievance redressal committee, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee, house allotment committee, medical committee and provident fund committee.  Statutory  We have statutory committees like safety, canteen Committees and health that review and resolves various grievances related to statutory.  To ensure safe working condition, we have process  Due diligence on identify hazards on regular basis and assuring human rights like corrective and preventive actions to the identified safe working hazards. Imparting regular safety training to the work condition and on force. Periodical inspection of workplace is followed by the job safety line Management. Principles Company’s Policy Key Results & Measurement Labour Standards Principle – 3 All statutory labour laws  Focus is given to settle common issues of Associates Businesses are implemented and we through collective bargaining forum being represented by should uphold have a process to review equal representative from Management & Associates. the freedom of the statutory compliance Several bipartite agreements are arrived at through this association and by a core committee kind of forum. the effective constituted by the  In the process of participative management council equal recognition of Management. participation of Management & Trade union the right to representatives are ensured by the management. collective bargaining. -8COP 2013 Principle – 4 No forced & compulsory  Engagement of contract labourer / indirect employment is The elimination / under aged labour are in line with contract labour regulation & abolition Act. of all forms of deployed. This is being There is no violation or any forced / compulsory entry of forced and ensured through various labour force inside the factory premises. compulsory check post like  Interstate migrant (CL) are given equal opportunity on labour Security/Safety/HR. human rights including remuneration. (HR 5, 7LA 3, 4) Principle – 5 All contractors /  Our hiring policy reflects transparency and focus on equal The effective suppliers are informed opportunity by Employer. abolition of child not to deploy child  Company ensures engagement of labour over 18 years of labour labour / under aged age including in its township. personnel.  In process of abolition of child labour in plant and township, (HR 6) Our standing order also we ensure school drop out for readmission in the school restricts engagement of through CS activity. child labour / under aged labour. Principle – 6 We honestly follow TATA  Company’s hiring process evidences that no discrimination Eliminate Code of Conduct, also prevails on account of age, sex, locality, caste, creed, discrimination in practice role of equal religion. respect of opportunity employer.  Company doesn’t discourage for employment of physically employment and challenged people. occupation. (HR 4, LA 10,11) Principle – 7 Business at Tata Sponge supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. addresses its productivity in harmony with nature. Manufacturing of sponge iron mainly contribute dust pollution to the environment. Due to handling and processing of bulk dry solids such as iron ore, coal and sponge iron, particulate matter is generated. To combat with this dust pollution, Tata Sponge has taken several measures in place. By these company is fully compliant with all the regulatory norms and conditions laid by SPCB, CPCB and MoEF. Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) is identified as -9COP 2013 major Key Business Process at the company and is formally documented in SHEQ apex manual. With defined Roles & Objectives and Operational Control Procedures, entire process is mapped. The key performance indices (KPI) and key activity indices (KAI) are reviewed periodically at different levels for effectiveness and efficiency of the process. The best industry practices for environment protections are deployed during plant operations and also during project activity. Level-1 Process of EMS at Tata Sponge is as given below. Supplier Input Process Steps Output Customer Env. acts & rules, Government Env. Impact Assessment Clean work consent conditions, agencies atmosphere ISO guide lines etc. Environment Policy Compliance to Tata values, Group Tata group policies, TCoC R environmental  Employees E regulations  surrounding Formulation of EMP Control of air, community V Pollution caused water & noise  Government I Works & and Waste pollution  Suppliers Implement / Execute E Support generation, W Compliance to Departments Identification of certification significant aspects Monitor & Measure stipulations Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. is the first coal based Sponge Iron plant in the country to have achieved ISO14001:1996 version certification on 28th March 2003. Subsequently the company achieved certification of ISO-14001:2004 version in the year 2006. Environmental Policy of Tata Sponge iron Limited is as produced below: ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Tata Sponge Iron Limited is committed to sustainable and continual improvement in its activities pertaining to the handling of raw materials, production & marketing of sponge iron and power; so as to achieve ever improving legal, environmental and all other compliance standard and provide clean environment to its employees and the society. To this end, it will • Identify the impact of its activities upon the environment. • Prepare an annual environmental improvement plan and implement. • Communicate the policy, plan and performance to persons working for or on behalf of the organization and also make it available to public as and what is applicable. (D.P Deshpande) 1st May, 2013 Managing Director 10 COP 2013 Highlights of Environmental Performance as a support to Business by ‘Going Green’ Power generation from waste heat : Tata Sponge is generating 26 MW power from waste heat, which is emanating during production of Sponge Iron. After utilizing this power for it captive use (about 7MW), the excess power (19 MW) is exported. This power generation replaces fossil fuel based power generation and thereby reducing the emission of GHG, SOx, NOx etc.). Power generation from waste heat during last several years is shown here. Reduction in Energy Consumption : TSIL’s drive to reduce energy consumption thro’ Specific Power Power Consumption (KWH) various initiatives such as introduction of VVVF 150 drives, improvement in power factor, replacing 113.04 110.1 106.96 106.88 102.94 100.3 99.52 high capacity drives by low capacity ones, 100 replacing higher watt incandescent electric bulbs with low watt energy efficient CFL bulbs, 50 '06-07 '07-08 '08-09 '09-10 '10-11 '11-12 '12-13 bringing awareness among users to consume less power and the overall focus on conserving power has resulted in a decreasing trend in specific consumption of power in DRI produced. Specific power consumption per ton of sponge iron production for last several years is shown. Assessment of Carbon Foot Print : Towards the perspective of Climate change, every year Tata Sponge assess it Carbon Foot Print for taking necessary actions to reduce its GHG emission. Initially company made an agreement with Ernst & Young to ascertain its Carbon Foot Print, later an independent study was conducted by Tata Quality Management Services (TQMS). From 2009 onwards company is conducting its carbon foot print study by its own climate change champions, who are specially trained by TQMS. The standard followed is the GHG protocol convened by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). TSIL is in the process of implementing various abatement levers on the basis of assessment for 11 COP 2013 reduction of CO2 emission. Water Conservation: Tata Sponge does not discharge any water to outside its premises. Cooling water is re-circulated in the system. Entire waste water generated is used for dust suppression on roads, raw material as well as solid waste dump yards and gardening purpose after primary treatment. Given below is a schematic of waste water treatment system at Tata Sponge. River water Condenser TG DM Plant Cooling Make-up Cooler Tower Road sprinkling Rain Water Harvesting Pond Water Recirculation Dump yard (Dust)area Pump Cooling Pump Hot Well Hot Well Tower Cold Well Make-up Coal yard (Dust) Neutralization Rly siding (Dust) Pit Clarifier Domestic Fire fighting water Recirculation Oil Recirculation Oil Recirculation Thickener Pump Pit-I Separation Pit-II Separation Pit-III (Reservoir) Sump Rain Water Harvesting Pond Water Recirculation area Main facilities used for control Water Pollution & Water Discharge are:  Cooling towers and recirculation pumps Specific Water Consumption (KL) 10  Neutralization pit and pumps for recirculation 5.64 5.31 4.85 5.09 4.64 3.77  Settling pit and pumps for recirculation 3.41 with electronic float system for auto 0 recirculation. '06-07 '07-08 '08-09 '09-10 '10-11 '11-12 '12-13  Oil separation pits at recirculation pond Company is doing water harvesting for ground water percolation as well as water utilization. In addition to the 12 COP 2013 previous water harvesting arrangements, TSIL has added one more huge water harvesting facility within its premises during 2012-13 at an expense of INR 70 lacs, after conducting the resistivity survey and feasibility study of the area. The water consumption (in KL/MT of DRI produced) is as below. Principle – 8 Initiatives undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility Afforestation / Tree Plantation: In last several years Tata Sponge has transformed a completely barren land into a green patch and eco zone. The company has planted more than 1,62,000 trees since its inception with survival rate of about 94%. Plantation of trees remained as one of TSIL’s major priorities since its inception. Given below is a graphical representation of the year-wise plantation (Cumulative) taken up by Tata Sponge over the years. 170000 161000 162000 160000 158000 154000 155000 150000 150500 151000 150000 147000 147500 140000 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 TATA SPONGE AREA IN 2012 SATTELITEVIEW 13 OF TATA SPONGE COP 2013 Waste utilization: Use of Waste heat : Tata Sponge is generating 26 MW power from waste heat, which is emanating during production of Sponge Iron. After utilizing this power for it captive use, the excess power is exported. By generation of power through waste heat, lot of coal (Non-renewable natural resource) is saved which are calculated as follows: Coal saved (MT) Year Total power generation (KWH) KWH x 0.9 /1000 2009-10 181392700 163254 2010-10 191370600 172233 2011-12 134395300 120956 2012-13 178868700 160982 Use of ESP dust: The ESP waste generated from the DRI plants is used for manufacturing bricks through FALG technology. No heat is required for manufacturing of these bricks, thus conserving natural resources such as coal and soil. ESP dust is also used during concreting of roads and platforms. Use of Char: The non-magnetic char generated as a solid waste from the DRI plants at TSIL is sold to the private entrepreneurs for their industrial use (Cement, AFBC, sponge iron etc.). Used Oil & Batteries: TSIL does not produce any hazardous waste except used oil and batteries. All the used oil is collected from different user points and sold to authorized dealers (approved by Central Pollution Control Board-CPCB) for further processing at their end. The old batteries are sold to authorized dealers through buy back system. Use of Canteen wastes: Food and vegetable wastes collected from canteens are used for generation of Biogas, which is used as fuel for cooking purpose. Principle – 9 Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology Use of cleaner & greener processes:  Ensured ‘Zero’ discharge of waste water, 100 % waste water is re circulated Company does not discharge any waste water to outside its premises. Cooling water is recalculated in the system. Other wastewater is used for road cleaning, coal yard dust suppression etc. after primary treatment. 14 COP 2013  Water Harvesting for ground water percolation and utilisation Company is doing water harvesting for capturing rain water for its utilization and also for ground water percolation. In addition to the existing water harvesting, TSIL has added one more huge rainwater harvesting facility within its premises. Also roof rain water is collected in a big tank and water is utilized for cooling purpose.  High capacity semi-automatic brick manufacturing machine capable to convert 100 % ESP dust (Waste) for making bricks. Company initially installed 4 brick manufacturing machines with a capacity of 8000 bricks/ shift/machine to convert its ESP generated Fly ash into useful bricks. During the year 2012-13 company has installed one semi-automatic brick manufacturing machine, which has a capacity to produce 4500 bricks /hour of operation. Bricks are made through cold pressing process where no heat/fire is required, thus conserving natural resource (coal) and soil. Company is capable to convert 100 % fly ash generation to manufacture Fly ash bricks.  Online AAQ & Stack monitoring: Company has 03 numbers of online AAQ monitoring stations and 03 numbers of online stack monitoring stations. Out of 03 AAQ stations, one station is mounted on mobile van. The parameters are displayed at the main gate on a giant display board for the information of the public.  Generating Biogas from canteen Wastes and utilizing for energy utilization at canteen: During 2012-13, company has installed 2 nos of Biogas units within its premises. Food and vegetable waste of Canteen and guest houses are utilized to generate gas and subsequently for generation of heat during preparation food. By adopting this process, waste as well as its foul smell at the dump area 15 COP 2013 is eliminated, also the waste of biogas plant is used as good fertilizer to maintain gardens and lawns  Procured heavy duty fogging Canon for suppression of Fugitive dust: During 2012-13, company has procured one water cannon for suppression of fugitive dust of localized area. The canon is movable as well as truck mountable for its quick movement. The waste water is used though this cannons to suppress air borne dust up to distance of 50 mts.  Telescopic unloading spouts have been provided with water jacketing system at the discharge point of bunkers to control fugitive dust during unloading of char.  Chemical dust suppression system is used to reduce the dust in running circuits. Viscous chemical is sprayed over the running belt to entrap the flying dust and bring it back on the belt. A significant reduction in the fugitive dust is achieved by this process.  For cleaning of roads, the road vacuum-cleaning machine is used. The machine sucks the road dust and controls air pollution. Besides, the machine is also used for vacuum cleaning of the deposited dust from the floors of raw material circuits and finished product circuits using flexible pipe assembly In addition, TSIL has undertaken the following development activities over the years.  Reduction in CO2 emission: Various energy saving initiatives have been taken to reduce ccoal consumption, power consumption etc. Company is calculating its carbon fort print every year taking target to take necessary actions to reduce Greenhouse gas emission.  Use of alternate energy : TSIL has provided rural Environmental (Expenditure (Million INR) electrification in the nearby villages by installing 200 solar powered panels. 157.84 100 73.13 The total expenditure incurred on account of 55.54 56.22 53.11 50.94 26.07 installation and maintenance of pollution control 0 '06-07 '07-08 '08-09 '09-10 '10-11 '11-12 '12-13 16 COP 2013 equipments over last few years is shown. Shown below the avg. ambient dust level at plant area in µg/m3: PM-10 level (2012-13) 3 PM-10 level (2012-13) µg/m3 µg/m 100 100 100 91 97 92 91 86 85 100 91 97 92 91 86 85 79 75 82 79 75 82 58 58 35 37 35 37 0 0 Awards & Accolades on environmental performance received over the years: Following Environmental Awards are received by Tata Sponge Iron Limited. Assessing Type of Award Rank Year Organization/Institution CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL TERI 1st Prize AWARD 2002-03 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2002-03 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2003-04 Confederation of Indian SHE award 1st Prize Industries (CII) 2004-2005 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award Platinum Award 2004-05 World Environment Golden Peacock Award 1st Prize 2005 Foundation Directorate of Factories & Best Environmental award 1st Prize 2005 Boilers Directorate of Factories & Best Performance in Safety & 1st Prize 2005 Boilers Environmental award Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2006 Srishti Publications G-Cube Award Winner Award 2007 Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2007 CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL TERI Appreciation AWARD 2007 World Environment Golden Peacock Award Finalist 2008 Foundation Runner Up Times of India Group & JSW Earth Care award on GHG Mitigation 2008 Award Srishti Publications G-Cube Award Winner Award 2008 Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2009 Frost & Sullivan Green India Award Green Challenger 2009 State Pollution Control Appreciation Pollution Control Award 2010 Board, Orissa Award Confederation of Indian Best Practices in Safety Health & Second Prize 2012 Industries (CII) Environment JIPM TPM Award (Category-A) Excellence Award 2012 17 COP 2013 State Pollution Control Pollution Control Award Excellence Award 2013 Board, Orissa Frost & Sullivan Green India Award Golden Award 2013 Policies addressing TSIL environment: TSIL has following policies in place as a part of its commitment to the environment: Environmental policy CSR policy TPM policy ( addressing environment) and Mission of the company Principle – 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Consistent with Tata Group purposeand in line with Tata Code of Conduct, the company has a set of defined Values (TSIL) as follows: T – Trust & respect S – Social equity I – Integrity L – Loyalty and also an Organisational culture (SEWA) as follows: S Safety E – Environment friendly operations W – Welfare of employees & surrounding community A – Adaptability to changing scenario Corporate Governance: In order to enhance shareholders’ value and promote national interest, the company is committed to good corporate governance and to achieve the objectives of this, the company follows the principles of transparency , disclosure, fairness, independent supervision, healthy competition, equal opportunity in employment and compliance to all relevant laws, rules and regulation. Adoption of Code of Conduct: Keeping in view the Values (TSIL), Organisational Culture (SEWA) and requirements of good corporate governance, the company has laid down a code which is called Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC). It is mandatory for the company and all employees to follow the TCoC which has 25 clauses. Coverage of Code of Conduct: All employees of Tata Sponge have signed the “Tata Code of Conduct”. This has also been extended to suppliers and customers along with the contract for compliance in respect of relevant clauses. To re-enforce company’s firm resolve towards fostering an ethical environment, employees are encouraged to raise ethical issues through Whistle Blower Policy, a formal mechanism for all employees to make protective disclosures about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the company’s Code of Conduct. The Ethics Counsellor personally addresses employees, local contractors, suppliers & customers to support them in upholding ethical transactions. The Clause No 2 (regarding financial Reporting and records) of the Tata Code of Conduct states that the company shall prepare and maintain its accounts fairly and accurately and in accordance with the accounting and financial reporting standards which represent the generally accepted guidelines, principles, standards, laws and regulations of the country in which the company conducts its business affairs. Internal accounting and audit procedures shall reflect, fairly and accurately, all of the company’s business transactions and disposition of assets, and shall have internal controls to provide assurance to the company’s board and shareholders that the transactions are accurate and legitimate. All required 18 COP 2013 information shall be accessible to company auditors and other authorised parties and government agencies. There shall be no willful omissions of any company transactions from the books and records, no advanceincome recognition and no hidden bank account and funds. Any willful, material misrepresentation of and / or misinformation on the financial accounts and reports shall be regarded as a violation of the Code, apart from inviting appropriate civil or criminal action under the relevant laws. No employee shall make, authorise, abet or collude in an improper payment, unlawful commission or bribing. The clause No 5 of the code (regarding gift & donation) states that the company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended, or perceived, to obtain uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. Further, the company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption. The company has laid down a Gift Policy clarifying its rules and regulations on gifts and entertainments. The Clause No 6 of the Code (regarding dealing with Government Agencies) makes it obligatory for the company and its employees, unless mandated under applicable law, not to offer or give any company funds or property as donation to any government agency or its representative, directly or through intermediaries, in order to obtain any favourable performance of official duties. The company shall comply with government procurement regulations and shall be transparent in all its dealings with government agencies. The Clause No 7 of the Code (regarding political non-alignment) requires the company to be committed to and support the constitution and governance systems of the country in which it operates. The company shall not support any specific political party or candidate for political office. The company’s conduct shall preclude any activity that could be interpreted as mutual dependence / favour with any political body or person, and shall not offer or give any company funds or property as donations to any political party, candidate or campaign. The Clause No 17 of the Code (Ethical Conduct) casts a duty upon every employee to ensure ethical behavior. Failure to adhere to this clause could attract severe consequences, including termination of employment. Reporting of Concerns: The Clause No 25 of the code gives freedom to all employees to raise concerns regarding unethical behavior and actual or suspected violation of Code. During the year 2013, total of 6 (Six) concerns were received from employees and one from a service provider and all were resolved. The Whistle Blower Policy (WBP) gives freedom to all the employees to raise concerns regarding actual / potential violation of Code of Conduct at the same time ensuring full protection to Whistle blowers against any form of victimization or harassment/reprimand. A high level Whistle Blower Protection Committee is in place. Awareness sessions were held by the Ethics Counsellor on TCoC / WBP with the following stakeholders:  Employees 6 sessions (covering over 170 employees)  Service Providers 1 session (covering 39 service providers)  Contract labour 15 sessions (covering over 210 contract labourers) Additionally the Ethics Counsellor also addressed employees in 8 Dialogue sessions covering over 600 employees. Organisation Structure for ensuring Ethics: The Company has a team of 6 Ethics Counsellors/Co-ordinators which also includes a female Ethics Coordinator. The company also has a Committee for dealing with the cases of sexual harassment at workplace 19 -
