Bilfinger SE Carl-Reiss-Platz 1-5, 68165 Mannheim, Germany United Nations Global Compact Two United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 USA Communication on Progress (COP) 2013 Bilfinger Sustainability Report 2013 Foreword from the Chief Executive Officer Ladies and Gentlemen, Not only we, but also our clients are faced with the challenge of operating sustainably and creating production processes that make efficient use of energy and resources. These are things that Bilfinger, as an engineering and services company, can do extremely well. We have a particularly wide range of expertise across the areas of renewable energies, energy efficiency, sustainable real estate and environmental engineering where we offer our clients the right economic and ecological solution to suit their particular needs. In this respect, Bilfinger views sustainability as more than an obligation. It is also a business opportunity. However, sustainability is not just limited to our range of services. It is a core element of our Vision Statement and shapes our relationship with employees, customers and all other stakeholders. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to protecting human rights, abolishing discriminatory labor and social practices, improving environmental protection and fighting corruption in all its forms. Accepting social responsibility is part of our identity. In 2013, we managed to further improve the occupational safety record in our company. The percentage of women in the company is increasing steadily. For our clients, we have combined our service range in the area of energy efficiency, founding a new subsidiary, Bilfinger Efficiency GmbH, for this purpose. Page 2 / 2 In the coming years, Bilfinger will further expand its services for greater energy efficiency and resource conservation and will position itself on the market as a sustainability services provider. We invite you to join us on this exciting path. Mannheim, July 2014 Roland Koch Chief Executive Officer Our Sustainability Report 2013 with a description of practical actions the company has taken to implement the Global Compact principles can be found at: http://www.sustainability.bilfinger.com
