Executive Summary The Performance Coach continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and continues to make improvements to ensure its policies, procedures and work ethics mirror the requirements set out by the Global Compact. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Human Rights The Performance Coach aspires to be a leader in social accountability within the coaching and leadership development industry by promoting a positive culture with respect to human rights and the continuous improvement of working conditions. We believe that all companies have a responsibility to respect human rights in their operations, regardless of the sector, country or context in which they operate. We are fully committed to supporting the protection of human rights and promote and support it’s principles contained within the legislative policies in accordance with the country’s we work in. We promote our commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to all our stakeholders and openly communicate our objectives by publishing a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy which is available to all. Annually through our Quality Management System all employees and other stakeholders are reminded of our policies and procedures for all matters relating to CSR and existing employees have access to our comprehensive Staff Handbook which includes details regarding equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, work life balance and anti-harassment amongst others. All new employees are taken through a robust induction programme which introduces them to the values of The Performance Coach. In addition The Performance Coach recently employed an individual as a graduate intern allowing them the opportunity to develop working skills in their chosen arena. All our policies are reviewed for suitability, sustainability and effectiveness on an annual basis or sooner should a significant change occur. These reviews are formally recorded. 1 Labour Principles The Performance Coach complies fully with all aspects of UK labour law and the countries we work in, which includes provisions for a minimum working age, minimum wage, maximum working week and paid time off. The Performance Coach does not utilise forced or compulsory labour. All our employees and associates are provided with excellent working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits that comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not contribute directly or indirectly to human rights abuses and will not engage with any organisation that does not uphold their social responsibility to basic human rights which includes any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. The Performance Coach clearly sets out its policies to all employees by providing a contract of employment which makes reference to the Staff Handbook where additional information can be found regarding policies. In addition to this we provide detailed guidelines on Health and Safety items such as risk assessments, identified hazards and the procedures in place to reduce or eliminate any risks. The Performance Coach maintains a comprehensive recruitment procedure and all records are maintained within the HR department. We monitor all areas concerning Labour Principles and aim to continually improve processes and policies and where new risks or hazards are identified which could impact on our employee’s health and safety additional work instructions are put in place. Environmental Principles At The Performance Coach we recognise our responsibility towards environmental issues and the community. All our employees have a general duty of care and are required to take all reasonable steps to comply with our environmental policy and agreed procedures, and to demonstrate a personal commitment to a safe environment at all times. Our Environmental policy is made available to all stakeholders and to the public and whilst our environmental impact is minimal, we aim to recycle as much as possible. We have and continue to ensure our employees are aware of our environmental procedures in order to reduce waste and increase recycling. Our policy is reviewed annually or sooner should a significant change take place. 2 Anti-corruption Principles We must conduct all our dealings with integrity. Bribery and corruption harms the societies in which these acts are committed and prevents economic growth and development. This is not just a cultural commitment on the part of the organisation; it is a moral issue and a legal requirement. Our code of conduct states that bribery and the making of facilitation payments are unequivocally unacceptable. The Performance Coach gives the utmost importance to this policy and apply a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of our employees or associates. We have identified the risks for our company and ensure that all staff are aware of the risks and the procedures in place to mitigate them. During the past twelve months The Performance Coach has been working towards introducing a new finance system which will be implemented shortly. This will help to further eradicate any additional risks and enhance our procedures in this area. The Staff Handbook contains all relevant policies and procedures for staff to review and as part of the induction process staff are introduced to these. The measurement for corruption remains the responsibility of the Managing Director and is based on perception according to the information provided to him by the Finance Manager, Senior Management, staff and process owners. Areas where further investigation is required are passed to the Head of Compliance or any other body necessary to fulfil the requirements of a complete audit. 3
