UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communications on Progress 2014 www.ngahr.com STATEMENT OF SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am pleased to confirm that NGA Human Resources (formerly NorthgateArinso) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and AntiCorruption. In our Communications on Progress, we update on activities completed this past year to continue to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our annual report, CSR initiatives, and other channels of communication. At NGA we are committed to sustainable growth and working to integrate the Ten Global Compact Principles which promote social, economic and environmental improvement into our business as usual. We recognize that companies have a positive role to play in developing a society that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Our mission is to develop sustainable, efficient and effective organizations in the markets in which we operate, to support progressive public services which break down inequalities and to reach out to those most disadvantaged in our communities. Our objectives are to:  Embed responsibility into the way we govern, manage and perform as a business  To achieve the highest standards of integrity, ethical behaviour and corporate governance  To conduct our business in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible  To develop solutions that increase business productivity and competitiveness  To contribute to well-being through supporting services to the public that promote social justice This document describes NGA’s continued response to the ten principles of the Global Compact and provides an update on new activities to support our ongoing commitment. Adel Al-Saleh Chief Executive Officer NGA Human Resources Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 1 OUR COMMITMENT C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I LI TY As a global business operating in 35 countries, NGA HR is committed to sustainable growth which promotes social, economic and environmental improvement. Our aim is to conduct our business in a socially responsible way, contributing to the communities in which we operate, minimising our impact on the environment and respecting the needs of employees, clients and other stakeholders. G O V E R N AN C E Our corporate responsibility agenda is included within the overall framework set by the Corporate Responsibility Group (CRG). The CRG sets our Corporate Responsibility policy and strategy and is responsible for best practice across the Group. Adel Al-Saleh, our Group Chief Executive, is Executive Sponsor of the CRG. Our corporate responsibility programme is managed to ensure that corporate responsibility is embedded into day-to-day practice. S U S T AI N AB L E S E R V I C E S Our services have an impact on people all over the world. In NGA we work to make organisations more efficient and effective, saving money and reducing environmental impact. Improving organisational performance is at the core of what we do – at work, at home, in school and within the community. Globally, we understand the business of HR and the role it plays within an organisation. We help our clients become better employers through smarter, more streamlined business processes — to save money, manage employee life cycles, and support globally connected, agile organisations. The combination of deep HR experience and insight, advanced technology platforms and applications and a global portfolio of flexible service delivery options is how NGA’s experience and insight make a measurable difference for our clients outsourcing services. We work with our clients to introduce remote and flexible working, reducing environmental impacts and improving quality of life for employees. We continue to extend our Software as a Service delivery model, reducing environmental impact and making services more readily available for our clients. Combating climate change remains integral to developing sustainable services for NGA HR’s clients. Our business continues to place a strong focus on improving our clients’ environmental performance by enabling them to access modern ‘on demand’ technologies which enable working practices that reduce environmental footprint and generate considerable savings. Environmental sustainability is fully embedded into service delivery methodology. We focus both on reducing the number of assets required as well as favouring energy-efficient energy consumption models. Assets are reused wherever possible and where they are beyond economical repair, they are recycled in accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE). Further reductions are gained by equipping our employees with the tools and technology to enable flexible and mobile working. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 2 NGA has introduced a number of initiatives designed to reduce carbon emissions and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of HR systems. These include online pay slips, recycled pay slips, self-service HR and the development of a carbon emissions calculator that enables employees to calculate their CO2 emissions for business travel. The implementation of paperless HR, by using self service and online payslips, results in reduced environmental impact and costs for our Clients. S U S T AI N AB L E P R O C U R E M E N T Northgate is committed to ensuring that the products and services that we buy are sustainable. As such, we have integrated corporate social responsibility criteria into our group-wide procurement activities. Sustainability considerations are integrated across our entire procurement process in the identification of needs, evaluation of options, evaluation of tenders, and post-contract management. This approach is applied globally to all new and existing major suppliers. Together with our Legal, Finance and Compliance departments, our Procurement department has developed standards to ensure we meet NGA’s commitment to the UN Global Compact principles and work to ensure that all suppliers who wish to do business with any Northgate Company sign up to those same standards we hold ourselves up to. This approach helps propagate the benefits and global best practices onto the workforces across our supply chain. We are continuously evaluating suppliers who might not meet those principles with the objective of bringing our entire supplier base to the same global standard. OUR PEOPLE Northgate continues to enhance skills and increase employability in our communities through Apprenticeships, Graduate Trainee Schemes, Careers Visits, Work Experience and partnership with companies. In the UK, the company has continued to support the Young Apprentice scheme. Within the last year, the company welcomed Young Apprentices working across a range of services and clients, while gaining accreditations in ICT, Customer Service or Business Administration. Several of these young adults have gone on to become permanent employees of the company and several others have used the skills and experience they have gained to obtain permanent jobs with other organisations. By enhancing employability through these schemes, Northgate is addressing shortages of skilled staff, gender issues and supply chain issues, creating a skilled future workforce which will benefit the growth of the IT sector. ActNow Through Northgate’s ActNow programme every employee is encouraged to do something, however small, to help deliver value and build sustainable and healthy communities. The programme’s initiatives embrace sustainability, community involvement and engagement. The company has sponsored numerous charities throughout the last year, encouraging employees to get involved in activities in support of many good causes. Charities included Macmillan cancer care, Comic Relief, Children’s Toy Foundation (CTF), India National Association for the Blind (NAB), United Way and the Red Cross. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 3 KEY HIGHLIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS FOR THIS YEAR: In 2014 we have rolled out a Business Fundamentals Programme which was mandatory for all employees. This program includes a module on CSR which explains our commitment to the UN Compact, explains the 10 principles and what we do as a Company toward fulfilling our obligations. The course also includes information on responsibilities for our employees to ensure they are aware and committed to helping us fulfill this commitment. This course is also mandatory for all new joiners within 1 month of joining NGA.  Northgate aims to be an employer of choice, for people from different backgrounds and to promote respect for the individual, and equality of opportunity. Northgate is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity. Our aim is for our workforce to be truly representative of all sections of the wider community and for each employee to feel respected and able to perform their duties to the best of their ability. We have recently updated our Equality, Diversity and Dignity Policy and have published this on our intranet so all employees are aware of our expectations on acceptable conduct.  We have Mandatory Compliance training for all employees and this year the completion rate was 98%. The small amount who did not complete this training were on Long Term absences – ie Maternity leave. Long term sick leave etc.  We are a diverse organization — geographically and culturally — and we celebrate our different talents and skills with personalized development plans for each of our 8,500+ employees around the world. All employees at NGA HR are required to participate in the yearly performance development review with their manager. We aim for 100% completion for this program and this year 99% of employees received a performance review rating and had a performance and development conversation with their manager. The small percentage of employees who did not complete this program, have various reasons for non-completion, such as long term sick, maternity leave or they have joined NGA HR after the start date for the program D O N ATI O N S / CSR A C TI V I TI E S Throughout all regions, NGA supports employees to find ways to give back to their communities, including mentoring, volunteering, and donations to their favorite charities. Below are some examples of the last year of activities we have supported.  Over our last Financial Year (FY1314) our employees in the UK donated to 97 different charities.  As a business our Australia sites sponsor 2 children through World Vision. Employees are invited to donate each month and NGA matches the donations received.  Our Hyderabad site held their first Blood Donation Camp this year.  Post-Haiyan Relief Operations Through local and global donations and event savings, NGA HR PH was able to raise PHP 1.3 Million for post-Haiyan relief operations.  Colleagues from Wincanton offshore team conducted “Kappa Fest” (by selling Kerala traditional dish prepared from tapioca). The fund was raised for charity to help an old age home near to our site in Kochi, India.  Colleagues in our BskyB Arrow offshore team raised funds from employees as part of their 1 year completion. The fund was handed over to Karunalayam Charity home near to our Kochi site, to help disadvantaged children with education and health. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 4  Through an initiative called Share and Care, our Mumbai team helped support the India National Association for the Blind (NAB), by collecting donations and raising money to purchase items for the local NAB rehabilitation center, which works to improve skills and place visually impaired people into employment.  Our UK offices participated in fund raising activities for Red Nose Day in support of the national Comic Relief charity which helps disadvantaged people throughout the world.  Australia offices participated in Jeans for Genes day raising money for much needed research.  Employees at our Jacksonville, Florida location hosted an annual charitable giving campaign for their local United Way, a non-profit organization that disperses funds in the most impactful ways to improve education health and income in the community. In addition to raising thousands of dollars, many employees volunteer for local United Way agencies. Most recently, hundreds of employees wrote letters of encouragement for graduating students to help motivate them to continue along their current path of success.  Employees in our Irvine Office in North America, recently donated equipment to one of our clients who is a charity, Camp Alandale. They run summer and winter camps for abused children giving them hope and 1-2-1 counselling to assist them in their future lives.  Our Manila office works with Gawad Kalinga Community Development Foundation, Inc. (GK), which is a Philippine-based movement that aims to end poverty for 5 million families, by first restoring the dignity of the poor. Our support included community service by our employees in building houses, as well as Disaster recovery volunteerism when needed.  We also support the Hands on Manila Servathon (HOM Servathon). This is a day of community service that mobilizes hundreds of volunteers, both first time as well as veterans, to work together in providing assistance to marginalized sectors. NGA’s volunteers over the last year provided community service in restoring classrooms for Grade Schools, and participating in ‘Run for a Cause’.  Our St John’s office in North America supported the Janeway Children’s Hospital Telethon, manning the phones and helping to raise funds. NGA presented a cheque for $6,800.  Employees in our St John’s office were very busy this year also supporting the Ronald McDonald House Home for Dinner Program, providing a meal for the 15 families with sick children at the house as well as presenting them with a cheque for $2,000. As well as taking part in the Breast Cancer Foundation “Dress for the Cure” fundraiser, wearing pink in support of the cause and donating contributions through the sales of pink ribbons. ENVIRONMENT  Our Kochi site celebrated World Environment Day on 05th June. This year the theme was – Raise your Voice, not the Sea Level. NGA distributed 500 saplings to employees and created awareness about the importance of planting trees and caring for our environment.  As part of our work with Hands on Manila Servathon (HOM Servathon), NGA’s volunteers participated in a Costal and river clean-up this year.  In the UK our Hemel and Peterborough offices have introduced new lighting technology for energy efficiency. We are now in the process of expanding this scheme to our larger UK sites such as Halifax, Birmingham and Bristol offices.  We have completed the installation of energy efficient gas central heating boilers at our Milton Keynes site, the installation within our Peterborough site will be completed by end December 2014. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 5  Across our UK sites, our CO2 emissions reported through the UK Government Environment Agency for the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme, have reduced from 8,859 tonnes reported in 2012 to 7,655 tonnes reported in 2013 to 7,583 tonnes reported in 2014. [Note:these are Group figures in the UK no separate data is available solely for NGA]. U P C O M I NG I N I TI ATI V E S  Below are examples of some of the initiatives we have already committed to over the next few months.  Replacement of air conditioning units at one of our largest UK sites, with emission friendly and energy efficient units.  We have also invested in a new Building Management System at this site which will enable the heating/cooling systems to operate more effectively together reducing energy and omissions. We expect the works to be completed by January 2015. Similar projects at two other sites are planned to be completed in February 2015  As a Company we will be undertaking detailed analysis work on our UK emissions as part of the new UK Government launched Energy Savings Opportunities Scheme and as part of this scheme we are to analyse wider energy savings opportunities and will be externally audited on such. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 6 FUTURE ACTIONS  NGA will continue to demonstrate our commitment to the UNGlobal Compact by continuing to implement and incorporate the 10 principles throughout our organization.  NGA will focus attention on the same Key Performance Indicators as 2013/14 and continue to document improved progress for our Key Performance each year. M ORE INFORMATION Please refer to the Northgate Information Solutions Annual Report online at http://www.northgate-is.com/ for more information on the Northgate Group and NGA:  Economic, financial performance and organisational strategy  Operational structure of the organization: main divisions and group structure  Financial report: Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments and information concerning ownership and investment For more information regarding NGA and the contents of this report, please contact: Michael Custers Vice President Marketing E: michael.custers@ngahr.com T: +1 770 595 7897 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources Page 7 NGA Human Resources is a global leader in helping organizations transform their business-critical HR operations to deliver more effective and efficient people-critical services. We help our clients become better employers through smarter, more streamlined business processes — to save money, manage employee life cycles, and support globally connected, agile organizations. This is how NGA makes HR work. What sets us apart is The NGA Advantage. It’s a combination of deep HR experience and insight, advanced technology platforms and applications and a global portfolio of flexible service delivery options. www.ngahr.com
