2012 sustainaBilitY REPoRt www.microchip.com A LETTER FROM STEVE M icrochip Technology Incorporated (Microchip) is a leading supplier of fieldprogrammable embedded control solutions by delivering the popular PIC® microcontrollers; a broad spectrum of innovative analog and mixed-signal products, related non-volatile memory products and Flash-IP solutions. In order to contribute to the ongoing success of customers, shareholders and employees, our mission is to focus resources on high value, high quality products and to continuously improve all aspects of our business, providing an industry leading return on investment. Microchip is a values based company. We operate on an overriding Vision, Mission and eleven Guiding Values. These values guide our day-to-day decisions and establish our corporate culture. Over the years we have built on the Guiding Values with a Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, a variety of policies and procedures, statements and associated training. In recent years, we have provided transparency into how our Guiding Values make Microchip an ethical, stable, sustainable and resilient company year after year through our Sustainability Reports. This Sustainability Report serves as Microchip’s first Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. In April of 2013, as Chief Executive Officer of Microchip, I confirmed that Microchip supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and restate that commitment now. We express our intent to support and advance the values of the Global Compact within our sphere of influence and with projects that advance the development goals of the United Nations as stated in our initial participation letter. Those principles focus on human rights, labor, environment and anti-bribery and they dovetail nicely with our Guiding Values. We have linked various 2012 (our reporting year) activities conveyed in the Sustainability Report to the principles of the Global Compact on page 7. These include providing warehouse space to Project C.U.R.E., responsible sourcing of Conflict Minerals, well-being and educational opportunities for our employees, a dedication to STEM (science, technology and math) education for youth, prohibition of forced and child labor, greenhouse gas emission reduction efforts, and more, including products with technology that enables our customers to control and reduce energy use. Our policies and practices are examined and measured internally and by our customers and other third parties. Microchip and its primary operations around the world received a number of awards in 2012. Some are highlighted in this report. Award criterion covers categories that encompass internal and external corporate responsibility. 2 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report A LETTER FROM STEVE Microchip Technology (Thailand) operations, where over half our employees worldwide work, have a program called Happy 8. Happy 8 includes: Happy Body, Happy Heart, Happy Society, Happy Relax, Happy Brain, Happy Soul, Happy Money and Happy Family. We can learn many things through the eyes of others around the world. We must remember the importance of Happy 8 for all of our employees, our supplier’s employees and humanity. Microchip is dependent on its employees and supply chain and we are all dependent on a healthy planet. We support all of these areas with clear values and ethical leadership that translates to innovative products, responsible operations, and efforts that extend to our communities and beyond. Everything contributes to making Microchip a company you can be proud to call your supplier, investment, employer or neighbor. steve sanghi President and Chief Executive Officer Microchip Technology Incorporated Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Disclaimer When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed in our Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Our actual results could differ materially from the results described in these responses. Although we believe that the matters reflected in these responses are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these responses. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any of these responses. LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE valuEs-BasEd coMPanY Vision One of “Arizona’s Most Be the very best embedded control solutions company ever. Admired Companies” Microchip was selected Mission as one of “Arizona’s Most Admired Companies” for Microchip Technology Incorporated is a leading supplier of field-programmable 2012 by AZ Business embedded control solutions by delivering the popular PIC® microcontrollers; Magazine and Best a broad spectrum of innovative analog products, related non-volatile memory Companies AZ for the second products and Flash-IP solutions. In order to contribute to the ongoing success of year in a row. The award customers, shareholders and employees, our mission is to focus resources on recognizes the contributions high value, high quality products and to continuously improve all aspects of our and impact that Arizona’s top business, providing an industry leading return on investment. companies bring to the state. Microchip earned the award based on its excellence in Guiding Values four categories—workplace Microchip is a values-based company. We operate on an overriding Vision and culture, leadership Mission, and eleven Guiding Values. These values dictate our day-to-day decisions excellence, corporate and social responsibility, and and establish our corporate culture. Our Ethics Value conveys our overall philosophy. customer opinion. The award is based on employee, Professional Ethics are Practiced customer and community We manage our business and treat customers, employees, shareholders, ratings, which are areas investors, suppliers, channel partners, community and government in a in which Microchip has consistently ranked strongly. manner that exemplifies our honesty, ethics and integrity. We recognize our short and long term fiscal, social and environmental responsibilities and are proud to serve as an equal opportunity employer. Other Guiding Values cover many aspects of corporate responsibility. Quality comes first. Customers are our focus. Continuous improvement is essential. Employees are our greatest strength. Products and technology are our foundation. Total cycle times are optimized. Safety is never compromised. Profits and growth provide for everything we do. Communication is vital. Suppliers, representatives and distributors are our partners. Each has its place in making Microchip a company you can be proud to choose, whether as a supplier, an employee, an investor or a contributing business partner in your community. Microchip’s Vision, Mission and the expansion of our Guiding Values can be viewed at www.microchip.com/corporateresponsibility. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 5 LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE Ethical Business Conduct Anti-Bribery, Conflicts of Interest, Confidentiality, Insider Trading and Reporting Legal Non-Compliance Microchip is a U.S. company with operations around the world. As a global company, our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations. In this regard, Microchip requires its employees, directors, and officers to comply with all mandatory laws applicable to its business operations. We also require our personnel to abide by a code of business conduct and ethics, which includes ethical behavior and embodies compliance with laws. Microchip’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and associated policies that include Compliance with Laws, Confidentiality, Conflicts of Interest, Insider Trading and Reporting Legal NonCompliance are located at www.microchip.com/corporateresponsibility. One aspect of conducting the business of Microchip in an ethical manner, and included in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, is the requirement to comply with laws that prohibit bribery and similar acts to gain additional business or other favorable treatment for Microchip. These laws most notably include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), UK Bribery Act, and the People’s Republic of China’s Criminal Law. These laws make it a crime for companies to bribe or provide anything of value to government officials and other individuals in order to obtain new business, maintain existing business, or receive other benefits. It is unacceptable for any Microchip executive, director, or employee to act in any manner that is contrary to these laws. Further, we consider our suppliers, representatives, and distributors as critical to achieving our mission. Therefore, we expect our partners to similarly abide by our ethical guiding values, including compliance with anti-bribery laws. We encourage our partners to not only comply with these laws, but to participate in the enforcement of our policies by reporting suspected violations of these laws by any person to Microchip pursuant to HR-675 Reporting Legal Non-Compliance available at www.microchip.com/corporateresponsibility. Microchip did not receive a single notification pursuant to HR-675 in reporting year 2012. Our commitment to conducting our business operations with integrity and in an ethical manner is an integral component of our Guiding Values. It is our goal—from every employee to our board of directors—to treat our customers and partners with respect and deal with them ethically in every instance. 6 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE Global Iniatives UN Global Compact Ethical business conduct is critical to our business. In addition to compliance to applicable laws and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and associated policies, Microchip became a participant in the UN Global Compact. The United Nations developed a global compact that includes ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environmental and anti-corruption. Microchip supports the UN Global Compact’s core principles as stated in our commitment letter. This report serves as Microchip’s first Communication on Progress required by participation in the UN Global Compact. Summary of Reporting to UN Global Compact Principles Issue Principle Microchip Reporting Page 1: Businesses should support and Global Intiatives: UN Global Compact 7 Human Rights respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Project C.U.R.E 22 Reponsible Sourcing: Conflict Minerals 13 2: make sure that they are not complicit Education for All Employees 15 in human rights abuses. Dedication to STEM and Community Education 18–21 The general intentions behind the Global Compact may be implemented differently in different countries. Microchip will 3: Businesses should uphold the continue to consider its position on recognition of collective freedom of association and the effective activity and/or a union of workers and the advisability of Labor/Labour 7 recognition of the right to collective bargaining or negotiating collective proposals, agreements, bargaining; policies, or work rules consistent with such laws and our best judgment of the labor policies that are optimally suited to our workforce and business needs. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and Child Labor Prohibited 14 and compulsory labor; 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Forced and Child Labor Prohibited 14 and Guiding Values 5 6: the elimination of discrimination in Diverse Leadership 8–9 respect of employment and occupation. Awards 15–16 7: Business should support a Environment precautionary approach to environmental Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 25 challenges; Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 25 8: undertake initiatives to promote Operations Metrics 26–27 greater environmental responsibility; and Planting Mangroves 17 Chander Xeriscape 25 Products Section regarding nanoWatt eXtreme Low Power (XLP) technology, energy reduction in lighting through 9: encourage the development and added intelligence and control, enabling energy reduction diffusion of environmentally friendly 10–12 through added intelligence in power supplies and energy technologies. measurement accuracy in power monitoring, enabling energy reduction through greater efficiency in electric motors Values-Based Company 5 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including Ethical Business Conduct: Anti-Bribery, Conflicts of Interest, 6 extortion and bribery. Confidentiality, Insider Trading and Reporting Legal NonCompliance Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 7 LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE divERsE lEadERshiP Board of Directors Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Matthew W. Chapman, Board Member L.B. Day, Board Member Albert J. Hugo-Martinez, Board Member Esther Johnson, Board Member Wade F. Meyercord, Board Member When considering a candidate for a director position, the Nominating and Governance Committee looks for demonstrated character, judgment, relevant business, functional and industry experience, and a high degree of skill. The Board of Directors and the Nominating and Governance Committee believe it is important that the members of the Board of Directors represent diverse viewpoints. Accordingly, the Nominating and Governance Committee considers issues of diversity in identifying and evaluating director nominees, including differences in education, professional experience, viewpoints, technical skills, individual expertise, ethnicity and gender. Microchip’s charters regarding the Nominating and Governance Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Compensation Committee are located at www.microchip.com/corporateresponsibility. Corporate Officers Steve Sanghi Mr. Sanghi was named the President of Microchip in August 1990, CEO in October 1991 and the Chairman of the Board of Directors in October 1993. Before joining the Company, Mr. Sanghi was Vice President of Operations at Waferscale Integration, Inc., a semiconductor company, from 1988 to 1990. Mr. Sanghi was employed by Intel Corporation from 1978 to 1988, where he held various positions in management and engineering, the most recent serving as General Manager of Programmable Memory Operations. Mr. Sanghi holds a Masters of Science degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a Bachelor of Science degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. Eric Bjornholt Mr. Bjornholt has served as Vice President and CFO since January 2009, and has served as Corporate Secretary since 2003. He served as Director of Financial Reporting and Tax from 2003 to 2008. He has held various other financial management positions within Microchip since joining the company in 1995. Prior to joining Microchip, Mr. Bjornholt was employed by KPMG LLP. Mr. Bjornholt holds a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of Arizona and a Masters degree from Arizona State University. Steve Drehobl Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the MCU8 Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip Technology since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President of Microchip Technology since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology from the University of Dayton. 8 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE David Lambert Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. Mitchell Little Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President, Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President, Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. From September 1993 to November 1995, he served as Vice President, Memory Products and ASSP Division. Mr. Little holds a BSET from United Electronics Institute. Ganesh Moorthy Ganesh Moorthy has served as Chief Operating Officer for Microchip Technology Incorporated since June 2009. Mr. Moorthy served as Executive Vice President from October 2006 to May 2009. From November 2001 to October 2006 Mr. Moorthy served as Vice President of several Microchip divisions. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in marketing from the National University, Sacramento, California; a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Washington, Seattle, Washington; and a B.S. degree in physics from the University of Bombay, Bombay, India. Richard Simoncic Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and interface Products Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. From October of 1995 to January 1996, he served as Vice President of Yield and Manufacturing Engineering. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Appointed Officers Paul R. Breault, VP, Global Sales Support and Patrick Johnson, VP, Computing Products Group Electronic Manufacturing Systems Joseph R. Krawczyk, VP, Asia Sales Mathew B. Bunker, VP, Pacific Rim Manufacturing Bryan J. Liddiard, VP, Analog and Interface Marketing Operations Gary P. Marsh, VP, European Sales Stephen T. Caldwell, VP, Wireless Products Division Sumit K. Mitra, VP, MCU32 Division Derek P. Carlson, VP, Development Tools Group Mitchel Obolsky, VP, MCU16 Division Lauren A. Carr, VP, Human Resources Kenneth N. Pye, VP, Worldwide Applications Engineering P. Daniel Chow, VP, RF Division Mark W. Reiten, VP, Licensing Kathryn A. Clevenger, VP, Fab 4 Operations Nawaz Sharif, VP, Europe Finance Randall L. Drwinga, VP, Memory Products Division Dan L. Termer, VP, Vertical Markets Group Michael A. Finley, VP, Fab 2 Operations Ian (Kai Man) Yue, VP, SuperFLASH Design Thomas J. Grune, VP, Americas Sales Kimberly van Herk, VP, General Counsel and Ian F. Harris, VP, Computing Products Group Corporate Secretary Sudarshan Iyengar, VP, India Development Center Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 9 PRODUCTS A t Microchip, we are passionate about making a positive difference in the world and in people’s lives by providing products and technologies that are used in a wide variety of applications. Every year we make significant investments in developing or strategically acquiring new technologies and products which enable our customers the freedom to innovate for today and tomorrow. Over 80,000 customers and partners use Microchip’s products in innovative embedded designs such as reducing energy or battery consumption, expanding options for home medical care or ensuring the safety and security of a building, car or home. Taking Low Power to the eXtreme Energy conservation and reducing the number of batteries in the waste stream are important initiatives to be considered when designing electronic applications. The latest devices must minimize power consumption, and—in extreme cases—they may be required to last for up to 15–20 years while running from a single battery. To enable our customers to develop these low-power applications, we continue to expand upon our nanoWatt eXtreme Low Power (XLP) technology. It offers the industry’s lowest currents while the application is operating or sleeping, where extreme low power applications spend 90–99% of their time. This is achieved through: ■ Strategies and processes which enable Microchip to continually develop innovative technologies and designs to meet the future needs of our clients with battery applications. ■ A broad and evolving product portfolio of eXtreme low power PIC microcontrollers with XLP technology and complementary low-power products designed to support a wide range of battery-powered equipment or safety systems that utilize batteries as a backup in case of power outages. • Low-power wireless transceivers to enable wireless communications • Low-power analog for signal conditioning and energy management • Low-power memory for data retention Partnering with Energizer® to drive new solutions for extremely low-power applications and to bring valuable application support to designers of low-power applications. 2012 Results ■ Released PIC24F “GA3” family, featuring industry’s lowest active current for 16-bit Flash microcontrollers as well as several flexible new low-power sleep modes. The family showcases continual advancement in Microchip’s XLP technology and adds a new low-power sleep mode with RAM retention down to 330 nA. ■ Released PIC16F151x family with Microchip’s nanoWatt XLP technology and a combination of features to support mTouch™ capacitive touch sensing implementation, thus enabling designers to easily integrate touch technology into their applications while extending battery life. ■ Expanded our low-power operational amplifiers into higher voltages with three new 12V families. www.microchip.com/xlp 10 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report PRODUCTS Enabling Energy Reduction in Lighting Through Added Intelligence and Control Lighting comprises approximately a quarter of worldwide electricity consumption. Nations continue to adopt “Green” legislation in an attempt to reduce energy consumption and minimize environmental concerns. Our solutions simplify designs while increasing system intelligence to enable improved lighting control and create lighting networks which can communicate both locally and remotely. This allows for the ability to increase aesthetics, energy savings and reduce maintenance with items such as fixed light output and color in large lighting arrays (i.e. street lamps, large rooms, etc.), monitoring light output, and provide real-time operating issues. Microchip achieves this through: ■ Strategies and processes to continually develop innovative technologies, products and support to meet the future needs of our lighting clients. ■ Working with industry leaders to collaborate on various reference designs, demonstrations and development tools to ensure the most innovative lighting solutions. ■ Enabling our clients to leverage the expertise and products of Microchip’s collaborative partners to ensure quick development of quality lighting products. 2012 Results ■ Released PIC12F(HV)752 microcontroller family with integrated features designed to meet the needs of newer LED-lighting and battery charging applications. These devices enable embedded lighting engineers to increase performance and efficiency, while reducing costs and size of their systems. www.microchip.com/lighting Enabling Energy Reduction Through Added Intelligence in Power Supplies and Energy Measurement Accuracy in Power Monitoring Intelligent power conversion increases system efficiency because a power supply without intelligence must be optimized for one operating point. A change in the operating load usually means a drop in efficiency level, while an intelligent power supply design can adapt to load changes using many methods. These methods include a change of the power supply switching frequency and changes in the analog control loop configuration. Intelligent power supplies can monitor internal temperatures and supply power to cooling fans only when needed. Intelligent power supplies with a digital control loop can change the control loop behavior dynamically to provide the optimal system response for the load conditions. To enable our clients to make intelligent power supplies which use less energy more efficiently, Microchip provides: ■ A broad portfolio of microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, MOSFET gate drivers, serial EEPROM memory and analog (temperature sensors, digital potentiometers and op amps) and interface products designed to meet their needs. ■ Reference designs that achieve ENERGY STAR®’s 80 PLUS Platinum efficiency levels. ■ Power conversion development tools, algorithms and software. ■ Power conversion training and technical support. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 11 PRODUCTS Designers from a variety of markets, including the consumer electronics sector, are placing a greater emphasis on monitoring and reducing energy consumption by their end products. In response to the increased demand for improved accuracy in energy measurement, simplicity of design and lower costs, Microchip has responded by expanding its portfolio of energy measurement solutions. 2012 Results ■ Announced a 25% performance increase with the release of the dsPIC33F “GS” series of digital signal controllers for Switch Mode Power Supplies (SMPS). Offering 50 MIPS of performance and industry-leading features, this family enables our clients to achieve better efficiencies in their power supply applications. ■ Released the dsPIC33FJ09GS302 family which provides new features while lowering power consumption, enabling higher efficiency in AC-DC and DC-DC power supplies. ■ Released the new MCP3905 family of power-conversion controllers and MCP87XXX high-speed MOSFETs families, Microchip’s first power MOSFET devices. These families combine to support high-efficiency (>96%) DC/DC power conversions designs and are representative of Microchip’s commitment to enabling higher-voltages and higher efficiencies while addressing the industry trend toward smaller power-conversion systems. ■ Released MCP3911 next-generation energy-measurement analog front end (AFE), which provides better energy meter and power-monitoring performance by accurately measuring from start-up to maximum current, and enables faster calibration during production. It offers the flexibility of enabling extremely low-power designs or higher-speed signals and harmonic content. www.microchip.com/power Enabling Energy Reduction Through Greater Efficiency in Electric Motors Electric motors use more than half of all electricity produced, making them the single largest user. This electricity consumption is spread over a range of markets using a variety motor technologies. Each technology faces its own challenge in achieving greater efficiency. Microchip serves these markets with an emphasis on developing products with strong mix of innovative features needed to address their needs today and tomorrow, along with offering the tools they need to shorten their development cycle times. Microchip provides: ■ A broad portfolio of microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, MOSFET drivers, analog (temperature sensors and op amps) and interface (PWM controllers and fan managers) products and serial EEPROM memory products designed to meet their needs. ■ Motor control development tools and software. ■ Motor control training and technical support. 2012 Results ■ Upgraded the performance and expanded the family of dsPIC33E digital signal controllers and PIC24E microcontrollers to enable designers to expand motor control system performance in high-end industrial and commercial applications. www.microchip.com/motor 12 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report PRODUCTS REsPonsiBlE souRcinG: conFlict MinERals Microchip joins many others with concern regarding the human tragedies occurring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries associated with the mining of columbite-tantalite (tantalum), casserite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold (“Conflict Minerals” or “3T&G”). 1 These minerals originate from various continents, but armed groups engaged in, or interfering with mining operations within the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries (DRC region) are believed to subject workers and indigenous people to human rights violations and are using proceeds from the sale of these Conflict Minerals to finance and sustain regional conflicts. There is a movement to avoid sourcing from the DRC region in its entirety. Such a stance is a de facto embargo and counter to the overall goal of encouraging viable and ethical revenue streams for the impoverished DRC region while discouraging human atrocities. Microchip supports responsible sourcing including from the African continent, generally, and we recognize and support the need to develop programs which allow for improved transparency in 3T&G supply chains. Microchip, its executive management and its business groups, take corporate governance and business ethics seriously. 50 Tin, tungsten, 74 tantalum 79 and gold are used in electronics products, including the products Sn Tin W manufactured and/or sold by Microchip. Currently, supply chains for “3T&G” minerals are not sufficiently transparent or controlled Tungsten Au and itGold is taking time to analyze the many supply chains and implement meaningful verification 118.710 and control 183.84 programs. 196.96655 73 50 50 50 74 74 74 79 79 79 Ta Tantalum Sn SnSn WWW Au Tin Tin Tin Tungsten Tungsten Tungsten AuAu GoldGold Gold 180.94788 118.710 118.710118.710 183.84 183.84 183.84 196.96655 196.96655 196.96655 Microchip is diligently 73 73working73 toward the goal of assuring our products are manufactured and sourced from Ta TaTa socially responsible supply chains. In pursuit of that goal Microchip is doing the following: ■ Participating with Tantalum Tantalum theTantalum 180.94788 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”) and Global e-Sustainability Initiative’s 180.94788 180.94788 (“GeSI”) Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) that is facilitating certification programs for smelters and refiners. ■ Conducting Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiries (due diligence) required by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”). Microchip uses the EICC/GeSI Conflict Minerals Due Diligence Request Template for this purpose. ■ Providing information to customers and suppliers and expecting each to source materials from environmentally and socially responsible supply chains. ■ Publicly disclosing our policy and implementation progress at www.microchip.com. ■ Encouraging smelters not yet certified or actively working to certification to work with the CFSI to become certified as DRC Conflict Free. ■ Ultimately expecting to provide reasonable assurance our products are DRC conflict free. Microchip will submit its first Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report required by Dodd-Frank by June 2, 2014. 1 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Section 1502. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 13 EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY FoRcEd and child laBoR PRohiBitEd Microchip is a U.S. company with operations around the world. These operations include primary manufacturing located in the United States, assembly and test operations in Thailand, and engineering design centers and sales offices located around the world. Microchip complies with all legal requirements related to labor. Additionally, with very few exceptions for internship-type programs in the United States, Microchip requires all employees to be 18 years of age or older. In Thailand specifically, we do not employ any foreign labor for factory worker positions and we have policies and procedures for the prevention of child labor. These policies prohibit the employment of anyone below 18 years of age, and set forth the verification procedures to prevent underage hires. In the event of an inadvertent underage hire, our policies require notification to the Department of Labor for those less than 18 years of age and notification and contribution to the Department of Labor education fund for those less than 15 years of age. We avoid the use of child labor in our supply chain primarily by purchase order terms and conditions prohibiting the use of convict labor, forced labor, indentured labor and child labor, and more comprehensively, by referencing participation in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct and/or the UN Global Compact. In our newer vendor contracts, we are adding comprehensive social responsibility terms. Some of our older contracts include specific terms regarding prohibition of convict labor, forced labor, indentured labor, and/or child labor. Additionally, we discuss a number of social responsibility issues with our subcontractors on a regular basis and at least once a year at quality meetings. We intend to continue to increase the inclusion of social responsibility terms in our vendor contracts. 14 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY a cultuRE oF EMPloYEE dEvEloPMEnt and WEll-BEinG Microchip Ranked “Top 50 India’s Best Companies to Work For 2012” Employee Healthcare Microchip India has been recognized as “Top 50 India’s Best Companies To Work 4,939 visitors took advantage For 2012”. Microchip ranked between 26 and 50 for companies sized up to 1000 of Microchip’s free on-site employees that are located in India. healthcare clinics in Arizona for the 2012/2013 plan year. “India’s Best Companies To Work For” is India’s largest annual study on workplace culture aimed at identifying, recognizing, learning from and spreading best practices of organizations that achieve business objectives by being great workplaces. This study was conducted by Great Place to Work® Institute in India in partnership with The Economic Times. This study, in its 9th year, received overwhelming response with more than 580 organizations registering to participate, making it the largest such study in India. Only 50 organizations made it to the Best Companies List, making this list the gold standard of best workplaces. The employee feedback from the survey study demonstrates that Microchip employees trust the people they work for, have pride in what they do and enjoy working with the people within our organization. Several of our practices that were shared in the Culture Audit® conducted by their team were found to be very impressive. Microchip Receives “Training Top 125” Recognition Tuition Reimbursement In February, 2012, Microchip Technology Inc was awarded the ranking of 116 Fiscal Year Totals: at the Training Top 125 gala in Atlanta, Georgia. In 2011, Microchip Learning 2011 Center completed a detailed application that assessed a range of qualitative and Tuition: $187,671 quantitative factors, including, “financial investment in employee development, the Participants: 91 scope of the development programs, and how closely such development efforts are 2012 linked to business goals and objectives.” Tuition: $178,840 Participants: 71 According to Training magazine, “The best learning and development organizations support business initiatives tactically and help drive strategic change.” The 2012 Training Top 125 organizations did just that—and provided ample proof of their training effectiveness In a year when we increased the application’s qualitative score percentage to 30% from 25%, Top 125ers met the challenge by sharing their success stories and detailing their business results. Training magazine is a 48-year old professional development magazine written for training, human resources and business management professional who have hosted the “Training top 125” for the past 12 years. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 15 EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY A Happy Workplace Microchip Technology (Thailand) Wins Two National Awards...Again Microchip was selected as a In 2011, Microchip’s assembly and test Happy Workplace by Happy 8 facility in Thailand (MTHAI) was awarded two from The Federal of Thailand national awards by the Thai government. Industrial Association. This year, they again were recognized The Happy 8 Concept with these awards—Thailand “Workplace encompases: Learning” award, “Employee Relations” • Happy Body • Happy Heart award. • Happy Society • Happy Relax For the “Workplace Learning” award, • Happy Brain MTHAI was ranked number one in Thailand • Happy Soul (distinguished establishment) from 80 • Happy Money shortlisted organizations. Microchip was graded a full score for all selection • Happy Family criteria, including company training strategy, number of training classes and employee development plans. 2012 is the second consecutive year MTHAI has applied for and was awarded the “Employee Relations” award. “It is an honor to be recognized as the best workplace learning as well as employee relations in Thailand. The awards provide a solid instance of how as great company we practice and take care of all employees,” stated Ms. Wanphen Lertapiruk, Senior HR and QA Director. Microchip Technology (Thailand) continues to focus on employee development and employee relations, making it a great place to work. Microchip Technology (Thailand) Miracle Team Building Microchip’s assembly and test facility in Thailand (MTHAI) Miracle Team Building activities support the “Microchip Practice” series by putting MTHAI employees into action while re-enforcing a key facet of Microchip’s culture of providing opportunities to promote employee teamwork, productivity, creativity, pride in work, trust, integrity, fairness, involvement, development and empowerment. The casual interaction at these events helps coworkers from various departments to build a strong relationship that goes beyond just corresponding by email. The activities encourage teamwork and collaboration as the participants are encouraged to complete assignments together, thus allowing trust, sincerity and friendship to develop naturally through their shared experiences. At the beginning of the outings, participants may not know each other well but by the end of the activity, they have expanded their network of friends to individuals throughout the group. The organizers continue to receive impressive feedback and the events have lead to improved collaboration at work. 16 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY Planting Mangroves Re-enforces Microchip’s Commitment to Employees, Community and the Environment Microchip Technology (Thailand) has once again found an opportunity to highlight the importance of one of our company’s Guiding Value, “Employees Are Our Greatest Strength” by fortifying work-life balance while contributing to the community and the environment by planting mangroves in Klong Klone village, Samutsongkram province at the center of Thailand. The program, organized by the MTHAI Ozone Club, gave employees and their family members the opportunity to participate in the project, which aids in the restoration of the mangrove forest for local areas. Trip events included planting, sightseeing, observing local mangrove wildlife and offering rice and dried foods to the monks at the nearby temple along with games and other recreational activities. The event followed the conservation guidelines under Her Royal Highness’ Ecological Reforestation program, hosted by HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn. The impact was significant because it helps maintain forest resources, protects native trees, strengthens the ecological system and cultivates a “Green” attitude in the younger generation. The event was a positive experience for many Microchip Thailand employees because they were able to connect their social and environment responsibility within their community with their Microchip employment. Class Shows Chandler Employees How to Create a Sustainable Environment at Home In May 2012, Microchip employees attended a “Using Xeriscaping” class that was offered at lunchtime at the Chandler campus. The presentation focused on how to have a beautifully landscaped—and yet sustainable—yard in the desertlike climate of the Southwestern United States. Organized by Mike Wittel, Sr. Product Environmental Engineer at Microchip, the class was presented by Karen Schedler, noted environmental educator in Arizona. Xeriscaping involves the selection of native low-water plants and appropriate landscaping irrigation methods for the region you live in using principles recommended by the Xeriscape Council of New Mexico. Xeriscaped landscapes require less maintenance and lower water consumption, which reduces costs. By using less water, fertilizer, and other chemicals xeriscaping reduces the impact on surrounding environments. Presentation Highlights: ■ Natural systems and cycles to consider when planning to xeriscape ■ Natural and human factors that play a role in xeriscaping ■ Using sustainable techniques in your home landscaping ■ Where/how to find information about xeriscaping Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 17 EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY dEdicatEd to Education GEnERallY and stEM sPEciFicallY a dEdicatEd stEM REsouRcE Carol Popovich Sr. STEM Outreach Programs Representative As Microchip has grown to a company with revenue of $1.5 billion, we acknowledge that we have a greater responsibility to influence and impact the education of the next generation of engineers to create a stronger, better educated workforce through engagement with Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). Q What is your role within Microchip? a I represent Microchip in the STEM community by holding various community outreach roles. Microchip supports For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST), a 501 (c) 3 organization that inspires students to learn more about STEM through various robotics programs. My role at Microchip includes serving as the FIRST Arizona Regional Director, where, along with Steve Sanghi, I co-chair a volunteer Planning Committee in Arizona that coordinates the annual FIRST Robotics Competition (FRC) Arizona Regional. The volunteer committee consists of representatives from the local community and is responsible for raising funds annually to put on the event and support the teams. I am also the Site Supervisor for two Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) volunteers who are assigned by FIRST to grow the FIRST programs in Arizona. VISTA is a government funded program that supports the underserved community, and I direct the outreach activities of these individuals to maximize their volunteer efforts to promote FIRST. Microchip started AZFIRST, a public charity that raises funds for robotics in Arizona. As the author of various grants to identify funding required for the programs, I am the Principal Investigator for hundreds of thousands of dollars of grants written through AZFIRST to support these efforts. As Microchip’s STEM industry representative, part of my role is to deliver presentations to educators and industry leaders on why Microchip aggressively supports STEM initiatives. I also serve on the Advisory Board of Sonoran Science Academy, in Phoenix Arizona. 18 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY Q Why does Microchip support efforts in the community? a There are many reasons to engage in our community. As a growing company, we have a responsibility to feed the pipeline for talented employees. Partnering with academia to prepare the workforce benefits the economy, the education system, and the communities where we live and conduct business. Aligning with schools and STEM programs builds our brand, positively influences the investment community, and provides a trained workforce for us and for our business partners. Our employees are proud to work for a company that actively participates in community enrichment. Q In what ways does Microchip support STEM enterprises in the community? a Microchip has selected several key initiatives that align with our business objectives. Microchip’s Academic Program interacts with schools and universities worldwide to develop course work around development tools to train our next generation of engineers. We offer academic discounts on our tools, and engage professors who are writing textbooks based on Microchip’s architecture. This provides graduating students with the necessary resources to learn the skills they require to be our future customers and employees. Also, Microchip supports FIRST and VEX robotics programs through our support of REC Foundation (Robotics Education Competition). Both organizations offer STEM programs that inspire our youth to learn about science, technology, engineering and math by building robots for competition. Students interact with industry mentors and learn workforce skills like working under a deadline, critical thinking, problem solving, teamwork, public speaking and marketing. Q How has Microchip STEM support evolved over the years? a Selecting robotics programs that inspire students was an easy match with our corporate culture, our company’s products, and the passion of our employees to build a better community. Microchip was introduced to FIRST through a company visit to one of our customers, Dean Kamen, the Founder of FIRST. As an inventor himself, Dean incorporates many of our devices in his designs. Microchip started by donating parts to FIRST, then mentoring and sponsoring an Arizona team to be more involved. We now are the Organizing Partner in Arizona coordinating the FRC Arizona Regional event. Our involvement in VEX robotics through REC Foundation had a similar start, beginning with a customer, IFI, parent company of VEX, which used Microchip parts for their robots. Microchip now sponsors events and teams and has employees who are mentors. We have provided internships to students and hired some of the robotics students as employees, which brings us full circle in demonstrating the true return on investment in these programs. Microchip’s STEM Investment: ■ Provides discounts on Microchip development tools for educators/students ■ Provides full-time STEM representative ■ Provides Regional Director for FIRST ■ Sponsors FRC Arizona Regional and FRC Oregon Regional ■ Provides facility for Arizona Community FRC Team to build competition robot in Tempe, AZ ■ Sponsors grants for 20 rookie VEX teams in Arizona ■ Provides staff support and facility for AZFIRST ■ Sponsors FLL (FIRST Lego® League) and VEX teams for the children of Microchip employees in Tempe and Chandler, AZ Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 19 EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY Microchip Hosts VEX Robotics Tournament In December, the Microchip Chandler cafeteria was crawling with students and robots who participated in Microchip’s VEX Robotics Tournament. Microchip hosted 20 middle and high school teams for the event, including its own team consisting of children of Microchip employees. Dozens of volunteers acted as judges, field set up and tear down teams, queuers, registration personnel and crowd control for hundreds of participants and attendees for this exciting event. This event was a qualifying event for the VEX State Tournament to be held March 2013, thus enabling many of the teams to become eligible including the winning alliance teams from Fountain Hills and Cave Creek, Arizona. The ultimate goal for the teams was a chance to attend the VEX World Championship to be held in April 2013 in Anaheim, California, where 600 teams from 20 countries would vie for the awards. Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s Chief Operating Officer, spoke to the attendees about the need for a technically educated workforce and how programs like VEX prepare our future engineers. With Microchip’s support of VEX, grants were given to 20 rookie VEX teams in Arizona and two new playing fields were purchased, enabling more events to be held in Arizona. Microchip supports STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and math) through our sponsorship of two programs, FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology), www.usfirst.com and VEX Robotics (www.robotevents.com). Microchip Chandler Community Open House Highlights Science, Technology and Innovation In February 2012, wall-to-wall visitors strolled through the Microchip Chandler Attendees cafeteria, asking our experts from various divisions about our products, looking in 1200–1500 people attended microscopes at a finished wafer after following the step-by-step process of wafer Microchip’s Open House in February 2012. fabrication in the Virtual Fab, and seeing dozens of videos displayed on the walls highlighting our company and our Academic program. Robots from FIRST®, FIRST Lego® League (FLL) and VEX® Robotics roamed the floors, enticing the little ones to learn how engineering can be so much fun. Our induction-cooking kitchen display wowed the audience with the latest and greatest for the home. Microchip—a Copper Sponsor and Signature Collaborator of the AZ SciTech Fest, www.azscitechfest.org, a six-week festival showcasing Arizona as a national leader in science, technology and innovation—opened its doors to the public and showed them that Microchip is a world-class manufacturer, employer, and community citizen as we hosted an open house, one of the signature events of the AZ SciTech Fest. Mercedes Benz® of Chandler displayed a Mercedes S-Class® for our contest entitled, “Guess how many PIC MCUs are in a Mercedes S-Class.” 20 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY Several of our design partners showed examples of our end products in use. Joey Hudy, the youngster who designed the marshmallow cannon that excited President Obama at the White House Science Expo, was a hit with his PIC microcontrollerinspired device (with special instructions to aim the marshmallows AWAY from the Mercedes-Benz that was on display). One of our visitors was overheard saying, “I want to work for Microchip!” Microchip Supports Academic Success for Chandler Community Youth Microchip joined other Chandler, Arizona companies as partners for ICAN’s (Improving Chandler Area Neighborhoods) recent backpack and school supplies drive. In July 2012, ICAN provided 250 youth with the tools needed for academic success as they started the new school year. ICAN fills backpacks with school supplies donated by partner companies, like Microchip, and their employees. ICAN’s focus is “Positive Programs for Youth.” ICAN serves more than 1,000 Chandler youth and their families each year with prevention-based, out-ofschool-time programs. ICAN gives kids a belief that they can change their lives through education and practical skills that help them deal successfully with the life challenges they face every day. According to ICAN’s website, www.icanaz. org, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration suggests that substance abuse would devline for 1.5 million youth if effective prevention programs, like those offered by ICAN, were implemented nationwide. Further, the Southwest Prevention Institute estimated that for every $1 invested in prevention programs, there is a $10 savings to the community in the need for future behavioral health and justice system costs. ICAN offers equal access and free programs to every child who wants to participate. For more information visit ICAN’s website www.icanaz.org. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 21 EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY Microchip Technology (Thailand) ‘Back to School’ Scholarships Reinforcing that “Employees Are Our Greatest Strength”, Microchip Thailand’s ‘Back to School’ scholarships not only include our employees but also their children as members of our large family. The program provides scholarships to employees at the beginning of a new academic semester. As parents have to spend a lot of money for their children’s education—including tutorial fees, uniforms, stationery and lunches—these scholarships can help ease the burden of providing all of these academic requirements. suPPoRtinG GloBal Good Repurposing Warehouse Space for Project C.U.R.E Since 2007, Project C.U.R.E has been utilizing approximately 46,000 square feet of space donated by Microchip to store and ship medical supplies and equipment. Project C.U.R.E. is the world’s largest distributor of donated medical supplies and equipment. Since 1987, they have shipped life-giving supplies to over 132 nations worldwide. Project C.U.R.E accomplishes this by taking excess unused items from local medical facilities and shipping them to under-stocked hospitals in developing countries. In fiscal year 2012, they sent 135 cargo containers of medical supplies worth over 53 million dollars to those in need. Microchip has found the perfect way to support a local organization that provides medical supplies and equipment to those in need around the world, and at the same time repurpose warehouse space not currently used in Tempe, AZ. 22 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS hiGhliGhts and PRoJEcts Gresham Wastewater Award The Gresham Site Services Reverse Osmosis and Deionization (RODI) Team received a Gold Award from the City of Gresham for eight consecutive years of operating the wastewater treatment plant with 100% Pretreatment Compliance. The facility has received no violations at their wastewater plant for the last eight years. This is an award that has not been given by the City of Gresham before. The Gresham Site Services RODI Team has two members on each of the four shifts. Edwards Helios for WCVD Process at Gresham Fab 4 Adds Greenhouse Gas Abatement Capability Microchip chose the Edwards Atlas™ Helios point-of-use gas abatement solution for our Fab 4 facility and added greenhouse gas abatement capability. The original abatement system for Tungsten CVD (chemical vapor deposition) process was designed to abate WF6 (tungsten hexafluoride) and SiH4 (silane) only; it did not abate H2 (hydrogen gas). The Edwards Helios unit is not only capable of abating WF6 and SiH4, but is also specifically designed to reduce hydrogen concentrations. This project improves safety and can be utilized for abatement of greenhouse gas. Battery Recycling Why do we recycle batteries? Most batteries contain corrosives and/or heavy metals; some contain reactive lithium metal. If incinerated or landfilled, the chemicals and heavy metals from these batteries—lead, cadmium and mercury—contaminate our air, land and water and poison our food chain. Recycling significantly reduces the dangers these batteries pose to our health and the environment by diverting them from landfills and incinerators. Recycling can also keep the cost of batteries down by reducing the landfill and clean up costs. Many countries have directives or regulations in place requiring some form of battery recycling. Here at Microchip, we abide by these regulations and packaging requirements by separating, preparing and packaging batteries to prevent short circuits, dangerous evolution of heat, damage to terminals, spillage or environmental issues during transportation or physical harm to those handling them. Instructions have been posted at our battery collection facilities to further assist employees in ensuring they have taken all necessary steps. In addition, Microchip continues to remind employees the reduction of waste and environmental exposure begins with prevention. They are encouraged to purchase a battery tester to minimize the disposal of good batteries and to choose rechargeable batteries. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 23 ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Microchip’s Trip Reduction Program In Chandler and Tempe Incentives ■ Incentives and events such as catered meals, gift cards and prizes for Trip Reduction Program participants ■ Guaranteed ride home for emergencies ■ Trip reduction SharePoint site ■ Shower facilities Bus ■ 100% bus subsidy; Smart cards for bus and light rail service Bike and Walk ■ Free lunch program ■ Bike and walk month ■ Secure bike racks and lockers Carpool and Alternative Fuel Vehicles ■ Premium parking Compressed Work Week and Telecommute ■ Quarterly trip reduction drawings Single Occupancy Vehicle Rate ■ Single occupancy vehicle rate for Chandler was 84% ■ Single occupancy vehicle rate for Tempe was 87% Microchip’s Trip Reduction Program in Gresham Incentives ■ Participation in TriMet Annual Pass Program ■ Guaranteed ride home for emergencies ■ Reserved parking and incentives for carpools ■ Reserved parking for hybrid vehicles ■ Reserved parking for motorcycles ■ Flextime and telecommuting ■ Secure bike lockers and shower facilities ■ Help in finding carpool partners ■ Single occupancy rate in Gresham was 64% 24 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Headquarters Campus Xeriscape Project Without a doubt Xeriscape saves water, money and maintenance. Conserving our precious and natural resources facilitated the decision to switch from lush green grass, to blooming desert landscaping and rock at the Chandler Headquarters Campus. 4500 square feet of grass was replaced with decorative gravel and Arizona native plants which now require minimal maintenance and watering. Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Microchip provides transparency into its climate change management and greenhouse gas emissions through our annual response to the CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) Investor Response. Our score for the 2012 reporting year, our fourth year of responding, was 76 for disclosure and B for performance. The response includes greenhouse gas emissions reporting, emissions reduction projects and Microchip’s overall management for climate change. Climate change management goes beyond greenhouse gas emissions reporting and requires a serious analysis of risks and opportunities. As an example, potential risks could include business continuity concerns related to storms or sea level rise. Opportunities are often tied to product design and performance opportunities along the lines of those discussed in the Products section of this report. Key metrics from Microchip’s CDP response are included here. The complete response is available at www.cdp.net. Process Emission Reductions Estimated Annual Annual Investment Payback Description of Activity CO2e Savings Monetary Savings Required Period (metric tons CO2e) ($) ($) Gresham Fab 4 installed two high-temperature POU PFC 7200 0 400,000 <1 year control devices on newly installed tools Tempe Fab 2 installed one high-temperature POU PFC 3200 0 240,000 <1 year control device on existing tools Energy Efficiency: Building Services Estimated Annual Investment KWH Annual Monetary Payback Description of Activity Required Saved CO2e Savings Savings Period ($) (metric tons) ($) Microchip Thailand MTAI Assembly and Test Facility: A set of three energy conservation projects relating to lighting efficiency improvement, 159,290 972 204,000 200,000 <1 year clean dry air mechanical system efficiency improvements, and HVAC cleanroom air handling efficiency improvements. Microchip Thailand MMT Assembly and Test Facility: A set of nine energy conservation projects relating to lighting efficiency improvements, upgrading components for on/off and times 34,410 210 138,000 94,000 1–3 years operation of the HVAC control system for cleanroom air handling efficiency improvements, and HVAC cleanroom air handling efficiency improvements. Gresham Fab 4: Replaced two water pumping systems associated 231,000 109 14,800 0 <1 year with two existing tools. Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 25 ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS METRICS 2012 Recycling Summary Recycled Material (lbs) Category Chandler Tempe Gresham MTAI MMT Paper and Cardboard 82,003 92,624 62,400 454,872 26,240 Corrugated 39,715 74,695 40,400 454,872 0 Paper (Office, Mixed, Confidential) 42,288 17,929 22,000 0 26,240 Plastics 81,175 21,710 20,100 610,260 7,080 Metals 78,216 25,711 50,800 3,390 32,480 Aluminum Cans 630 1,814 0 1,653 200 Other Metals (Aluminum, Copper, Sheet Iron, Stainless Steel) 77,586 23,897 50,800 1,737 32,280 Electronic and Universal Waste 9,594 5,394 4,920 28,084 0 E-Waste (Monitors, CPUs, Printers, Servers, Hard Drives, etc.) 8,439 1,175 2,520 15,522 0 Universal Waste (Batteries and Lamps) 1,155 4,219 2,400 12,562 0 Wood (Scrap Wood and Pallets) 0 30,562 66,580 0 0 Site-Specific Recycle 3,223 3,788 18,400 56,473 4,140 Precious Metals 3,223 3,788 0 56,473 4,140 Copper Sulfate 0 0 18,400 0 0 Equivalent Reuse–Post Consumer Fiber 34,347 8,360 0 3,300 0 On-site Reuse Aspen 50% Paper 22,898 5,573 0 0 0 Actual On-site Reuse White Ledger Paper 11,449 2,787 0 3,300 0 Rapidly Renewable Resource 19,388 12,877 0 0 0 Unisource LEED-Qualified 100% Tissue 3,497 2,949 0 0 0 Tork 100% Recycled Fiber Tissue 1,455 0 0 0 0 Bare Solo Cups Compostable/Renewable 396 0 0 0 0 GenPak BPI-Certified Compostable Cups 0 528 0 0 0 Roll Towels Brown 14,040 9,400 0 0 0 26 Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Gresham’s Environmental Impact Improvements As reported in Oregon Green Permit Annual Report for 2012: Activity Annual Savings Energy Reduction Replace pump system on 2W1027 170 MWhr Replace pump system on 2W0823 62 MWhr Reduce Water Usage CSS-1 Water Reclaim 5.25 million gal Make up Air Handler DI Water Reduction 5.5 million gal Reduce Chemical Usage Calcium Chloride Usage Reduction (continuation of project started in 2011) 250,000 lbs Sodium Hydroxide Reduction in the Waste Water Treatment 30,000 lbs Sulfuric Acid Reduction in the Waste Water Treatment 20,000 lbs Slurry Reduction 110,000 lbs Chemical Reduction in the CMP Area 24,000 lbs Annual Savings Resource Chandler Tempe Gresham MTAI MMT Water (Savings in Gallons) −633,000* 8,570,800 10,750,000 0 0 Gas (Savings in Therms) 7,716 9,422 −57,380* 0 0 Electricity (kWh saved from 2011) 521,181 −633,756* 232,000 −3,396,101* 0 *Negative numbers represent increases in usage for 2012. Sustainability in Thailand # of C02 Emission Proejcts to Support Goal Projects Reduction MMT 1 Lighting Savings Projects: Change electronic ballasts in 6 areas HVAC Savings Projects: Timer controls, control VSD of chilled water pump and AHU, timer controls for 214 metric tons 3 FFU and exhaust for EOL SPG production area MTAI 2 Lighting Savings Projects: Lighting reduction and motion sensors installed 3 CDA and Vacuum Systems Savings Projects: Adjust functions, reduce exhaust, install inverter 965 metric tons HVAC Savings Project: Change run chiller size, reduce VSD, install temperature control in cooling 4 tower, adjust AC Microchip Technology • 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Support Training Microchip is committed to supporting its customers If additional training interests you, then Microchip can in developing products faster and more efficiently. We help. We continue to expand our technical training options, maintain a worldwide network of field applications offering a growing list of courses and in-depth curriculum engineers and technical support ready to provide product locally, as well as significant online resources – whenever and system assistance. In addition, the following service you want to use them. areas are available at www.microchip.com: ■■ Technical Training Centers and Other Resources: ■■ Support link provides a way to get questions www.microchip.com/training answered fast: http://support.microchip.com ■■ MASTERs Conferences: www.microchip.com/masters ■■ Sample link offers evaluation samples of any ■■ Worldwide Seminars: www.microchip.com/seminars Microchip device: http://sample.microchip.com ■■ eLearning: www.microchip.com/webseminars ■■ Forum link provides access to knowledge base and peer help: http://forum.microchip.com ■■ Buy link provides locations of Microchip Sales Channel Partners: www.microchip.com/sales Sales Office Listing AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA/PACIFIC ASIA/PACIFIC Atlanta Austria Wels Australia Sydney India Bangalore Tel: 678-957-9614 Tel: 43-7242-2244-39 Tel: 61-2-9868-6733 Tel: 91-80-3090-4444 Austin Denmark Copenhagen China Beijing India New Delhi Tel: 512-257-3370 Tel: 45-4450-2828 Tel: 86-10-8569-7000 Tel: 91-11-4160-8631 Boston France Paris China Chengdu India Pune Tel: 774-760-0087 Tel: 33-1-69-53-63-20 Tel: 86-28-8665-5511 Tel: 91-20-3019-1500 Chandler Germany Dusseldorf China Chongqing Japan Osaka Tel: 480-792-7200 Tel: 49-2129-3766400 Tel: 86-23-8980-9588 Tel: 81-6-6152-7160 Chicago Germany Munich China Hangzhou Japan Tokyo Tel: 630-285-0071 Tel: 49-89-627-144-0 Tel: 86-571-87928115 Tel: 81-3-6880-3770 Cleveland Germany Pforzheim China Hong Kong SAR Korea Daegu Tel: 216-447-0464 Tel: 49-7231-424750 Tel: 852-2943-5100 Tel: 82-53-744-4301 Dallas Italy Milan China Nanjing Korea Seoul Tel: 972-818-7423 Tel: 39-0331-742611 Tel: 86-25-8473-2460 Tel: 82-2-554-7200 Detroit Italy Venice China Qingdao Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Tel: 248-538-2250 Tel: 39-049-7625286 Tel: 86-532-8502-7355 Tel: 60-3-6201-9857 Houston Netherlands Drunen China Shanghai Malaysia Penang Tel: 281-894-5983 Tel: 31-416-690399 Tel: 86-21-5407-5533 Tel: 60-4-227-8870 Indianapolis Poland Warsaw China Shenyang Philippines Manila Tel: 317-773-8323 Tel: 48-22-3325737 Tel: 86-24-2334-2829 Tel: 63-2-634-9065 Los Angeles Spain Madrid China Shenzhen Singapore Tel: 949-462-9523 Tel: 34-91-708-08-90 Tel: 86-755-8864-2200 Tel: 65-6334-8870 New York Sweden Stockholm China Wuhan Taiwan Hsin Chu Tel: 631-435-6000 Tel: 46-8-5090-4654 Tel: 86-27-5980-5300 Tel: 886-3-5778-366 San Jose UK Wokingham China Xiamen Taiwan Kaohsiung Tel: 408-735-9110 Tel: 44-118-921-5800 Tel: 86-592-2388138 Tel: 886-7-213-7830 Toronto China Xian Taiwan Taipei Tel: 905-673-0699 Tel: 86-29-8833-7252 Tel: 886-2-2508-8600 China Zhuhai Thailand Bangkok Tel: 86-756-3210040 Tel: 66-2-694-1351 3/12/14 www.microchip.com The Microchip name and logo, the Microchip logo and PIC are registered trademarks and mTouch is a trademark of Microchip Microchip Technology Inc. Technology Incorporated in the U.S.A. and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned herein are property of their respective companies. © 2014, Microchip Technology Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 3/14 2355 W. Chandler Blvd. DS00001290E Chandler, AZ 85224-6199
