D E ST I N A T I O N S INDIAN HOTELS COMPANY LIMITED CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013-14 Destinations We are glad to present ‘Destinations’ our 11th Sustainability Report, which highlights our sustainability performance and depicts our surrounding communities in myriad achievements and challenges in the ways. The rich culture, heritage, art year 2013-14. and biodiversity of our destinations is of immense value and our constant ‘Destinations’ for us mean multitude endeavour continues to support aspects and impacts of our these destinations and place more sustainability journey. These would and more of them on international also be the milestones that we want tourism map. The direct and indirect to reach, which are dynamic in economic impacts of our hotels help nature, shaped by industry overview, communities thrive. We have aligned business plans and stakeholder our community development agenda expectations. Destinations also entail with our core business to ensure management of the locations where sustainability and longevity of our we operate, which is critical for community interventions. business sustainability. While we continue to achieve our We contribute to the development of milestones, we are constantly ‘Destinations’ we operate in and evolving our sustainability goals to ensure a more sensitive and responsible brand. It is this endeavour that helps us in contributing to the destinations that we operate in. Contents Building The Ultimate Destination 5 A Taj For Everyone 7 Listen, Feel, Act 14 125 Hotels, 76 Cities, 10 Countries 18 Exciting Arrivals & Memorable Departures 22 Caring For Our People 28 Safe Havens 34 Nurturing The Environs 38 Inclusive Partnerships 46 Assurance Statement 51 GRI / UNGC / NVG-SEE Content Index 53 About the report • 11th Annual Corporate Sustainability Report of IHCL 2013-14 • Prepared using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines • Serves as Communication on Progress (COP) to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Aligned to National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG-SEE) • External Assurance and Third Party Check for Application Level A+ by KPMG, India This report has references to the Company’s Annual Report 2013-14 which is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/annual-reports.html Performance Highlights 8 7% NEW HOTELS OF TOTAL ENERGY LAUNCHED IS RENEWABLE BASED 9 EARTHCHECK GOLD CERTIFIED HOTELS 5 ` 2.15 MILLION CONSECUTIVE YEARS PURCHASES FROM OF GALLUP GREAT CAUSE BASED WORKPLACE AWARD ORGANIZATIONS 4% REDUCTION IN WATER CONSUMED PER ROOM NIGHT SOLD 7000 + PART OF ACTIVE CARBON DISCLOSURE VOLUNTEERS LEADERSHIP INDEX 2013 TM CDP CLIMATE DISCLOSURE LEADER 2013 4 BUILDING THE ULTIMATE DESTINATION Dear Stakeholder, conforming to the requirements of positioning to achieve high growth in application level A+. This report also the coming years. On behalf of all members of the Taj serves as a Communication on family, I feel privileged to present Our survival and well-being is Progress towards our commitment to dependent on the natural “Destinations”, Indian Hotels United Nations Global Compact Company Limited’s (IHCL) 11th environment. As a hotel company (UNGC) principles. with “Destinations” in eco-fragile Corporate Sustainability Report. The travel and tourism industry regions, we have constantly faced “Destinations” for us is an account of makes tremendous contribution to the challenge of balancing growth our journey towards creating long GDP, creates and supports and associated environmental term stakeholder value while livelihoods, conserves and promotes impacts. We address this through positively impacting the communities art, preserves heritage, culture and EARTH – Environment Awareness and where we exist. This report also biodiversity. With the domestic policy Renewal at Taj Hotels; a voluntary highlights our performance and environment gaining impetus and internal movement that focuses on commitments for the financial year tourism being pegged as a high deploying cleaner and greener 2013-14. The report is developed growth sector, we aim to leverage technologies while consuming lesser based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines, our internal capabilities and brand resources to deliver the 5 footprint across brands through the our CSR partners stems from our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This approach to seamlessly integrate the year IHCL has been recognized in the needs of our target communities Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index – with our key organizational as a part of top 20 reporting processes. We have adopted a companies. We are proud to share collaborative approach to work with that nine of our hotels have achieved various like-minded partners EarthCheck™ Gold Certification and 63 including corporates, governmental of our hotels have retained their agencies and developmental Silver Certification. institutions to facilitate inclusive growth and development in regions The unique Taj Experience is defined, in which we operate. Our volunteers created and recreated by our most from hotels across brands work on valued resources – the associates of projects ranging from skilling of rural The Taj! In turn we reward them with school dropout youth; supporting a safe and collaborative work indigenous and tribal art, craft and environment that fosters personal culture to supporting NGOs working and professional growth. Our in the areas of rehabilitation of workplace is like an extended family commercial sex workers, bee-keeping for most of us. Our people practices for farmers and other income are geared towards creating industry generation projects of Cause Based leaders through intensive hands-on Organizations. Through our Tata training and holistic exposure to Affirmative Action (AA) agenda, we lengths and breadths of hotel endeavour to reach out in particular keeping. to socially disadvantaged Safety and security of our guests, communities like Scheduled Castes associates, assets and and Scheduled Tribes. neighbourhood is paramount to us. This is a long term journey with We have institutionalised standard evolving goal-posts. Our ability to policies and procedures across hotels patiently and systematically pursue on safety and security. We are our sustainability goals in a working towards ensuring zero work process-based manner will make this accidents through rigorous trainings journey a rewarding one – not just and audits. We accord highest for our stakeholders, but also for us – priority to safety and security for our as an organization! quintessential Taj Experience. female guests and associates across the Taj Group and endeavour to I would be glad to hear your Energy management is one of the key thoughts, feedback and suggestions provide systems and processes for focus areas for us along with water for improvement to help us further ensuring a safe and welcoming and waste management. We are also strengthen and enrich our environment. constantly exploring ways to increase sustainability journey. the utilization of renewable energy Community well-being is one of our sources to meet our requirements. core values. Our Corporate Social This has been integrated in annual Responsibility (CSR) theme of business plans and operational goals ‘Building Sustainable Livelihoods’ to of all hotels. There has also been an empower rural and less-privileged increased thrust on reducing waste youth with employable skills in water discharge outside hotel Rakesh Sarna hospitality sector is recognized by premises by recycling and reusing of United Nations. Global Compact as a Managing Director & water. We continue to disclose our business-relevant theme. Our ability Chief Executive Officer climate change agenda and carbon to empower target communities and Indian Hotels Company Limited 6 North America UK & Europe Middle East India 3 Hotels 2 Hotels & Africa 110 Hotels 572 Rooms 434 Rooms 4 Hotels 12,081 Rooms 536 Rooms HOTELS & RESOTS 7 Global footprint 10 Countries 125 Hotels 15,503 Rooms 3,484,206 Room Nights Sold 27,468 Associates 711 Mega Joules (MJ) eenergy eneer Consumed perr rroom night p 97 9 K Kilograms CO2 South Asia emissions eem mis per room night (except India) 7 Hotels 951 Rooms 1.87 Kiloliters water consumed per room night 8 Luxury hotels, palaces and resorts Palaces powered by wind EARTH rooms that consume less The practice of perfect hospitality Resorts that renew biodiversity Iconic landmarks that are timeless Experiences that etch lifetime memories Enhancing cultural heritage Vivanta by Taj Caring for our surroundings Stylishly spirited Committed to ecology Going the renewable way Promoting local arts Expect the unexpected with vivanta motifs Each of the Vivanta hotels offiers a unique experience of the destination where it operates. The same are ably represented by the Vivanta Motifs which pictorially describe those unique local experiences. 12 13 14 Gateway Saving for the future EARTH rooms that consume less Blending hospitality with modern amenities Resorts that renew biodiversity Caring for our surroundings Caring actively for your well-being Home away from home Enhancing lives 15 Ginger 16 Jiva spa, Taj Khazana Taj Sats LISTEN, FEEL, ACT 18 The brand Tata evokes trust among The Board Members: various stakeholders and we continue Name of the Director Status this legacy by integrating ethical business conduct in our DNA. At the Mr. Cyrus Mistry (Chairman) Promoter; Non-Executive core of our governance model is the Mr. Rakesh Sarna Executive Director Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) that outlines the framework within which Mr. Keki B. Dadiseth Independent; Non-Executive we operate. Corporate governance, Mr. Deepak Parekh Independent; Non-Executive adopted as a way of life at IHCL, Mr. Shapoor Mistry Independent; Non-Executive guides us to discharge our duties towards stakeholders in a fair, Mr. Nadir Godrej Independent; Non-Executive transparent and accountable manner. Ms. Ireena Vitaal Independent; Non-Executive We have defined a Strategic Planning Mr. Gautam Banerjee Independent; Non-Executive Process (SPP) based on Tata Business Ms. Vibha Paul Rishi Independent; Non-Executive Excellence Model (TBEM) that helps us in establishing the organisational Mr. Anil Goel Executive objectives, strategies and standard Mr. Abhijit Mukerji Executive operating processes. Mr. Mehernosh Kapadia Executive The Balance Scorecard approach is used to translate the objectives to v 19 measurable targets at brand, hotel and individual level. This year, the hotels have integrated energy efficiency, manpower planning and material resource efficiency in their annual plans and have taken concrete targets on these aspects. The internal audit framework, surveillance audits, mystery audits, Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) assessments, benchmarking and certification processes help us measure system efficiencies and take course corrections. The outcomes of all these business processes and controls are critically reviewed by the Board and senior leadership in the company. To know more about our risk management framework and management system, refer our Corporate Sustainability Report 2010-11 (Page 21-24) accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/CompanyED-Hotel Operations Information/8th-Corporate-Sustainability-Report.pdf us in systematically enhancing the To know more about our risks and concerns, mitigation plans, internal controls and adequacy, Board's own performance. refer our Annual Report 2013-14 (Page 28-29) Sustainability matters concerning accessible at safety, security and environment are SHE Corporate Council http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relatio ns/Annual-Reports.html of priority to us. To oversee the Sr. VP Human Resources Our Directors are well-versed in consistent deployment of Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Chief Operating Officers varied fields such as banking, finance, hospitality social service and standards across our hotels, we have VP Projects architecture. The skill and knowledge institutionalised a SHE committee headed by Executive Director – Hotel Director Sustainability of the Directors have proved to be of immense value. Independent Operations. Director Security Directors comprise more than half of To know more about our Corporate Governance, visit http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relatio GM Projects Safety the Board. We have three ns/ corporate-governance.html committees that overlook the entire To know more about our Board of Directors and Board functioning of the company. These Committees, refer our Corporate Governance Report 2013-14 accessible at committees include Audit committee, http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relatio Hotel SHE Committee Stakeholders’ relationship ns/corporate-governance.html committee, and Nomination and GeneralGMManager Ethical behaviour Remuneration committee. A Board of Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) sets out Chief Engineer Directors assessment is conducted to Chief Engineer evaluate member's individual and expectations on ethical behaviour Executive Chef overall Board’s performance that are consistent with Tata core HR Manager HR Manager regarding attendance, privacy and purpose and values. The Code has conflicts of interest, industry defined clauses covering various Tata L&DSecurity Manager knowledge, succession planning, and Group values including ethics and Security Manager Learning & Development involvement in leadership oversight. integrity. We continually sensitize The results of this assessment guides our associates and other relevant stakeholders on TCoC to reinforce the 20 Critical Sustainability Issues Our continuous dialogue with internal as well as external stakeholders has helped us in proactively determining aspects of our sustainability performance that are of particular interest to them. As our engagement evolved, we were able to create a mechanism to continuously monitor and track issues on a proactive basis. We analysed these issues against our key risks, challenges, and strategic priorities at enterprise and hotel level to select the most critical ones. This report represents our complete range of actions and related performance on the following critical issues: ethical values at all levels. During the constantly evaluate the effectiveness year, a total of 0.13 million of our engagement methods to man-hours of training and awareness better ourselves in serving the needs on TCoC were imparted to associates of our stakeholders. The outcome of and other relevant stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement is linked to implementation of the Code is the prioritization of critical • Ensuring safety – setting high supported by a full blown process of sustainability issues for IHCL. standards to ensure safety and training and awareness, policies and Two-way communication helps us security of our guests, associates, procedures, and reporting and shape our stakeholder engagement communities, neighbourhoods and handling of concerns. mechanism, wherein we also assets. To know more about Tata Code of Conduct, visit communicate to the stakeholders the • Developing human capital – being http://www.tata.in/aboutus/articles/inside.aspx?art outcomes emerging out of the ‘employer of choice’ by providing id=NyGNnLHkaAc= engagement. vibrant and collaborative work To know more about implementation of Tata Code of environment with rewarding Conduct at IHCL, refer our Corporate Sustainability To the stakeholders the outcomes emerging out of Report 2010-11 (Page 17) accessible at the engagement. careers http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Infor • Ensuring environmental To know more about Stakeholder Engagement at mation/8th-Corporate-Sustainability-Report.pdf IHCL, refer our Corporate Sustainability Report excellence – maximising 2012-13 (Page 17-18) accessible at Stakeholders are an important aspect http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Companyproductivity through efficient of our organization. In fact, our core Information/8th-Corporate-Sustainability-Report.pdf management of all assets and competence of ‘Building resources, thereby avoiding shortRelationships’ is strengthened by • Optimizing revenues deployment and long-term environmental how we engage with our of existing and future resources in damage and maintaining and stakeholders. Stakeholder an optimal manner to ensure a promoting natural diversity engagement draws from our culture robust financial bottom-line without compromising the • Creating sustainable livelihoods – and values to build, sustain and connecting our business needs to nurture relationships at different environment or society. economic and social development levels. To engage well with our • Focusing on customer delight of communities by ‘building stakeholders, we listen to them serving customers with products sustainable livelihoods’. through different channels of and services that exceed their To know more about our response to critical communication and understand their expectations, proactively listening sustainability issues , refer our Corporate expectations. Their feedback helps us to customers’ voice and paying Sustainability Report 2012-13 (Page 17-18) accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/ continuously refine our business attention to detail to deliver the About-Taj/Company-Information/8th-Corporate-Sustai planning. Beyond this, we also quintessential ‘Taj Experience’. nability-Report.pdf 21 125 Hotels, 76 Cities, 10 Countries 22 opportunities. We have continued our growth path this year by opening four new Gateway hotels at at Hubli, Chennai, one new Vivanta by Taj hotel at Surajkund, NCR; and three new Ginger hotels in Noida, Jaipur and Chandigarh. We have strong project pipeline for the coming year as well which will enable us to reach to newer destinations. The expansion of our network to new destinations is also our commitment to contribute to enhance economic activity in these destinations and put some of these destinations on the global tourism map. Policy advocacy We assume leadership position in advocating and promoting Indian tourism to realise the true potential of this incredible country. We are Travel and tourism industry has a significant role to play in defining a destination. part of many industry associations Hospitality industry in specific is just not about hotels and guest experiences but also contributes to larger economic activity in the destinations where they operate. The direct and indirect economic impacts of travel and tourism industry signify the contribution made by sector in global economic growth. The travel and tourism industry has projects especially in tier-ii and tier shown strong signs of growth for the –iii cities and safety and security for fourth consecutive year, outpacing women are expected to translate the overall global economic growth. into much higher tourist influx into 2013 was good year for international India. The thrust on pilgrimage and tourism. Tourism sector has shown a heritage tourism with emphasis on remarkable capacity to adjust to the Buddhist tourism circuit centered changing market conditions and around Gaya in Bihar will enable fuelling the growth of job creation India to attract this segment of around the world, despite continuing tourists from South East Asia, Japan economic and geopolitical and Sri Lanka. The proposal to challenges. The domestic travel and earmark a sum of INR 100 crore to tourism industry also has grown revive heritage tourism will lead to moderately compared to last year but development and promotion of new is expected to have above-average tourism circuits. growth in 2014. The Budget 2014-15 As a more than century old brand, for India has placed renewed focus on we have always taken long-term tourism to ensure that ‘Incredible view of our growth and profitability. India’ gets the much needed boost Our years of strategic investments for travel and tourism. Measures are now set to take advantage of such as e-visa programme, expansion future industry growth of visa-on-arrival, infrastructure 23 and partner with Governments to promote key policy and strategic initiatives for the industry. • Experience India Society (EIS) works to realize the true potential of tourism in India and to capture a larger market share of world tourism. It is a private public partnership formed to position India and build brand salience in key markets. We are key members of EIS. • Hunar Se Rozgar Tak (HSRT) – HSRT is a key initiative of Ministry of Tourism, India to promote creation of employable skills amongst youth belonging to economically weaker strata of the society. We have played a significant role in shaping this programme and work with various state tourism departments to create livelihoods in hospitality industry. Key industry associations / memberships 1. All India Association of Industries 2. All India Management Association 3. British Business Group 4. Experience India Society 5. Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India 6. Pacific Asia Tourism Association 7. Indian Merchants Chamber 8. Indo-American Chamber of Commerce 9. Indo-Australian Chamber of Commerce 10. Indo-French Chamber of Commerce 11. Indo-German Chamber of Commerce 12. Indo-Japanese Association 13. The Indian Society of Advertisers 14. World Tourism Organisation 15. Forum for Women In Leadership, India 24 This year prudent cost management Central Warehousing and Distribution @ Taj has been a key objective across We have a wide spread network of hotels across the country and efficiently functions and hotels. Measures to managing the supply chain of such a vast network is critical to live up to optimize costs of raw material and the guest expectations. To effectively and efficiently manage our supply workforce deployment have been chain, we have revamped our sourcing and distribution model. The taken. On the workforce traditional model of procurement by hotels has been replaced by unified management front, key initiatives procurement model through warehousing and distribution management. including minimal workforce The initiative has helped us improve our supply chain efficiency, reduce addition, internal redeployment to stock inventories and optimize logistics by serving the hotel needs through fill in positions in new hotels, regional hubs. leadership development and smart layering of the organization. Supply chain optimization and local sourcing During the year, our total income of financial performance is crucial for has been one key focus areas for us INR 197.73 billion was higher than us, the indirect economic impacts of to manage our costs with indirect last year by 3%. The Food & Beverage our operations are also significant in benefits of supporting more local income grew by 6%, aided by growth nature. We promote destinations to vendors and curbing transportation in restaurant sales and banqueting increase economic activity in these related environmental impacts. Most income. Owing to the impact of areas while providing authentic local of our hotels are exploring global recessionary trends on some of experiences to our guests. We opportunities of growing their own our long term strategic investments, support local vendors and suppliers, vegetables in backyard herb & the Profit After Tax (PAT) during the promote local arts and culture, kitchen gardens which also promises year reduced to INR (59.05) billion. enhance livelihood opportunities and the guests of high quality farm fresh The financial performance of the contribute to environmental vegetables. The focus has also been Company is monitored on continuous sustainability. on integrating local cuisines in the basis to make prudent business To know more about economic performance, refer our Annual menu options for our guests to Report 2013-14 (Page 31-33) accessible at decisions that will help in ensuring http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annu experience authentic local flavours. long-term profitability. While our al-Reports.html Exciting arrivals & memorable departures 26 Taj is known for its legendary customer delight quotient with impeccable service quality. We have taken great strides to ensure the satisfaction of every customer. Customer satisfaction is at core of the organisational culture and is extremely vital for us to consistently deliver the ‘Taj Experience’. When a guest arrives at our hotel, he becomes our priority. All our practices and polices revolve around how effectively we meet the needs of the customer. We look beyond not just ensuring a comfortable stay, but also see to it that the overall wellbeing of our customers are taken into consideration. The safety of our customers is never compromised. Each hotel is has developed initiatives to ensure the safety of our guests. The employees and staff have imbibed this customer-centric attitude to safeguard and protect our customers regardless of the situation they are faced with. 28 We pride ourselves in providing Taj has been the preferred destination for world dignitaries as we continue authentic local experiences to our to do what we do the best – play the perfect host. Some of the Heads of guests. The homemaker chef is a States that we played host to in 2013-14 are: unique guest proposition at our • His Imperial Majesty Emperor Akihito, Emperor of Japan, Taj Palace Delhi Gateway hotels which provides • Prince Charles & Camilla, HRH The Prince of Wales & The Duchess of opportunity to local homemakers Cornwall, The Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai who have no professional cooking • His Excellency Rajkeswur Purryag, President of Mauritius, experience to bring their natural Taj Palace Delhi home-styled cooking to the dining • Princess Astrid, Princess of Belgium, The Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai table of our guests. This initiative celebrates the simplicity of home • H.E. Li Keqiang, Premier of the Peoples Republic of China, The Taj Mahal cooking and explores the unique Palace Mumbai and The Taj Palace New Delhi flavours of local region. Apart from • H.E. Joachim Gauck, President of Germany, Taj Mahal New Delhi providing our guests with this • H.E. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan, Taj Palace, New Delhi unique experience, the initiatives also provides additional source of livelihood for these homemakers. 29 At Vivanta by Taj, each hotel and fascinating folklore of Goa recited by introduced the concept of ‘the resort has something unique to offer a lively raconteur is integrated with Practice of Perfect Hospitality’. At our which represent an imaginative take our commitment to support local Taj Hotels and Palaces, every aspect on the destination and its culture. culture or the unique experience of is skilfully crafted and performed in a These Vivanta by Taj Motifs are observing scores of Olive Ridley manner that mimics an artistic curated must on your list turtles come ashore to lay their eggs performance. Our aim is to deliver experiences that represent an between December and March is an utmost perfection which we strive to imaginative take on the destination extension of our commitment to accomplish with passion and and its culture. These are must dos preserve local biodiversity. precision. We aspire to attain and must sees presented with the meticulous performance through Vivanta signature of hospitality. We Performance.Art painstaking practice that guarantees blend our sustainability efforts into perfect hospitality. It is through this delivering these unique experiences We believe that everything that we artistic interpretation that we have by supporting activities on do, should be done to perfection; and towards performance, that we are environmental sustainability, the only means to attainting this able to achieve customer satisfaction biodiversity enhancement and local precision is through practice. As a that not only benefits the customers, arts and culture. For example, the part of the brand strategy for our Taj but also the society and environment guest experience of enjoying the Hotels and Palaces, we have at large. map aimed towards achieving customer satisfaction, property upkeep, security and safety. The process for receiving, responding, analyzing, learning and improving from the guests’ feedback was also put in place. In order to curb dissatisfaction among our customers, Taj follows up with guests on the quality of products through a follow up survey. This year, ongoing efforts to understand customer needs, tailor improvements in service design and delivery and phased product upgrades have enabled us to achieve all-time-high levels of satisfaction on the “Big Three” customer satisfaction indices. All other fundamental customer indices such as the Cleanliness and Appearance index, Courtesy index, Efficiency index, Facility index, Food index and Value for money also demonstrated similar favourable trends. ‘The Practice of Perfect Hospitality’, has allowed us to create the most memorable experiences for our guests. To ensure the every celebration is an unforgettable experience, the Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces has designed weddings that replicate fairytales. Replete with gorgeous décor both indoors and outdoors, the Taj team ensures that the day is nothing short of perfection and that the experience is like nothing anyone ever imagined. Practices and policies have been developed to improve performance and augment customer feedback scores. These feedback scores directly reflect our endeavor to set higher goals if need be. Today, customers are becoming increasingly more demanding, less tolerant and very critical when not having their expectations met. In 2013-14, the Company had strategized and implemented a result oriented road 31 Caring for our people 32 Taj was awarded the Gallup Great Workplace Award for the fifth consecutive year in 2013-14 and has been listed alongside 35 other companies from across the world. It is the only organization from India, the only Tata Company and the only hotel chain in the world to have won the award for five consecutive years. People management at IHCL is pivotal to achieve the organisation’s Game Plan and consistently deliver the quintessential ‘Taj Experience’. While business reasons for people management are obvious, we at Taj over the years have been successful in integrating the business plans with aspirations of the people to ensure that our associates have satisfying and rewarding careers. The testimony of our people practices lies in the fact that majority of the senior leadership is home-grown, some even having over 3 decades of association with the Company. myriad opportunities or multitude of opportunities Taj ‘the destination’ for aspirants in hospitality industry. Instilling the culture of Taj among associates is critical for us to deliver Taj’s unique guest experience. Our hiring strategy has evolved to hire people who demonstrate the right attitude and aptitude to imbibe this culture. Diversity of skills, talent and cultural background plays a crucial role in our people strategy and is promoted through people hiring and development practices. We have developed a structured on-boarding called 'TAP-ME' which meets the specific requirements of different associate groups. Taj also provides unique training and lateral mobility opportunities to associates through the vast Taj and Tata group network. 33 We have more than IHCL Associates (Gradewise) 27,000 associates across the globe. 3661 16% Executive During the year, we 7037 32% have an associate turnover rate of 30%, Supervisors / Staff 6095 well below industry 28% average of 35%. FTC 5260 24% Others (Trainees, Apprentices. etc.) IHCL Associates (Genderwise) 13% Male 87% Female IHCL 'New Hires leaving within 12 months 49.16 The decreasing trend of 'new hires' attrition 30.95 Percentage shows the effectiveness 27.48 of our employee engagement processes. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 34 Key L&D platforms • Classroom functional and technical trainings • On-the-job learning • Department Trainers groomed through Certified Taj Departmental Trainers (CTDT) – 58% managers certified • MiUniversity – e-learning Platform that combines technology with pedagogy We have defined a competency freamwork which includes skill dictionary and We have been recognised by coveted competency manual for various function and levels. The learning and BML Munjal Award as the best development efforts are focused to address the areas of improvements based on Service Organization in India for analysis of voice of customers. The learning & development delivery Learning & Development processes mechanisms are customised to meet the associate's needs & desires, learning & and culture for the year 2013-14. This education and leadership development in line with business growth strategy. was in recognition of the benchmark The effectiveness of the delivery mechanism mechanism is assessed through learning & development practices training feedback forms, on-the-job assessments of acquired skills and followed by the organization. competency, employee satisfaction survey, guest satisfaction measurement etc. We have enhanced our performance This year, we delivered 2.35 million manhours of training, actualising 96% of our management system PACE, to training plans. leverage technology and integrate it with the fundamentals of our performance review mechanism. It helps us seamlessly align goals to organisational vision, game plan, values and cascade down based on overall objectives of the company. The performance review is a two-way dialogue process with mid-year and year-end reviews for executives. The rewards and bonus payouts for executives are linked to their own and organisational performance. 360 degree feedback system is an important tool to provide managers inputs on their leadership style and effectiveness. It is extended to senior and mid-level managers. Taj Awards for Business Excellence (TABE) recognises best performing hotels and teams across categories. S.T.A.R.S (Special Thanks And Recognition System) is an award-winning employee recognition scheme that recognises staff who delight and dazzle our customers by continuously performing acts of excellence. Each employee accumulates points for their acts of excellence which are recognised based on guest compliments, colleague compliments and impactful suggestions made by the employee. Based on the points accumulated in a particular financial year, the associate is inducted in to various clubs – MD’s club, COO’s club and Unit Club (Platinum level, Gold level, Silver level). Year of the Associates+ is a set of initiatives aimed at enhancing the quality of employees’ lives at work and beyond. It comprises of initiatives that are focused more on long-term outcomes that directly impact our associates like the education of their children, becoming computer literate, etc Talent management and succession planning are vital Key talent management platforms: components of our HR strategy. To facilitate growth and break career stagnation, key operational positions are • SPEED+ (Special Program for Employee Education and usually transferrable every two-three years. Development Plus) is a key initiative to facilitate career management and progression of associates at staff and Assessing employee satisfaction is crucial to better our contract level people systems and be the employer of choice to attract, • Emerging Leaders – Taj is an immersive program for retain and groom the best talent. We conduct annual identifying hi-potential associates and plan their career Employee Satisfaction Surveys (ESS) to gauge and analyse path to take up higher roles the employee satisfaction trends. The latest ESS was also extended to our contract staff to assess their satisfaction • The constant churn out of ‘first-time’ leaders through the levels. Emerging from this analysis are also the areas for Emerging Leaders – Taj process reflects the effectiveness us to innovate and improve to meet the expectations of of the process to identify high-potential associates our associates. The recent survey conducted revealed that • There are talent appreciation programs (SOIL) for senior 82% associates believe that Taj provides opportunities to management for their continual commitment towards learn and grow and 86% associates mentioned that they organisational success have been adequately trained to perform their roles well. • Leadership Development Programs are continually conducted for middle management to hone their leadership skills and prepare them for higher roles 37 Safe Havens 38 We accord highest importance towards safety and security of our guests, associates, vendors, communities and assets. Our endeavour is to create our hotels as ‘safe havens’ for everyone associated with it and extend our support towards ‘safe neighbourhoods’. We have implemented well-defined safety and security management systems across our hotels. Standard safety and security specifications have been incorporated into the design of offices, hotels, products and services. These specifications are also regularly reviewed to incorporate changes in the regulatory requirements, industry trends, external conditions, availability of newer and secure technology, needs of our associates and guests. Periodical reviews of safety management systems are conducted through internal and external audits. In our hotel kitchens and catering units, we strictly adhere to ISO 22000 (food safety management systems) standards to ensure highest levels of food safety. At TajSATS additionally, stringent monitoring mechanisms ensure highest food safety standards are maintained through production, transportation and up to consumption. Creating safer destinations At IHCL we believe in creating safer destinations and therefore we go beyond just ensuring safety at our hotel premises Safety of our stakeholders is paramount to us. We have taken special measures within the hotel and extended services to promote safety of single lady traveller. Defined procedures are being rolled out to ensure that single lady travellers. are attended with appropriate safeguards, thereby instilling confidence among women to travel single and safe. 40 Forest fires can be detrimental for wildlife and biodiversity. Vivanta by Taj Madikeri, Coorg responded to one such situation working in partnership with the local forest authorities. The hotel's security team's swift voluntary Our security staff is well-trained action helped to avoid a and equipped to handle crisis Security managers from disaster situation. situations not only within the Taj Hotels attend fire hotels but also outside the hotels fighting workshop at in situations like road accidents, Vivanta by Taj, Holiday fire emergencies etc. We are Village, Goa proud of the enthusiasm demonstrated by our security associates to use their skills and expertise beyond workplace for community good. Our security officer Mr. Srinath at Vivanta by Taj, Yeshwantpur uses his skills to volunteer as traffic warden and teach school children on traffic rules and management. His ability to handle a crisis situation has won him accolades from Bangalore City Police Commissioner and we are proud of such people who inspire us. Review of our safety management systems is an integral part Safety Performance of our continual improvement process. This year, we have 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 completed comprehensive external safety audits at 64 hotels Near Miss Cases (NMC) 1,218 2,144 2,138 conducted by a firm of international repute. Internal safety standards and regulatory requirements including National Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) 2,753 1,333 1,727 Building Code Standards, relevant IS codes, Electricity Act, Lost-Time Cases (LTC) 613 410 643 etc. were used as criteria for audits. Action plans are drawn Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 9.87 9.45 12.82 by hotels to address the improvement areas with special Fatalities 2 0 1 focus on Behavioural Based Safety (BBS). Million Man-hours Worked 62.11 43.4 50.15 41 Nurturing the environs 42 EARTH (Environment Awareness and Renewal at Taj Hotels) is our approach to do our bit for the environment. We seek to reduce our environmental footprint through various initiatives within the hotels and endeavour to nurture the environment where we operate. We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our TM operations by focussing on energy EarthCheck certification is a globally recognized management, alternative sources of certification for environmental excellence in the energy, water recycling and waste hospitality and tourism industry. management, biodiversity conservation and local produce and sourcing. During the year, we have 9 Gold Certified Hotels spent INR 195 million towards various environmental management activities. Under the aegis of EARTH (Environmental Awareness & Renewal at Taj Hotels) vision, we have been benchmarking and certifying our properties through EarthCheckTM, the world’s leading environmental management, benchmarking and certification program for the travel and tourism industry, since 2009. This benchmarking provides us with a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of environmental and social performance against peers in the sector, region and climate zone and also drives improvement processes across hotels. “The fact that Taj Group is using EarthCheck capabilities and backing their benchmarking with a recognised third party is what gives this hotel group a point of difference in its sustainability efforts. What is also commendable is that the Taj Group has maintained this benchmarking for five years without wavering while some other hotel groups have dipped in and out of the 43 sustainability space.” – Stewart Moore, CEO of EarthCheck and EC3 Global. Energy and climate change We are dependent on multiple sources of energy for running our operations like electricity in rooms and hotel areas, fuel oil for boilers, natural gas in kitchens, diesel for Since 2009, over 70 percent of Taj hotels generators and vehicles, petrol for company owned cars, and Resorts have worked with chaff fuel in banquets, firewood and charcoal in tandoors, EarthCheckTM to enhance their social and etc. Fuel and energy costs contribute to over 40% of the environmental sustainability initiatives. operations expenditure and hence focusing on energy management and optimization presents a prudent business case. Further, we are also focussing on In just five years, nine* taj properties saved harnessing alternative and renewable sources of energy in enough resources to order to reduce our carbon footprint. Our hotels across Luxury, Vivanta by Taj and Gateway have reaffirmed their commitment to energy management by Power 53,940 households integrating energy consumption as important aspect of for 12 months the hotels’ annual business plan. We have adopted an aggressive target of 5% reduction in energy cost with a process to monitor the same on a monthly basis. Energy audits are conducted across hotels in a phased manner to Fill 338 Olympic-sized evaluate energy hot spots and decide on subsequent swimming pools energy conservation initiatives that can be implemented to improve efficiency. Take 6,675 cars off the road 1,322,667 Energy consumption 1,209,770 1,104,752 Fill 186 shipping containers 36 skill training Over 7000 active centres for less employee privileged volunteers training over 2700 supporting CSR 1,247,019 1,203,624 l,271,353 youth year on year programmes 1370 artisansand culture troupe members * Taj Lands End, Mumbai; Rambagh Palace, Jaipur; Taj West End, Bangalore; Vivanta by Taj, President, Mumbai; Vivanta by Taj, Direct Energy Ambassador, New Delhi; Taj Exotica Resort & Spa, Maldives; Vivanta by Taj, M G Road Bangalore; Taj Exotica, Goa; Taj Blue, Sydney Indirect Energy 44 Energy intensity Our total absolute energy Total GHG Emissions consumption during the year has 0.361 0.363 248,919 228,727 264,002 0.375 increased by 7.52% due to the new hotels which began operations this year. However, we were successful in GJ per room night sold maintaining our energy intensity per room night almost similar to last year on account of our continual 0.347 0.348 focus on energy efficiency. 0.319 S.Energy S.Energy 73,476 81,434 93,601 Direct Indirect 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Renewable energy 167,547.13 We continue to focus our efforts on Tonnes of CO2 renewable energy use. This year, we 152,342.95 6.91% have increased the percentage of 6.33% renewable energy to 6.91% of total 122,498.21 energy use. Use of renewable energy 5.24% has been integrated with energy planning and budgets and hotels across brands are continually GJ exploring ways and means by which they can maximize this potential. CO2.ID CO2.D 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Direct energy fuel wise 2013-14 We generate energy from 2% 24,934.57 Petrol direct sources such as Diesel, Petrol, Liquefied Petroleum 41% 528,997.30 Diesel Gas, Piped Natural Gas, Fuel Oil, Light Diesel Oil and 2% 34061.83 Fuel oil Charcoal while solar, biogas 1% 9339.67 Light Diesel Oil and biomass are the main sources for direct renewable 16% 204907.21 Liquefied Petroleum energy. Indirect energy is primarily sourced from 25% 320717.60 Natural Gas electricity grids while Agro power and Hydro power are 12% 153079.15 Charcoal main sources of renewable indirect energy. 1% 10883.76 Chaff Fuel 45 Total GHG Emissions Intensity Focus on energy efficiency 59 Hotels using renewable Energy efficiency has been one of the based energy 75.87 68.10 71.85 key focus areas at hotels to manage All Ginger Hotels their energy needs and minimize environmental impact. Energy audits Gateway, Ahmedabad are being conducted in phased Gateway, Airport Garden, Colombo manner across hotels to identify Gateway, Chennai opportunities for energy efficiency. Gateway, Conoor Many hotels have initiated projects on change of lighting from CFL bulbs Gateway, Nasik to LEDs while the new built hotels Gateway, Surat have incorporated energy efficiency Gateway, Varanasi 21.30 23.49 24.77 at the design stage itself. Regular and Gateway, Vijayawada preventive maintenance of kg CO2 per room night sold high-energy consuming equipment Gateway, Visakhapatanam helps us reduce energy load by Rambagh Palace, Jaipur plugging in efficiency losses, Taj Banjara, Hyderabad retrofitting old and obsolete Taj Coromandel, Chennai equipments and reducing redundancy of additional Taj Clubhouse, Chennai equipments. Initiatives are also taken Taj Deccan, Hyderabad in the kitchen area to optimize Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur energy and fuel consumption. Our Taj Mahal, New Delhi continual focus on energy efficiency has helped us save 65,918 GJ energy Taj Palace, New Delhi during the year and avoid 12,851 Taj Wellington Mews, Mumbai Our GHG emissions intensity has tCO2 emissions Taj West End, Bengaluru increased by 5.5% compared to last year despite maintaining similar Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur energy intensity as last year. This Usha Kiran Palace, Gwalior was primarily due to the change in Vivanta by Taj, Ambassador, grid emission factor released by New Delhi Central Electricity Authority which Vivanta by Taj, Begumpet, Hyderabad has increased due to the higher thermal based generation capacity Vivanta by Taj, Connemara, Chennai addition in India. Vivanta by Taj, Fishermen’s Cove, Chennai Vivanta by Taj, Hari Mahal, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Surya, Coimbatore Vivanta by Taj, Trivandrum Vivanta by Taj, Yeshwantpur, Bangalore Usha Kiran Palace is known for its grandeur and has witnessed many changes over its 120-year-old history. The legacy continues but what powers this palace today is not the conventional energy but natural solar power sourced through open access supply. 46 At Bandhavgarh, Taj Safaris and &Beyond partnered with Madhya Pradesh forest officials to relocate 50 Gaurs four years ago. This has been a highly successful endeavour in balancing forest eco-systems with 41 new birth and stabilized food chain. and reusing it reuse. This year we generated 9,289 tons of kitchen waste and 2,977 tons of horticulture waste. The concerted efforts taken by our hotels have enabled us to compost around 30% of this waste through vermi-composting and anaerobic / aerobic digestion to generate bio-gas and manure, as compared to 16% last year. Paper waste of 1,442 tons is sold to scrap paper vendors. To ensure safe disposal, burnt oil and waste lubricant oil of 151.89 KL was disposed during the year through authorised vendors. The other Our hotels are increasingly looking contributors to our waste footprint towards growing own vegetables and include bottles, containers, metal herbs to manage costs and enhance scrap, electrical and electronic waste, customer delight by serving them batteries and debris generated freshest of vegetables and herbs. during hotel renovation. Depending Many of our hotels have herb upon the category of waste, we use gardens which serve the hotels with appropriate methods to ensure its different vegetables and herbs. safe disposal. Electrical waste like Organic waste like kitchen waste and fused bulbs, tubes, switches, kitchen horticulture waste constitute appliances and electronic waste like significant proportion of waste computer parts and television parts generated across our hotels. We are disposed in an environmentally strive to maximise the potential of safe manner through authorised composting this waste by recycling e-waste recyclers. 47 Water management Water is a critical resource for our operations. We strive to judiciously utilise water while maximising water harvesting, recycling and reuse. Rivers, lakes, sea, tankers, municipality supply, harvested rain water and ground water serve as primary source of water withdrawal for our hotels. Rainwater harvesting systems are in place at many of our hotels to reduce the fresh water intake. Water bottling plant at Taj Exotica, Maldives Water consumption (in kilo liters) 2013-14 2% 128027 River/Lake Water 46% 3238935 Municipality Supply 32% 2235332 Borewells/ 1% 85196 Harvested rainwater Ground Water 1% 90830 Desalinated Water 18% 12770002 Tankers 0% 12557 Bottled Water Ground water, tanker and municipality supply together meets about 96 percent of our total water requirement. IHCL Water Consumption IHCL Water Intensity 6.833,083 6.646,862 7,067,886 KL per room night sold Kiloliters 2.045 1.953 1.871 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 This year we recycled / reused 2.18 million kiloliters of We continue to focus our efforts on water management. This water which is equivalent to 33% of our total water year, we were able to reduce of water intensity per room consumption. We have discharged 2.12 million night sold by 4.2% despite adding new hotels by focusing on kiloliters of treated water outside the hotels’ water recycling and reuse. 35 of our hotels have rainwater premises, 11.6% less compared to last year. harvesting systems while the number of hotels with zero-discharge outside hotel has risen to 40 from 38. 48 41 Zero water discharge hotels 35 hotels with rain water harvesting Gateway, Airport Garden, Colombo Gateway, Chennai Gateway, Agra Gateway, Chikmanglur Gateway, Chikmagalur Gateway, Ernakulam Gateway, Hubli Gateway, Coonoor Gateway, Jaisalmer Gateway, Khajuraho Gateway, Jodhpur Gateway, Madurai Gateway, Khajuraho Gateway, Mangalore Gateway, Madurai Gateway, Nashik Gateway, Nashik Gateway, Vadodara Gateway, Vadodara Gateway, Varanasi Gateway, Varanasi Gateway, Varkala Gateway, Varkala Rambagh Palace, Jaipur Rambagh Palace, Jaipur St. James Court, London Taj Bengal, Kolkata Taj Banjara, Hyderabad Taj Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad Taj Bengal, Kolkata Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur Taj Coromandel, Chennai Taj Lands End, Mumbai Taj Deccan, Hyderabad Taj Palace, Delhi Taj Exotica, Maldives Taj Wellington Mews, Mumbai Taj Lands End, Mumbai Taj West End, Bangalore Taj Mahal, Delhi Umaid Bhawan Palace Taj Palace, Delhi Vivanta by Taj, Usha Kiran Palace, Gwalior Taj Wellington Mews, Mumbai Vivanta by Taj, Aurangabad Taj West End, Bengaluru Vivanta by Taj, Bentota, Sri Lanka Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Begumpet, Hyderabad Usha Kiran Palace, Gwalior Vivanta by Taj, Bekal, Kerala Vivanta by Taj, Ambassador, New Delhi Vivanta by Taj, Coral Reef, Maldives Vivanta by Taj, Connemara, Chennai Vivanta by Taj, Dal View, Srinagar Vivanta by Taj, Fisherman’s Cove, Chennai Vivanta by Taj, Exotica, Goa Vivanta by Taj, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow Vivanta by Taj, Fisherman’s Cove, Chennai Vivanta by Taj, Hari Mahal, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Fort Aguada, Goa Vivanta by Taj, Malabar, Cochin Vivanta by Taj, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow Vivanta by Taj, Sawai Madhopur Lodge Vivanta by Taj, Hari Mahal, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Surya, Coimbatore Vivanta by Taj, Holiday Village, Goa Vivanta by Taj, Trivandrum Vivanta by Taj, Kovalam Vivanta by Taj, Yeshwantpur Vivanta by Taj, Kumarakom, Kerala Vivanta by Taj, Malabar, Cochin Vivanta by Taj, Madakeri, Coorg Vivanta by Taj, Sawai Madhopur lodge Vivanta by Taj, Surya, Coimbatore Vivanta by Taj, Trivandrum 49 Enabling partnerships, inclusive growth 50 We believe that hospitality industry, as a part of We proactively reach out to our target communities under our CSR travel and tourism industry, plays a vital role in theme of ‘Building Sustainable Livelihoods’ through a strategic and enhancing the economic activity of a destination, focused approach. Our key CSR bringing some of the lesser known destinations on programmes are as follows: the global tourism map and an thereby improving 1. Facilitate skill development for less-privileged youth: the standard of living among local communities. • Partnering with Government ITIs, Taj passionately upholds the tradition of ‘Giving reputed Voluntary Organizations and other like-minded Back to communities,’ laid down by our founder organizations to bridge the gap Mr. Jamsetji Tata. Over the decades, we have between organized job market and rural/less-educated/ played a decisive role in not only contributing to less-exposed youth seeking long-term livelihood options development of Indian tourism but, also making a • Enable candidates from positive societal impact positive societal impact marginalized sections like differently-abled, Scheduled through our community development agenda. Castes and Scheduled Tribes to gain access to training and employment opportunities in hospitality industry 2. Promote indigenous arts, crafts, culture and social enterprise: • Facilitate awareness, visibility and venue for exhibition and sale of artifacts, performances of local artisans/craftsmen and culture troupes with an aim of reviving traditional arts • Encourage purchases of artifacts, gift-items, other products for business-use from indigenous artisans and craftsmen • Support income generation projects run by small scale entrepreneurs, Self Help Groups, NGOs, social enterprises Based on business corecompetencies, Taj partners with like-minded Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations in ‘identified locations’ to train and certify school dropouts and those from marginalized backgrounds in areas ranging from cookery. Trades ranging from cookery, bakery, 51 house-keeping to food and beverage services and allied soft skills like spoken English, personality development, grooming and on-the-job exposure are offered as a part of these 3-6 months courses aimed at immediately employability. As per the Tata commitment to Affirmative Action, Taj consciously chooses to reach out to locations with high density of SC/ST population. Taj hotels led the hotel industry’s participation in the now national skill training scheme ‘Hunar se Rozgar Tak’ for trades in hotel operations by piloting the process at our New Delhi Hotels. All our hotels, where the scheme is relevant, duly complete training stipulated & even beyond stipulated less privileged candidates through our own voluntary sector partnerships. The Tata values and wisdom in Giving Back to the society have long since shaped the Taj ethos of employee volunteering and involvement in community service. This year your company recorded 7,153 active volunteers, having spent 1,49,308 hrs of their volunteering time towards the causes we support. We believe the human touch that In our endeavour to offer livelihood support to indigenous evolves in the person transcends artisans, we have rendered support to the Toda community across the organization, making Taj an organization with a culture of a small pastoral tribe who live on the isolated Nilgiri plateau warmth and personal touch! The (Ooty) of Southern India. The community is well known for its employee benefits from volunteering embroidered garments. This fine intricate work is usually range from personal development to made by the women who use red and black threads on a leadership skills to ability to influence and motivate others white background. In an effort to support and keep alive the towards a common goal! We have rich culture of this tribe, we have provided a space in our renewed our commitment to hotels so that they can sell their products. By offering them promoting the ‘spirit of volunteering’ opportunities to sell their wares, the Toda tribe have been through our campaign for ‘Give Back’ and are keen to open up able to flourish and improve their economic status as they opportunities for volunteering to our are able to reach out to a large number of clients and guests, guests as well in years to come. including foreigners who are impressed by the uniqueness and distinct nature of their products. 52 Impact of our ‘Key’ Programmes in The Taj group has always considered 013-14: itself a custodian of Indian tradition Since the commencement of our ‘CSR and strived to provide sustainable Hospitality Skill Training Programs’ in livelihood opportunities for artisans 2009, 97% of over 12,000 and weavers to promote this underprivileged candidates trained quintessential heritage and across our 36 skill training centers in craftsmanship. We provide our brand partnership with NGOs and ITIs have platform to showcase indigenous art, secured productive jobs across crafts and culture to the world, while different hotels and restaurant encouraging the artisans who keep groups within the country. Our CSR these traditions alive. Under our projects have helped not only us, but Corporate CSR mandate of “Building the larger hospitality industry Sustainable Livelihoods”, we work employ sincere, hard working, towards facilitating awareness and talented and skilled candidates, who revival of indigenous arts, enhance are trained through Taj supported visibility amongst discerning markets skill training centers. This year, in and buyers by providing a platform particular, we trained and certified for exhibition and sale of artifacts as 5,101 youth. well as performances by local Based on the theme of focusing on artisans/craftsmen and culture economic development for troupes. Some of the arts and marginalized communities around cultures we support are stone our properties and building their carving, bidri work, lacquered wood livelihoods; our hotels partner with toy making, bagru printing, wood small scale entrepreneurs, women’s carving, chikan work, pottery, Self Help Groups and NGOs’ income filigree, sandalwood carving, ikkat, generation projects to source select brocade and jade saree weaving, goods and services (like supplies of glass blowing, kathputli shows, fresh fish, vegetables, laundry bags, Rajasthani cultural performances, honey, candles, gift items for guests, Baiga and Gond tribal dances, other table napkins, dusters, dry snacks, region-specific cultural shows and so pickles and allied services like on. We encourage purchase of ‘roti-making’ and peeling onions and 'quality' giftitems, products for garlic, etc. required for hotel business-use from artisans, operations). This year responsible small-scale entrepreneurs and NGOs. purchases of this nature worth over Over 1,370 artisans and culture INR 21.5 million were undertaken troupe members are supported from such alternative vendors and through initiatives across the group. Self Help Groups. Qawali performance at our Taj Falaknuma Palace is an enthralling experience for our guests who witness one of the old Indian musical traditions. We have uniquely intertwined our community development agenda to provide this customer delight experience by supporting artisans from Rajasthan to perform in-house. The troupe, which has artists from marginalised sections of society, was a three member team when they first started at Taj Falaknuma Palace and now has expanded to seven member team. The troupe leader also trained 25 members back in Rajasthan who now perform in Delhi, Rajasthan and Mumbai. The Taj Group (including non-IHCL properties) supported CSR programmes by investing over INR 52.9 million in CSR projects across locations, over and above extending core competencies through knowledge support, volunteering and personal involvement of our leaders in shaping public policy and Governance in areas relevant to trade, commerce and tourism. Over 40 less underprivileged youth from cloud burst disaster affected remote areas in Uttarakhand have been trained and certified in hospitality skills through the Taj skill certification centre in Jaipur. All of them have been helped with job placements across hotel industry – including many of our Taj hotels! 54 Independent Assurance Statement To the Management of The Indian • Verify the Company’s financial Work undertaken Hotels Company Limited, Mandlik performance indicators House, Mandlik Road, Colaba, Our procedures include assessment • Verify the Company’s statements of the risks of material Mumbai, Maharashtra 400 001 that describe expression of misstatements of selected KPMG was engaged by The Indian opinion, belief, aspiration, performance indicators and Hotels Company Limited (‘IHCL’, ‘the expectation, aim or future disclosures and underlying internal Company’) to provide assurance on intention provided by the controls relevant to the information IHCL’s 2013-14 Corporate Company published in the Report. Our Sustainability Report (‘the Report’), For the locations that were not procedures were designed to gather in line with the “Limited Assurance” visited, we confirmed that the data sufficient and appropriate evidence requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised), provided by the hotels was correctly to determine that the selected Assurance Engagements Other Than reported and aggregated at performance information is not Audits or Reviews of Historical corporate office, but did not verify materially misstated. We have Financial Information by the underlying reliability of this data undertaken: International Federation of on site. Accountants’ (IFAC) International • An evaluation of the existence and Standard for Assurance Engagements Standards and reporting criteria operation of the systems and methods used to collect and Assurance scope We conducted our work in collate the selected performance accordance with ISAE 3000. We data presented in the Report. We The scope of assurance covers data also tested the reliability of conducted our engagement in and information on economic underlying data and information compliance with the requirements of (excluding financial), environmental for the selected performance the IFAC Code of Ethics for and social indicators presented by parameters within the scope of Professional Accountants, which IHCL in the Report for the financial our assurance; requires, among other requirements, year 2013-14, in line with the that the members of the assurance • Conducting assurance visits to requirements of GRI – G3.1 guidelines team (practitioners) as well as the domestic hotels and audio on sustainability reporting. assurance firm (assurance provider) conferences with international Specific limitations and exclusions be independent of the assurance hotels as below: Our assurance process was subject to client, including not being involved in writing the Report. The Code also Site Visits the following limitations as we have includes detailed requirements for not been engaged to: practitioners regarding integrity, › Delhi – Taj Mansingh, Vivanta by • Determine which, if any, objectivity, professional competence Taj Ambassador, Vivanta by Taj recommendations should be and due care, confidentiality and Gurgaon, Ginger East Delhi implemented professional behaviour. KPMG has › Bengaluru – Gateway Hotel, Taj • Act on behalf of management in systems and processes in place to SATS reporting to Board of Directors, or monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding › Pune Vivanta by Taj Blue Audit Committee independence. Diamond Pune, Ginger • Develop/ prepare of source › Nashik Gateway Hotel, Ginger documents 55 › Varanasi Gateway Hotel draw readers’ attention to the defining commitments with respect › Mumbai Taj Wellington Mews, following: to sustainability performance, and Taj SATS for establishing and maintaining • The Report presents six critical appropriate performance sustainability issues of material Audio Conference significance to the company and management and internal control its stakeholders systems from which reported › South Africa Taj Cape Town information is derived. • The company has increased its use › Sri Lanka – Vivanta by Taj Bentota, Our responsibility is to express our of renewable energy and has Vivanta by Taj Samudra, Gateway made progress in the area of water conclusions in relation to the above scope. We conducted our › Bengaluru –Taj West End, Vivanta management engagement with a multidisciplinary by Taj Yashwantpur • The company is in the process of team including specialists in ISAE › Jodhpur – Umaid Bhawan Jodhpur establishing company-wide targets 3000, stakeholder engagement, on key sustainability performance auditing environmental, social and › Madhya Pradesh– Vivanta by Taj indicators and present progress in financial information and with Usha Kiran Palace, Gateway hotel the future reports. experience in similar engagements in › Kolkata – Gateway hotel the hospitality sector. There is an opportunity to further • Checking the Reports’ content to strengthen IHCL’s sustainability data This report is made solely to IHCL in ensure consistency with the GRI management systems including accordance with the terms of our application level requirements of adherence to compliance engagement. Our work has been A+; requirements at hotel-level in order undertaken so that we might state to • A review of the Report draft to to enhance consistency and IHCL those matters we have been ensure there are no disclosures reliability of data and information. engaged to state in this report and that are misrepresented or • The company can further conduct for no other purpose. To the fullest inconsistent with our findings. specific training and awareness extent permitted by law, we do not sessions on sustainability at the accept or assume responsibility to Conclusion hotel-level for a better anyone other than IHCL for our work, understanding of the reporting for this report, or for the conclusions Based on our review, nothing has requirements. we have reached. come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data and • Based on our review the Report information in the Report for the meets the A+ application level reporting period, in all material criteria of GRI G3.1 guidelines. aspects, is not fairly represented in accordance with the reporting Responsibilities Santhosh Jayaram criteria Technical Director The management of IHCL is Key observations responsible for preparing the Report Climate Change and and the information and statements Sustainability Services Without affecting the conclusion within it. IHCL’s management is also responsible for identification of KPMG India presented above, we would like to stakeholders and material issues, for 14th August 2014 56 GRI /UNGC/ NVG-SEE Content Index Section Name GRI Indicators Additional Information UNGC Principles NVG-SEE Principles Covered Destinations 3.1,3.3,3.5,3.8,4.1 2 Building an 1.1 ultimate destination Company Profile 2.1-2.3,2.5,2.7,3.6 Matter that 4.1-4.7,4.9,4.10,4. Principle 1,2 – Principle 1 – matter 13,DMA HR,DMA Human Rights Ethics, SO,LA13,HR3,SO2, Principle Transparency and SO3,SO4 10-Anti-Corruption Accountability Listen, feel, act 1.2,3.5,4.4,4.14-4. Principle 4 – 17 Stakeholder Engagement, Principle 7 – Policy advocacy Optimizing DMA EC,EC1,EC9 revenues 2.10,DMA Principle 9 – PR,PR5,PR8 Customer value <<Developing DMA EC,DMA Principle 3,4,5,6 Principle 3 – human capital>> LA,DMA Labour Employee HR,EC7,LA1,LA2,L well-being A3,LA4,LA5,LA10,L A11,LA12 Safe havens DMA LA,LA6,LA7,LA8 Nurturing the 4.11,DMA Principle 7,8,9 Principle 2 – environs EN,EC2,EN1-EN30 Environment Product lifecycle sustainability, Principle 6 Environment Enabling DMA Principle 8 – partnerships, SO,EC6,EC8,EC9,LA Inclusive growth inclusive growth 11,SO1, and equitable development Assurance 3.13 Statement GRI / UNGC / 3.12 NVG-SEE Content Index Glossary 57 Our Annual Report 2013-14 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports.html Our Corporate Sustainability Report 2012-13 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/Communication-on-Progress-new.pdf Our Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/8th-Corporate-Sustainability-Report.pdf 58 Registered Office: The Indian Hotels Company Limited, Mandlik House, Mandlik Road, Colaba, Mumbai 400 001. Tel.: 91 22 6639 5515, Fax.: 91 22 2283 4922 www.tajhotels.com For any feedback/queries, please contact: Mr. Vasant Ayyappan Director Corporate Sustainability Tel.: +91 22 6665 1000 Email: vasant.ayyappan@tajhotels.com
