MAGNETEC GmbH 2014 FOREWORD „Efficiency is our Passion” is not just a slogan only. It is more like a conception collecting the development and manufacturing of innovative, outstanding grade quality products accompany with excellent services using high-end technology in order to provide solution to our customers aiming then exceeding the special expectations too, since 1984. MAGNETEC undertakes the responsibility in every social and environmental aspect acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships without exception. This approach is not an obligatory statement rather than an embedded ‚routine’ in the daily working life at all organization level. Supporting the UN Global Compact now for more than 7 years, MAGNETEC is constantly working on improvements and to sustain such a corporate company policy involving its affiliated company at China apart from the far location at the other side of the Globe which does not hinder the achievements at all. In 2014, the orientation toward all employees, partners in the whole supply chain and the customers got more focus not only in compliance entirely with laws and regulations but further more listening and understanding the voice of them doing the utmost accordingly for their satisfaction, growing and business success to all of us. MBA Rolf Röder, Grad. Phys. Dr. Martin Ferch managing directors MAGNETEC GmbH Langenselbold, 30. Nov. 2014 Human rights priciples #1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As it is clearly stated in the 2014 version of „Code of Ethics”, MAGNETEC uses every effort to do more than just preventing any violation of the law and regulations. Respecting the internationally proclaimed human rights is a basic element of company culture. MAGNETEC is committed to secure the right to dignity, private life and to ensure safe, healthy, clean and tidy working environment to all employees at all sites regardless of gender, disability, ethnicity, nationality, race or religion. A single sign or an attempt to break this principle will involve „Zerotolerance” as a consequence. Such an incident has not been identified since foundation of the Company. #2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. MAGNETEC strictly acts against any means of complicity within the whole Group. Beside the clear statements of the „Code of Ethics” and collecting information via „Suggestion box”, MAGNETEC has established an HR forum in order to open dialog with all employees in a transparent, polite and honest manner within a friendly atmosphere. MAGNETEC declines partnership or any business dealings in the whole supply chain with all those parties where there is a potential risk or well known violation in human rights abuses supporting the initiative of EICC and GeSI too. Labour principles #3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Strengthening the jurisdiction and operation of The Workers’ Union, MAGNETEC could reach a higher level and closer relationship between the Top Management and employees. Escalations, ideas are reviewed and actioned on monthly basis taking in a count of commercial and operational limits of the Company. One of the highest priorities is to provide safe, well-equipped, environment friendly infrastructure. Re-organizing and developing the layout including offices 2 more rooms became available for meetings, free discussions, team works, forming a group, e-conferences, etc. #4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Partor full-time employment contract takes always place on volunteer base. MAGNETEC disapproves of any means of forced labour or doing any task under pressure, unwanted. Working health and safety criteria are also regularly reviewed trough verified risk-assessments to proof the reliable working condition for every level of organization. Employment related details or changing in regulations are frequently published in the internal newspaper providing up-to-date information to all employees in a transparent manner. No complain has been escalated since 1984 as well as external investigation did not report deviation. Labour principles #5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.„ The possible candidates to be employed are strictly checked during the recruitment procedure filtering out the ages under 18. MAGNETEC follows the ILO conventions unless national or regional regulation states the minimum age of employment otherwise. The average age covering all employees was always above 35 in every year. There was no evidence hiring child labour (even by mistake) since the foundation of the Company. (It is relevant to every location.) #6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.„ MAGNETEC is managing the employees like the most important value of the company. There is no distinction in training, occupation, position, promotion, performance assessments, recruitment, practicing, evaluation, secrecy. Supporting the career plan, the individual growth MAGNETEC has established a new training system for all level of organization in order to „boost up” the competency and knowledge because the know-how and the unique achievements are also the key elements of business success. As a result altogether more than 50 trainings covering 640 effective hours have been provided involving both manufacturing plant. No discriminative approach has been reported in 2014. Environment principles #7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.„ MAGNETEC is constantly monitoring the consumption of energy resources like electricity, technology gases, heating gas, water in order to develop the infrastructure and the technology reducing the consumption gradually and parallel taking effective measures on corresponding emissions. In 9 months the consumption of technology gas could be reduced by 18% in average comparing to the same period of previous fiscal year. Electricity is the most important power of the manufacturing technology which level has never exceeded the 2% of the total turnover. #8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. One of the environment related programs in 2014 is the elimination of emission sources where it is feasible. Re-designing the technology, installing innovative dust collector filters, controlling the operation time of local extractors finally 2 of sources could be completely closed and the emission of metallic dust reached a non-measurable level. Other environment program is the recycling of packing material especially in the manufacturing plant at China. Within 3 years the paper waste has been reduced by 30,4% however the business volume fluctuation was not so significant. Environment principles #9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.„ MAGNETEC is always open to implement new ideas, industrial solutions, working philosophy invoking from other manufacturing cultures beside the in-house developments and inventions. Integrating the techniques of LEAN and TPM into the daily working life the employees are motivated and encouraged to collect, demonstrate then realize their improvement ideas contributing continuous improvement efforts of the company. Since the launch of TPM project in 2013 and now spreading over the whole manufacturing flow the employees have collected and successfully realized more than 1300 improvement ideas which supported to reduce the raw material scrap rate (technology scrap) under 3,5%. Anti-corruption principle #10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.„ Financial and material transactions, book-keeping were subject to statutory external audits repeatedly in 2014 ending up with no deviation or doubtful transaction. Every result has ultimately been reported to Top Management. Potentials for improvement have been defined in order to support the financial stability and liquidity of the Company which was also the part of overall reforming. The entire financial process were verified and found in compliance with all valid laws and regulations without exception. Procurement and purchasing processes are strictly regulated and monitored. A 3 levels impartial approval system has been implemented where any possible means of bribery or corruption have been excluded. „Organizational Operation Rules” are revised involving lawyers describing clearly the rights, responsibilities and authorities for the Management and Top Management declaring full and true statement in terms of criminal law otherwise leading to prosecution. Beside the contract elements, MAGNETEC is refusing any means of corruption, extortion, bribery or illicit payment having a “Zero-tolerance” policy and acting accordingly within the whole Group. No evidence was reported or revealed in 2014.
