Sustainability Report Design and Build | Utilities | Chemicals 2013-2014 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our People 04 The Ô Õ In Hu anity LOCAL PRESENCE... GLOBAL KNOW HOW 06 Table of Contents OUR COMMITMENT 08 LEADING BY EXAMPLE 24 18 10 03 Table of Contents Message From The CEO with communities that are unable to help themselves, This success is a result of our sustainable expansion plan particularly in securing clean and safe water supply for that is firmly on target, and supported by the improved the livelihood of their local communities. A basic human global market conditions and the recent financial right that remains jeopardized. investments into Metito. The latter is practically a vote of confidence in the companyÕs management and its In India, Metito partnered with Zulekha Healthcare Group obvious potential. More importantly our success is the on the ÔSafe Water for SchoolsÕ initiative which will see us result of our people, to which our commitment remains deliver clean water solutions to four schools in Nagpur, true and intact as we expand. We will continue investing Message From making a tangible impact on the physical and mental well being of promising young students and future leaders. The UN flagged the positive impact a clean water supply in local operations, hiring local talents and ensuring a free flow of support and knowledge-sharing between all 16 of our offices. The recent launch of Metito Thailand office is The CEO can have on learning abilities and the general wellbeing of school children; an objective Metito can effectively contribute to. testament to this. With all the right people working for us, a strong financial backbone and a sustainable business model, we are very In Africa, this past year has seen us cementing our well prepared to tackle the business challenges that lie ÒIn an age when man has forgotten his origins and is commitment to playing a role in developing the precious ahead as we grow. Still, how we respond as a company blind even to his most essential needs for survival, continent, through sponsoring a new well in Dakkar and as individuals to the challenge of water scarcity will water along with other resources has become the Province, Senegal. One thousand five hundred (1500) define us. Water is going to be even more precious to the victim of his indifference.Ó Rachel Louise Carson, people will benefit from this well and will have access to world as development and growth intensifies and our clean water. This is the 13th well to be sponsored by demand for clean water increases in the coming years. American marine biologist and conservationist, author Metito in Senegal, a country that is in deep need of such Metito will be there to tackle this challenge head on, as a of Silent Spring, a writing credited with advancing the holder Gulf Capital. JBIC is also subscribing as a basic living requirements to sustain and stabilise. leading provider for water management solutions, and in global environmental movement. preference shareholder providing Metito with additional more markets than ever before. funds of up to US$92 million to fund growth opportunities. On the subject of Africa; Egypt has been a particularly This picture of a world which has neglected to conserve active market for us this year, with some new project Finally, I am exceptionally proud of where we are today and nurture the very things it needs to survive, as painted This partnership clearly defines the next step in our wins and others, previously stopped projects, coming and look forward to working together with you towards by Rachel CarsonÕs poignant quote, is something Metito progression as a company as it ups our abilities to deliver this better tomorrow. One that can only be realized if we back to life. To our credit, the Suez thermal power plant strives to avoid becoming reality. We recognize the top class water solutions to the emerging markets and win came after an international bid against some of the continue committing to our mission as a company and to importance of water and to safeguard it for future beyond. The synergies between Metito, MC and MHI major water specialists in the market. Strategic projects our duty as individuals who are meant to live, preserve generations is at the heart of all we do. Not only this, but made the partnership beneficial all around. Existing as such can help meet the increased demand for and appreciate life, and not to destroy it. we commit to reaching out to the communities where we investors Gulf Capital, and IFC remain on board for the power/energy resulting from a growing population and operate to inspire them to join our mission through next chapter, but by welcoming new partners to the table industries looking to operate at optimum capacity. Sincerely, knowledge sharing, using a multitude of platforms, and we are on course to significantly expand our horizons for through effectively leading by example. many years, opening up new avenues for organic and Significant developments have also taken place in other inorganic growth. geographies such as winning the UAEÕs ADNOC and As countries strive to develop, there is an increase in Emaar recent projects and our successful endeavours populations and a disproportionate increase in their With growth seen as a way forward, rather than an end, into industrial wastewater concessions in China a major Mutaz Ghandour demand for food and other essentials. This results in and while we witness this expansion, our commitment to growth market for Metito. Chief Executive Officer heightened strain on our water supplies, especially in maintaining a sustainable business model is never areas where naturally renewable resources are scarce. At compromised. We remain confident that without mass that day and age this simply means water scarcity and awareness and buy-in from all the relevant stakeholders; Group picture featuring the delegations from MC, MHI, and Metito at the official celebration ceremony in Kaito-Kaku Tokyo, Japan. accommodating growing demand is far more pressing an decision makers and end users alike, our efforts to issue than ever before. To face this ongoing challenge, preserve water will remain limited. We have therefore and to be able to make a true difference in this equation, spared no efforts to evoke discussions and start companies in our industry must be vigilant in their dialogues on what we believe needs to be done now to growth strategies. Being a capital intensive business we save the day tomorrow. Metito's Directors spoke of must ensure that access to capital remains feasible and water scarcity, water recycling, and reclamation and that we remain financially and technically prepared to reuse, at the International Desalination Association grow beyond our existing markets. Conference in Tianjin China, the International Water Summit (IWS) in Abu Dhabi, and the Global Water 2014, has proved itself remarkable as we partnered with Intelligence (GWI) Conference in Paris, to name a few. Mitsubishi Corporation (MC), and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI), and Japan Bank for International In addition to such high level engagements, Metito was Cooperation (JBIC). The partnership comprises a share also able to mark its presence in communicating with purchase agreement with MC and MHI acquiring 38.4% end users who represent a big portion of the problem, of Metito shares, predominantly from its existing shareand the solution. We saw Metito proactively engage 04 05 Local Presence...Global Know How Local Presence...Global Know How Metito Centre of Engineering Excellence in Pune, is expanding its activities in an effort to provide end-to-end Business Process solutions to International Industrial Projects and to the Indonesia Business which include: Sales/Proposals, Project Management, ProcessÕ/Mechanical/E&I Design, Procurement, QAQC, and Commissioning. The operation will also support MetitoÕs Global Sourcing. Giving Back Metito Mumbai Team Metito India supplied a Water Purification Plant in Shirwal Village which is located in the Satara district of Maharashtra State near Pune. This plant provides safe India through a qualified team running the following Metito India At A Glance functions; design, engineering, procurement, manufacturing, drinking water to over 30,000 people. supply, installation, commissioning, training, O&M The village Mayor, as well as other local dignitaries India is the seventh-largest country by area, the operations, banking, and customs and tax compliance joined Mutaz Ghandour, Metito CEO; Rami Ghandour, second-most populous country in the world with over activities. Through the years, and with 18 years of Metito Managing Director and Bassem Halabi, Metito 1.2 billion people, and has the world's third-largest prosperous operation under its belt, the company has Group Business Development Director, at the inauguration economy by nominal GDP. This is a jump from tenth to successfully installed more than 800 Chlorination plants celebration which was conducted according to the local third place in just two years, setting the country as-one of in different cities across India. At the Inauguration of the Shirwal Village Water Purification Plant traditions and customs. the world's fastest-growing economies. MPCIPL has also undertaken complete O & M works for With such growth comes the need for more sustainable chlorination systems, including the supply of chlorine gas, Metito Pune Team solutions to accommodate the non proportional for more than 15 different sites all running simultaneously. increase in the demand for water. India is therefore seen as an attractive market for the water and wastewater Today, Metito is one of the leading/supplier of choice for industry, and Metito is committed to playing an active chlorination plants amongst regional consultants and role in accommodating such rising opportunities, as a EPC contractors. leading provider for total, intelligent water management solutions. The Outlook The History India Mumbai Office is led by Deepak Desai-MPCIPL Metito Pollution Control India Pvt. Ltd (MPCIPL) in Director with support from the project team; Sekhar Mumbai was established in 1994 as a 100% owned Reddy and Sandipan Ghosh. The International Business subsidiary of Metito. In 2006, Metito expanded its in Pune is led by Deepak Nyayadhish General Manager presence in India by establishing its engineering office in with support from: Umesh Dixit-Engineering Manager, Sachin Pune, 200km south-east of Mumbai. Kodolikar-International Sales Manager, Satish Chirlikar -Proposals Manager, Tarun Maniar-Process Design Manager, MPCIPL office manages the chlorination business in and Gopi Kulkarni-QA/QC. 06 07 Our Commitment...Our Values Our Commitment... Our Values Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Quality Leadership We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in line with our customers’ needs, and to We lead with integrity, refined expertise and creativity, maintain World Class performance in all our business both as individuals within an organisation and as an undertakings. This is founded on the highest standards organisation operating in local and global markets. Our of customer service, uncompromised ethics and tried leadership approach demands leading by example environmental consciousness. Our quality systems and influencing others to do likewise and with this, ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. accountability becomes a guaranteed bi-product. Sustainability Our Mission Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. Our commitment to sustain the environment is achieved Collaboration, Team Work & Passion We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it creates a Metito commits to a sustainable environment through fundamentally through being an integral player in an sustainable flow of information and knowledge sharing providing effective water management and treatment industry with a mission to meet the world’s water that helps benchmark our work, enables us to better systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand demands and to preserve its resources. Stemming from our performance and leverage our collective know-how for water and its dwindling natural resources. our People Focus, we also aim to invest in and develop and refined skills. Our passion and belief in what we do, human elements to help provide a sustainable pool of complement this spirit and take us that extra mile that talents to the communities we work with. helps Metito stand out, further, from its competitors. 08 09 Photo courtesy of Setyahadi, PT Metito Indonesia IT System Coordinator Leading by Example Leading By Example... A Case Study Seawater Desalination Plant for Port Ghalib Resort Egypt Scope of Work ............................................................................... Location Port Ghalib, Marsa Alam Egypt Key Data Plant Type Reverse Osmosis Seawater Desalination The project comprises of the turnkey design and Capacity 18,000 m 3/day in 3 Phases construction of the complete civil-electromechanical Use Municipal requirements of the plant, including: Client EMAK for Utilities & Services (Subsidiary of M. A. Kharafi Group) ¥ Beach well intake pumps Project Manager Bechtel End User Port Ghalib Resort ¥ Raw water storage tanks Contract Type Turnkey Design & Build, Including ¥ Raw water disinfection system Civil Works ¥ Polyelectrolyte injection for coagulation ¥ Automatic dual media pressure filters ¥ Dechlorination agent injection system Introduction ¥ Acid & antiscalant injection systems ¥ Micron cartridge filters for membrane protection Port Ghalib is a new world class resort located along ¥ Multistage Duplex SS high pressure pumps with the southern Red Sea coast at Marsa Alam, Egypt. energy recovery turbines At Metito, we endorse Corporate Sustainability as part of the organisation core values and we align it with This integrated development spans 18km of pristine ¥ Seawater membrane racks: our strategic business plan. We further lead initiatives on the different fronts including environmental, beachfront, with access to the Red Sea turquoise community and operational and integrate them at all levels. Committing ourselves to this value and to ¥ 2x500 m3/day plus 2x1000 m3/day for phase I blue waters and world famous coral. The Resort is stand accountable for it, we report on sustainability in an attempt to showcase our initiatives and progress recognised as a model for environmental conservation, ¥ 3x1000 m3/day for phase II within this framework to continue leading our industry by example a Metito philosophy that has never cultural preservation, design creativity, beauty and ¥ Lime injection systems for pH correction been compromised. diversity of entertainment and leisure experiences. ¥ Hypochlorite injection systems for post-chlorination ¥ Membrane flushing and cleaning system Due to Port Ghalib's location, it was necessary to create ¥ Product water tanks an infrastructure to ensure sustainable supply of water, ¥ Product water transfer pumps power and waste treatment needs for the area. Consequently, one of the major plant utility design and construction ¥ Electrical substation & transformers, HV & LV MCCs contracts for Port Ghalib was awarded to Metito. ¥ Distributed control system 10 11 Leading by Example Industry Recognition and Engagement Industry Recognition PT Metito Indonesia Awarded IMS Certificate from BSI Group More than One Million Man Hours without LTI PT Metito Indonesia received the much sought after certification, the BSI Integrated Management System Adding to MetitoÕs long standing safety record, the Registration. This capped off two years of hard work company successfully achieved over one million man upgrading the Quality Management System (QMS) hours without ÔLost Time IncidentÕ (LTI) on the rehabilitation to an Integrated Management System (IMS). This is a Phase-1 at Musaffah , Abu Dhabi. significant milestone for PT Metito, complementing the certifications previously achieved by its counterparts in Marking three years of hard work on this project, Hyder Metito India, China, Egypt, Qatar and Sharjah. Consulting Middle East Ltd. awarded Metito with a certificate of recognition, highlighting this important Being awarded this certificate was a clear demonstration QHSE achievement. of the high standards achieved and maintained at PT Metito Indonesia. It is also testament to MetitoÕs This achievement paved the way to another major constant attention to safety and the embedded milestone for Metito; In June 2013 more than three eco-friendly practices and technologies that the million man-hours without LTI were completed across company integrates in its projects. MetitoÕs UAE operations. Key Benefits ¥ A comprehensive water management solution for the needs of the resort ¥ An efficient design that takes into consideration the stringent requirements laid down by the owner and the project manager ¥ An environmentally friendly plant that utilizes less energy, resulting in a lower carbon footprint and that has minimum effect on the surrounding marine life and coral formations ¥ A novel technology and reliable design that means trouble-free operation and minimum downtime ¥ Optimum execution with the project delivered in a timely manner which was a key factor to consider ¥ Optimum operations with the availability and presence of local support and customer service 12 13 Leading by Example Yuan Handayana, BSI President Director presented the ÒMiddle East M&A GrowthÓ. Cindy was joined by other IMS Certificate to Deepak Nyayadhish, PT Metito Middle East and GCC industry experts including Marwan Shehadeh, Group Indonesia President Director, in the presence of Fahmi Director Corporate Development Al Futtaim Group, Munsah, Synergy Solusi Director and Siegfred Financial Times/International Financial and Rohit Gokhale, Director Acquisitions & Project Panilagao, Metito Senior Executive QHSE Engineer. Finance ACWA Power. Corporation Investing in Climate Business Forum Water Electricity and Power Generation Metito Recognised For Using IT Innovatively to Deliver Business Value A major issue, climate change is seen as transforming Forum 2013 the global economy, and this was the focus of the For the third year in a row, Metito was recognised at Investing in Climate Business Forum in Istanbul, Turkey In Saudi Arabia, Water Electricity and Power Generation Computer News Middle EastÕs (CNME) Annual Chief in November 2013. Organised by the Financial Times Forum 2013 (WEPower) took place in Dammam. Information Officers (CIO) 50 Awards, for its innovative and the International Financial Corporation, the role of WEPower is one of the largest gatherings for the global Information Technology (IT) management among other the private sector in tackling and adapting to climate water, electricity and power generation in the region leading organisations. Metito was among illustrious change was at the centre of the event. The forum focusing on Saudi Arabia as a key market. companies, with fellow awardees that included: MBC primarily focused on the opportunities for climate Group, Nakheel, Abu Dhabi Health Authority, Masdar, Arnab Debroy, Metito Information System Manager, business related investment in emerging Europe and Metito was an exhibitor in this event, and through its receives CIO50 2014 Award Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa (EMENA). Gulf Air, Mednet, Aluminium Bahrain, UOWD among participation it was able to showcase best business many others. practices and meet with industry stakeholders. Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was invited other regions which can be uploaded using the access by IFC to join this event as a panelist in the ‘Water’ Celebrating the innovation, intelligence and intuition session to share insights and lessons learned in the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition shown over the past 12 months, the prestigious award controlled environment. There is a facility to print the listsÕ notification from the system as well. sector, helping investors to identify opportunities in and Conference 2013 was presented to Metito in recognition of the ÔUnified IT green energy, clean technology and water, and in counand Data GovernanceÕ project. The project was Weekly alerts now go to every region on performed tries and sub-regions within EMENA. The Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and launched in August 2013 to control the numerous business processes in several critical business areas sales, timesheet, estimation and project cost variances Conference (ADIPEC) welcomed more than 60,000 e.g. timesheet, estimate at completion, sales, proposal, indicating in different colours the different action Middle East Mergers and Acquisitions attendees, this year. warehousing, finance and engineering processes. It points, so that the user can initiate necessary tasks in a Forum 2013 uses standardised alerts, proactive system deterrent, timely manner. The conference mainly focused on gas, this time internal control and automated audit processes to around, reflecting its increasing share of the global In the UAE, MergerMarkets held the second edition of improve business efficiency across operational offices. This is an extremely innovative solution that aims to energy mix and the consequent increase in its demand its Middle East ÔM&AÕ Forum at the Ritz Carlton DIFC in As part of the project, the IT team created an online avoid errors through enabling alerts and reporting back for sake of power generation. Dubai. The forum discussed current political and local ÔPurchase Order Approval FormÕ which gives multi-level to the Board of Directors on a monthly basis, thus economic trends in the Middle East and the impacts budget, estimate at completion values vs actual cost controlling the process more tightly. Over the four days, leading experts from around the they might have on the regional M&A activity. comparison and decides the signing authority based on world discussed opportunities and challenges posed by the predefined criteria. It also facilitates the review Industry Engagement During the forum, Metito contributed to a discussion the evolving energy landscape, as well as issues such as required at completion, triggering various cost saving around the ways by which firms can expand in the the growing demand for the empowerment of women in measures for the concerned project engineers and Throughout the past year, Metito has joined high profile current business climate. A particular focus of the the oil and gas sector, and the need for the industry to managers. industry events, covering many geographical locations discussion was how family businesses look to facilitate encourage and inspire young people to take up careers and markets. These events provided platforms to expansion in emerging markets, particularly in Saudi in this sector. Furthermore, a consolidated module was developeddiscuss and debate water security and the need for Arabia, Turkey and North African markets. ÔReference Project ListsÕ to pull and maintain project sustainable water solutions, as well as fostering new Metito joined this event as an exhibitor, officially launching details in a standard format from two different ERP business opportunities as part of MetitoÕs strategic Cindy Yao, Metito UtilitiesÕ Principal Investment Officer, its ÔOilfield SolutionsÕ, part of the ChemicalsÕ business implementations as well as non-ERP information from expansion into emerging markets. spoke as part of the panel during the session titled offering. 14 15 Leading by Example Saudi Water and Power Forum 2013 Hans Meulenbroek, Metito General Manager was a their strategic mission to meet the ever-rising demand Amanda Wan BCH Secretary; and Vincy Luo, BCH speaker at the event, delivering a presentation titled for water in the region. Secretary. The 9th Saudi Water and Power Forum (SWPF) was held ÔChallenge of Experience, Technology and Innovation to under the patronage of the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Success of PPPÕ. Hans was joined by Sulaiman Hallal, Hans Meu, Metito General Manager, was invited to join Power-Gen Asia 2013 Water & Electricity. The event focused on creating Metito Corporate Strategy Manager, and Umida Adylbekova, the ÔEffluent and Wastewater Treatment TechnologiesÕ opportunities, developing knowledge and ensuring the Metito Corporate Strategy Analyst. session as a panelist. The Power-Gen Asia 2013 event took place in Bangkok, sustainable growth of the water and power industries in Thailand. The conference and exhibition examined the the Kingdom. International Water Association Asia future of the Asian power industry, and hosted the inaugural Industrial ÔWater DayÕ. (IWA) Water Reuse Conference 2013 With water becoming an increasingly scarce resource across Saudi Arabia, its management and planning are In Namibia, the 9th IWA International Conference on International Deepak Nyayadhish, PT Metito Indonesia President both becoming a need and not a luxury for the sustainable Water Reclamation took place. The event offered IWA Desalination Director, and Sachin Kodolikar, Metito India Sales growth and future of the Kingdom. To tackle this, the members and delegates the opportunity to acknowledge Manager International Division, were invited to join the Association World event as speakers. DeepakÕs presentation titled; event took a Ôsolutions basedÕ format to provide and celebrate the technological innovations in water answers to the current and expected challenges. reuse in the African continent. Congress 2013 ÔAsam-Asam Steam Power Plant at KalimantanÕ, was In-depth discussions were held on the role of thermal delivered as part of the Water System Operation and and renewable energy as a combined power strategy; With the event being held in one if the most Held every two years, the Maintenance session. SachinÕs presentation titled; the viability for nuclear power in the KSA; and effective arid countries in sub-Saharan Africa, there was no International Desalination ÔElectrodeionisation (EDI) for Industrial Water TreatmentÕ, water and electricity demand supply management. better location to discuss the innovative ways by which Association (IDA) World was part of the Wastewater Optimisation and Reuse Namibia secured sustainable growth in Windhoek. Congress, the worldÕs session. International Water Summit (IWS) 2014 dissecting water resource management, the water premier event focused on desalination and water reuse, -energy nexus, science and technology in water convened in Tianjin, China a major growth market for Elsewhere in the World The International Water Summit (IWS) is a global reclamation, groundwater replenishment and recovery, Metito. The congress included a four-day Technical platform for promoting water sustainability in arid and desalination among many other subjects. Program, industry-leading trade exhibition, workshops, Climate change is seen as transforming the global economy, regions. The aim of the summit is to continue to foster IDA Desalination Academy training courses, plant and this was the focus of the ÔInvesting in Climate innovation, best practice and collaboration to offer Sulaiman Hallal, Metito Corporate Strategy Manager, tours, and unequaled networking opportunities Business ForumÕ that took place in Istanbul, Turkey. The tangible solutions to the pressing issue of water scarcity was invited by the International Financial Corporation throughout the week. This year was particularly special event was organised by the Financial Times (FT) and the in arid regions in the GCC and beyond. (IFC) to join the ÔWater ReuseÕ workshop as a speaker. for Metito as we established a booth to interact with the International Financial Corporation (IFC). visitors at the congress. Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, contributed to the Effluent and Water Management At the core of this event was the role of the private debate as a panelist in the ÔUnderstanding the Challenge Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director and IDA 1st VP and sector in tackling and adapting to climate change as the Conference 2013 of Improving Water reuse and PerformanceÕ session, Chairman of the Environmental Task Force, joined the forum primarily focused on the opportunities for sharing MetitoÕs perspective on the challenges and In Nairobi Kenya, the Effluent and Water Management congress as a panelist in the ÔPrivatisation of wastewater climate business-related investments in emerging solutions available to improve water reuse in the region. Conference 2013 (EWMC) was held, under the patronage and desalination projectsÕ session. Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa of the National Environment Management Authority (EMENA). Bringing together high level participants from Africa of Kenya. A big delegation from Metito joined Fady to the event, investment, politics, business and development, it as delegates; Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director; explored the needs of the region and identified The conference provided a platform to discuss the Jun Liang, Berlinwasser China Holdings (BCH) General opportunities for investment and growth. Water Africa 2013 water and sanitation sector in African countries by Manager; Tobias Tu, BCH Deputy General Manager; dissecting the entire value chain of water, wastewater Alei Liu, BCH Deputy General Manager; Salah Deghedy, Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was invited In Ghana, the Water Africa 2013 trade show took place, and recycling. Metito Africa Executive Director; Sachin Kodolikar, by the IFC to join this event as a panelist in the ÔWaterÕ dissecting a number of issues, namely; water supply Metito India Sales Manager-International Division; session, where he shared his insights and best industry coverage and sanitation, and the new project opportunities The forum shed light on the best methods to support Cindy Yao, Metito Utilities Principal Investment Officer; practices to help investors explore and identify opportunities available in the country. water and sanitation officials and decision makers in Yang Yang, BCH Business Development Senior Manager; in green energy, clean technology and water. 16 17 Our People Metito Executive Our People Management Team From left to right: Wafic Ghanem Metito Chief Financial Officer Tarek Ghandour Director Rami Ghandour Metito Managing Director Karim Madwar Metito Africa Managing Director Hisham Fadda Metito Human Capital Director Bassem Halabi Metito Group Business Development Director Mohammed Dahouk Metito Group Operations Director Fady Juez Metito Managing Director Mutaz Ghandour Metito Chief Executive Officer ...Always Worthy 18 19 Human Capital Team Building Initiatives Our People Employees by Nationality First Order of Business; Aim for the Top! Cutting edge water solutions and technologies are what we offer, but what make these solutions work, all the 60% time, every time, and from the very first time, are the 60% ÔAim for the TopÕ was the first order of business after people behind them. Our employees bring the passion, 50% 39% entering into the strategic partnership with Mitsubishi 40% the knowledge and the expertise, enabling Metito to Corporation (MC), Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI), 30% deliver its world-class management and treatment 20% and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). 0% 1% A simple phrase that carries a lot of weight and solutions to its clients. With their support the business 10% 0% significance for all those involved. grew in multiples over the past years and the trend A an As n M frica A shows no signs of slowing down. pe ia id n dl a C me ro Au ana rica To put this statement into practice, all three partners e nd Ea Eu ste str dia n/ rn ali n/ an alongside members from TC Capital and Gibson, Dunn & At Metito we understand and appreciate the fact that Crutcher, the transaction advisors, took their successful our most valuable asset is our people, and that it is our duty to continue building their skill sets and to broaden Employees by Length of Service endeavour a step further and straight to the top of Mount Fuji. Mount Fuji is a well-known symbol of Japan their exposure. We commit to nurturing their abilities 2% and one of its Three Holy Mountains . It is located on and to invest in their careers by providing them with < 5 years Honshu Island, and is considered to be the highest relevant training and work opportunities that can further 32% 5-10 years mountain in Japan at 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft) and classified enhance their development, and help them surpass as an active stratovolcano that last erupted in 1707-08. 10-15 years their goals. 53% The Mount has an exceptionally symmetrical cone, 15-20 years The company follows a sustainable strategy for managing > 20 years which is snow-capped several months a year, and * Reference Wikipedia the free encyclopedia its operations; hiring local talent that best understands 4% the local culture and who commit to making a positive 9% difference in their own communities. With a sound business model, that has been tried and Training Statistics tested for over 55 years, Metito understands that part of No. of Employees Trained 646 being efficient is being safe and the company sees the No. of Training Hours 10,385 health and safety of its employees as a top priority. This is something that is never compromised, and Metito's safety record is testament to that. 53% Training Type Technical Training Training and Development Non-Technical This year, Metito delivered informative training courses to 47% its employees to aid their development. Personnel underwent technical and non technical training to ensure that they remain updated and fully equipped QHSE Statistics with the knowledge and tools necessary to deliver world-class products and services. Such training is 1,202,309 essential to guarantee that the companyÕs local operations No. of Man-Hours since Jul 2013 until May 2014-in the UAE are on par with the overall company standards and quality of deliverables. 0.17 Frequency Rate since Jul 2013 until May 2014-in the UAE 20 21 The starting point... Our People a special place of scenic beauty and a historic site that their continuous professional development, including was added to the World Heritage List as a Cultural Site presentation skills, planning skills, communication skills on June 22, 2013*. At the top... The Team at Gede Mountain and last but by no means least team building. The choice of hiking Mount Fuji, as the first team building Trekking through the lakes was nothing short of activity which unites all 3 partners, was no chance! Rather, it was a non verbal representation of the vision team and joining them in many activities were; Hiroshi The expedition saw the team tackle the mountain over a stunning, and clearly reminded all of us how wonderful this partnership is committed to deliver; becoming a Sakuma, MC Group CEO of Global Environmental & weekend, summiting the 2958m mountain. our water resources really are. Water of different formidable force that is to be reckoned with, just like Infrastructure Business Group; Shigeo Mizutani, colours was the phrase for the trip and all were overthis great, volcanic mountain. The origin of the name SWING President and CEO; Masaji Santo, MC Division It was all too good but then the temperature dropped to whelmed with all the different colours on display Fuji remains unclear but some texts suggest that it came COO, Infrastructure Business Division; Kiyoshi 5°C at night and was accompanied by extreme wind and throughout this magnificent array of scenery, always from immortal , other early folk etymology claims that Marumo, MC Infrastructure Business Division; Makoto fog. Such conditions may lead hikers to turn back, but bearing in mind the need to provide water solutions it means Ôwithout equalÕ or ÔnonpareilÕ, and some claim Hattori , SWING Executive Officer, International Water Metito's team decided to face the challenge straight on throughout China and the rest of the world. that it means Ônever endingÕ. The current kanji, the Business Division; Paul N. Bottrill, SWING Deputy and to hike their way to the top...a place they continuously adopted logographic Chinese characters (hanzi), Division Executive, International Sales & Marketing work hard to secure. Whilst temperatures were cool, the collaboration and for Mount Fuji, also means wealth or Division; Masataka Shimazu, MC Deputy General abundant . teamwork from everyone was tremendous. Hours and Manager, Head of Overseas Platforms Management Collaboration in China hours of walking saw some question their ability to carry The hike, through the Yoshida route, was no easy walk Team; Seiichi Yasuda, MC Deputy General Manager, on, but teamwork prevailed, and the support and as it required some pre-hike preparation, physical Water Business Dept, Daisuke Imai, MC Deputy General commitment to each other was evident, with all fitness, and a lot of patience and determination to reach Manager; Yasuhiro Tokunaga, MC Manager, Water completing the trek. the top despite the rocky roads, rain, wind and sub zero Business Dept and Kazuki Izumitani, MC Assistant temperatures. The hike started July 8th, 2014 and Manager. Metito the world over, never ceases to amaze with the concluded on July 9th. sheer determination, teamwork and support we give With Rami Ghandour successfully organizing the trip, This hike was part of a business trip to Japan to and receive from each other we truly can achieve whatever the team experienced the true authenticity of Tokyo by celebrate the new partnership, where the team from we set our minds to, and in turn, our aspirations can be visiting the Tsujiki fish market and having a proper Metito Corporate Office got introduced to the culture-rich realised. Shabu Shabu dinner in one of the prominent local Japan. eateries. Moving closer to Mount Fuji, the team was also introduced to the beautiful Odawara and the Fujiyama Metito India Trek Sinhagad Fort MetitoÕs delegation was led by Mutaz Ghandour, Metito CEO, and joined by Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing onsen (traditional Japanese hot springs). To maintain good health, work/life balance, Metito Director; Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director; Karim encourages its employees to engage in workplace Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director; Wafic Despite all the action, the highlight of this trip remains health and wellness programmes, and eco-tourism. Ghanem, Metito Chief Financial Officer; Cindy Yao, to be the official partnership ceremony at Kaito-Kaku Metito Utilities Principal Investment Officer; Sanjiv where a traditional Kagami-biraki ceremony was performed Metito Global Head Office and the BCH Team at Jiuzhaigou, Banerji, Metito Group Controller Finance, IT & MIS; in the presence of all three teams. Sichuan province, China Metito India supported this ideology by forming a Kelvin Moon, Metito Legal Commercial Consultant; ÔHealth CommitteeÕ as part of its Information Management Sonia Norris, Metito Senior Human Capital Manager; PT Metito Indonesia Trek GEDE Mountain Leading by example, being in touch with nature and System (IMS) team, which is responsible for organising Karim Khoeis, Metito Investment Analyst; Zain Hassan, each other enabled members of both the Team in China eco-tours and adventurous trips as part of developing Investment Associate; Mo Salih, Metito Financial Modler an effective and ambitious social model. The latest trip A team of 17 from PT Metito Indonesia joined by and the Global Head Office to work together to trek and Reem Saleh, Metito Corporate Communications was a trek to Sinhagad Fort, a 1300m peak near the city Manager. Also joining the trip from Gulf Capital were Bassem Halabi, Metito Group Business Development through some of the most beautiful scenery within Director and Deepak Nyayadhish, President Director of Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan province, China. of Pune, Maharashtra, where 19 employees scaled the Dr. Karim ElSolh, CEO and Managing Partner of Private Equity and Richard Dallas, Managing Director of Private PT Metito Indonesia, conquered the summit of Gede mountain in a couple of hours. Equity; and Paul R. Harter, GIBSON DUNN and Lars Mountain or Puncak Gunung Gede as it is called in local The event, superbly organised by the China team, Freitag, Executive Director, TC Capital. Welcoming the Bahasa Indonesia. was a great opportunity for individuals to demonstrate 22 23 Community Initiatives Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Zulekha Daud, Zulekha Health Care Group Managing Director during the MOU signing ceremony Safe Water Supply for Schools Initiative This project is set to be completed in the final quarter of 2014 with further collaboration being explored. Access to clean water remains a challenge in many parts of India. To contribute in making a change to this Gifting Life...Donating Blood status, Metito and Zulekha Healthcare group partnered together to develop a sustainable solution that can Donating blood is one of the most important, altruistic, benefit a community in need of help. With the combined and humanitarian acts that anyone can do. With this in efforts and resources of both parties, Ravindranath mind, Metito employees across the globe are always Tagore Convent, Millat Urdu Upper Primary & High, eager to support this cause by organising and taking Public Urdu Upper Primary and SHUMS Girls High part in regular blood donation drives. In association with schools based in Nagpur, India will have access to safe Radio 8EH Bekasi, PT Metito Indonesia team completed and clean drinking water. The initiative will see large its 24th blood donation drive in Jakarta, attracting over community benefits, with clean water supplies at 100 participants. The donated blood will benefit the schools proven to boost learning abilities by ensuring Indonesian Red Cross. greater overall wellbeing as well as encouraging attendance according to UNICEF1. 24 25 19 1 http://www.unicef.org/india/wes.html As for the team in India, they successfully launched Supporting the Special Needs their fourth blood donation drive, aimed at raising the awareness of the local community about the importance Last year, Metito signed a of donating blood. The drive received an overwhelming memorandum of understanding response and support from all employees who donated (MOU) with Al Noor Centre for their blood to Deenanath Mangeshkar Blood Bank. IMS Children with Special needs in Health committee then recognised those donors who Dubai to provide complimentary have committed to the cause for over 4 years now. essential water treatment services. In the GCC, Metito Qatar Quality, Health, Safety and Metito supplies the centre with all the needed speciality Environment (QHSE) and Admin teams, have both chemicals and services, specialist periodical testing of organised a blood donation drive that attracted 27 the facility's swimming pool comprising of Legionella participants. The drive commemorated ÔWorld Blood testing and bacterial analysis. This year, the contract Donor DayÕ that took place in association with Hamad was renewed to add a new test and a microbiological Medical Corporation’s Blood Donor Unit. Metito Qatar analysis for the center's water tank, twice a year. further plans to conduct a blood donation drive at its labour camp site in Doha to further contribute to this important initiative. Shivaji Patil, Metito Pollution Control India Proposal Engineer donates blood Providing Water Relief In association with the Human Appeal International (HAI), Metito drilled its fourth, 10m2 well in the Republic of Senegal-Dakkar province. This marks the 13th well to be sponsored by Metito in Africa. MetitoÕs efforts in this arid area is focused on providing access to safe drinking water for the local communities that can help improve their living conditions. 1500 inhabitants will benefit from the new well. Saving the Rhinos Richard Barwell, Metito Chemicals Business Development Manager, successfully completed a 7 days trekking trip Richard Barwell, Metito Chemicals Business Development to Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania as part of a fundraising Manager at the top of Kilimanjaro Mount campaign organised by Save Rhino International. Metito contributed to Richard's climb through in cash In preparation for this challenge, Richard went through donation, with the proceedings aimed at boosting the a comprehensive training programme for over a year. tourism industry in the area which attracts foreign The intensive programme comprised of running up to currency that is able to develop and support populations 60km, swimming 3 miles and doing body pump in such arid regions. workouts, all on weekly basis. 22 26 27 Knowledge Sharing & Educational Initiatives its history, and key business lines. They were also Bridging the Gap from Theory to introduced to the potentials and challenges of the water Business Practice industry, particularly in the MENA region. Indira Institute of Management Visit to The students were then escorted to an extensive MetitoÕs Global Headquarters tour at the Dubai Investment Park (DIP) wastewater treatment plant in Dubai, to view at first hand the Metito hosted a delegation of thirty-eight Post Graduate process involved in treating wastewater. The visit was Diploma in Management students from Indira Institute hosted by MetitoÕs Investment team; Cindy Yao, Metito of Management at its global headquarters in Dubai, Utilities Principal Investment officer, Karim Khoeis, UAE. The visit was organised to help bridge the gap Metito Investment Associate, Mohamed Salih, Financial between theory and business practice within the water industry both in India and the UAE. Modeler and Zain Hassan, Metito Investment Associate, and Reem Saleh, Metito Corporate Communications During the visit the students, were introduced to Metito; Manager. Richard Barwell, Metito Chemicals Business Development Manager during the EEG Teacher's workshop Indira Institute of Management students at Metito Global HQ, Dubai EEG TeachersÕ Workshop 2014 aimed at making the employee's browsing experience effective Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) held its annual and enjoyable. The portal TeachersÕ Workshop under the theme ÔSustainability: showcases; refreshed aesthetics The Way ForwardÕ. Metito was invited to lead this that are in line with MetitoÕs year's workshop with a particular focus on water and updated corporate visual how teachers can guide their students to leading a identity guidelines, new and more sustainable/eco friendly life through changing updated content, important common habits. shortcuts and drop down menus with relevant sections clubbed together for easier navigation. Richard Barwell, Metito Chemicals Business Development Manager, represented Metito as a speaker in this Administration duties for the intranet was moved workshop. in-house, providing more control over content display and change management, without the need to revert Following the presentation, the teachers took the to third party web developers for minor changes/ chance to revise their lesson plans and to think of updates. Metito employees also have many more ways by which they can incorporate the valuable opportunities to contribute to the portal, making it a far information they received from the workshop and how more personal resource. to make it more accessible to students. This project was led by MetitoÕs Corporate Communications It's the Little Things That Count! Team, with close support from Group IT. Metito officially unveiled to its employees the revamped version of the company's intranet portal. The new portal is an updated version that is more user friendly and 24 28 29 Metito Nominated for an Advisory Board Metito Utilities Advocates Knowledge Sharing Membership at the AUS Earlier this year, Metito Utilities launched their very own Metito is always keen to support the educational sector Knowledge Sharing initiative that pools together the through collaborating with the local schools and best practices within the team for other employees to universities in developing public awareness campaigns learn and then pass along to others to create cycle of addressing the water scarcity issue. continuous development. Such efforts have been recognised by the Chemical The program aims at tapping and recognizing the Engineering Council at the American University of teamÕs individual skills and abilities and creating a Sharjah (AUS) as they nominated Metito to become a platform through which such skills can be shared in an member in its Advisory Board for the 2013 2014 environment that promotes joyful learning. It comprises Academic year. MetitoÕs role that will be assumed by of learning sessions wherein a team member facilitates Richard Barwell, Metito Chemicals Business Development the learning process by sharing a particular skill or Manager, is to share insights on how to enhance the know-how and freely allowing colleagues to improve links between the real life business requirements and upon the concepts/ideas shared. that of the college's academic scope. This is done in an effort to enable the university to further adjust their To kick off the program, a pilot session titled; ÔExcel curriculum to better fit the latest industry requirements, Skills and TechniquesÕ was presented by Mo Salih, allowing the students more potential for being 'employable'. Metito Utilities Financial Modler. The presentation briefly discussed Excel shortcuts, and was followed by an The council will meet quarterly to brainstorm initiatives in-depth discussion on Financial Modeling where the and to agree on academic course changes and industrial team keenly contributed alternative modeling solutions. placement opportunities. The American University in Sharjah Campus 30
