SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Towards long-term sustainability Content Letter from the President 1 Our Social Responsibility 12 This is SAS 2 Sustainability work in brief 3 SAS view on Sustainability 4 Our Environmental Responsibility 18 Management System 6 Stakeholders and collaboration 8 Our sustainability aspects 10 About GRI 30 Vision, policies and strategies 11 Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting FY2013 40 Sustainability-terms, definitions and concepts 42 Assurance Report 44 About this Sustainability Report This is the 18th SAS Sustain­ Readers guide to this External review: Material Contact information ability Report, which has been Sustainability Report sustainability information and Lars Andersen Resare subject to third-party review • SAS Group is referred to as SAS EU-ETS Head of Environment and CSR since 1997. in this Sustainability Report. All material sustainability infor­ +46 70 997 23 46 This Sustainability Report • F Y2013 comprises November mation in the Annualand Sus­ lars.andersen@sas.se describes SAS’ most essential 2012 through October 2013. tainability Reports for FY2013 environmental and societal • F Y2012 comprises November has been reviewed by PwC. The aspects during fiscal year 2013 2011 to through October 2012. Auditor’s report of the Sustain­ (FY2013). SAS has self-declared • SAS consists of Scandinavian ability Report can be found on the Annual and Sustainability Airlines (incl. SAS Technical page 44. Report FY2013 to be Application Operations, SAS Cargo Group PwC has verified systems and Level A+, in accordance with the A/S and Blue1), SAS Ground reports regarding the EU trading Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Handling and for the first 11 scheme for emission allowances Sustainability Reporting Guide­ months of the fiscal year 2013, for Scandinavian Airlines. lines version 3.0. PwC has re­ Widerøe. viewed the Sustainability Report • Blue1 is disclosed as a part of FY2013 and has confirmed it to Scandinavian Airlines as of this be Application Level A+. The UN Sustainability Report. Global Compact, ISO 14001 and • Widerøe was sold during the the Carbon Disclosure Project fiscal year and its sustainability have been taken into consider­ KPIs are disclosed without ation in the preparation of this external review on page 45. Sustainability Report. The KPI’s reported in this SAS Annual Report with sustain­ Sustainability reports in general ability overview and the separate covers (if not specifically stated): Sustainability Report January– •F  inancial KPI’s: SAS incl. October 2012 were pub­lished in Widerøe for 11 months. February 2013. • Environmental KPI’s: Flight related: Flights flown on SK flight number. Ground related: SAS excl Widerøe. • Social KPI’s: SAS excl. Widerøe. (For Sick leave, Blue1 is reported separately from Scandinavian Airlines) Letter from the President The past year has certainly entailed substantial changes. The airline industry continued to be characterized by intensifying competition and increasing price pressure. At the same time we initiated a radical restructuring program and aggressive investments and as a result, SAS stands significantly better equipped to meet the future. During the year, the market was affected by intensifying competition, price pressure and swings in demand. Toward the end of the year, the climate became even harsher with a decline in business travel and growth in capacity among European airlines. These developments were particu­ larly perceptible in our Scandinavian home market in the fourth quarter. Despite market trends, SAS delivered, as promised, positive earn­ ings for the full 2012/2013 fiscal year. Income before tax amounted to MSEK 433. Read more about the financial results in the SAS Annual report. Regardless of the turmoil in the airline industry, and the implications this has had on SAS, it is our firm belief that our long-term competitive­ ness will only be secured if we continue to act responsibly. SAS’ work on sustainable development is always based on securing societal, environ­ mental and financial responsibility as well as ensuring continuous ongoing improvement efforts. The global transformation of the airline industry has fundamentally redefined the way airlines operate and compete, demanding a constant focus on increased efficiency. SAS has responded by implementing an aggressive restructuring program to secure an operating platform that makes it possible for us to compete on this new playing field. Despite the major and widely felt changes SAS has, essentially, kept the same high level of customer satisfaction, which underlines the incredible professionalism of the Group’s employees. Environmental responsibility is also central to SAS business, with a commitment to continuous reductions of climate-impacting emissions sharply in focus. SAS supports IATA’s vision to make it possible to fly without greenhouse gas emissions by about 2050. Our milestone target is to reduce emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005. And it looks as if we are well on our way. During the fiscal year SAS climate index improved by 2 percentage points, and carbon emissions per passenger kilometer decreased to with 18 additional seats being added for a typical short haul route. 113 grams, a 3.2 percent reduction. The improvement is primarily due Furthermore, takeoff noise is substantially reduced. to the fleet renewal and more efficient ways of operating existing aircraft. However, environmental gains are not all about newer aircraft. Throughout the year 21 more efficient and quieter aircraft replaced A structured way of working with continuous improvements in everyday 26 older aircraft. When such an exchange is made from a MD80 to an operation is crucial if we are to develop as a sound business in a sustain­ A320, the total carbon emissions are reduced by about 20% in parallel able society. During the year, SAS recertified its environmental manage­ ment system according to ISO14001. SAS has taken many important steps in terms of sustainable develop­ ment in the past year. We have created a more competitive operating platform and we are investing in our future. We are focusing efforts on increasing job satisfaction and reducing sick leave by looking forward; through leadership initiatives and by stabilizing and standardizing new processes. Our efforts will continue within the environmental programs established in ISO14001. Prioritized activities are fleet renewal, fuel & energy efficiency activities, and preparation for the new reporting stan­ dard within Global Reporting Initiative. As we enter a new fiscal year, we are well aware that in terms of securing the long-term competitiveness of SAS we have only just begun. This is the symbol for the SAS environmental program, which But we are equally aware that active and structured sustainability initia­ comprises all the environmental measures contained in the tives are the very foundation for our future success – in terms of customer SAS environmental management system. One of the areas loyalty, employee preference and operational efficiency. where the symbol can be found is on the engines of the SAS Boeing 737NG fleet. Rickard Gustafson President and CEO SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 1 This is SAS SAS consists of Scandinavian Airlines (incl. SAS Technical Operations, SAS Cargo Group A/S and Blue1), SAS Ground Handling and for the first 11 months of the fiscal year, Widerøe. Scandinavian Airlines, Widerøe and Blue1 have their own Air Operations Certificates (AOC). Scandinavian Airlines and Widerøe have their own commercial functions and Sales & Marketing. The staff units, such as purchasing, human resources, finance, legal, environment and CSR, etc. are shared centralized functions within SAS. Passenger transport Ground handling SAS primarily conducts passenger transport and related services in its SAS Ground Handling (SGH) operates at airports in Norway, Sweden main market, the Nordic region, through the airline Scandinavian Airlines. and Denmark. Customers include airlines within SAS as well as SAS’ Scandinavian Airlines’ share of total traffic in its home market was 29% partners and external customers. SGH includes, for example, passen­ in FY2013. ger and lounge service, loading and unloading, de-icing and towing of Scandinavian Airlines is the largest airline in the Nordic region in aircraft. In October 2013, 10% of SGH was sold to Swissport as planned terms of revenue, passengers and flights. Its network is mainly dimen­ within 4XNG. sioned according to business travelers’ needs, but leisure travel is an expanding segment and represents a growing share of revenue. The Technical maintenance main bases are Copenhagen–Kastrup, Oslo–Gardermoen, Stockholm– SAS’ airlines have their own technical maintenance where appropriate Arlanda and Helsinki–Vaanta. The airline’s head office is located at and profitable. SAS Technical is part of Scandinavian Airlines and con­ Stockholm–Arlanda Airport. Flights are operated with aircraft and crew ducts technical maintenance at Scandinavian Airlines’ home bases. on SK flight numbers within the organization, as well as in wet lease op­ Widerøe and Blue1 have their own technical maintenance. Each organi­ erations with internal and external suppliers. As of FY2013, Blue1 only zation has its own airlines as the largest customers but also offers their operates SK flight numbers and is reported as Scandinavian Airlines in services to external airlines. The respective airlines also buy technical this Sustainability Report. maintenance services from other suppliers. 80% of Widerøe was sold in September 2013 and sustainabilityrelated data is disclosed without review on page 45. Widerøe conducts Scandinavian Airlines aircraft fleet regional, domestic and international traffic and is based in Norway. Scandinavian Airlines has a network of destinations with varied passen­ ger volumes and distances, which requires with a fleet of aircraft of Cargo handling varying sizes and range to make the offering attractive to business and SAS’ airlines provide freight and mail services within the framework of leisure travelers. Scandinavian Airlines (incl. Blue1) had 139 aircraft in each respective airline’s operations. At Scandinavian Airlines, these its own operations at year-end and the fleet comprised 11 long-haul air­ services are provided by the wholly owned subsidiary, SAS Cargo craft, 116 short-haul aircraft, and 12 regional jets. There are also 12 air­ Group A/S (SCG). SCG is managed from Copenhagen and includes an craft on wet lease. The average age of the aircraft fleet was 11.0 years. independent full-service provider of freight forwarding services, Trust Scandinavian Airlines has renewed its fleet by introducing 21 B737NG Forwarding. The actual handling of freight and mail is carried out by and phasing out 26 MD80 and Boeing 737 Classic aircraft. Ground Handling Agents (GHA). SCG’s subsidiary, Trust Forwarding, is 100% owned by SCG and its environmental data and results are includ­ ed in SCG’s data and results. 2 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Sustainability work in brief • SAS was recertified according to ISO 14001. Sustainability-related KPIs1 • Scandinavian Airlines introduced 21 new aircraft and retired 26 Nov 2012– Nov 2011– older aircraft in its fleet. Oct 2013 Oct 2012 2011 • Scandinavian Airlines’ relative CO2 emissions decreased during the Revenue, MSEK 42,182 42,419 41,412 period to 113 grams (117) per passenger kilometer compared with EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 775 21 94 FY2012. EBIT margin, % 3.3 –1.6 1.6 Number of passengers, millions 28.1 28.2 27.2 • Scandinavian Airlines’ total CO2 emissions from flight operations Average number of employees4, 14,127 14,8972 15,142 increased 1.7% during the fiscal year, while the total number of of whom women, % 39 382 38 passenger kilometers increased 5.1% compared with FY2012. Sick leave, %3 8.0 7.12 7.0 • Scandinavian Airlines reduced its total CO2 emissions from flight Total number of occupational injuries 2805 2572 272 operations by 14.1% in FY2013 compared with the full-year 2005. Climate index 965 98 100 One of the main targets in 4XNG is to reduce total emissions by CO2 emissions, 000s tonnes 3,8155 3,919 3,863 20% by 2015 compared with 2005. NO X emissions, 000s tonnes 16.25 15.9 15.6 CO2 gram/passenger kilometer 1135 119 122 • The rolling 12-month Fuel Efficiency Index improved by 1.6% com­ Fuel consumption airline operations, pared with FY2012. 000s tonnes 1,2115 1,244 1,226 • Energy consumption in SAS facilities was reduced by 13.2% com­ Fuel consumption ground operations, pared with FY2012. 000s liters 2,0685 2,396 3,160 Water consumption, 000s m3 995 155 161 • Fossil fuel consumption by ground vehicles decreased by 9.0% Energy consumption, ground, GWh 149.35 182 194 compared with FY2012. Unsorted waste, 000s tonnes 0.45 0.7 0.8 • All of the airlines complied with the regulations regarding EU-ETS Hazardous waste, 000s tonnes 0.25 0.2 0.2 regarding 2012. External environment-related costs, MSEK 3135 2752 407 • Job satisfaction at SAS decreased. The index decreased by six units to 57 (63). 1) Accounting Principles on page 40. 2) Pertains to January–October 2012. • Sick leave rose to 8.0% (7.1) in Scandinavian Airlines and to 5.6% 3) Pertains only to Scandinavian Airlines excl Blue1. 4) Source: Note 3 on page 54 in SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013. (4.7) in Blue1. 5) Scandinavian Airlines excl. Widerøe. 2% Scandinavian Airlines climate index Index Commercial air 100 transport’s account 99 of global CO2 emissions. 98 97 96 95 21 2011 FY2012 FY2013 New aircraft phased Scandinavian Airlines CO2 gram/passenger kilometer into Scandinavian Co2 gram/passenger kilometer Airlines fleet. 135 130 125 120 113 115 Scandinavian Airlines 110 CO2 emissions per 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 passenger kilometer Climate index consists of emissions of carbon dioxide (2/3) and FY2013. nitrogen oxides (1/3) related to traffic measured in passenger kilometers with full-year 2011 set as Index 100. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 3 SAS’ view on Sustainability Responsibility for sustainable development Aviation industry moving towards zero emissions For SAS, sustainable development implies a simultaneous focus on SAS fully supports IATA’s vision that, by 2050, it will be possible to fly sustainable profitability and financial growth, gradual environmental commercially without climate impact. This vision is to be realized improvements and social responsibility. through a combination of new technology, more efficient air traffic man­ SAS is convinced that financially sustainable operations require so­ agement, new fuels and coordinated actions to improve the infrastruc­ cial and environmental responsibility, and that, in various ways, work on ture and the conditions under which air transport operates. sustainability issues contributes to value growth and competitiveness. To achieve this vision, IATA and other areas of the airline industry SAS has a considerable social impact, both as a major employer and have agreed on a joint target, which will subsequently be adopted by contractor, and by maintaining infrastructure for society. At the same the entire airline industry and is now set to be further developed by time, aircraft operations in particular have an adverse environmental ICAO: impact, primarily through emissions of greenhouse gases and noise • Improvement of fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% annually until around airports. 2020 SAS takes its responsibility seriously and despite the turbulent civil • Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 aviation market of recent years, SAS has chosen to maintain its commit­ • 50% reduction in greenhouse CO2 emissions by 2050, compared ment to sustainability-related issues. with 2005 levels SAS’ sustainability work is based on its policies, structured business Source: www.enviro.aero processes and the commitment to adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact, the SAS Code of Conduct, SAS’ priorities and promise, Social Responsibility Care. SAS’ social responsibility primarily encompasses its own employees Work is focused on minimizing sustainability-related risks and cap­ and the environment that is dependent on and impacted by SAS’ opera­ turing potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary cost and secure po­ tions in a number of countries, mainly in the Nordic region. Competition tential savings. A well-structured sustainability effort creates value and in the airline business in Europe is fierce. Employees play a key role supports our customers’ purchasing behavior. when creating added value to the customer offering. As an employer, SAS’ responsibility is to ensure decent work condi­ Environmental Responsibility tions and work environment. SAS is also responsible for providing de­ Civil aviation’s environmental impact primarily comprises emissions velopment opportunities as professionals and as human beings. from consumption of non-renewable fuels and noise. Aircraft opera­ As a buyer, SAS uses the services of a number of subcontractors, tions often account for more than 95% of the total environmental im­ thereby contributing to economic and social welfare in the countries pact of an airline. and societies where its businesses operate. SAS’ environmental responsibility is to comply with relevant legisla­ As a supplier, SAS has a responsibility to deliver products and ser­ tion as well as to ensure as low as possible total long and short term vices that ensure consumer health and safety, and are reliable, environ­ emissions and other environmental impact. mentally adapted, produced under decent conditions, etc. “Polluter pays” principle Financial Responsibility SAS fully endorses the “polluter pays” principle and is prepared to take Every corporation has a responsibility to fulfill legal requirements and responsibility for its share. This assumes that any charges imposed on to maintain a high standard of business ethics as well as ensuring com­ it are based on scientific findings and that the total climate impact of pliance with national policies and laws regarding financial responsibility. competing modes of transport is taken into consideration. An analysis of SAS’ statement of income reveals that major portions of revenue and expenses, and essential industry-specific earnings CO2 vs. nitrogen oxides measurements are items relevant from an environmental and/or social To date, the climate impact of air transport has focused on CO2 emis­ perspective. In brief, the highest possible financial return is generated sions. However the focus is shifting to also include other climate effects, by the best possible resource utilization and management of the com­ primarily nitrogen oxides and water vapor. SAS and the airline industry pany’s assets, both human and financial. Optimal resource utilization recommend the ECAC’s model of differentiated landing fees based on means flying fuel-efficiently and making the most of capacity for carry­ nitrogen oxide emissions. ing passengers and freight. Lower fuel consumption leads to lower fuel costs and at the same time reduces the charges SAS pays for emis­ Biodiversity sions. The same applies to all other activities that, in addition to environ­ Biological diversity is affected by airline operations in different ways. mental considerations, have strong financial incentives to reduce con­ Flight in itself affects biological diversity to a limited extent through sumption of energy and other resources. emissions, primarily of nitrogen oxides. Other aspects include facilities and the use of airports, which, depending on geographic location and by Business relations utilizing large areas, can affect water, flora, fauna and nearby residents. Anti-trust issues are always in focus for the airline industry. The SAS Airlines purchase services from airports with private or public inves­ Competition Law Compliance Program encompasses all employees tors. Every new construction or other change in ground use requires concerned and is designed to ensure that SAS complies with laws, reg­ authorization from local authorities. Biological diversity is normally an ulations and practices in its area of operation. Regulations relating to approval aspect. Biodiversity, airport concessions and other environ­ bribery and other improper actions are especially strict. mental aspects regarding airport operations are reported in each re­ spective airport’s own sustainability reports. 4 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 The framework for civil aviation SAS’ opinion is that market-based measures should not distort compe­ Competition tition, and should address the emissions targeted for reduction needs The market is characterized by fierce competition that is constantly in­ and create an incentive for continuous improvement. creasing and rising price pressure, affecting margins and profitability SAS has supported the development of a global, market-based solu­ for the entire industry. The outlook for the global market is uncertain tion for airline emissions for a long time. In October 2013, the UN avia­ and susceptible to effects from different world events. The European tion organization ICAO agreed on a process to create such a solution market is expected to be weak in the short term. SAS has competition before 2020. The key elements of a global solution are not to distort from low-service airlines on most short-haul routes and the competi­ competition and to incorporate the UN’s CBDR principles (Common tion is increasing on long haul. Although there are varying views re­ But Differentiated Responsibility). garding the future performance of air transport, according to industry organizations, the Middle East and Asia appear to show the fastest Environmental compliance and permits growth – especially China and India – while mature markets in the in­ Airline operations are subject to environmental policies set by each air­ dustrialized West will show lower growth figures. In addition, primary port. These usually involve noise, rules for using deicing fluids and lim­ growth is expected to be on longer routes that offer no other real alter­ its on emissions to air, soil and water. native to air transport. In general, there is a trend towards introducing tougher restrictions regarding permitted approach and takeoff paths. Deviations generally Labor result in fines for the airline. Also, the general trend is towards a greater The trend within the civil aviation industry is moving towards employ­ use of environment-related surcharge systems and operational limits. ment models with complex multinational agreements in order to create The twofold purpose is to reduce local environmental impact and create lower cost and increased flexibility. This trend will possibly lead to re­ incentives for airlines to use aircraft with the best available technology duced employer responsibility and weaker employee rights. SAS’ posi­ from an environmental perspective. tion in this matter is clear. Employees should be employed on local Airline operations have no separate licenses or environmental per­ terms where based. When based in Scandinavia, employees should be mits for operation; instead, they depend on permits held by the airport covered by Scandinavian employment terms, work legislation and tax owner. However, environmental approval is part of the process to certify regimes. aircraft in the three Scandinavian countries, as well as in the terms of technical aircraft maintenance. Airline operations have a legal dispen­ Sustainability-related, market-based measures, taxes and charges sation for the use of halogen and submit annual reports to the authori­ Civil aviation pays the costs of the infrastructure it needs and uses to ties on consumption, including leakage and storage. The reason for the conduct flights, i.e., airports and air traffic control. The cost of security dispensation is that there is no certified alternative to halon for extin­ is also financed within the industry. guishing fires in aircraft engines, cabins and aircraft toilets. There are various environmental taxes and charges related to noise, Read more about environmental compliance and permits in the emissions or number of passengers. One example of a market-based Report by the Board of Directors pages 42–43, in the SAS Annual measure is the EU Emissions Trading Scheme regulations (EU-ETS), by Report with sustainability overview FY2013. which civil aviation pays for its carbon emissions within the EU through an established market-based measure. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 5 Management System SAS Governance Group Management Board of Directors The Board appoints the President of SAS AB, who is also Group CEO. The Board of Directors consists of six to eight members elected by the The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day management shareholders’ meeting. There are also three employee representatives of company and Group operations to the President. Group Management who are appointed by SAS’ employee groups in Denmark, Norway and comprised eight members, including the President. Group Management Sweden. normally has minuted meetings every week. Group Management’s The Board’s work is governed by the Swedish Companies Act, the management and control of operations are based on a number of guide­ Articles of Association, the Code and the formal work plan adopted by lines and policies regarding financial management and follow-up, com­ the Board each year. The Board’s work follows a plan intended, among munication issues, human resources, legal issues, the Group’s brands, other things, to ensure the Board receives all necessary information. At business ethics and environmental matters. its meetings, the Board discussed the regular business items presented at the respective meetings including business and market conditions, financial reporting and follow-up, the company’s financial position, and investments. The Board also discussed any sustainability-related infor­ mation of material importance. Management CSR Development Board of Directors Group Management Commercial, Operations and • Follows the Swedish model for Code of Corpo­ • Sets the framework and decides on the CSR Sales & Marketing rate governance, “Hållbart företagande” agenda, policies, strategies and goals • Responsible for integrating the CSR agenda, • Sets guidelines for SAS’ CSR agenda, policies, • Responsible for the Corporate Manual which policies, strategies and activities in the every­ strategies and goals comprises the basis for SAS work with CSR day business • Conducts internal control to ensure that the • A ssesses risk and opportunities related to CSR • Responsible for the work on following up and Code of Conduct is implemented issues reporting on safety, quality and other CSR • Submits the annual report and reviews the • Responsible for the implementation of the issues sustainability report Code of Conduct • Responsible for dialog with internal and external stakeholders Environment & CSR Human Resources, Finance & Legal • Supports and consults the management on CSR issues with focus • Supports and consults the management and organization on on environmental responsibility Social and Financial Responsibility issues • Prepares, coordinates and develops the CSR agenda • Develops the work with Social and Financial Responsibility and • Ensures compliance with legislation and own commitments contributes to sustainability reporting and dialog • Conducts sustainability reporting and dialog • Maintains the Environmental Management System • Coordinates established CSR-related networks and forums Environment & CSR work within SAS environmental management system. Their tasks include conducting in­ SAS has a central department for Environment & CSR that reports to ternal sustainability self-assessments. senior management. The task of Environment & CSR is to support man­ agement in CSR-related matters, both internally and externally. In addi­ SAS’ CSR Agenda tion to its supporting role, Environment & CSR has responsibility for SAS is constantly reviewing its CSR agenda with respect to priorities, maintaining and developing the CSR Agenda, fuel-saving activities, activities, progress, etc. During FY2014 the CSR agenda will be adjust­ compliance with EU-ETS/MRV, ISO14001 certification, coordination of ed to the organization implemented in 2013/2014 as well as the new alternative fuel activities and support for the organization in CSR issues. GRI guidelines regarding sustainability reporting (G4). This will be re­ The department channels and collects information through a net­ flected in the FY2014 Sustainability Report. work in SAS called “the Sustainability Network” and groups within the 6 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 SAS Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Agenda • Legal Requirements Environmental Responsibility Financial Responsibility Social Responsibility • Own Vision / Strategies / Goals • ISO 14001 • Proftable Business • L abor Practicies & Descent • Compliance / Due Diligence • Environmental Programs • Anti-Corruption Work • Stakeholder dialog • Business Ethics • Human Rights • Monitoring / Reporting • Diversity & Equality • Product Responsibility • Social Involvement Code of Conduct Sustainability-related business opportunities and risks To summarize and clarify SAS’ stated priorities, promises, policies and Management of sustainability-related risks is integrated with SAS’ other regulations, the SAS Board of Directors has issued a Code of Con­ comprehensive risk management. In general, it can be concluded that duct that applies for all SAS employees. To underscore the Code’s im­ risks are reduced – and, indeed, certain opportunities offer tangible portance, there are clear rules and structures for reporting and ad­ business potential – by having proactive and effective sustainability dressing suspected violations. Supervisors and other managers play a programs. Proactively working with its environmental impact in a struc­ key role in the implementation and follow-up of the Code. An extensive tured environmental management system offers a company control training program supports the Code and the goal is for all personnel to and the capacity to deal rapidly with changing requirements in the busi­ participate in the program. The Code’s whistleblower function was used ness environment and those demanded by certain customer groups. in three cases. One case was dismissed without further action, one was Another example is the ability to impose demands on product and ser­ dismissed after investigations and one led to some action after investi­ vice suppliers, where, thanks to favorable insight and monitoring, there gations. is the potential to contribute to exerting positive influence on develop­ ments at individual suppliers. Environmental Management System SAS’ environmental management system encompasses all activities in Managing sustainability-related data SAS. The system focuses on activities around the main bases (Stock­ The various operations in SAS report once a year on measures for the holm, Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki), but also includes other geo­ purpose of improving the sustainability work through internal self-as­ graphical areas through follow-up programs and contracted services. sessment. Reporting covers such areas as community involvement, The system is based on shared environmental and sustainability supplier contacts, cooperation with internal and external stakeholders, policies, the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact, airline opera­ work environment, training, conflicts and efforts involving the Code of tional standards and ISO 14001. It provides guidelines for a continuing Conduct and the UN Global Compact. Relevant sustainability data are cycle of planning, implementation and evaluation, as well as the im­ reported monthly, quarterly or annually, while data concerning employ­ provement of processes and activities to meet operational and environ­ ees are followed up at a local level on an ongoing basis. mental targets. SAS has a review process that also integrates environ­ mental reports and the most important aspects of CSR in existing SAS priorities quality/security inspections. This is part of our endeavor to achieve SAS’ stakeholders generally place the greatest importance on environ­ constant improvement. mental responsibility, especially relating to how SAS handles the de­ SAS was certified according to ISO 14001 in 2010 and during mand to reduce greenhouse emissions. FY2013, SAS was successfully re-certified. Accordingly, environmental responsibility is the largest part of SAS’ reported sustainability work. For SAS, social responsibility on a wide UN’s Global Compact, GRI and CDP scale is just as important, but is not given the same amount of space in SAS joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates in the Global this report. In preparation for GRI G4 an updated analysis will be con­ Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing company in­ ducted with regard to materiality and stakeholders. formation on the Global Compact website is an annual update of the Read more about SAS sustainability apects on page 10. material, the Communication On Progress (COP). The most recent up­ date of SAS’ information was completed in April, 2013. The UN Global ISO 26000 Compact is a pivotal component of the SAS’ Code of Conduct and the SAS has carefully followed the development of the new standard related requirements imposed on the company’s suppliers. SAS’ sustainability to social responsibility, ISO 26000. SAS has not yet decided to proceed reporting observes the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative with this standard but can conclude that SAS has strategies, targets (GRI) and is reviewed by an external auditor. GRI is a framework de­ and activities in a number of the areas covered by ISO26001. signed for sustainability-related information and performance. SAS re­ ports to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 7 Stakeholders and collaboration SAS has a long tradition of a developed and fruitful cooperation with a 3. U  nderstanding the development of employment models accepted wide range of stakeholders and involvement in community-related is­ within civil aviation in Europe with focus on Scandinavia. sues. For some time now, SAS has worked to systematize, strengthen and further develop relations with external stakeholders. This contrib­ An intensive dialog has been conducted with different stakeholders in utes to creating the premises for the conditions underlying SAS’ com­ all of the above areas. petitiveness and operational framework. SAS also participates in national industry or employee organizations SAS prioritizes close collaboration with customers, authorities, sup­ in an effort to create greater understanding for the terms and condi­ pliers and airports in order to create prerequisites to develop solutions tions for the aviation industry. Together with other Nordic companies in order to improve the sustainability performance. SAS also engages in that are a part of the UN Global Compact, SAS participates in the UN dialog with parties that want knowledge, drive change or support SAS Global Compact Nordic Network. SAS is also a member of national or in different ways, i.e. employees, partners, experts, NGOs, organiza­ Nordic corporate networks whose primary task is to make social re­ tions, researchers, etc. sponsibility and social engagement a natural part of the companies’ During FY2013, SAS was engaged in dialog and cooperation with daily work and to also en-courage the reporting of these issues. Rela­ stakeholders regarding terms and conditions for aviation from a sus­ tions and cooperation with parties responsible for airports and air traf­ tainability perspective. There were three areas of primary focus: fic control are of great importance. For many years, SAS has participat­ 1. Creating a more profitable SAS. ed in their adaptation and development programs with for example 2. Improving fuel efficiency in SAS’ aircraft operations through adjust­ Swedavia (Airport Agency) and LFV (Air Navigation Agency) in Sweden, ments in external and internal operational prerequisites or accelerat­ Avinor (Airportand Air Navigation Agency) in Norway and in Denmark ing the development of alternative jet fuels. with CPH A/S (Copenhagen Airports). Environmental impact is reduced Stakeholder cooperation on Cooperation on the restriction alternative and sustainable jet fuels of ultrafine particles An area that has been a high priority in FY2013 is the effort to pro­ Along with its main users, Copenhagen Airport launched mote access to alternative and sustainable jet fuels. Besides SAS’ a process in 2011, to analyze and reduce the amounts of own work, SAS took the initiative in FY2012 and has since been a emissions containing ultrafine particles. SAS has partici­ leading driving force to bring together aviation players in the Nordic pated in this work since the start and is contributing to region in NISA (Nordic Initiative Sustainable Aviation). address this issue. The initiative was launched on November 1, 2013 and brings to­ Read more about ultrafine particles on page 17. gether Nordic aviation stakeholders with a direct or indirect interest in ensuring long-term sustainable aviation. The logic is that a sector that cooperates has greater power to promote its interests in these issues. Starring actors and dialogue partners are a number of air­ lines in the Nordic region as well as the largest airport owners in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Aviation industry organiza­ tions in those countries, the respective aviation authorities and IATA, Boeing and Airbus are also active participants in the initiative. The partners shall establish a regional body with the aim of facili­ tating and strengthening the conditions for commercial and contin­ uous access to sustainable jet fuels. Part of the work is to identify the level of the sustainability aspects and other goals that may be ex­ pected to be achieved over the different pathways and timeframes in light of national legislations, EU Sustainability Criteria and interna­ tionally sustainability guidelines. Accelerating commercial access to sustainable jet fuel will lead to reduced emissions. The outcome is aimed primarily at airlines in the Nordic countries, and of course, other off-takers. This will benefit society as a whole to a great extent since the developments described also generates jobs and further development of advanced new technology. Coordination is essential with initiatives and activities set up by in­ dustry organizations, such as IATA and ATAG, UN bodies like ICAO, such EU initiatives as Flight Path 2020 and of course, other cluster initiatives . Read more about alternative and sustainable fuels on page 20. 8 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 as a result of logistical improvements at the airports and the airspace Also, issues regarding how SAS manages its social responsibility are within Scandinavia. tending to increase. As a natural component in this development, SAS Cooperation with central players in aviation, components, equip­ itself is presenting an increasing number of questions to its suppliers in ment and catering is essential in promoting sustainable development in this area. SAS pursues active talks with various NGOs, researchers and all areas. Within the preparations when placing orders or leasing new the media regarding current shortor long-term issues on the sustain­ aircraft, fuel consumption, sustainability criteria’s and environmental ability agenda. Examples of issues may include aviation’s impact as an impact are key parameters in the decision-making process. This also enabler for globalization or different views on SAS’ sustainability per­ applies to changes in service concepts etc. for-mance. The considerable media focus on aviation’s negative envi­ Sustainability issues have also gained greater importance for public ronmental impact is a challenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has administration and the business sector, and SAS has discussions in chosen to take a leading role in the debate as a feature of its efforts to progress in these areas. link the brand with responsible management of both climate and social SAS is pursuing ongoing dialog with various groups in a bid to ad­ issues. Employee attitudes towards the company and its ability to meet vance and adapt products and, indeed, the company itself to the evertheir demands in terms of the work environment and other significant changing market demands. All stakeholders seeking contact with SAS factors that affect commitment and loyalty are gauged continuously. will be offered the opportunity of a dialog with the company. The re­ The trend towards new employment models is another relevant area. quirements imposed by SAS’ customers confirm that sustainability is­ Considerable emphasis is placed on ethical questions and the develop­ sues are gaining greater significance. An increasing number of compa­ ment of the corporate culture and value base. nies are imposing demands in respect of environmental management systems and continuous accounting for climate-impacting emissions. Examples of stakeholder groups engaged by SAS Employees Customers Owners, investors and • Employee index PULS • Customer surveys financial analysts • Performance reviews • Interviews • Regular Board meetings • Whistleblower function • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) • Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting • Employee meetings at all levels including • Image index • Surveys meetings related to ISO 14001 • Contract customers are offered carbon dioxide • Teleconferences • Dialog and close cooperation with labor unions compensation • Regular meetings with investors and analysts • Direct dialog in meetings and ongoing contact with several thousand customers • Social media Partnerships and networks NGOs Industry organizations • Star Alliance • Dialogue with, for example, Bellona, WWF and • ICAO’s Committee on Aviation Environment • Global Compact Nordic Network the Norwegian Society for the Conservation of Protection (CAEP) • CSR Sweden Nature • Association of European Airlines (AEA) • IATA, ATAG, SAFUG and Sustainable Biofuel • IATA and ATAG Network • Conf. of Swedish Enterprise • NHO Klimatpanel, Baltic Development Forum etc • Conf. of Danish Industries • Conf. of Norwegian Enterprise, etc. Authorities Suppliers Manufacturers • Close contact with relevant national and interna­ • Purchasing negotiations with prioritized suppli­ • Ongoing dialog with manufacturers of aircraft, tional authorities, politicians, airport owners and ers based on the SAS’ purchase policy and engines and equipment that are better adapted to air traffic control management adherence to the principles of the Global Com­ the environment and work equipment products, • Together with AEA, IATA and Star Alliance, dialog pact, etc. services, chemicals, etc. meetings are held with relevant authorities • Dialog with energy energy and fuel suppliers Mass media Schools and universities Airports and air traffic control • Daily communication and dialog with media • Support of and dialog on essays and doctoral management • Interviews theses • Partnership and cooperative models established • Articles and opinion pieces • Presentations and participation in conferences with airport owners and air traffic control manage­ • Social media, for example, facebook.com/SAS and debates ment at the most important airports or twitter.com/SAS • Focus on punctuality, efficiency and reduced environmental impact SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 9 Our sustainability aspects Social aspects rive from diesel and gasoline consumption, energy use in facilities, fuel Prioritized social aspects within SAS are for example employee satis­ and glycol spillages and waste. faction, occupational injuries, work conditions, sick leave and diversity SAS makes a distinction between direct and indirect environmental and equality. SAS continuously follows up the development of these as­ aspects. Direct environmental aspects are the environmental impacts pects to increase employee satisfaction and decrease cost. over which SAS has direct control, while the indirect features are those that can only be affected to a greater or smaller degree. This is of great Environmental aspects significance for improvement programs where controllable impacts can Environmental aspects are identified using a proprietary method in the be governed through guidelines and policies, while an indirect environ­ certified environmental management system. The degree of signifi­ mental aspect must be governed through purchases, contracts, coop­ cance of the environmental aspect is governed by, for example: the erative agreement, dialogs and monitoring. scope of the environmental consequences, emissions/wastewater vol­ One example of a direct environmental aspect is jet fuel, the com­ umes, legal requirements, the risk of incidents and deviations, and final bustion of which emits greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. An indi­ stakeholder groups’ demands and expectations. rect environmental aspect could be an agreement regarding hotel stays SAS’ most significant environmental aspects derive from emissions for SAS crews, etc., where the service creates emissions to air, soil and from using fossil jet fuel, noise from aircraft. On-ground emissions de­ water. What comes in and goes out – the most significant environmental aspects1 In the air Emissions to SAS’ responsibility SAS’ responsibility Air Ground Water IN Jet fuel Carbon dioxide (CO2) Halons Nitrogen oxides (NO X) Noise Halons (CFC)2 OUT Onboard Emissions to SAS’ responsibility SAS’ responsibility Air Ground Water IN Food and beverages Organic waste Packaging Waste and recycling Articles for sale Newspapers OUT On the ground Emissions to SAS’ responsibility SAS’ responsibility Air Ground Water IN Glycols Waste Water Hazardous waste Energy Waste water, incl. flooded water Vehicle fuel Carbon dioxide (CO2) Office supplies Nitrogen oxides (NO X) Chemicals Particles Solvents Airport-owner responsibility Glycols (disposals) OUT 1. Definitions in the table showing what we emit are immediate emissions. 2. Civil aircraft operation is allowed to use halon 1301 and 1211 for fire protection under critical use clauses, where no alternative substances are yet certified. Research on alternatives is ongoing. A more comprehensive version of this illustration is available at www.sasgroup.net/miljo 10 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Vision, policy and strategies SAS’ Sustainability policy and strategy SAS’ environmental programs and activities are based on continuous Sustainability policy improvement, with reference to SAS’ overall environmental goals. Each For SAS, sustainable development means a simultaneous focus on fi­ unit is responsible for setting specific targets and working to reach nancial, environmental and social responsibility. The objective is to con­ them. tribute to the creation of long-term growth in shareholder value. SAS The activities within SAS’ environmental programs will be coordinat­ aims to follow strong sustainable practices and to encourage its stake­ ed and integrated with production, quality and financial activities and holders to do the same. will comply with applicable legislation and other requirements. •S  ustainable development is an integrated part of SAS’ business activi­ The overall goal for SAS’ environmental programs is to create longties and is closely linked to our ability to fulfill and develop the priority term value growth for its owners and contribute to SAS meeting its program, Care. goals. • To contribute to sustainable development, everybody, in their daily work, must take financial as well as environmental and social consid­ SAS’ Quality Policy erations into account. SAS is committed to satisfy the customers’ expectations for safe and efficient operation. Safety is SAS’ foremost quality parameter. Sustainable development strategies SAS aims to: The following order of priorities is always applied: • create a culture among its employees based on strategic decisions • Safety and security and a commitment to environmental work. • Punctuality •u  se documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all decisions. • Care • engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant stake­ holders. SAS believes that quality is everybody’s concern. • promote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive de­ Continuous improvements will be achieved at all times through the mand of better sustainability performance from our suppliers and dedication of our employees, established standards and measure­ stakeholders. ments, and by cooperation with auditors. SAS shall control the risk exposure and ensure risk awareness dur­ Environmental policy ing daily work at all levels. SAS will have an environmental program on par with leading industry All flights shall be serviced and operated in accordance with estab­ competitors that attracts employees, customers, and investors and is lished procedures based on authority regulations, company require­ perceived as positive by other stakeholders. ments and safe operational practice. SAS will contribute to sustainable development by optimizing re­ Activities within SAS shall be performed in such a way that they con­ source use, seeking the use of renewable energy and minimizing its en­ tribute to minimizing the negative effect on the environment. vironmental impact throughout its operations. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 11 Our Social Responsibility SAS is an important part of society’s infrastructure, both nationally and internationally. 12 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Within Social Responsibility, the following areas are prioritized in SAS’ CSR agenda: Labor practices & Decent work, Human Rights, Diversity & Equality, Product responsibility and Social involvement. Besides ensuring safe and secure operations, the majority of work has been focused on employeerelated issues within the ongoing activities in 4XNG during fiscal year 2013. In November 2012, intense negotiations were conducted in order to The process to outsource SAS Ground Handling which will affect ap­ reach an agreement with the unions representing the pilots and cabin proximately 4,000 positions was started in fiscal year 2013. In October crew on new collective agreements that are on a competitive level 2013, Swissport bought 10% of SAS Ground Handling. compared with the SAS’ closest competitors. The process itself was In September 2013, SAS sold 80% of Widerøe. challenging from a financial and social responsibility perspective. With adjusted collective agreements in place after one week, the necessary Adjustment and redundancy conditions were established for SAS’s banks and core shareholders to The process to centralize and handle the redundancies connected to grant a credit facility which was a prerequisite for SAS’s continued oper­ 4XNG was handled through negotiations with labor unions following ation and efforts to create long-term competitiveness through imple­ compliance with national laws and agreements. mentation of 4XNG. 4XNG is described in more detail on pages 8–9 in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview FY2013. Cooperation with labor union organizations In November 2012, SAS also launched the plan to centralize its ad­ Fiscal year 2013 started with intense negotiation between SAS and the ministration to Stockholm and at the same time, reduce or outsource it labor union organizations referred to above. by approximately 45%. SAS also announced its plan to outsource its Cooperation in day-to-day operations with labor unions is mainly ground handling operations and sell Widerøe. All in all, this meant that carried out nationally, where dialog is conducted with the labor unions approximately over 5,000 employees out of the nearly 15,000 em­ that have collective agreements with SAS. Cooperation takes place ployed at SAS in October 2012 would be affected by redundancy or within the framework of national laws and agreements affecting the unit outsourcing. From a social responsibility perspective, SAS assesses all concerned. activities continuously. As always with these kinds of changes, employ­ Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit on ee representatives are involved and national legislation is followed. SAS the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect representatives is well aware of the increasing need for support of its employees in from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. Group Management times of uncertainty and has targeted activities towards all employees is engaged in an ongoing discussion with union representatives, above in order to distribute updated information about the process as well as all on issues concerning the personnel and cost reductions, organiza­ the possibility to receive support. tion structure and the need for a more customer-oriented culture. The employee survey, which scored lower during fiscal year 2013 During this period there has been a continuous focus on issues con­ than the same period one year earlier, is a clear signal that employees nected to implementation of 4XNG and SAS’ current situation. are affected by SAS’ current situation and the changes in 4XNG. As mentioned earlier, SAS management is aware of this and all aspects of Contract negotiations and disputes SAS’ social responsibility are addressed in this work and are an impor­ No labor conflict occurred during fiscal year 2013. tant part of the future development of SAS. All legal disputes of material importance are reported in the statutory Report of the Board of Directors page 42 in the, SAS Annual Report Labor practices & decent work with sustainability overview fiscal year 2013. SAS is a large employer. The responsibility connected to labor practices and work conditions are very important. SAS has good cooperation Leadership development with the union organizations connected to these issues. With regard to developing social responsibility, management is key in However, the current trend within the civil aviation industry is mov­ setting examples and interpreting and implementing SAS’ strategies. ing towards employment models with complex multinational agree­ SAS has worked with a “role model” for leadership with the watchwords ments in order to create lower cost and increased flexibility. This trend consistent, honest and reliable. Managers must be self-aware and ma­ will possibly lead to reduced employer responsibility and weaker em­ ture, and know how personal qualities are to be used to achieve a trust­ ployee rights. SAS’ position on this issue is clear. Employees should be ful working relationship with personnel. In fiscal year 2013, SAS based employed on local terms where they are based. When based in Scandi­ recruitment, yearly assessments, and its leadership development pro­ navia, employees should be covered by Scandinavian employment gram on this “role model”. In 2014, SAS will further develop the leader­ terms, work legislation and tax regimes. ship “role model” and intensify the focus on leadership. Cultural development Employee surveys Development of social responsibility is built to a large degree on the PULS, SAS’ annual employee survey, was as an exception carried out as a SAS corporate culture. SAS’ strategic cultural work is therefore focused sample survey in fiscal year 2013. The survey was distributed to a statisti­ on increasing employee engagement, as well as increasing under­ cally significant share of the employees and the result shows that job sat­ standing of the values that are the basis for how the business is run. The isfaction at SAS decreased to 57 from 63 last year. This result is clearly not goal is to generate positive repercussions in the relationship with cus­ satisfactory; however it was expected as all employee groups in SAS under­ tomers and to strengthen SAS’ competitiveness. went substantial changes during the course of the year. SAS management is now focusing on long-term activities to re-engage the organization. Organizational development The activities include “Fixing the Everyday”, including working with Lean, During fiscal year 2013, a new centralized and more streamlined orga­ communicating a clear vision for the future, and first and foremost further nization was implemented as part of 4XNG. Most of the changes were improving Leadership. The survey generally indicates a strong long-term implemented in fiscal year 2013, although according to plan, some commitment as loyalty is high among employees in SAS. changes will be implemented in fiscal year 2014. In total, approximately 1,000 positions will be centralized or made redundant within the ad­ ministration when all changes are concluded. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 13 Human resource development E-learning cannot always replace classroom instruction, but thanks to Human resources development is an important, ongoing activity its greater flexibility and availability, more courses can be offered at a throughout SAS. Flight staff and operational ground staff are covered lower cost. by a number of license and competency requirements from EU-OPS and the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit). The Work environment mandatory training programs were carried out according to plan for dif­ Sick leave ferent personnel groups regarding hazardous goods, passengers’ SAS’ goal is that the work environment should be as good as possible rights, IT security and food safety, etc. SAS has approximately 800 and that sick leave and the number of injuries should be continuously re­ managers on different levels in the Group. More than half of the manag­ duced. During fiscal year 2013, total sick leave in Scandinavian Airlines ers are located in daily operations with direct customer contact such as increased to 8.0% (7.1%) and in Blue1 increased to 5.6% (4.7%). Longsales, airport services and onboard service. The managers’ skills devel­ term sick leave, 15 days or more, represents 5% of the total sick leave. opment is based and evaluated on SAS’ role model for leadership. A During fiscal year 2013, sick leave among some employee groups systematic evaluation process is continuously ongoing of existing man­ increased. This was specifically true for cabin crew in Sweden and pi­ agers as well as to identify persons who may meet the need for manag­ lots, and although decreasing during the year, sick leave remained at a ers in the slightly longer term. The aim is for all potential managers to high level for cabin crew in Norway, whereas it decreased for cabin crew have an individualized development plan. The “role model” that the in Denmark. Analysis carried out during the year has shown that there manager process is based on reflects general personal attributes as was no singular explanation for the negative development and level of well as SAS’ business objectives. Evaluation focuses on the individual’s sick leave. The fact that sick leave differed substantially between identi­ performance, ability to change, leadership, potential and ambition. cal employee groups underlines this point. Reasons are many and var­ Training in the Code of Conduct and SAS’ environmental efforts is con­ ied and, accordingly, SAS management initiated a number of activities tinuous. During the year, approximately 1,250 of SAS’ employees con­ during fiscal year 2013 in order to address the increasing sick leave. Ex­ ducted e-learning on the Code of Conduct and approximately 1,150 amples are improved follow-up and support for the affected employees conducted e-learning in SAS’ environmental work. SAS’ employees had as well as long term adjustments to the prerequisites for the scheduling access to more than 200 different web-based courses during the year. process changed in connection with activities in 4XNG. Within SAS, nearly all employees are involved in e-learning, both flight personnel and ground employees. Occupational injuries The number of occupational injuries in Scandinavian Airlines was 280 Courses and training during the period. The highest occupational injury frequency is present To retain and develop employee skills, extensive training programs are in SGH in Denmark and Norway (incl. Cargo and Spirit). The extent of carried out each year. During fiscal year 2013, Scandinavian Airlines’ the occupational injuries means that SAS will continue to prioritize pre­ employees attended an estimated 540,000 hours of training, of which ventive efforts, in particular in the areas where the challenge is greatest. the major part pertained to obligatory training. A growing share of Apart from sick leave and occupational injuries, each administrative SAS’ training takes place through web-based courses, or e-learning. unit works actively with issues pertaining to telecommuting where this Humanitarian support In December 2012, SAS supported the Norwegian “Christmas flight”. The Christmas flight is an aid campaign operated by SAS employees, who cooperate with other volunteers throughout the year to collect goods and contributions from various cooperating companies and private individu­ als. SAS provides an aircraft with full operational support, pilots and crew volunteer in their free time and the fuel is sponsored by a fuel supplier. This flight was also conducted in December 2013 with SAS support. Visit www.juleflyet.com for more information. 14 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 SAS takes it social responsibility seriously The trend within the civil aviation industry is mov­ ing towards employment models with complex multinational agreements in order to create lower cost and increased flexibility. This trend will possi­ bly lead to reduced employer responsibility and weaker employee rights. SAS’ position on this issue is clear. Employees should be employed on local terms where they are based. When based in Scan­ dinavia, employees should be covered by Scandi­ navian employment terms, work legislation and tax regimes. is possible, flextime, health insurance, etc. It is each company’s or unit’s the recruitment base for female pilots is small, since few opt for the pro­ responsibility to ensure a well-functioning work environment. fession. When it comes to cabin crew, 78% are women. Senior manage­ This work takes place in collaboration with safety representatives, ment in the Group is dominated by men. SAS Group Management supervisors and labor-management joint safety committees that cover currently consists of one woman and six men. The figure for the man­ all employees in each country. agement level directly reporting to Group Management is 29% women. Each year, equal treatment plans are drawn up in Sweden based on Company health services analysis and surveys of a number of factors, ranging from sick leave to The company health services or health, safety and environment (HSE) bullying and harassment. A reference group representing the parties function that supports the whole organization, offers services through provides support. in-house or outsourced resources with therapists, stress and rehabili­ tation experts, ergonomics and engineers. Product Responsibility The function also offers special services, including aviation medi­ SAS takes its responsibility to maintain the highest standards regarding cine, stress management, follow-up of sick leave, health profiles, ergo­ the product responsibility. Being an airline, the organization is highly nomics and advice in handling chemicals. regulated from a flight safety and security perspective. SAS is regularly Within large parts of the organization, investments are made in dif­ audited, reviewed both by external parties as well as partners and cus­ ferent forms of health-promoting activities both in the workplace and tomers. Airline personnel work conditions regarding working hours are during leisure time. also regulated by relevant authorities. SAS also has strict policies and follows applicable legislation regarding, food safety, IT security, etc. Diversity and equality SAS’ diversity policy is based on equal treatment of all employees and Social involvement job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promotion of diversity SAS has an agreement on a commercial basis with the Swedish govern­ and equality in all its forms. Union membership is high within SAS in ment to make available two specially equipped Boeing 737s as air am­ the Nordic region and labor organizations hold a strong position. Col­ bulances within the framework of the Swedish National Air Medevac lective agreements define working hours, pay and other terms of em­ (SNAM) in the case of an emergency. A corresponding agreement ex­ ployment in great detail. With the same conditions for the same tasks, ists with the Norwegian Defense which implies that within 24 hours, there is also complete equality between men and women in these is­ SAS must make available a remodeled ambulance service 737-700 for sues. In general, SAS is dominated by women in such professions as medical evacuation along the same principle as with SNAM. If needed, cabin crew, administrators, assistants and passenger service at the air­ a second aircraft must be made available within 48 hours. ports, while men dominate in the areas of pilots, technicians, aircraft SAS’ personnel participated in a number of fundraisers for Save the maintenance, loading and unloading of baggage. Women also have Children. All parts of SAS have had varying degrees of contact with more part-time positions than men. Of the Scandinavian Airlines pilots, schools and universities and participated in a dialog about flight and its 95% are men, and among captains, the share is 96%. At the same time, environmental impact. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 15 SAS’ work environment and sick leave KPIs Scandinavian Airlines’ Flight Operations SAS Commercial and Sales & Marketing DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 2,007 1,863 1,542 No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 88 144 386 of which women, % 50.4 58.2 49.7 of which women, % 70.5 73.6 60.6 Total sick leave, % 9.2 13.7 10.2 Total sick leave, % 2.4 6.7 3.7 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 4.8 9.6 6.5 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.3 4.8 2.7 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 46 7 9 day’s sick leave or more 0 1 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 17 3 4 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 0 4 0 SAS Technical Operations SAS Administrative functions and others DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 461 423 417 No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 231 102 271 of which women, % 3.5 4.3 5 of which women, % 36.8 40 39.3 Total sick leave, % 3.3 4.9 3.8 Total sick leave, % 3.2 5.6 1.6 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.0 2.5 2.0 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.4 4.4 1.0 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 10 4 0 day’s sick leave or more 0 0 1 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 13 6 0 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 0 0 2 SAS Ground Handling Blue1 DK NO SE FI No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 2,240 2,867 1,821 No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 343 of which women, % 28.8 31.5 32.5 of which women, % 46.9 Total sick leave, % 5.7 10.0 8.1 Total sick leave, % 5.6 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.4 7.1 4.5 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 2.4 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 117 52 25 day’s sick leave or more 8 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 31 14 8 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 12 SAS Scandinavian Scandinavian Scandinavian Scandinavian Airlines Airlines DK Airlines NO Airlines SE Total (excl. Blue1) Blue 1 No. of employees October 2013 (head count) 5,027 5,399 4,437 14,863 343 of which women, % 36.8 40 39.3 38.7 46.9 Total sick leave, % 6.4 10.5 7.4 8.0 5.6 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.5 7.4 4.7 5.0 2.4 Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 173 64 35 272 8 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 21 9 5 12 12 Scandinavian Airlines sick leave (excl. Blue1) Scandinavian Airlines H-value (excl. Blue1) % 10 20 8 16 6 12 4 8 2 4 0 0 2011 Jan–Oct 2012 Nov 2012–Oct 2013 2011 Jan–Oct 2012 Nov 2012–Oct 2013 16 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Financial aspects of social responsibility SAS’ contribution to the economy SAS’ first social responsibility is to its own employees and the communi­ SAS creates employment and value. In fiscal year 2013, SAS paid wages ties dependent and affected by SAS’ operations. For employees, this in­ and salaries totaling MSEK 8,442, of which social security expenses cludes issues concerning human resources development, pay and work were MSEK 1,508 and pensions MSEK 844. SAS endeavors to achieve environment. In addition, SAS is to contribute to social progress wherev­ market pay for all employee groups. er it operates and be a respected corporate citizen. Air transport helps improve labor market conditions in rural areas in the Scandinavian Costs of sick leave and accidents countries and makes business travel easier in Europe and to other conti­ Sick leave and occupational injuries constitute a large expense for the nents. Given increasing globalization, airlines facilitate business and individual employee and the employer, as well as for society at large. other contact opportunities where efficient transportation to, from and Sick leave is affected by a number of factors such as risk of infection within the countries is more or less a prerequisite for economic develop­ and accidents as well as physically and mentally stressful working envi­ ment and progress. The airlines also contribute expertise and transfers ronments. SAS’ companies employ various methods to prevent short of technology and make necessary investment in infrastructure. and long-term sick leave. SAS’ own calculation of costs for sick leave in­ dicates a cost exceeding MSEK 290 for fiscal year 2013. Work Environment at the airport Particulate matter (PM), or simply particles, are solid matter in air. Fur­ such as the engines and auxiliary power unit on aircraft or diesel en­ ther classification of particles can be made by size into coarse, fine, ul­ gines on all kinds of vehicles at the airport. It is not known how ultra-fine trafine and nanoparticles. Measured in micrometers the size of the particles impact health in the absence of scientific studies or investiga­ coarse particles < 10 PM10 , fine particles < 2.5 PM, ultrafine particles tions, which means that there are no established national or internation­ < 0.1 PM0.1 and nanoparticles < 0.03 PM. al limits. However, it is known that exposure to larger particles can mean Since interest was pointed at ultrafine particles in an air quality inves­ increased risk of serious diseases. Therefore, it is important to find ways tigation at Kastrup-Copenhagen Airport in 2010, SAS has been deeply to reduce the number of particles in daily operations at all airports. In engaged in this issue. The investigation report stated that the majority short, the work is about using more electrical vehicles and electrically of the studied compounds, including most particles, are below the lim­ powered equipment, introducing remote engine start-up of aircraft, in­ its. The exception is the ultrafine particles for which pollution is at a high creasing the amount of one-engine taxiing and higher awareness among level. Sources are identified as engines that use different types of fuel employees. SAS is focusing on these types of activities at all airports. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 17 Our Environmental Responsibility SAS’ operations comprise airline operations and ground activities. The major environmental impact results from flight operations, but ground operations and customer service onboard also affect the environment. 18 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 During the fiscal year, SAS environmental priorities have been to secure compliance with applicable legal requirements, work with the environmental programs to reduce the emissions from SAS’ most significant environmental aspects and re-certify the environmental management system. Managements attention and commitment to environmental issues has not been affected by 4XNG or the turbulent situation within the civil aviation industry. SAS Environmental Program The method SAS uses to achieve its environmental goals is to opera­ Environmental vision tionalize its strategies through activities conducted in environmental SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable soci­ programs within the environmental management system. Throughout ety and support IATA’s vision to make it possible to fly without the year, numerous activities were conducted within a wide range of ar­ greenhouse gas emissions by around 2050. eas. The prerequisites for all activities are that they are well within the limits of applicable legal requirements, flight safety limits, etc. Eco-political vision SAS has defined environmental programs within the following areas: SAS’ eco-political vision is for all four transport sectors – road, – More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations rail, sea and air – to pay for investments and infrastructure, other – More efficient planning of SAS aircraft social costs (such as accidents) and environmental impact ac­ – Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow up and modifi­ cording to the polluter pays principle. Subsequently, all four sec­ cation of SAS aircraft tors should compete in a competitively neutral transport system, – Fleet renewal based on a holistic approach. – Environmentally adapted products – Alternative sustainable jet fuels – Stakeholder dialog/work with ATM & airports and aircraft & engine Manufacturers of all employee groups affecting the fuel consumption. Key functions – Single European Sky are Flight, Ground and Technical Operations. Work is continuously ongoing with a large number of activities that More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations focus primarily on established operational conditions, such as proce­ SAS has an extensive long-term fuel saving program integrated in its dures and how they are implemented, and whether the available sys­ operations. An important aspect of increasing the fuel efficiency is to tem support is sufficiently optimized for higher fuel efficiency. Natural­ make sure that all employees in SAS’ airline operations have the pre­ ly, all changes maintain a standard that meets the highest level of flight requisites and knowledge to be fuel-efficient. This entails involvement safety requirements. Environmental goals 2015 The environment goals up to 2015 will lay the foundation for ensuring that SAS operations will be sustainable in the long-term. The work on the necessary measures are a natural, integrated part of the SAS Environmental Programs conducted within the SAS environmental management system certified according to ISO 14001. The deterioration in market conditions has not affected SAS’ goals. The goals are as follows. SAS will: reduce flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005. reduce ground-related energy consumption by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. reduce ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels by 10% at SAS’ major airports in Scandinavia by 2015 compared with 2010. reduce noise at take off with 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. SAS has decided to focus and quantifiable goals. This means that the goals regarding customer percep­ tion and alternative fuels has been transformed to internal goals and a new goal is established regarding noise. During FY2014 SAS will establish updated or new environmental goals up to 2020. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 19 MD-80 – A faithful old servant retires from the aircraft fleet The last commercial MD-80 flight took place in October 2013 and, in this man­ ner, the faithful servant retired from the SAS fleet. SAS has flown MD-80 aircraft for almost 30 years. During this period, SAS MD-80 aircraft flew a distance equivalent to about 3,870 return trips to the moon. SAS took delivery of its first of a total of 66 MD-80s in October 1985. By the time the aircraft was phased out, the aircraft had made about 3,134,900 flights. Renewable energy in the wings There are currently a limited number of suppliers that can deliver minor quantities of a certified alternative jet fuel at a high price. These suppliers have provided a number of airlines with suffi­ To realize the airline industry’s environmental objectives, the cient fuel to perform flight trial demonstrations. However, SAS future of aviation is largely dependent on the development of has opted not to purchase these fuels because of very high alternative and sustainable jet fuels based on one or more re­ prices. Furthermore, SAS’ sustainability requirements must newable sources. Unlike most types of transportation, aviation be fulfilled. has no real alternative to the liquid fuels that are currently used. There is also a need to secure access to liquid fuels as the sup­ SAS commitment ply of fossil alternatives is expected to decline and/or become For the past decade, SAS has worked on various activities aimed more expensive. at accelerating the development of alternative and sustainable Developing alternatives that can reduce climate-impacting jet fuels. In 2008, SAS was involved in forming the Sustainable emissions while also fulfilling the established sustainability cri­ Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), which was charged with ex­ teria is of the utmost importance. pediting the development of new jet fuels that are sustainable in The principal sustainability criteria are that production shall the long-term from renewable sources. The Group comprises a be sustainable in the long-term and thus not compete with the number of major global airlines and represents about 32% of production of foodstuffs or access to potable water, do not harm the global civil jet fuel consumption. SAFUG is carefully monitor­ biodiversity and use as small an area of land as possible. Ac­ ing the activities that are currently under way with the aim of en­ cording to the IATA, phasing in alternative fuels over time could suring long-term sustainability in all phases of the development enable a reduction in the air travel industry’s emissions by up to of alternative fuels. It is vital that the production of alternative jet 80% throughout its lifecycle. fuels is sustainable in all aspects. SAS is also involved in a num­ As of today, it is possible to use alternative jet fuels that are ber of national and international forums, such as the IATA/ATAG based on such renewable sources such as camelina, jathropha, biofuel network, the Sustainable Biofuel Network in Copenha­ algae, animal oils, fats and various types of coal-based sources gen, Cleantech Cluster, Global Green Growth Fora (3GF), and such as waste from industry, households, agriculture, forestry, various Scandinavian interest organizations working in the area. paper mills and so forth. These two specifications allow up to a SAS also supports the EU’s Biofuel Flight Path, which aims to 50% blend with the traditional fossil fuels to ensure the high create the preconditions to produce two million tonnes of bio­ requirements related to engines, as well as fuel supply systems fuels by 2020. on aircraft and on the ground. During the fiscal year, SAS continued talks with various po­ Initiatives are under way in a number of countries worldwide tential stakeholders, such as Haldor Topsøe (DK) and Solena to evaluate the possibility of producing alternative sustainable (US), regarding the possibility to produce alternative sustain­ jet fuels based on renewable sources. These initiatives often able jet fuels in Denmark and Sweden. SAS also continues to take the shape of partnership projects between private and clearly indicate to existing and potential future producers of jet public players. Unfortunately, we have not yet experienced the fuels that it is prepared to purchase alternative jet fuels if the same commitment in Scandinavia. sustainability criteria are in place and the price is competitive. As a result of the approved certifications, the technological SAS also continued to be a driving force in the work to establish prerequisites are in place and buyers are available, including NISA, which brings together aviation players in the Nordic re­ SAS. It is now a matter of initiating large-scale production at gion in the effort to accelerate commercialization of alternative competitive prices. jet fuel production in the region. 20 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 More efficient planning of SAS aircraft Examples of weight reduction include the replacement of the brakes on SAS currently operates aircraft of varying sizes and performance. SAS’ Boeing 737-800s with lighter versions in composite material or install­ own fleet ranges from 88 to 264 seats with capabilities to fly routes that ing lightweight seats in a number of Boeing 737NGs and Airbus A320s. are airborne for 20 minutes to more than 11 hours. The aim is to create When older seats are replaced, approximately two kilos per seat are conditions for flying as profitably and energy-efficiently as possible de­ saved, amounting to 360 kilos saved on a B737-800. These modifica­ pending on demand, time of day and destination. Key functions are tions will continue in FY2014. Apart from modifying the aircraft, work is Network Planning and Traffic Execution. also constantly ongoing to reduce the weight of all material and prod­ One example is to use aircraft of the appropriate size. For example, ucts included in SAS’ service offering. Examples include optimizing the SAS has Boeing 737NGs and A320-family aircraft. They have 120, 141 amount of water filled for toilet use, replacing carts with lighter versions, and 183 and 141, 168 and 198 seats, respectively. This provides exten­ replacing glass bottles with a plastic alternative, optimizing the amount sive flexibility according to demand, which guarantees the lowest possible of products served and used based on analysis of the actual demand. total emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are too big generates An example of better technology is the ongoing engine upgrade pro­ unnecessary emissions even if it generates a better theoretical result per gram within the framework of the ordinary technical maintenance of available seat kilometer. SAS also uses wet lease operations from external most of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In practice, this entails that the en­ suppliers to fly short-haul routes with demand at about 50 to 75 seats. gines are upgraded to the latest version (“Tech Inserts” or “Evolution”). More than half of the fleet’s engines on the Boeing 737NG, which were Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow-up and delivered prior to 2006, have now been upgraded and are thus about modification of SAS aircraft 3% more fuel efficient than when they were originally delivered. Aircraft SAS modifies its aircraft continuously in order to modernize to better delivered after 2007 already have “Tech Inserts” and aircraft delivered technology, improve aerodynamics or reduce weight. Examples of im­ after the summer of 2011 have “Evolution”. proved aerodynamics include the installation of Winglets on Boeing 737NGs or Sharklets on Airbus A320s. This can potentially reduce the Fleet renewal fuel consumption by 1–5% depending on the stage length for certain In the last days of FY2013, SAS retired its last MD-80s. At the end of airlines. SAS has installed Winglets on a number of Boeing 737NGs FY2013, SAS only had three Boeing 737 Classics in operations. These where it is profitable from a sustainability perspective. remaining previous generation aircraft are scheduled to be phased out Results in FY2013 and measures to be undertaken in FY2014 to attain SAS’ environmental goals in FY2015 SAS will reduce flight emissions by 20% in FY2015 SAS will reduce ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels compared with 2005 by 10% at SAS’ major airports in Scandinavia by FY2015 Results FY2013 compared with 2010 Scandinavian Airlines’ CO2-emissions per passengerkilometer had Results FY2013 been reduced by 16.0% in FY2013 compared with full-year 2005. The fuel consumption was reduced by 33.4% in FY2013 com­ pared to full year 2010. Measures in FY2014 During fiscal year 2014, Scandinavian Airlines plans to continue its Measures in FY2014 fleet renewal. New aircraft will also be introduced by wet lease op­ Activities will continue that are aimed at increasing fuelerators flying on SK flight numbers. This measure – combined with efficiency in daily operations, as well as fuel-savings programs fuel-savings activities within 4XNG with such activities as more effi­ addressed in the ongoing LEAN project. cient procedures and culture, plus continuing modification of the existing fleet, with more efficient engines, lighter seating and so SAS will reduce noise at take off with 15% in 2015 forth – will contribute positively to realizing the goal for 2015. compared with 2010 Results FY2013 SAS will reduce total ground-related energy consumption By introducing newer aircraft the noise area exposed to 85 dB by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010 at departure has been reduced with 10,9% compared with fullResults FY2013 year 2010. The energy consumption was reduced by 24.8% in FY2013 Measures in FY2014 compared with full-year 2010. The fleet renewal and introduction of more efficient procedures Measures in FY2014 continues which will support the goal attainment. Structured energy-efficiency activities are continuing as planned. This, in combination with reduced office space, will ensure goal attainment. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 21 before the end of December 2013. During FY2013, SAS retired nine­ Stakeholder dialog/work with ATM and airports, and aircraft and teen MD-80s and seven Boeing 737 Classics which were replaced by engine manufacturers nine Boeing 737NGs and twelve Airbus A320 aircraft. An example of Since the early 2000s, SAS has been working with the parties respon­ the improvement is the A320, which has eighteen seats more than the sible for air traffic control and airports in Sweden, Norway and Denmark MD-80 while reducing the fuel consumption and associated emissions in an effort to identify more efficient methods for controlling air traffic in by approximately 20 % on a comparable flight. The 85 dB area in km² the airspace as well as on the ground in these countries. per departure is also reduced by approximately 55%. One example is the Continuous Descent Approach from Top of De­ During FY2013, SAS used a number of wet lease operators for scent that has become standard during low and medium-peak traffic at flights with SK flight numbers. One of these suppliers uses the ATR72an increasing number of airports. The Continuous Descent Approach 600, which is the latest development in the turbo prop segment with from Top of Descent entails that air traffic control allows the aircraft to 70 seats in the SAS configuration. approach in a continuous gliding descent without using unnecessary By 2016, SAS plans to introduce the Airbus A320neo that will have engine power. This is common at small airports where there is no other 15% lower fuel consumption and generate 50% less noise than the air traffic close by, but still unusual at large airports where other air traf­ existing Airbus A320s. fic must be handled in parallel. This development derived from the In June 2013, SAS decided to opt for the Airbus A350 as its next demonstrations conducted in the early 2000s and the feasible changes long haul aircraft. In total, SAS ordered eight A350s. The order also in­ have been implemented in everyday operations at Swedish airports. cludes four A330Es, which are enhanced versions of the A330 used to­ In recent years, SAS has been deeply involved in the establishment day. The plan is to introduce the A330E in 2015-2016 and the A350 will of more advanced solutions using satellite-based Required Navigation be introduced from 2018. The A330E is marginally more fuel efficient Performance (RNP AR) rather than the traditional ground-based ILS. than today’s A330 but it has an increased range, meaning that it can Examples are the published and available S-curved approaches on run­ operate on routes currently served by the A340 at approximately 20 % way 19R and the shortened curved approach to runway 26 at Stock­ less fuel consumption per seat. When the A350 is introduced, it will be holm-Arlanda. The potential benefits are reduced emissions due to possible to reduce fuel consumption by approximately 35% per seat shorter flying distance, as well as the possibility to minimize noise ex­ and generate 50% less noise compared with an A340. posure in sensitive areas close to the airport. SAS is currently involved in a number of activities in Scandinavia that Environmentally adapted products aim to demonstrate short-term potential environmental improvements SAS strives to develop its customer offering in a more environmentally within the framework of existing systems and methods. adapted direction. This includes everything from locally produced and/ Throughout SAS’ continuous environmental work, SAS maintains or organic food to less material and ultimately, less waste needing to be dialog and discussion with relevant aircraft and engine manufacturers, sorted wherever customers encounter SAS during the ground process, as well as producers of interiors and other installations in the aircraft. in the lounge or onboard SAS aircraft. Naturally, this is also the case in the process to decide which new air­ As of today, SAS offers organic breakfast on its flights and a number craft to acquire for short and long-haul operations. The sustainability of organic items in the lounge. In connection with the development to­ criteria are very important aspects for SAS’ choice of suppliers. wards more electronically based communications, less paper is being used and the use of “green IT” is increasing. Sorting and waste disposal Single European Sky from service and products on board is a focus area, but at the same SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research) is an time, this is a challenge. The challenge lies in the fact that there is limit­ EU initiative aimed at advancing tomorrow’s airspace and the air traffic ed space on board. There is also a restriction in disposing of meal ser­ management system in Europe. SAS is involved in SESAR and partici­ vice waste at airports because different national legislation is involved, pates in efforts to enhance efficiency, capacity and safety, and to re­ making solutions complicated and, in some instances, impossible. In duce the environmental impact of flights. some cases, we are forced to fly waste back to Scandinavia (e.g. USA). Despite this, waste is an area in which efforts are being made to find the The long-term objectives for SESAR are: best possible solutions. For example, newspapers and aluminum cans • threefold increase in capacity. from most domestic flights are recycled. • A tenfold increase in safety levels. • A 10% reduction in carbon emissions. Alternative sustainable jet fuels • Half the air traffic control costs. SAS has been working for many years with various activities designed to accelerate the development of alternative and sustainable jet fuels. In By 2020, this will lead to: FY2013, SAS continued to conduct concrete discussions with a range • Flight times that are 8–14 minutes shorter. of prospective stakeholders in connection with the production of alter­ • A reduction in fuel consumption of between 300 and 500 kilograms native and sustainable jet fuels in Scandinavia. SAS took the initiative to per flight. start a sustainable-fuel user group in the Nordic region (NISA) which • A reduction in CO2 emissions of between 948 and 1,575 kilograms on was launched on November 1, 2013. average, per flight, compared with 2010. SAS has indicated clearly to existing and prospective producers of jet fuels that we are prepared to purchase alternative jet fuels if the price is competitive and sustainability criteria are in place. It is vital for SAS that the production of alternative sustainable jet fu­ els does not compete with food production or access to drinking water and that it has minimal impact on biodiversity. 22 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Follow-up of SAS’ most significant environmental aspects SAS’ most significant environmental aspects derive from emissions from using fossil jet fuel and noise from aircraft, while on-ground emissions de­ rive from diesel and gasoline consumption, energy use in facilities, fuel and glycol spillages and waste. Emissions from using fossil jet fuel During the period, Scandinavian Airlines fuel efficiency improved and Includes all flights flown with SK flight numbers. the relative CO2 emission decreased to 113 grams (117) per passenger Scandinavian Airlines used 1,211,000 tonnes of jet fuel in FY2013. This kilometer. The positive development was primarily due to fleet renewal, corresponds to 3,815,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide and with the air­ improved load factor and progress in the fuel efficiency activities. In craft used 16,160 tonnes of nitrogen oxide emissions. Compared with FY2013, only occasional fuel leaks were reported in conjunction with the year-earlier period , this is an increase of 63,000 tonnes of carbon refueling of Scandinavian Airlines aircraft. These were handled in accor­ dioxide and 824 tonnes of nitrogen oxide. Relative to the traffic growth dance with established procedures. No fuel dumps were reported dur­ it is a relative decrease of 3.2% and an increase of 0.3%, respectively. ing the fiscal year. Scandinavian Airlines total CO2 emissions Scandinavian Airlines Flight operations’ CO2 Passenger kilometers CO2 emissions fiscal year 2013 1,000 tonnes CO2 4,500 34,000 Denmark 4,250 33,000 Domestic flights CO_ emissions Passenger Total 34 (millions) kilometers(1000 tonn Flights to EU/EEA 410 4,000 32,000 Flight to outside EU/EEA 499 3,750 31,000 Norway 3,500 30,000 Domestic flights 465 Flights to EU/EEA 310 3,250 29,000 Flight to outside EU/EEA 67 3,000 28,000 Sweden 2005 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 Domestic flights 229 Total CO2 emissions (1,000 tonnes) Flights to EU/EEA 274 Passenger kilometers (millions) Flight to outside EU/EEA 137 2005 source: 2007 Annual and Sustainability Report Finland Domestic flights 7 Flights to EU/EEA 68 Flight to outside EU/EEA 2 Scandinavian Airlines CO2 gram/passenger kilometer EU/EEA Departing EU/EEA1 for Scandinavia and Finland 626 Co2 gram/passenger kilometer Flights within EU/EEA1 1 135 Departing EU/EEA1 for outside EU/EEA 1 5,000 35,000 Outside EU/EEA 130 Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for Total kilometers(1000 CO_ emissions Passenger (millions) ton 4,600 34,000 Scandinavia/Finland 681 125 Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA1 4,200 33,000 120 or outside EU/EEA 2 3,800 32,000 Total 3,815 115 1) Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland that are reported separately. 3,400 31,000 110 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 3,000 30,000 2005 2010 2011 Nov 11–Oct 12 CO2 Passenger kilometers 5,000 35,000 4,600 34,000 Total CO_ emissions Passenger (millions) kilometers(1000 ton 4,200 33,000 3,800 32,000 3,400 31,000 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 3,000 30,000 23 2005 2010 2011 Nov 11–Oct 12 Aircraft noise Includes all flights flown with SK flight numbers. Average aircraft Noise, 85 dB area in km2 per departure The average noise per departure decreased due to fleet renewal. Scan­ 2.5 dinavian Airlines received reports of noise violations on nine occasions during FY2013. The number of breaches has declined considerably in 2.4 recent years as a result of fleet renewal and structured improvement 2.3 activities, such as specific flight simulator training including scenarios flying to and from airports with strict noise regulations. 2.2 An illustrative example is an A320 which replaces an MD-80 where 2.1 the 85 dB area in km² per departure decreased by approximately 55% from 4.7 km² to 2.1 km². 2.0 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 Waste All waste where data is available. Mostly own produced waste from Total waste in tonnes ground facilities, including technical maintenance. 1,000 Waste is divided into unsorted waste and hazardous waste. Hazardous Unsorted waste is strictly controlled by national authorities and is internally con­ 800 Hazardou trolled and evaluated by both airlines and suppliers. Data on Scandina­ 600 vian Airlines, SGH, SCG and SAS Technical Operations’ total waste quantities derives from a common data base with COOR. Although 400 waste did not have the same attention levels as energy in FY2013, SAS continues to work on improvement of sorting and recycling of news­ 200 papers and aluminum cans in FY2014. No significant emissions or 0 spillages were reported in conjunction with technical maintenance. 2011 FY2012 FY2013 Both waste reporting and waste-sorting has improved in FY2013. Even if SAS focuses on waste-sorting and waste-handling, there is no Hazardous waste Unsorted waste target set for waste. The aspect is monitored, registered and followed up in order to detect undesirable or unexplainable trends. Deicing fluid sures to restrict or completely eliminate environmental impact. The re­ All deicing fluids used by SGH directly on aircraft flown with SK flight maining glycol is handled according to local regulations and/or reused, numbers and on SGH’s external customers’ aircraft in Scandinavia. so that none or only a low amount is emitted to water. The aim is to re­ Deicing is unavoidable from a safety perspective. Glycol is used for the duce the number of glycol spills to zero. In FY2013, SGH reported zero pre-takeoff deicing of aircraft. As this represents an environmental bur­ glycol spills from deicingtrucks or deposits. den, the search continues for alternative techniques. For example, trials are continuing on a system with electronic control of the glycol content and a preventive deicing method that leads to a significant reduction of Glycol use in m3 glycol usage without compromising internal or official safety require­ 3,500 ments. Consumption of glycol depends on the size of the airline, both in 3,000 number of flights and size of the aircraft. The mix of glycol/water de­ 2,500 pends on the aircraft type, weather conditions, humidity, flight time, 2,000 route/destination, etc. It is thus impossible to set a reduction target for 1,500 glycol consumption. Nonetheless, follow-up of use to identify any un­ desirable deviations is conducted. Even if the amount of glycol has been 1,000 reduced over the years, the amounts depend on weather demands and 500 can be considerable. Some spillage or leakage of glycol may occur in 0 exceptional circumstances. On these occasions, there are specific mea­ 2011 FY2012 FY2013 24 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Fuel used on the ground All ground fuel used by SGH and SAS Technical Operations own vehicles Ground fuel in liters for all customers. SAS focuses on reducing ground fuel through LEAN activities and re­ 3,500 placement of ground vehicles and equipment with more efficient alter­ Petr natives to reduce environmental impact and enhance the work environ­ 3,000 Dies ment. In all three Scandinavian countries, SAS participates in voluntary cooperation with various players at the airports in several areas, such as 2,500 working on ultra-fine particles, measurement of electricity consump­ tion in buildings and the reduction of emissions from vehicles. This co­ 2,000 operation also includes compliance with individual legal requirements. 1,500 Discussions with airport operators in the Scandinavian countries indi­ 2011 FY2012 FY2013 cate that the demands on, for example, emissions in relation to vehicles and equipment will be intensified. Combined with SGH’s own desire for Diesel Petrol environmental improvement, this has resulted in ground equipment being improved or replaced by more efficient units. Diesel consumption has been reduced significantly per departure in recent years. During FY2013 seven significant spillages of fuel used on the ground was reported. All were handled according to established procedures. Energy All ground energy used in all owned or leased buildings used by ScandiEnergy in MWh navian Airlines, SGH, SAS Technical Operations, SCG and Blue1. 200 The work with SAS energy plans continued in FY2013 for all buildings El owned or leased in order to achieve the targets up until 2015. The plans 150 He were carried out in cooperation with the facility management supplier COOR Service Management. The plans include further improvement of 100 registration procedures for energy consumption, follow-up and contin­ uous reporting. In general, energy consumption is decreasing due to a 50 reduced number of buildings used. 0 2011 FY2012 FY2013 Heat Electricity “Other, that is, chemicals and water” treatment plants locally. There is an in-house treatment plant at SAS’ Chemicals home bases and there are contracts made with qualified companies to SAS Technical Operations is the largest user of chemicals. The chemi­ collect and safely deliver the hazardous waste. cal products are required by the aircraft manufacturers and authorities The aims of chemical purchasing activities include reduction in stor­ and cannot be replaced by SAS alone. The list of products is broad, with age and the number of suppliers, as well as reducing environmentally many kinds of cleaners, paint, grease, oils, and glues for different com­ hazardous waste. This work has resulted in optimized inventories and modities such as rubber, textiles and metal. Technical operations gen­ less storage and transportation involved in deliveries from suppliers. erate SAS’ highest share of hazardous waste. The use of these products The number of products purchased has dropped by one third in total sometimes results in waste and emissions to air and these are handled and Technical’s own purchases have fallen by more than 90% since by approved waste-management providers. 2010. SAS has a Chemical Review Board in order to follow-up and en­ There are many devices in the hangars and documented activities in sure compliance with the environmental legislation in the Scandinavian order to minimize the impact on the environment. These include active Countries and EU. Examples of tasks in the group are to establish pro­ contact with the aircraft manufacturer to obtain approval for the substi­ cesses to follow the applicable specifications for use on aircraft, ensure tution of certain products to more environmentally friendly products the environment aspect review, ensure that hazardous products are with less solvent and fewer toxic ingredients. Wastewater and air emis­ substituted by less hazardous ones whenever possible, ensure that the sions along with the handling of hazardous waste are strictly controlled number of different products is kept as low as possible and establish by national pollution control authorities and require regular reporting processes in which waste, spills and emissions are reduced as much as and auditing. Wastewater is handled according to local regulations and possible. in most cases, wastewater is treated in closed drainage and in-house SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 25 Water Data for SAS’ total water quantities derives from a common data base Water in 1,000 m3 with COOR. Although water did not have the same attention levels as 180 energy and waste in FY 2013, SAS’ usage of water did however de­ creased by 34% in FY2013 compared with 2010. The reduction is due to improved processes and less maintenance work conducted within 120 SAS Technical Operations. 60 0 2011 FY2012 FY2013 Environmental compliance and permits spondingly, Scandinavian Airlines also pays MSEK 1,041 in safety costs, A detailed description of SAS’ licenses and environment-related which for most other modes of transportation are financed by taxes. permits is presented in the Report by the Board of Directors in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview fiscal year 2013 Environment-related costs pages 42–43. Scandinavian Airlines’ external environment-related costs were MSEK During FY2013 Scandinavian Airlines received nine reports of noise 313 in FY2013. These costs consisted of environment-related taxes violations at airports. and charges that are often linked with the aircrafts’ environmental per­ The new environmental permit that Stockholm-Arlanda Airport sub­ formance and are part of the landing fee. Other environment-related mitted in May 2011 was in progress during FY2013. costs, such as costs for waste management, purification plants and the Scandinavian Airlines estimates that around 27 kilograms of halons costs for environmental staff, amounted to MSEK 30. Scandinavian were emitted during FY2013. Airlines has no known major environment-related debts or contingent SAS Oil is a jet fuel purchasing company for SAS at Copenhagen, liabilities, for example in the form of contaminated soil. Oslo and Stockholm airports. Through SAS Oil, SAS is a minority owner The cost for EU-ETS were in total MSEK 45 for Scandinavian Airlines, of a number of smaller companies that deliver jet fuel. SAS has ensured Blue1 and Widerøe in calender year 2012. that these companies have the necessary permits, contingency plans and insurance. No severe incidents breaching any environmental per­ Environmental-related savings mits were reported in FY2013. Scandinavian Airlines has an ambitious fuel-saving program. The calculated fuel efficiency improvement amounted to 1.6% in FY2013 compared with Emissions calculation and carbon offset FY2012. This corresponds to approximately MSEK 126 in cost savings. The SAS emissions calculator, which is available on the SAS website has been approved by a third-party review. The calculator provides informa­ Environment-related investment tion about all SAS’ flights, with greenhouse gas emissions pre-sented The investment made by SAS in accordance with the policies shall be both separately. Most calculators on the market calculate the emissions environmentally and economically sound, thus contributing to SAS’ value based on average fleet performance and a CO2equivalent based on growth and helping to ensure that SAS can meet adopted future environ­ different greenhouse gas emissions. SAS has chosen not to do so be­ mental standards. During FY2013 no significant environmental-related cause there is no consensus regarding how to calculate NOX, particles investments were conducted. This is the fact since leasing is the preferred and water vapor emissions to CO2 among scientists and experts. SAS solution rather than investment in aircraft, vehicles, computers, etc. offers the possibility to offset carbon emissions from a specific flight in This means that SAS’ environment-related investments disclosed in the connection with the emissions calculator. Less than 1% of the custom­ Sustainability Report have decreased but not the actual renewal of vehi­ ers who book their travel via Scandinavian Airlines websites use this cles, computers, aircraft, etc. It should also be noted that investments not possibility. The offer is also available for SAS Corporate Customers and emphasized in this section may also have a positive impact on the environ­ SAS offsets its own business travel. ment. Scandinavian Airlines has an ongoing engine upgrade program within the framework of the regular technical maintenance on the major­ Financial aspects of environmental responsibility ity of the Boeing 737NG fleet. The engine upgrade is not listed as an SAS’ environmental work has several overriding purposes. Besides environment-related investment since it is an integrated part of SAS’ making resources use more efficient and improving environmental per­ continuous aircraft maintenance plan. However, this does support SAS’ formance, it includes ensuring that the operations comply with environ­ environmental goals. In practice, this means that the engines were up­ mental laws and regulations. Below is an account of some of the most graded to the latest version, so-called “Tech Insert” through the summer important financial aspects of environmental work. of 2011 and “Evolution” thereafter. To date, more than half of the fleet’s engines in the Boeing 737NGs delivered before 2006 have been up­ Infrastructure charges and security costs graded and are thereby approximately 3% more fuel-efficient than the Air transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses to engine with which the aircraft was delivered. Aircraft delivered after 2007 conduct flights, i.e., airports and air traffic control. During FY2013 these are already equipped with the “Tech Insert” and aircraft delivered after were MSEK 7,348 for Scandinavian Airlines (excl. Widerøe). Corre­ the summer of 2011 have “Evolution”. 26 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Research and development (R&D) development of more efficient use of air space. SAS engages in technol­ SAS contributes in many ways to the emergence of a sustainable soci­ ogy development benefiting the entire industry. However, SAS con­ ety. Among them are the commitment to and support of the develop­ ducts no proprietary research and development. SAS also plays a lead­ ment and dissemination of such green technologies as sustainable jet ing role internationally in drafting environment-related norms and fuel and environmentally adapted flights. In FY2013, SAS was involved standards for air transport. SAS is represented on a number of commit­ in the Sustainable Aviation Fuel User Group whose goal is to hasten the tees, projects and working groups related to the environment and cor­ development, certification and commercial use of environmentally and porate social responsibility in such bodies as IATA, ICAO, AEA, N-ALM socially sustainable aviation fuel. SAS also cooperates with the Scandi­ and SESAR JU. navian suppliers of air traffic control for the purpose of speeding up the Newer aircraft of the right size creates less emissions SAS’ strategy is to replace older aircraft with newer ones. An example of the improvement is the A320, which has eighteen seats more than the MD-80 while reducing the fuel consumption and associated emissions by approximately 20 % on a comparable flight. The 85 dB area in km² per departure is also reduced by approximately 55%. It is also important to use the right size of aircraft on every possible occasion. That is why SAS uses Boeing 737NGs and A320 family aircraft of different sizes. They have 120, 141 and 183 and 141, 168 and 198 seats, respectively. This entails great flexibility according to demand, which guarantees the lowest possible total emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are too big generates unnecessary emissions even if it generates a better theoretical result per available seat kilometer. If we look at a Boeing 737NG on a typical domestic route in Norway during May 2013, it is evident that the fuel consumption and corre­ sponding emissions are lower in a smaller aircraft. When using a B737-800 with 183 seats and 141 passengers onboard, the total fuel consumption (in average) is approximately 6–7% higher than a full B737-700. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 27 Key environmental figures for Scandinavian Airlines and SAS Ground Handling Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production Flight Operations Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) Aspect 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (1) 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (2) Jet fuel – used 1,175 1,191 1,211 1,000 tonnes 30,751 32,005 33,633 million PK Jet fuel – CO2 3,702 3,752 3,815 1,000 tonnes 30,751 32,005 33,633 million PK Jet fuel – NOX 15.0 15.3 16.2 1,000 tonnes 30,751 32,005 33,633 million PK Aicraft Noise – takeoff 695 684 639 1,000 km2 291 292 299 1,000 departures Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production Ground Handling Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) Aspect 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (1) 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (2) Vehicle Diesel – Fuel used 2,763 2,041 1,883 1,000 liters 368 360 354 1,000 departures Vehicle Diesel – CO2 7,358 5,435 5,013 tonnes 368 360 354 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – Fuel used 125 99 63 1,000 liters 368 360 354 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – CO2 285 224 143 tonnes 368 360 354 1,000 departures Fuel spills 6 1 4 Instances 368 360 354 1,000 departures Glycol used 2,215 1,913 3,208 1,000 m3 16.8 15.7 21.9 1,000 deicings Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production Technical Operations Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) Aspect 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (1) 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (2) Vehicle Diesel – Fuel used 84 82 89 1,000 liters 259 264 299 1,000 departures Vehicle Diesel – CO2 223 217 238 tonnes 259 264 299 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – Fuel used 63 52 33 1,000 liters 259 264 299 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – CO2 143 118 76 tonnes 259 264 299 1,000 departures Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production SAS Cargo Groups’ Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) Aspect 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (1) 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (2) CO2 – Jet fuel used 3,702 3,752 3,815 1,000 tonnes 3,595 3,741 3,992 million TK CO2 – Truck Diesel used 2,680 2,936 tonnes 14,347 16,262 000 TK Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production Energy, Waste and Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) Water 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (1) 2011 FY2012 FY2013 unit (2) Energy 183 172 149 GWh 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE As of electricity 92 90 69 GWh 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE As of heating 91 81 81 GWh 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE As of heating oil (included in heating ) 0.8 0 2 GWh 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE Unsorted Waste 731 566 406 tonnes 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE Hazardous waste 178 172 223 tonnes 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE Water 153 146 99 1,000 m 3 13.9 13.6 12.9 1,000 FTE 28 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2012 Result FY2013 Result FY2012, % Result FY2013, % Kilo per PK 0.037 0.036 –2.6 –3.2 CO2 gram/PK 117 113 –2.6 –3.2 NOX gram/PK 0.48 0.48 –1.9 0.3 85 dB area in KM2 per departure 2.34 2.14 –2.1 –8.7 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2012 Result FY2013 Result FY2012, % Result FY2013, % 1000 liters per departure 5.7 5.3 –24.7 –6.2 CO2 kilo per departure 15.1 14.1 –24.7 –6.2 1,000 liters per departure 0.3 0.2 –19.6 –35.4 CO2 kilo per departure 0.6 0.4 –19.6 –35.4 Spills per 1,000 departures 0.00 0.01 Liter per deicing 122 147 –7.5 20.4 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2012 Result FY2013 Result FY2012, % Result FY2013, % 1,000 liters per departure 0.3 0.3 –4.4 –3.6 CO2 kilo per departure 0.8 0.8 –4.4 –3.6 1,000 liters per departure 0.2 0.1 –19.0 –43.2 CO2 kilo per departure 0.4 0.3 –19.0 –43.2 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2012 Result FY2013 Result FY2012, % Result FY2013, % CO2 gram/TK 1,003 956 –2.6 –4.7 CO2 gram/TK 187 181 –3.3 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2012 Result FY2013 Result FY2012, % Result FY2013, % MWh per FTE 12.6 11.6 –4.2 –8.3 MWh per FTE 6.6 5.3 –0.2 –19.9 MWh per FTE 6.0 6.2 –8.3 4.6 MWh per FTE 0.03 0.1 –41.5 292.9 kilo per FTE 41.4 31.4 –21.0 –24.2 kilo per FTE 12.6 17.2 –1.6 37.1 m per FTE 3 10.7 7.6 –2.6 –28.7 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 29 About GRI GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, stipulates that Economic responsibility SAS should determine which entities’ performance will be reported in Information regarding financial results can be found on page 1 and on the Sustainability Report. The entities included in SAS’ Sustainability page 38 and onward in SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview Report November 2012–October 2013 are presented in the introduc­ November 2012–October 2013. Information concerning SAS’ eco­ tion of SAS’ Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting on nomic responsibility is provided on pages 17 and 26–27, where SAS’ pages 40–41. The reporting boundary, including changes compared indirect economic impact is described. Information regarding market with previous reports, is disclosed in the SAS’ Accounting Principles for shares etc. is located on pages 35–36, in SAS Annual Report with Sustainability Reporting. sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013. GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, prescribes disclosure of GRI Application Level Criteria for organizations using the Environmental responsibility Guidelines. SAS’ main environmental impact is related to the combustion of nonrenewable fuels. Thus, the major disclosures regarding environmental C C+ B B+ A A+ aspects are consumption of non-renewable fuels, emissions of CO2 and NOX, and noise. This information can be found on pages 3, and 28–29. Self-declared √ Targets and results of SAS’ environmental work are disclosed on Third-party Checked √ pages 21 and 23–25. On page 6, the organization and management of SAS’ sustainability work are described, together with processes for SAS has self-declared its reporting to be Application Level A+. feedback and reporting of environmental data. PwC has checked SAS’s reporting and has confirmed it to be Appli­ cation Level A+. Social responsibility Regarding disclosure of management approach, as required by GRI, Labor practices and decent work: Relevant information regarding SAS’ SAS has chosen to report on management approach as an integrated approach to labor practices and decent work is presented on pages 7 part of the SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November and 13–17. Policies regarding labor practices and decent work are dis­ 2012–October 2013 and SAS’ Sustainability Report November 2012– closed on SAS Group’s homepage (www.sasgroup.net). The process October 2013. See below for further details regarding references to for handling questions regarding labor practices and managing feed­ SAS’ management approach: back and reporting of labor data is described on page 7. Human rights: Relevant information regarding SAS’ approach to All page references herein refer to the SAS Sustainability Report human rights can be found on page 7 and in the GRI Cross-reference list. November 2012–October 2013 unless otherwise specified. Society: Relevant information regarding SAS’ approach to communi­ ties, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior, and compli­ Guideline on Management Approach ance, can be found on page 7 and in the SAS’ Code of Conduct available A general description of SAS’ approach to responsibility for sustainable on the SAS Group’s webpage. For any significant case of non-compliance development can be found on pages 4–7 where SAS defines social, during the year information is disclosed in the Board of Director’s Report environmental, and financial responsibility, including the SAS’ compre­ on pages 38–43 in SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview hensive objectives governing SAS’ operations. Strategies, values, and November 2012–October 2013. extracts from policies guiding the operations of SAS can be found on Product responsibility: SAS mainly offers services. Where relevant, pages 11 and 19 (policies, with relevance for sustainability, can also be information regarding service responsibility is disclosed as a part of found on the SAS Group’s homepage, www.sasgroup.net). SAS’s social responsibility on pages 13–17 otherwise they are com­ On page 6, a description of the organization and management of mented on in the GRI Cross-reference list. SAS’ sustainability work can be found. Relevant information concerning both positive and negative aspects of SAS’ performance is disclosed throughout the report, the most significant aspects are commented on in the Board of Directors’ Report on pages 38–43 in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013. Risks and opportunities are included in SAS Annual Report with sus­ tainability overview November 2012–October 2013, on pages 4–7 and 32–34. 30 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Sustainability Report – GRI Cross Reference List Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments Profile Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the AR13 pages 2–3. organization about the relevance of sustainability to SR13 page 1. the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. AR13 pages 32–34. Description of major risks identified and correspond­ SR13 pages 7 and 10. ing actions are described on pages 32–34 (AR13). SAS aspects are on pages 10 (SR13). Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organization. SR13 back cover. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. AR13 pages 26–28. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including AR13 pages 13, 26–28 Operational structure on page 82 (AR13), Joint Ventures main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 82. and Partners on page 17 (AR13). Airlines and operating and joint ventures. companies on pages 26–28 (AR13). 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. SR13 back cover. SAS koncernen Kabinvägen 5, Arlanda, 195 87 Stockholm. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, AR13 pages 16 and 22–23. The main markets for SAS are described on page and names of countries with either major operations 22–23 (AR13). or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability is­ A map detailing all locations is to be found on page sues covered in the report. 16 (AR13). 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR13 pages 35–36, 82 Legal form is described on page 82 and largest and 94–95. shareholders on pages 94–95 (AR13). 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, AR13 page 1–17 and The main markets for SAS are described on pages sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 22–23. 16–17 (AR13). Scandinavian Airlines provides a descrip­ tion of main markets on pages 22–23 (AR13). A map detailing all locations is to be found on page 16 (AR13). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: AR13 pages 26–28, • Passengers served on pages 26–28 (AR13).) • Number of employees; 44 and 57. • Net sales on page 44 (AR13) • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and net revenues (for public sector organizations); equity on page 44 (AR13) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt • Number of employees on pages 57 (AR13) (Note 3 and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR13 pages 4–9. Widerøe was sold during the year and the environmen­ regarding size, structure, or ownership. tal indicators are disclosed separately without external review. Read more in the Accounting Principles. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. AR13 page 12. SAS received IATA:s Fast Travel Award Platinum during the reporting period. Report Parameter Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for SR13 front cover. information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). SR13 inside front cover. Previous reports can be obtained from SAS webpage (www.sasgroup.net). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) AR13 page 100. Annual reporting. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its SR13 inside front cover. Inquiries regarding the Annual Report are handled contents. by Investor Relations and inquiries regarding the Sustainability Report are handled by the Head of Environment and CSR. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: SR13 pages 7 and 10. • Determining materiality; • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, SR13 inside front cover and subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, pages 40–41 (Accounting suppliers). Principles for Sustainability Reporting November 2012– October 2013). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or SR13 inside front cover and boundary of the report. pages 40–41 (Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting November 2012– October 2013). AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 31 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, AR13 pages 50–56. The accounting principles of the SAS Annual Report leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other SR13 pages 40–41 are described on page 50–56 (AR13). If the Sustain­ entities that can significantly affect comparability (Accounting Principles for ability Report deviates from these principles that will from period to period and/or between organizations. Sustainability Reporting be described in the Accounting Principles for Sustain­ November 2012–October ability Reporting November 2012–October 2013. 2013). 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of AR13 pages 50–56. The accounting principles of the SAS’ Annual Report calculations, including assumptions and techniques SR13 pages 40–41 are described on page 50–56. If the Sustainability underlying estimations applied to the compilation of (Accounting Principles for Report deviates from these principles that will be the Indicators and other information in the report. Sustainability Reporting described in the Accounting Principles for Sustainability November 2012–October Reporting November 2012–October 2013. 2013). 3.10 E xplanation of the effect of any re-statements of AR13 pages 33–43 and Any significant re-statements regarding the financial information provided in earlier reports, and the 48–53. report is disclosed in the Board of Directors Report on reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ SR13 pages 40–41 pages 33–43 or in the accounting principles on pages acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature (Accounting Principles for 50–56 (AR13). Re-statements regarding the Sustain­ of business, measurement methods). Sustainability Reporting ability Report is disclosed in Accounting Principles for November 2012–October Sustainability Reporting November 2012–October 2013). 2013. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods SR13 pages 40–41 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods (Accounting Principles for applied in the report. Sustainability Reporting November 2012–October 2013). GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard SR13 pages 31–39. Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking AR13 page 93. The Auditor’s Report of the Annual Report can be found external assurance for the report. If not included in SR13 page 44. on page 93 (AR13). The auditor’s report of sustainability the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report can be found on page 46 (SR13). report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assur­ ance provider(s). Governance Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including AR13 pages 82–91. The Corporate Governance report on pages 82–91 committees under the highest governance body (AR13) discloses detailed information on governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy structure. or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance AR13 pages 88. Fritz H. Schur, the SAS Group Chairman, does not hold body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their any executive position in SAS. function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, AR13 pages 88–89. A majority of the members of the Board of Directors state the number of members of the highest gover­ are defined as independent from major shareholders nance body that are independent and/or non-execu­ as described on pages 88–89 (AR13). All of the mem­ tive members. bers of the Board of Directors are non-executive ex­ cept for the union representatives whom are elected through the trade unions’ own process. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to AR13 pages 82–83. The annual meeting is the main mechanism for share­ provide recommendations or direction to the highest SR13 page 13. holders to provide recommendations or direction to the governance body. board of directors which is described on pages 82–83 (AR13). SAS has union representatives on the Board of Directors as described on page 13 (SR13). 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the AR13 pages 57–58. As stated on pages 57–58 (AR18) the executive com­ highest governance body, senior managers, and exec­ pensation only consists of a fixed part as of fiscal year utives (including departure arrangements), and the 2013. organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body AR13 pages 82–83 and A majority of the members of the Board of Directors to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 84-85. are defined as independent from major shareholders as described on pages 84–85 (AR13). The Nomina­ tion Committee evaluates the work, competence and composition of the Board of Directors on an ongoing basis as described on pages 82–83 (AR13). 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and exper­ AR12 page 79 and pages The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, tise of the members of the highest governance body 82–83. competence and composition of the Board of for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, Directors on an ongoing basis as described on environmental, and social topics. page 79 (AR13). The Board of Directors prior and current engagements are disclosed on pages 82–83 (AR13). AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported 32 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, AR13 pages 6–7. codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, SR13 pages 11 and 19. environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for over­ AR13 pages 83–94. The Board of Directors have sustainable development seeing the organization’s identification and manage­ SR13 pages 6-7. on their agenda as described on pages 83–84 (AR13). ment of economic, environmental, and social perfor­ The organization and structure of the SAS’ sustain­ mance, including relevant risks and opportunities, ability work is described on pages 6–7 (SR13). and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance AR13 pages 82–86. The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, com­ body’s own performance, particularly with respect to petence and composition of the Board of Directors on economic, environmental, and social performance. an ongoing basis as described on page 83 (AR13). The Annual Meeting is the main forum for all share­ holders evaluation of the board of directors as described on pages 82–83 (AR13). Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 E xplanation of whether and how the precautionary SR13 pages 7, 19 and 25. SAS has joined the UN Global Compact, which pre­ approach or principle is addressed by the organization. scribes the precautionary approach as one of their ten principles. The precautionary approach is also a prin­ ciple of the Rio Declaration which is a part of both the SAS’ Code of Conduct and the SAS’ Purchasing Policy. SAS commitment to the UN Global Compact is de­ scribed on page 7. Examples of how the precautionary approach has been applied is described on page 19 onwards (SR13) regarding SAS Environmental Programs and on 25 (SR13) regarding SAS Tech’s activities for reduction and substitution of chemicals. 4.12 E xternally developed economic, environmental, and SR13 pages 4 and 7. social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry SR13 pages 7–9 and 27. SAS is members of several industry and business associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. The memberships stated on pages 7–9 organizations. (SR13) and page 27 (SR13) are considered the most important ones. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the SR13 page 9. organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders SR13 pages 8–9. General selection criterions are not used due to the with whom to engage. fact that SAS never denies a stakeholder an opportu­ nity for dialogue. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including SR13 pages 8–9. The approach to stakeholder engagement is frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder described on page 8–9 (SR13). In the table on page 9 group. (SR13) specific dialogues with stakeholders are described where the frequency varies depending on the nature of the dialogue. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised SR13 pages 8–10. through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Economic Economic Performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. AR12 pages 44–45. Economic value generated and distributed is dis­ SR13 pages 17 and 26. closed on pages 44–45 (AR13). Sustainability specific economic values are disclosed on pages 17 and 26 (SR13). SAS is aware that this indicator is not reported in line with the GRI-protocol. We choose to report the same way as previous years. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportuni­ SR13 pages 19–22 Perspectives on climate change, including risks and ties for the organization’s activities due to climate and page 26. opportunities, are described on pages 19–22 (SR13). change. SAS’ activities to reduce the emissions and the effect on climate change are described throughout the sus­ tainability report. The financial implications of envi­ ronmental related costs are described on pages 26 (SR13). EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan AR13 pages 64–65. SAS’ defined benefit pensions are disclosed in note 15 obligations. on pages 64–65 (AR13) in accordance with IAS 19. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 33 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments EC4 Significant financial assistance received from AR13 pages 94–95. SAS receives no significant subsidies. Within the air­ government. line industry, all operators can be eligible to a discount during the first months of operation on a new flight connection. Some connections to smaller airports, no­ tably in Norway and in Sweden, are subject to a public bidding process where the winning bid gives the oper­ ator a fixed sum for operating a flight connection un­ der given frequencies, airplane sizes and timeframes. Due to the open bidding process, SAS does not con­ sider this to be a form of subsidy. The Scandinavian governments are major shareholders of SAS as re­ ported on pages 94–95 (AR13). Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on SAS promotes the consideration of locally based sup­ locally-based suppliers at significant locations of pliers. Fuel is for example never sourced from only one operation. supplier since the SAS’ Purchasing Policy promotes using multiple suppliers for significant purchases. Catering and waste disposal is for example usually provided by locally-based suppliers. However, SAS does not collect data on aggregated level on this indicator. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior SAS employees are based in the Nordic countries. management hired from the local community at SAS seek to attain as high as possible level of locally significant locations of operation. hired management due to both better knowledge of local markets and lower cost compared to expatriates. However, SAS does not collect data on aggregated level on this indicator. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure invest­ SAS’ airline operations are an important part of the ments and services provided primarily for public transportation infrastructure in all countries where it benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono operates. All in-kind or pro-bono engagement regard­ engagement. ing infrastructure, e.g. free or subsidized airline tick­ ets, is performed by each subsidiary by themselves since they are the ones best suited to decide which en­ gagements to support. However, SAS does not collect data on aggregated level on this indicator. Examples of humanitarian assistance and partnerships are de­ scribed on page 14 (SR13). EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect SR13 page 27. Research and development is described on page 27 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. (SR13). Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. SAS don’t use any material for producing air transport. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. SR13 pages 3 and 28–29. The jet fuel consumed by SAS is the dominant source of energy. All certified jet fuels are fossil based. Direct energy consumption is reported on the following pages: Jet Fuel – pages 28–29 (SR13). Diesel/Petrol – pages 28–29 (SR13). EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. SR13 pages 3 and 28–29. SAS reports energy use in kWh or GWh as applicable. SAS does not convert these figures into joule. Report­ ing this indicator by primary source is not considered relevant due to the fact that jet fuel is the completely dominant source of energy for SAS. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency SR13 pages 19–22, SAS reports on efficiency as fuel consumption relative improvements. 25 and 29. to passenger kilometers on pages 29 (SR13). The fuelsave programs are described on pages 19–22 and 26 (SR13) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable SR13 pages 19–22 and 26. SAS reports on efficiency as fuel consumption relative energy based products and services, and reductions to passenger kilometers on pages 29 (SR13). The in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. fuelsave program is described on pages 19–22 and 26 (SR13). The possibility for the customer to offset the CO2 emissions from their flight is described on page 26 (SR13). The research for a jet fuel partly based on renewable resources is described on page 20 (SR13). EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption (excluding purchased and reductions achieved. electricity) is not considered material for SAS. In regards to employee business travel, a vast majority of all flights conducted by employees are accounted for in direct greenhouse gas emissions and all employee business travel is CO2-compensated. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported 34 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR13 pages 3 and 28–29. Water withdrawal as a total figure is disclosed on pages 28–29 (SR13). Dividing it by source is not deemed material. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed SR13 pages 4 and 8–9. SAS’ impact on biodiversity is described on page in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 4 (SR13). SAS does in general not own land. On biodiversity value outside protected areas. locations where SAS’ operations can have an indirect significant impact on biodiversity SAS involves in dialogues with the airport operators as described on pages 8–9 (SR13). SAS, through Star Alliance, has a partnership agree­ ment – Biosphere Connections – with a group of inter­ national organizations such as UNESCO, IUCN and Convention of wetlands (Ramsar) as described on http://www.staralliance.com/en/about/initiatives/ environment/ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, SAS’ impact on biodiversity is described on page 4 products, and services on biodiversity in protected (SR13). SAS does in general not own land. On loca­ areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside tions where SAS’ operations can have an indirect protected areas. significant impact on biodiversity SAS involves in dialogues with the airport operators. An example is described on pages 8–9 (SR13). Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR13 pages 4 and 28–29. SAS reports on direct greenhouse gas emissions on by weight. pages 4 and 28–29 (SR13). EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SAS does not consider other indirect greenhouse gas by weight. emissions to be material in comparison to the direct emissions which is the most significant environmental impact of the SAS’ operations. In regards to employee business travel, a vast majority of all flights conducted by employees are accounted for in direct greenhouse gas emissions. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and SR13 pages 19–22. Greenhouse gas emissions are the most significant reductions achieved. environmental impact of SAS. Thus, initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are presented throughout the report. Reductions achieved, both absolute and relative, are presented on pages 19–22 (SR13). EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. SR13 page 26. SAS’ airline operations have an exemption to use halons and submit annual reports to the authorities. The reason for the exemption is that there are no safe alternatives to halons as a fire extinguishant. The amount of halons used is disclosed on page 26 (SR13). Any emissions of halons will be disclosed in the Sustainability Report. EN20 NOX and other significant air emissions by type and SR13 pages 4 and 28–29. SAS reports NOX emissions. Other types of emissions weight. are not considered material in relation to the emis­ sions of CO2 and NOX. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. SAS does not report on discharges to water due to the fact that SAS’ normal operations does not cause any material discharges. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR13 pages 28–29. Waste is separated into unsorted waste and hazardous waste. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. AR13 pages 42–43. All significant spills are disclosed in the Sustainability SR13 pages 24 and 28–29. report and/or the Report by the Board of Directors. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of SR13 pages 19–22. The purposes of the SAS’ environmental efforts are products and services, and extent of impact all focused on reducing the environmental impact of mitigation. the services provided. Examples are SAS goal to reduce flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005 can be found on page 19-22 (SR13) and SAS work on alternative sustainable jet fuel can be found on page 20 (SR13). EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging The products sold by SAS are not considered material. materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR13 pages 42–43. The SAS discloses significant fines subsidiary by sub­ of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sidiary and/or in the Report by the Board of Directors. environmental laws and regulations. No fines in FY2013. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 35 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting SR13 pages 28–29. The fuel consumption of SAS ground operations’ products and other goods and materials used for the vehicles contains transportation of goods on the air­ organization’s operations, and transporting mem­ ports where SAS ground operations operates. The bers of the workforce. transportation of workforce members is included in the figures for the environmental impact of SAS. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and SR13 page 26. SAS discloses sustainability-related charges, costs and investments by type. investments on page 26 (SR13). Due to long history of reporting on internal definitions that are similar but not exactly as prescribed in the indicator protocol. Social Performance: Labor Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment AR13 page 57. The workforces, in terms of number of employees, contract, and region. SR13 page 16. are reported in accordance with SAS’ Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting November 2012–October 2013 . SAS does only report total workforce by region, not by employment type and contract. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age SAS does not report detailed turnover figures. group, gender, and region. Employee turnover is not deemed an significant key performance indicator on aggregated group level. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective SR13 page 13. In general, all SAS employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements. The main exception is top management on group level. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Information, consultation and negotiation procedures operational changes, including whether it is specified with employees over significant operational issues are in collective agreements. regulated by national laws and regulations. Thus, min­ imum notice periods are not reported. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal SR13 page 15. Joint management-worker health and safety commit­ joint management-worker health and safety commit­ tees cover all employees in SAS. tees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and AR13 pages 1 and 26–27. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities SR13 pages 14 and 16–17. by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and SR13 page 15. SAS don’t have any specific programs but the HSErisk-control programs in place to assist workforce department described on page 15 (SR13) continuously members, their families, or community members assists all SAS personnel regarding health issues, for regarding serious diseases. example stress or HIV/AIDS. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by SR13 page 14. SAS report total hours of training, not per employee or employee category. employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learn­ SR13 pages 13–14. SAS’ efforts on skills management is described on ing that support the continued employability of em­ pages 13–14 (SR13). Programs to support employees ployees and assist them in managing career endings. in career transitions is available through both SAS’ own effort and programs provided by local/regional/ national governments. Sabbatical periods and sever­ ance pay is regulated through national laws and regu­ lations. Since the Scandinavian countries have a long history of close cooperation between businesses, trade unions and government the solutions regarding restructuring etc. is handled in a dialogue with the parties concerned. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular All employees have the right to get annual performance performance and career development reviews. and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown AR13 pages 88–91. The board of directors and management is presented of employees per category according to gender, age SR13 page 16. on pages 88–91 (AR13). Gender breakdown of group, minority group membership, and other employees is presented on page 16 (SR13). No further indicators of diversity. indicators of diversity are aggregated on company level. LA14 R atio of basic salary of men to women by employee SR13 page 13. A vast majority of all SAS employees are subject to category. collective bargaining agreements where the salary and other benefits are defined, equal for both women and men as described on page 13 (SR13). Thus, no indicator on salary ratio is reported. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported 36 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Social Performance: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant invest­ The SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses ment agreements that include human rights clauses regarding Global Compact’s 10 principles. or that have undergone human rights screening. The majority of SAS suppliers are assessed with ques­ tions regarding sustainability related issues. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors The SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses that have undergone screening on human rights and regarding Global Compact’s 10 principles. actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and SR13 page 14. SAS provides an e-learning program regarding Code procedures concerning aspects of human rights that of Conduct. The number of employees that have com­ are relevant to operations, including the percentage pleted the program in the fiscal year is reported on of employees trained. page 14 (SR13). Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and SR13 pages 7. Incidents can be reported three ways. Through the actions taken. whistleblower function which is mentioned on page 7 (SR13), through safety representatives and through management and HR representatives. Due to the potential confidentiality of the information incidents reported is not publicly reported. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten freedom of association and collective bargaining may principles are based on the UN Declaration on Human be at significant risk, and actions taken to support Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles these rights. and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environ­ ment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where the SAS operates. This means, among other things, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done every year. Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten incidents of child labor, and measures taken to principles are based on the UN Declaration on Human contribute to the elimination of child labor. Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environ­ ment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where SAS operates. This means, among other things, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done every year. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and mea­ principles are based on the UN Declaration on Human sures to contribute to the elimination of forced or Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles compulsory labor. and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environ­ ment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where SAS operates. This means, among other things, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done every year. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the orga­ SAS does not in its operations employ security per­ nization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects sonnel since it is the responsibility of the airport oper­ of human rights that are relevant to operations. ators. However, the personnel at central security department at SAS, that are responsible for companywide security, are, as all SAS employees, introduced to the SAS’ Code of Conduct. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights No incident of violations involving rights of indigenous of indigenous people and actions taken. people has been reported during November 2012– October 2013. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 37 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Social Performance: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs SAS is constantly involved in stakeholder dialogues and practices that assess and manage the impacts to be able to assess and manage the impact on of operations on communities, including entering, communities. operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units SAS considers all business where valuable resources analyzed for risks related to corruption. are handled to be at risk related to corruption. Thus, all employees are covered by SAS’ Code of Conduct. Moreover, comprehensive guidelines are available for all employees regarding situations where risks related to corruption and other issues of unethical behavior is present. Hence, all business units are continuously analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SR13 page 14. SAS provides an e-learning program regarding Code anti-corruption policies and procedures. of Conduct. The number of employees that have com­ pleted the program in the fiscal year is reported on page 14 (SR13) All key personnel have been educated in SAS Competition Law Compliance Program. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No material crime or fraud has been directed toward SAS. SAS takes substantial measures to ensure that ethical behavior is a core value in all business relation­ ships through the Code of Conduct and SAS Competi­ tion Law Compliance Program. Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public SAS’ Code of Conduct SAS’ Code of Conduct states that “communication policy development and lobbying. work is to be conducted on a high, professional level and follow the laws and regulations that apply to listed companies. Internal and external communication is used to create insight, understanding, motivation, strength, willingness to change, sound labor standards and a good reputation. The main principle is that central functions are responsible for all communication affect­ ing overarching issues in SAS.” Moreover, the public af­ fairs department manages all communication activities with authorities and politicians. Many of the organizations in which SAS is a member (AEA and IATA) carry out lobby activities. However, SAS does not make any contributions or give other support, direct or indirect, to political parties or individual politicians. Nor are you allowed to make contributions at SAS’ expense or provide assis­ tance in the form of funds or resources from the SAS. For more information, see also the SAS’ Code of Conduct available at www.sasgroup.net under the heading “Sustainability”. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SAS has an extensive program, SAS Competition Law behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Compliance Program, to ensure that professional busi­ outcomes. ness relations are conformed to in SAS. No material crime or fraud has been directed toward SAS. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR13 pages 32 and 42. SAS discloses significant fines subsidiary by subsid­ of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with iary and in the Report by the Board of Directors. No laws and regulations. significant fines in FY2013. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported 38 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Social Performance: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of AR13 page 25. Flight safety is a main concern of SAS, where all airlines products and services are assessed for improvement, are certified in accordance to IOASA (IATA Operational and percentage of significant products and services Safety Audit). Further details about the SAS’ approach categories subject to such procedures. to customer safety can be found on page 25 (AR13). PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with AR13 page 25. SAS reports a risk index for Scandinavian Airlines and regulations and voluntary codes concerning health deviations in accordance with ICAO’s rules and regula­ and safety impacts of products and services during tions on page 25 (AR13). SAS considers flight safety their life cycle, by type of outcomes. to be the most relevant indicator for customer health and safety. Products and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by All airline travel has substantial information require­ procedures, and percentage of significant products ments. SAS strives to adhere to all laws and regula­ and services subject to such information require­ tions regarding service information. However, data on ments. information requirements are not publicly communi­ cated. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including AR13 page 7. SAS publishes results of their customer satisfaction results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. surveys or other measures on customer satisfaction per entity and in total. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and vol­ SR12 page 7. SAS Code of Conduct and SAS Competition Law Com­ untary codes related to marketing communications, pliance Program both include the subject of marketing including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. and communications. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonAR13 pages 32 and 42. SAS discloses all significant legal actions, including compliance with laws and regulations concerning fines for non-compliance concerning the provision the provision and use of products and services. and use of services, see pages 32 (AR13) and 42 (AR13) for further details. AR13 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October 2013 SR13 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 39 Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting fiscal year 2013 ”SAS” or ”SAS Group” is used throughout the report when the total operations Limitations are referred to. The main principle for sustainability reporting is that all units and companies For the financial year of 2013, SAS reports its general sustainability results di­ controlled by SAS are accounted for. This means that sustainability-related data vided into same segments as reported in the Annual report: for divested companies owned by SAS during the period will be reported wherev­ • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations within the SAS Consortium, er possible. The same accounting principles as for financial information in the An­ including SAS Technical Operations, SAS Cargo Group (SCG) and Blue 1. nual Report are intended to be used for financial information in the Sustainability • SAS Ground Handling (SGH). Report. • Widerøe was sold during the year and the environmental indicators are SAS has a number of production indicators (such as passenger kilometers disclosed separately on page 42 without external review. and available seat kilometers). There are differences between the Annual Report and the Sustainability report regarding how the number of passenger kilometers Within environmental responsibility, SAS strives to separate between airline and are disclosed. The Annual Report uses Revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) ground operations. Thus, the following divisions have been made: were paying passengers are included and the Sustainability Report uses passen­ • Airline operations with SK flight number ger kilometers (PK) were all passengers are included. • Ground handling within SAS Ground Handling (SGH). SGH conduct ground Standard definitions for environmental and social data have been applied handling for Scandinavian Airlines, Widerøe, Blue1 and other customers, such throughout SAS. One example is NOX calculations were SAS applies engine emis­ as other airlines. sions data from the most common engine version on each different verison of • Technical maintenance within SAS Technical Operations. SAS Technical Opera­ Boeing 737NG. Some minor limitations have been made regarding the informa­ tions conduct technical maintenance primarily for Scandinavian Airlines but tion provided in the Sustainability Report. None of the limitations are considered also for other customers, such as other airlines. to have substantial significance. • Freight and mail services within SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). • Facilities owned or leased by SAS used by Scandinavian Airlines (incl. Blue1), Changes in accounting and calculating principles SGH, SAS Technical Operations or SCG. The sustainability information in the Sustainability Report is affected by the following changes: SAS still holds interests in Air Greenland and Estonian Air, but as SAS is no longer Blue1 is disclosed as Scandinavian Airlines except for sick leave where the majority shareholder and is divesting the current holdings, they are not presented. result is disclosed separately. SAS’ structure is presented on page 82 in the SAS Annual Report with sustain­ Widerøe was sold during the year and the environmental indicators are ability overview November 2012–October 2013. disclosed separately on page 45 without external review. HC is not reported in FY2013. This is because the calculation method needs Sustainability reporting to be developed for parts of the Boeing 737NG fleet in order to more accurately SAS’ Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the SAS reflect the size of HC emissions during the current engine upgrade program. Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting. SAS has also applied the Global HC will be reported in FY2014. Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainable Reporting Guidelines, version 3.0. GRI FTE in Scandinavian Airlines and SAS Ground Handling in 2011 has been cross-references are available on page 31–39. These indicate where the GRI-indi­ adjusted due to updated calculations. cators are found in the SAS Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013, No changes in calculation principles fiscal year 2013. and also comment on non-applicable GRI-indicators. The Sustainability Report also covers all important principles in the UN Global Compact. GRI’s Sustainability Principles for reporting and calculation of environmental data Reporting Guidelines, version 3, contains 10 reporting principles, which have been Reported environmental information is based on the following calculations and/ taken into account in preparing the SAS Sustainability Report November 2012– or factors: October 2013. • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance (GCD) calculations between airport reference points as defined in national AIPs. Scope of the sustainability report • Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kg for any person with hand luggage SAS’ Sustainability Report should contribute to the evaluation and understanding and checked luggage transported. Does not including active crew. of SAS’ operations. The report is an overview of SAS’ structured sustainability • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. work. The goal of the SAS’ Sustainability Report November 2012–October 2013 • Fuel density (kg per liter): is to disclose all information necessary to provide the reader with a fair overview – Jet A/A-12): 0.8 or actual density. of SAS’ environmental, social, and financial responsibilities. – Diesel: 0.84 SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2012–October – Petrol: 0.73 2013 includes a general overview of SAS’ sustainability work on pages 18–21 – Heating oil: 0.84 and the sustainability information in the Board of Director’s Report on pages • CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): 38–43. – Jet A/A-12): 3.15 The utmost responsibility for the sustainability aspects of SAS, and their inte­ – Diesel: 3.17 gration in operational activities, lies with Group Management. The Sustainability – Petrol: 3.12 Report was reviewed by the SAS Group Management in January 2014. The SAS – Heating oil: 3.17 Group Board of Directors submitted the Annual Report in January 2014, and was • Energy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tons): informed of the Sustainability Report. – Jet A/A-1: 12.0 – Diesel: 12.0 – Petrol: 12.2 – Heating oil: 12.0 • Nitrogen oxides (NO X), factors (per weight unit of fuel): – Jet A/A-11) Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 1. Varies per aircraft/engine combination. SAS applies the most common engine version on each different verison of Boeing 737NG. 2. Fuel density and CO 2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated according to approved MRV-plan. 40 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Climate index SAS has chosen to construct an climate index for flight operations. The base year is full-year 2011 in order to follow up progress connected to activities in 4Excellence and 4XNG. The climate index is calculated by taking the quantity of emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides in relation to production. Even though there is no consensus regarding the weighting between the different greenhouse gases’ effect on total impact on climate change, SAS has chosen to base the calculation on the assumption from, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a reasonable multiplicator given the knowledge available “today”. Read more about Cicero that has provided basic data for IPCC, for example, on www.sasgroup.net under the headline Sustainability. This gives a relationship of 2/3 carbon dioxide to 1/3 other climate changing emissions such as nitrogen oxides, water vapor and particulates. Nitrogen oxides have been chosen as a non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Until clearer directives are given regarding how the total cli­ mate effect should be calculated every emission is reported separately. Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor Carbon dioxide 67% Passenger Kilometer (PK) Nitrogen oxides 33% The Climate index is designed for SAS to present year-to-year development. This assumes that no changes to methodology are made. Principles for reporting and calculation of social data The following principles for calculating and reporting of social data have been used. Occupational injuries (H-value): Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) is calculated using the following formula: No. of occupational injuries with minimum of one day’s absence x 1,000,000 total number of performed working hours per year Number of employees: In the Sustainability Report, the number of employees is based on the number of persons during the month of October and sick leave statistics calculated for the fis­ cal year. These are employees having a budgeted or actual schedule and/or who have been sick during the period. Sick leave: Sick leave for Scandinavian Airlines is reported as the number of hours sick in relation to actual or planned working hours. For Blue1 sick leave is reported as the percentage of sick leave in relation to planned work time. For sick leave, absence due to sick children is excluded. Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days) is reported as a percentage of total sick leave. Principles for reporting and calculation of external and other environmentally related costs Where possible environmentally related costs are based on information directly from the accounting system. When this has not been possible, e.g. for calcula­ tions of certain charges and taxes that are included in landing charges, estimates have been used based on the number of passengers to a certain destination and the charge or tax per passenger. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 41 Sustainability-terms, definitions and concepts A changed by decrease in other charges. The methods for classifying aircraft differ between countries as well as airports within countries. Although the charges are Acetate Acetic acid (CH3 COOH). Used by airport operators to deice takeoff and differentiated based on the ecoefficiency of the aircraft, all in all they are balanced landing strips. out in such a way as to amount to the total cost determined by the airport operator. ASK Available Seat Kilometers, the available (offered) number of passenger Environmentally related contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities pertaining seats multiplied by the distance flown. to possible future costs for measures to prevent, reduce or restore environmental ATAG Air Transport Action Group is an independent coalition of organization and damage arising from operations. companies throughout the air transport industry . Environmentally related investments Investments in assets to prevent, reduce ATK Available Ton Kilometers, available (offered) capacity for passengers and or restore environmental damage arising from operations and/or aimed at meet­ cargo expressed in metric tonnes, multiplied by the distance flown. ing upcoming, more stringent environmental requirements. Average number of employees Average number of employees is defined as the Environmentally related provisions Provisions for liabilities and allocations for average number of employees expressed in full time equivalents, excluding leave known undertakings and requisite measures to prevent, reduce or restore envi­ of absence, parental leave and long-term sick leave. This definition is also used in ronmental damage arising from operations. the financial reporting. Sometimes the term FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. Environmentally related taxes Taxes which, in contrast to other corporate taxa­ B tion, are motivated by environmental grounds. Examples are the environmentally motivated passenger charge in the UK and the environmentally related fiscal Biofuels Solid or liquid fuel with biological origin. Liquid fuels for vehicle/ship/ CO2 -charge in Norway. The charge on glycol in Norway is also included as a part aircraft engines. To various degrees considered carbon neutral. EU’s renewables of the environmentally related taxes. directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels directive (2003/30/EC) defines the EU’s External environmentally related costs The sum of environmental charges and mandates on biofuels and degree of carbon neutrality. environmentally related charges and taxes. C F CAEP Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection, technical committee Fossil fuels Fuels consisting of organic carbon and hydrogen compounds in of the ICAO (see definition) charged with developing and establishing rules and sediment or underground deposits – especially coal, oil and natural gas. recommending measures to reduce the environmental impact of aviation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) A colorless gas that is formed in combustion of all fossil G fuels. The airline industry’s CO2 emissions are being reduced through a change­ Germicides Chemicals used to kill or prevent the growth of harmful microorgan­ over to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something that is also desirable from a finan­ isms such as bacteria, virus or fungus. Added to the sanitizing liquid in aircraft cial standpoint since lower fuel consumption automatically means lower costs. lavatories reduce the risk of infection. Carbon monoxide (CO) A toxic and combustible gas formed by incomplete burn­ Global Compact A challenge from the former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan ing of substances containing carbon, e.g. fossil fuels. to business and industry to live up to ten principles of human rights, employee Certification requirements The ICAO’s minimum requirements for certification rights, the environment and anti-corruption, as formulated by the UN. of aircraft types, such as limits for noise and emissions of carbon dioxide, www.unglobalcompact.org nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons (see Chapter 2, 3). Glycol An alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft in cold weather to prevent ice for­ CFCs A group of clorofluorocarbons that may also contain hydrogen and /or bro­ mation. Today, a non-toxic propylene glycol is used. Some 80% of the glycol runs mide. A class of stable chemical compounds mostly known under the trade names off the aircraft when applied, and seeps into the ground unless collected. A further Freon or Halon. Manufacture prohibited by Montreal Protocol because of negative 15% is emitted into the air and is thus dispersed in the vicinity of the airport. The effect, depletion of the Ozone Layer. Aviation has exception for use under a critical airports are responsible for collecting the glycol runoff for reuse. use clause due to lack of approved alternatives. Research for alternatives is ongoing. GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An organization aiming to provide companies and Charges for the infrastructure Charges imposed by the operators of the infra­ organizations with a global sustainability reporting framework and thereby facili­ structure and which are intended to cover operating and capital costs for airlines tate comparisons between companies from a social, environmental and economic and air traffic management. perspective. www.globalreporting.org CO2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). Green Approach In a Green Approach, the approach begins from from the Top of Code of Conduct Business ethics rules and guidelines. Descent (ToD) using a Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) with minimum thrust. D Greenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gases trap and reradiate incoming solar radiation that would otherwise be reflected back into space. The problem is dB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that expresses the magnitude of a that emissions of greenhouse gases have increased. Most scientists agree that physical quantity relative to a specified or implied reference level. heavy human use of fossil fuels is causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is Drop-in fuel A fuel that is chemically indistinguishable from conventional jet fuel. formed in combustion of all fossil fuels, but burning of biofuels only emits an This means that no changes would be required in aircraft or engine fuel systems, amount of carbon equal to that absorbed during growth, producing no net emis­ distribution infrastructure or storage facility. It can be mixed interchangeably sions. However, use of coal, oil and natural gas produce a net increase, since they with existing jet fuel. release carbon that has been bound in the earth’s crust. The freon substitute E HFC, methane and nitrous oxide are other powerful greenhouse gases. Other gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect are CFCs (see definition), methane Ecoefficiency A term launched primarily by the environmentally oriented busi­ and nitrous oxide. ness organization WBCSD. Ecoefficiency is defined as a tool that companies can use to measure their environmental performance relative to how market demands H are met and the company’s financial performance is improved. The goal of eco­ Halons See CFCs. efficiency is to generate qualitative growth where value is created instead of HC Hydrocarbons (see VOCs). transforming unnecessary volumes of material and energy into waste. Heavy metals Certain high-density metals, such as cadmium and mercury, EMAS EU Eco Management and Audit Scheme. EMAS is based on ISO 14001. which both have acute and chronic toxic effects. Two of its requirements are publication of an environmental audit and employee Hydrocarbons See Volatile organic compounds. involvement. Current edition is EMAS III (2009). Environmental impact of leased aircraft Fuel consumption and emissions I from leased aircraft and aircraft leased including the crew (wet lease), are includ­ IATA The Air Transport Association represents, leads and serves the airline in­ ed in the reported data for Scandinavian Airlines. dustry. Its members comprise all major passenger and cargo airlines Environmentally related charges Charges imposed by the airport operators ISO 14000 A series of international environmental standards developed by the for the purpose of motivating aircraft operators to operate aircrafts with high ecoInternational Organization for Standardization. The general guiding principles for efficiency with respect to noise and other emissions such as of NO X as well as sur­ ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality standard ISO 9000. There are sev­ charges imposed by airport operators to motivate aircraft operators to avoid take­ eral environmental standards in the ISO 14000 family, such as for environmental offs and landings at night. In some cases the environmentally related charges are management systems (ISO 14001), environmental labeling, environmental audits considered income-neutral, i.e. the total income of the airport remains un­ and life-cycle analyses. 42 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 J S Jet A-1 Common jet fuel specification outside North America. (Jet A and Jet A-1 SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. Aviation industry organization are very similar and throughout this Sustainability Report the term jet fuel is used focused on accelerating the development and commercialization of sustainable to describe fuel used by aviation. aviation fuels. SO2 Sulfur dioxide (see definition). K Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Formed in combustion of fossil fuels if containing sulfur. A Kerosene The common name for petroleum-derived jet fuel such as Jet A-1. colorless gas with an acrid odor that is toxic when inhaled in large quantities. Avi­ Kerosene is one of the fuel sources that can be made by refining crude oil. It is ation fuel contains a minute proportion of sulfur, and, accordingly, causes only also used for a variety of other purposes. minor emissions of this substance. The same applies to the “green” diesel used in ground vehicles. In the airline industry, as in many others, sulfur dioxide emis­ M sions come largely from oil-fired heating. MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 emissions and production in Sustainable development means that when mankind satisfies its needs to to­ tonne-kilometers in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. day, it does so without limiting the opportunities for future generations to satisfy theirs. N T N-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental Issues in Aviation, com­ posed of civil aviation, environmental and communication authorities and airlines Tonne kilometers The number of transported metric tonnes of passengers and in the Nordic countries. cargo multiplied by the distance flown. Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Formed during combustion in all in engines. For aircraft U engines since the high temperature and pressure cause the atmospheric nitro­ gen and oxygen to react with each other, mainly during takeoff and ascent when Urea A urine substance synthetically produced from carbon dioxide and ammo­ the engine temperature is at a maximum. With effect from 1996, the ICAO has nia that is used by airport operators for deicing of runways. Contributes to nutrifi­ tightened the requirements for nitrogen oxide emissions, and these are expected cation/ eutrophication. See also Acetate. to be made even stricter. New engines with double annular combusters (DAC), for V example, reduce emissions by up to 40% compared with the previous generation of engines. (See also Acidification and Ozone layer.) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Emitted during incomplete combustion of Noise Environmentally detrimental, undesirable sounds. The environmental im­ fossil fuels – in aviation mainly when the engine is run at low speed and the tem­ pact of air traffic in the form of noise is primarily of a local nature. Noise is normally perature in the combustion chamber is low. This category also includes all types described and measured in dB(A), an A-weighted sound level. of solvents that evaporate from detergents and paints, among other things. With NO X Nitrogen oxides (see definition). effect from April 1, 2002, only aircraft with low VOC emissions will be permitted in the EU. O W Occupational injuries Occupational injuries is the number of injuries employ­ ees incur by accidents at the workplace resulting in at least one day of absence. Weighted noise contour The weighted noise contour is calculated based on Oil aerosols Oil emitted from the aircraft engines during operation under high the number of takeoffs per day at a given airport, with regard to the aircraft types pressure. Upon contact with air they form a fine mist, which is then broken down the airline uses at that airport. The weighted noise contour defines the area in primarily into carbon dioxide. km2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of 85 dB(A) or more in connection with Other environmentally related costs Costs for waste management, purifica­ takeoff. tion plants, permits, any fines and charges for permit deviation, costs for remedi­ ation measures, etc. as well as internal reported costs for environmental work, e.g. costs for persons and organizations working with environmental issues, costs for sustainability reporting etc. P PFOS: Perfluorooctane sulfonate. A substance used as fire-fighting foam among other uses and prohibited for use in in concentrations of 0.005% per weight or higher since 2007 in Norway. Regulation work ongoing in the EU and USA. PK (used in the sustainability-related reporting) Passenger Kilometers, uti­ lized (sold) capacity for passengers expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the distance flown in scheduled traffic, charter, ad hoc flights and bonus trips. PULS The Swedish acronym for SAS´s employee surveys, conducted via individ­ ual questionnaires. R RPK (used in the financial reporting) Revenue Passenger Kilometers, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the distance flown. Revenue passengers include only those paying at least 25% of the regular ticket price. RTK Revenue Ton Kilometers, utilized passenger and cargo capacity expressed in metric tonnes, multiplied by the great circle distance flown. Revenue passen­ gers and cargo over a certain payment limit. PK Passenger Kilometers, includes all passengers excluding active crew multi­ plied by the great circle distance flown for all flights performed. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 43 Assurance Report Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To the readers of the SAS AB (publ) Sustainability Report The criteria on which our examination is based are the parts of the Sus­ tainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting Introduction Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well We have been engaged by the management of SAS AB (publ) to per­ as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has de­ form an examination of the SAS Sustainability Report for the year veloped and disclosed. These criteria are presented on pages 40–41. November 2012–October 2013, excluding pages pages 42–45. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustain­ ability Report. Responsibility of the Board and Management We consider the evidence collected during our examination to be for the Sustainability Report sufficient and appropriate in order to support our conclusions listed be­ The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsi­ low. ble for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the prepara­ Conclusions tion and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us applicable criteria. to believe that the information in the SAS Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above Responsibility of the Auditor stated criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Re­ Based on our audit, the information in the SAS Sustainability Report port based on our examination. We have performed the assurance en­ which has been subject to our audit procedures has, in all material re­ gagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Re­ spects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. ports issued by FAR. The engagement consists of a review of the Sustainability Report as a whole, excluding information on Widerøe, and an audit of selected information as specified below. Stockholm, 27 January 2014 The objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable assurance that the information in the Sustainability Report is free of material misstatements. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the quantitative and qualitative information in the Sustainability Report. A Bo Hjalmarsson Fredrik Ljungdahl review is mainly limited to making inquiries of personnel responsible for Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR sustainability issues, and applying analytical and other review proce­ dures. Hence, the conclusion based on our review procedures does not comprise the same level of assurance as the conclusion of our audit. Since this assurance engagement is combined, our conclusions re­ garding the audit and the review will be presented in separate sections. Our audit has included the following information: a. Financial indicators on page 3 b. Jet fuel and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to SAS flight operations 44 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 Key environmental figures for Widerøe Not reviewed by external auditor. Key environmental figures for Widerøe flight operations Aspect Input (1) Inputs (2) Results Widerøe Aspect Nov 12– Sep 13 unit (1) Nov 12–Sep 13 unit (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Nov 12–Sep 13 Jet fuel – used 57 1,000 tonnes 915 million PK Kilo per PK 0.062 Jet fuel – CO2 178 1,000 tonnes 915 million PK CO2 gram/PK 0.195 Jet fuel – NOX 0.7 1,000 tonnes 915 million PK NOX gram/PK 0.001 85 dB area in KM2 per Aicraft Noise – takeoff 33 1,000 km2 126 1,000 departures departure 0.26 Key environmental figures for Widerøe operations regarding Ground Fuel, Glycol, Energy, Waste and water Aspect Input (1) Inputs (2) Results Total Nov 12– Sep 13 unit (1) Nov 12–Sep 13 unit (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Nov 12–Sep 13 Energy 7 GWh 1.2 1,000 FTE MWh per FTE 5.8 As of electricity 5 GWh 1.2 1,000 FTE MWh per FTE 3.8 As of heating 2.4 GWh 1.2 1,000 FTE MWh per FTE 2.0 As of heating oil (included in “heating”) 2.4 GWh 1.2 1,000 FTE MWh per FTE 2.0 Unsorted Waste 72 tonnes 1.2 1,000 FTE kilo per FTE 59.6 Hazardous waste 7 tonnes 1.2 1,000 FTE kilo per FTE 5.8 Water 7 1,000 m 3 1.2 1,000 FTE m per FTE 3 5.5 Vehicle Diesel – Fuel used 71 1,000 liters 126 1,000 departures 1,000 liters per departure 0.6 Vehicle Diesel – CO2 190 tonnes 126 1,000 departures CO2 kilo per departure 1.5 Vehicle Petol – Fuel used 1 1,000 liters 126 1,000 departures 1,000 liters per departure 0.0 Vehicle Petrol – CO2 2 tonnes 126 1,000 departures CO2 kilo per departure 0.0 Glycol used 183 1,000 m3 1.2 1,000 deicings Liter per deicing 150.8 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2012– October 2013 45 www.sasgroup.net The best network and schedule in the Nordic region SAS AB (publ) Street address: Kabinvägen 5, Arlanda, Sweden Corp. Reg. No. 556606-8499 Postal address: SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden Domicile: Stockholm Telephone: +46 8 797 00 00
