FUNG GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continuing support The Fung Group of companies (the “Group”), is pleased to publish its Communication on Progress for the year 2013. This report outlines the steps that we have taken to promote the United Nations Global Compact (ungc) principles within our Group companies, as well as throughout our supply chains and among our stakeholders. Since its founding more than 100 years ago, the Fung Group has always sought to operate and improve its performance in line with the principles of the Compact. We strive to run sustainable businesses that produce useful goods and services, create jobs, use resources efficiently, care for the environment, and operate with a high degree of transparency and integrity. We aim to contribute to the economic and social well-being of the communities in which we operate and thus reflect the Compact’s principles. Today, we remain as committed as ever to the Compact’s principles and seek to promote the principles wherever we operate. In an increasingly complex world and with the everpresent challenge of sustainable inclusive development, we continue to see the Compact as an expanding platform for collective action and engagement between business, government, and civil society. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the ungc framework, we share our experiences and invite others to join us in partnership. victor fung group chairman fung group | communication on progress 2013 1 Fung Group of Companies Who we are The Fung Group is a multinational group headquartered in Hong Kong whose companies are engaged in sourcing, distribution and logistics, and retailing of consumer products. The Group’s Trading and Logistics operations are under Li & Fung Limited, which is the leading consumer goods design, development, sourcing, and logistics company for major retailers and brands around the world. Li & Fung Limited manages supply chains producing high-volume time-sensitive goods to meet customers’ specific needs. The company’s end-to-end logistics solutions span the time a product leaves a factory to its point of sale. Subsequent to the period covered by this report, the distribution businesses of Li & Fung Limited were listed on July 9, 2014 as a separately operating business called the Global Brands Group Holding Limited (gbg), which remains an operating entity of the Fung Group. gbg designs, develops, markets and sells products across a diverse brand portfolio. Its customers primarily are retailers, from department stores to specialty retailers and e-commerce channels, in the Americas, Europe and Asia. During the period covered by this report, the activities and operations of the Global Brands Group were substantially part of Li & Fung Limited, and are therefore reported as such. Fung Retailing Limited operates the Group’s fourth core business of retailing with two publicly-listed entities: Convenience Retail Asia Limited, which operates convenience stores and bakeries; and Trinity Limited which sells high-end menswear. The Group also has a number of privately held retail businesses including Branded Lifestyle Holdings Limited, Fung Kids (Holdings) Limited, Suhyang Networks, uccal Fashion Group and Toys”R”Us (Asia). This report covers primarily the listed entities of the Group: Li & Fung Limited (incorporating gbg for purposes of the report), Convenience Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited. A chart of the Group’s current structure is shown below. In sum, the Fung Group employs approximately 45,000 men and women across 40 economies. fung group | communication on progress 2013 2 FUNG HOLDINGS (1937) LIMITED A privately held entity and major shareholder of the Fung Group TRADING AND LOGISTICS DISTRIBUTION RETAILING The Group’s Trading and Logistics The Group’s Distribution business for The Group’s diverse Retailing businesses businesses are under Li & Fung Limited, branded apparel and related products is operate under Fung Retailing Limited, which is the leading consumer goods operated by Global Brands Group Holding including the publicly-listed Convenience design, development, sourcing, and logistics Limited. It designs, develops, markets Retail Asia Limited, and the privately-held company for major retailers and brands and sells products across a diverse brand Branded Lifestyle Holdings Limited, Fung around the world. With a growing network portfolio and creates new opportunities, Kids (Holdings) Limited, Toys“R”Us (Asia), of over 15,000 suppliers in more than 40 product categories and market expansion for Suhyang Netowkrs and UCCAL Fashion countries, it specialises in responsibly brands on a global scale. Group. managing sustainable supply chains of highvolume, time-sensitive goods. It also offers a customisable menu of logistics solutions, from warehousing, transport, repacking, and customs brokerage to freight forwarding, hubbing, consolidation and other valueadded services. LI & FUNG LIMITED GLOBAL BRANDS GROUP FUNG RETAILING HOLDING LIMITED LIMITED Listed on SEHK Listed on SEHK Privately held entity CONVENIENCE BRANDED LIFESTYLE RETAIL ASIA LIMITED HOLDINGS LIMITED TRINITY LIMITED FUNG KIDS (HOLDINGS) LIMITED Listed on SEHK TOYS “R” US (ASIA) SUHYANG NETWORKS UCCAL FASHION GROUP Privately held entities fung group | communication on progress 2013 3 Our approach to sustainability Our operating companies share a common set of values and approach to sustainability, which reflect the belief that our companies should contribute to the economic, social and environmental well being of the communities in which we operate. Each of our primary operating companies has a corporate sustainability task force comprised of managers across key functions and geographies to set strategies, coordinate actions and drive the sustainability agenda forward. These task forces are typically headed by a senior executive responsible for sustainability, who reports directly to the ceo, who is then accountable to the Board of Directors. For Li & Fung Limited, this process is reinforced by the additional governance structure of a Risk Management and Sustainability Committee within the Board of Directors. At the Group level, we operate an additional sustainability task force which convenes the sustainability heads from each of the operating companies, plus other key functions such as communications, it, corporate compliance, properties and philanthropy, to coordinate actions and strategies and facilitate best practices and resource sharing. Many of our Group sustainability and leadership programs are housed within the Fung Academy, which seeks to accelerate learning and develop future capabilities of the Group. Affiliated with the Group are also two charitable foundations: the Fung (1906) Foundation, which supports Fung Group colleagues to engage in and contribute to communities worldwide; and the Victor and William Fung Foundation, which funds scholarships and thought leadership within think tanks and other organizations. In this report, we highlight our policies and progress over the past year on actions to carry out the United Nations Global Compact principles, and invite anyone with further interest to explore the public disclosures and websites of our respective group companies. These may all be accessed through our Group website: www.funggroup.com. fung group | communication on progress 2013 4 The 10 Principles HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. fung group | communication on progress 2013 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Actions to promote the Principles The Fung Group of Companies is committed to upholding internationally recognized human rights in our own operations and externally in our supply chains and relations with key stakeholder groups. Each of our group companies has in place a Code of Conduct Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and Business Ethics which covers human rights. New employees are briefed on the Code and must agree to abide by it before starting employment. The Code is published on employee intranets and in handbooks. Employees are encouraged to report any violations to their manager, Violation reporting or as an alternative, directly and confidentially to the Group Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer audits compliance to the Code throughout the Group and reports any material noncompliance independently to the Chairman and for our listed companies, to the relevant Board of Directors. Group companies operate in over 40 economies worldwide, including many developing countries and countries where the rule of law may not be strong. In doing business, we are conscious of our dual obligation to comply with local legislation as well as to respect and follow international norms of behavior with regard to human rights. Therefore, Li & Fung Limited and Trinity Limited, for example, base their human rights commitments and policy on the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and fung group | communication on progress 2013 6 Rights at Work; and support the UN Declaration of Human Rights as a necessary foundation for social development and economic progress. This is outlined on each of the company’s public websites at http://www.lifung.com/eng/csr/csr7.php and http://www. trinitygroup.com/en/the-group/sustainability/our-approach.html. Our human rights commitment is also reflected throughout our supply chain. We recognize that our responsibility extends to relations with key stakeholders, and therefore, each operating company has in place a Code of Conduct for Suppliers. The Code Code of Conduct for Suppliers makes clear the standards to which we expect our business partners to adhere, and requires suppliers to respect and uphold local legal requirements and internationally proclaimed human rights. It contains ten principles including three that cover freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining, voluntary labor, and working age. Any supplier wishing to trade with us must accept the Code and remains contractually bound by it during the course of their business with us. Compliance with the Code is assessed by processes and checks Compliance teams within each company. For Li & Fung Limited, a trained, in-house compliance team assures supplier compliance with the code using audits, monitoring, and other tools. Li & Fung Limited holds training seminars, workshops and sessions in order to ensure fung group | communication on progress 2013 7 understanding of the principles contained in the Code and the benefits of sustainable compliance. Where violations occur, our staff work with the supplier concerned to address the problem and raise its performance. In addition, Li & Fung Limited has published a Supplier Compliance Multilingual Supplier Compliance Manuals and online asessment tools to identify Manual in multiple languages that explains how to meet the compliance gaps Code and is the first step in building competency for sustainable compliance. In parallel, an online assessment tool for suppliers identifies compliance gaps, which enables employees to follow-up, identify opportunities for improvement, and support suppliers with training, education and tools. Suppliers identified as having compliance issues will have access to capacity-building resources and be required to resolve the issue(s) to continue business. Progress and outcomes The Fung Group recognizes the importance of respecting and Audits to assess compliance of third-party suppliers promoting human rights globally. In 2013, Li & Fung Limited conducted audits to assess compliance of third-party suppliers with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and audits for Trinity Limited’s production suppliers were also conducted by Li & Fung Limited’s compliance staff. To further sustainability in the supply chain, Li & Fung Limited significantly expanded the implementation of its standards and processes to engage business partners to improve working conditions. Over the course of 2013, it focused on enhancing its capacity-building tools and resources for vendors and factories, fung group | communication on progress 2013 8 including their translation into local languages. These cover issues and risks associated with business operations and social and environmental sustainability. Furthermore, awareness raising and Raising awareness of standards, processes, and legislation with resources and training training was held for employees and vendors on the requirements of new legislation, such as the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act to combat human trafficking and trading of conflict minerals. In all, the Group organized over 500 trainings sessions for over 18,000 factory representatives. In 2013, monthly meetings of the Sustainability Working Group Monthly meetings to guide executives on human rights issues discussed human rights issues so as to give executives responsible for sustainability knowledge and guidance on how to ensure that our operations and stakeholder relations continue to promote human rights. fung group | communication on progress 2013 9 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions to promote the Principles The Group supports and actively promotes the four ungc labour principles internally in our own operations and externally with our business partners and stakeholders. Internally, each of our Group companies has in place a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which binds all employees to upholding and specifically refers to these principles in our operations, for instance, in recruitment, training, review and promotion, remuneration, and so on. On top of these principles, we strive to create a workplace and working environment known for diversity, respect, collaboration and opportunity. fung group | communication on progress 2013 10 Each new hire is briefed on the Code and must agree to abide by it before starting employment. The Code is published on employee intranets and in employment handbooks. Staff are given training and provided resources to allow them to continuously upgrade their knowledge and practices for carrying out these principles in their work. With regard to Principles on collective bargaining and freedom of association, the Group follows the employment regulations or labour codes of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics section 12 “Human and Labor Rights, And Fair and Equal Treatment” references the un Global Compact principles, the un Declaration of Human Rights and the ilo’s core conventions. The other Group companies will progressively adopt similar approaches. Employees are encouraged to report any violations of the Code to Violation reporting their direct manager or alternatively directly and confidentially to the Group Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer audits compliance to the Code throughout the Group and reports any material non-compliance independently to the Chairman and for our listed companies, to the relevant Board of Directors. Externally, we recognize our responsibility to promote the ungc fung group | communication on progress 2013 11 labour principles throughout our supply chain. As such, each operating company has in place a Code of Conduct for Suppliers Code of Conduct for Suppliers that binds their suppliers to uphold the ungc labour principles. Any supplier trading with our Group must accept the Code and remains contractually bound by it during the course of their business with us. Compliance with the code is assessed by each respective company. In the case of Li & Fung Limited, a trained, in-house compliance team of more than 160 people uses announced and unannounced Regular audits audits, monitoring and other tools to ensure compliance with the code. The Group recognizes that compliance with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers is necessary, but is only the first step in a process of building sustainable compliance. Compliance backed by audits must be tied to capacity building and training to ensure that suppliers have the tools and incentive to raise their performance and sustainability attributes of their product, while improving working conditions. For example, Li & Fung Limited’s guidance materials and practical Guidance materials and practical tools tools cover issues and risks associated with business operations and labor, health and safety, environmental and security practices. They include: • The Sustainability Resource Center website for suppliers to access training schedules and a suite of resources to assist them to improve performance. • Supplier Compliance Manual that outlines how to meet our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. • Critical and Major Issues Tutorial and Zero Tolerance Issues Tutorial that provide detailed guidance on how to address issues and what is required to demonstrate compliance with the Group’s Standards. • Comprehensive Occupational Safety & Health Toolkit to help suppliers to adopt safe and healthy systems and practices in their workplaces. • Digital Learning Units for Managers and Workers, which are a series of short, user-friendly and practical videos developed with the support of the Fung Academy. The first in the series, on fire safety, was launched in late 2012. fung group | communication on progress 2013 12 Li & Fung Limited is also involved in key multi-stakeholder industry initiatives to set standards and effect change. Examples of these are in the following section. Progress and outcomes In 2013, Li & Fung Limited’s global vendor compliance team Global vendor compliance team continued to monitor its, and Trinity Limited’s, suppliers to meet its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, as well as a number of industry and customer-specific audit standards and protocols. In 2014, Convenience Retail Asia Limited established a dedicated team to manage compliance performance of its suppliers. In addition in 2013, Li & Fung Limited significantly expanded the implementation of its compliance standards and processes and its offering of capacity-building tools and resources for vendors and Capacity-building tools for vendors and factories factories. These resources cover issues and risks associated with business operations and labor, health and safety, environmental and security practices. • Training modules on the prevention of human trafficking, improving workplace conditions, human resources management, meeting local legal standards and export security requirements fung group | communication on progress 2013 13 are available for vendors and factories; • Sustainable Suggestions for our Partners provide “how to get started” modules on energy and water efficiency, ghg reduction, sustainable buildings, waste management, lean manufacturing, human resource management and occupational health and safety; • Digital Learning Units for Managers and Workers are a series of short, user-friendly and practical videos developed with the support of the Fung Academy. New modules include: electricity safety, managing working hours and manufacturing excellence. Over 500 training sessions for over 18,000 factory representatives Training sessions and Sustainability Working Group were also conducted. 3,000 Li & Fung employees also attended. In addition, labor issues were regularly discussed in the Sustainability Working Group, so as to give executives responsible for sustainability information and operational guidelines to enable our workplaces and supply chains to constantly improve our performance with regard to the ungc labour principles. In 2013 the Group companies also expanded their involvement with several key industry initiatives that bring customers, industry Supporting industry initiatives associations, and non-governmental organizations together to work collectively to set standards and effect change. • As You Sow – through which we engage with our suppliers to not knowingly source cotton from Uzbekistan where forced and child labor is a significant concern. • International Labor Organization’s Better Work program – as an ilo-recognized Better Work partner, we support factories in Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia Jordan and Vietnam to improve labor conditions. • Care International – working in four factories on the three-year Hemaya Project to empower Jordanian women who work in the Jordanian garment sector, improve workplace relations, reduce poverty and improve livelihood options for local women and families. • Global Social Compliance Programme – to improve working conditions and environmental practices in the global supply chain. • The her Project of the Business for Social Responsibility (bsr), which empowers women with the knowledge and skills to improve their health, living conditions and livelihoods, in 14 fung group | communication on progress 2013 14 factories in Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Vietnam, with the support of the Fung (1906) Foundation. While we have made progress in integrating labor standards in our own operations and our supply chain, we recognize the journey is long and the challenge bigger that we alone can address. The tragic occurrence of the Rana Plaza factory building collapse in March 2013 has further galvanized companies to collaborate to implement common standards for safety and to provide practical support for factories to improve conditions in Bangladesh. Li & Fung Limited is actively supporting the multi-stakeholder initiatives Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety and the Accord on Fire and Building Safety, and the efforts of the ilo and the Bangladeshi Government to implement the National Tripartite Plan of Action on Fire Safety and Structural Integrity in the garment sector. These initiatives are standard setters for improvements in safety and workplace conditions globally that will bring increased development and competitive benefits to emerging economies. fung group | communication on progress 2013 15 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Actions to promote the Principles Our companies have always endeavored to operate responsibly by protecting the environment and using natural resources efficiently. In recent years, those priorities have taken on added importance and are now a fundamental area for risk management and meeting the rising expectations of our customers, investors and the public. As part of our Group sustainability strategy, we aim to responsibly manage the environmental footprint of our own operations and facilitate suppliers to act on their own incremental impact. Climate change and population growth are contributing to the increasing costs of resources, particularly as energy, water and raw materials become increasingly sensitive and scarce in supply. Changes in weather patterns and the increasing severity of storm events also fung group | communication on progress 2013 16 have the potential to impact on the sourcing, distribution and delivery of our goods and services. Addressing these risks as our operations expand globally is challenging; we therefore focus on reducing our impacts by continually looking for opportunities to be more efficient, and to source and use environmentally-responsible materials, equipment, building materials, and services. As a baseline, our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics requires all employees to protect the environment in line with the precautionary principle, in our operations and supply chain. This message is reiterated and reinforced through a number of means including internal meetings, trainings, promotions through the staff intranet, employee outings, and other events such as Earth Hour. Within the Fung Group’s own operations: We measure our energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and certain waste streams throughout our own facilities and offices, and make targeted annual intensity reductions Annual intensity reductions across all of these areas. We endeavor to increasingly build and operate sustainable offices and facilities, and where possible to achieve recognized industry standards or certifications in these areas, including: fung group | communication on progress 2013 17 • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (leed) or Building Research Establishment Environmental Method (breeam) certification for buildings and offices; eewh Green Building Evaluation System of Taiwan certifications achieved for office and distribution center facilities to date. • The Wastewi$e scheme run by the Hong Kong Environmental Protection Department. • In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders program. In view of concerns of natural resource scarcity and environmental stewardship, Li & Fung Limited has developed and implemented Green Meeting Guidelines designed for internal and external Green Meeting Guidelines company meetings. Other Group companies are expected to adopt these whenever possible. In our supply chains and stakeholder relationships, we expect our suppliers to abide by all local environmental legislation, and where relevant we require that they avoid the use of ozonedepleting chemicals and certain toxic materials in production processes and the trade in endangered species. We also encourage and provide technical support to suppliers on energy and water efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions, sustainable building, lean manufacturing, health and safety and human resource management, both directly and through recognized industry programs. We also facilitate the sharing of best practices across our supplier network, both directly through our own programs and through industry groups. In keeping with our role as a responsible employer and corporate Employee programmes promoting greater environmental awareness citizen, we have also introduced programs to raise and encourage greater environmental awareness amongst employees and the community at large. For example, community clean-ups and treeplanting activities are regularly organized by our offices. Progress and outcomes As outlined above, the Group has initiated diverse streams of action in view of our commitment to implement the principles on the environment. While we have made noticeable progress since our last COP, our challenge is to ensure that our approach is comprehensive, harmonized and focused. Some of our progress indicators are outlined on the following pages. fung group | communication on progress 2013 18 Energy, Water & Waste In 2013, the group measured and managed its energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and various waste streams throughout its operations. The table below establishes an initial baseline for the reporting of each operating company for the Group as whole. Fung Group 2013 Sustainability Data Li & Fung Ltd. Trinity Ltd.* CRA Ltd. Group Total ghg Scope 1 emissions ( tCO2e) 8,327 55 1,240 9,622 ghg Scope 2 emissions ( tCO2e) 92,880 2,984 7,590 103,369 Electricity (kWh) 151,290,590 3,701,257 58,840,197 213,828,878 Water (m3) 1,560,192 7,822 134,643 1,702,657 Paper (reams) 271,917 3,483 15,942 291,342 *Trinity figures are for Hong Kong and Macau only. Throughout our global offices, stores and facilities, the Group Group-wide energy-savings initiatives expanded energy-savings initiatives which involved capital investment and behavioral change, including: • Adoption of an enterprise-wide environmental management and accounting software system; • Progressively retrofitting t-8 and halogen lighting with energy-efficient led, t-5 and cfl alternatives and maintaining appropriate lux levels; • Optimizing performance and energy-efficient retrofits of chillers; • Turning off lights, computers, monitors and printers when not in use; • Implementing an automatic computer and lighting shutdown policy outside of working hours; • Installing energy-efficient servers, photocopiers, printers and other equipment; • Maintaining office and server room temperatures at levels that minimize energy use; • Installation of recycling bins for paper, bottles and cans, and contracting with relevant waste handlers for recycling; • Using renewable energy where feasible; for instance, photovoltaic panels generate a portion of Li & Fung’s Istanbul office’s electricity demand; fung group | communication on progress 2013 19 • Implementing our Green Meeting Guidelines to reduce energy use, consumption and wastage during internal and external meetings, and increasing our use of video conferencing to reduce face-to-face meetings; and • Progressive conversion of vehicle fleet to Euro iv standard or better, and abiding by fuel efficiency guidelines in vehicle procurement; Li & Fung Limited has made progress in its energy, water and waste reduction initiatives. Since an Investment Grade Audit (iga) of its headquarters in Hong Kong in 2010, it has been implementing Implementing best practices throughout our global offices best practices throughout its global offices taking specific actions in its distribution centers (dcs) and manufacturing plants to review consumption and invest in energy-efficient building systems, equipment and lighting and fuel-efficient transport. Year on year, Li & Fung Limited’s absolute consumption and emissions have increased as its operations have expanded globally. However, in 2013, the intensity of its electricity consumption over Reduced intensity of energy consumption its 2010 baseline has decreased by 27% by area and carbon emissions by 28% by area (m2) within its Trading Network. The investments it has progressively made since 2010 in the area of energy-efficient systems, equipment and lighting have enabled its Trading Network to reduce the intensity of its carbon footprint and collectively, from 2013 onward, to save over us$600,000 in avoided energy costs each year. The Company’s water consumption increased in absolute terms as its operations expanded. However, consumption intensity reduced by 5% per person over its 2010 baseline for the Trading Network. Finally, in comparison with its 2010 baseline, Li & Fung Limited has reduced its absolute paper use by over 20,000 reams and per person consumption has reduced by 28% for its Trading Network. In addition, with the support from the Fung Academy, Li & Fung Implementation of a bespoke energyefficiency program Limited implemented a bespoke Energy Efficiency Program for its logistics warehouses or distribution centers, manufacturing plants and apparel and footwear factories. Each participating operation received an energy consumption assessment, and onsite audit and training with support to develop and implement initiatives to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency. As a result, of the program, it was identified that collectively the 15 participating facilities could leverage over 200 opportunities to reduce energy consumption and save up to us$2.1 million per year. In 2013, Trinity Limited recorded total electricity consumption of Trinity Limited 3,701,257 kWh for Hong Kong and Macau compared with fung group | communication on progress 2013 20 3,690, 091 kWh in 2012, and its combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions were 2,957 tons of CO2 equivalent, compared with 2.899 tons of CO2 in the previous year. While overall electricity consumption increased year on year, due to the addition of three new air conditioners to improve thermal comfort within the factory, Scope 1 ghg emissions were reduced by 5.1% while Scope 2 ghg emissions increased by 2.9%, both on an absolute value basis, from 2012 to 2013 for Hong Kong. The Company’s water consumption has decreased by 8% from 8,523 m3 in 2012 to 7,822 m3 in 2013. Finally, in comparison with 2012, Trinity Limited has reduced its absolute paper use by 5.3% from 3,680 to 3,463 reams. Convenience Retail Asia Limited saw increases in its energy, Convenience Retail Asia Limited water and waste due to further expansion of its operations. In 2013, Convenience Retail Asia Limited recorded total electricity consumption of 58,840,197 kWh compared with 47,197,229 kWh in 2012, and its combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions were 8,830 tons of CO2 equivalent. Overall electricity consumption increased year on year, due to the addition of new retails stores and an increase in production from the St. Honore manufacturing operations, Scope 1 and Scope 2 ghg emissions were reduced by 5.1% and 2.9% respectively. The Company’s water consumption has increased by 5% from 127,845 m3 in 2012 to 134,643 m3 in 2013. Finally, total waste for Saint Honore factory operations was 3,050 tonnes for nine months of 2013. The Company has introduced practices to prevent or minimize the impact of waste produced by its operations on the environment. Starting from the second quarter of 2013, waste generated by Saint Honore factories is sorted and measured, which has facilitated recycling and waste reduction. Convenience Retail Asia Limited continued to emphasize the “4rs” – Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Refrain – throughout its store operations and customer communications. Internal communication platforms included “Green Day” every Tuesday, featuring educational email messages nurturing eco-awareness and promoting useful tips for environmental conservation. Sustainability workshops were also organized to provide a platform for sharing and interaction about topics related to the management of natural resources as well as environmental disaster alerts and information on global warming. Green Buildings With regards to sustainable offices and buildings, Li & Fung Limited continued to implement our own Sustainable Design, Construction and Renovation Guidelines for New Construction, Major Renovation fung group | communication on progress 2013 21 and Commercial Interiors and created a tailored version for distribution centers. These guidelines support offices and facilities around the world to adopt leed elements whenever feasible. leed and breeam certification The Group now has more 468,800 sq ft of office space certified to leed or breeam. Furthermore in 2013, the following offices were certified: • Approximately 150,000 sq ft in our New York office certified leed (50,000 sq ft Gold, 100,000 sq ft Platinum) and; • Approximately 18,840 sq ft in our Beijing office certified leed Silver. In Li & Fung Limited’s Logistics Network, its distribution centers Li & Fung Limited’s Logistics Network have been implementing measures to reduce their environmental footprint over the years. In 2013, lf Logistics Taiwan unveiled a new distribution centre (dc) in Wanshow, Taiwan. Hailed as the largest sporting goods dc in Taiwan, the customized facility was designed in a cost-effective manner to achieve optimum efficiency through its use and space. The entire warehouse and operating area uses energyefficient led and t5 lighting, as well as large windows to make use of natural lighting to minimize the use of electricity throughout the offices. The dc also incorporates a green ventilation system, minimizing its carbon footprint. Green Logistics In the area of transport, Li & Fung Limited’s Logistics Network continued to implement its Lean Transport initiative. The initiative focuses on: improving route planning to reduce fuel consumption and carbon emissions; maximizing vehicle loads, minimizing truck mileage and consolidating customer deliveries; and optimizing the proximity of dc facilities to supplier and customer locations. Convenience Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited are also progressively converting their vehicle fleet to Euro iv standard or better, and abiding by fuel efficiency guidelines in vehicle procurement. fung group | communication on progress 2013 22 Stakeholder Engagement The Group actively promotes environmental awareness amongst Promoting environmental awareness among employees employees through our internal intranet site, formal training, a sustainability speaker series and informal engagement activities. To promote the Environmental Principles in our supply chains Iniiatives with NGOs, industry associations, foundations, and academic organizations and relations with stakeholders, Group companies were active in a number of non-governmental organizations, industry associations, foundations, and academic organizations, including: • Business for Social Responsibility (bsr) and the Fung Academy – developed the Water Management Guidebook to educate colleagues and suppliers about water conservation, and how to treat wastewater. • Sustainable Apparel Coalition – as a founding member, Li & Fung Limited is contributing to the development of its Apparel and Footwear Index tools, which will allow measurement and management of the environmental impact of products ; • Sustainable Fashion Business Consortium – to increase sustainable practices across the supply chain; • The Worldwide Fund for Nature (wwf) – to promote environmental awareness amongst our employees; fung group | communication on progress 2013 23 • Business Environment Council of Hong Kong and Environmental Sustainability Committee of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, both of which aim to raise awareness of environmental issues in Hong Kong as well as share best practices amongst companies; and • Green Economy Task Force and Energy and Environment Commission of the International Chamber of Commerce, which provide business input on environmental issues to global policy and multilateral groups. Recognizing the importance of learning in both our own Programs and partnerships headed by the Fung Academy organization and in our supply chains, the Fung Academy continued to develop programs and tools for sustainable operations and breakthrough performance. Through its partnership with three renowned educational institutions, over 200 senior level managers received training on the subject of supply chain sustainability. Moreover, under the Academy’s Sustainability pillar, an innovative series of tools and programs focusing on health and safety, energy and water, and lean manufacturing were developed. These programs support corporate-wide initiatives, including the Fung Fung Manufacturing Excellence Program Manufacturing Excellence Program that equips suppliers with best manufacturing concepts to promote efficiency and sustainability. In addition, digital learning modules help suppliers become more efficient, responsible and sustainable. The Group also enforced its customers’ environmental purchasing policies with respect to environmentally-responsibly materials, packaging waste minimization and product stewardship. For Minimization of packaging-related waste example, Trinity Limited is using biodegradable polybags as primary packaging within its retail store outlets, Li & Fung Limited sources and develops apparel products made from organic cotton and recycled yarn, beauty products that are biodegradable with fsctm-certified packaging, and Convenience Retail Asia Limited bakery shops use biodegradable materials as part of their packaging for their festive moon cake products. fung group | communication on progress 2013 24 Eco-Design Li & Fung Limited is also investigating new technologies that New eco-friendly technologies provide environmentally responsible solutions for the world’s unrecycled apparel, footwear and other products, such as BluePel, which is a 100% organic additive that enhances the biodegradability of synthetic materials (e.g. synthetic fabrics, yarns, zippers, threads, soles and other plastics) in actively-managed landfills. Environmental considerations are an integral part of our business activities and, along with other considerations such as compliance, quality, safety, and value, are critical to the success of our business. fung group | communication on progress 2013 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions to promote the Principles We recognize that corruption and bribery are serious threats to the integrity of markets and the rule of law, and undermine fair competition. We thus support a strict anti-corruption and antiIncorporation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy in the employee Code of bribery policy as part of our employee Code of Conduct and Business Conduct and Business Ethics Ethics, in line with our continuous effort to operate according to the highest principles of accountability, transparency and good governance. Each Group company’s Code contains strict guidelines on corruption, bribery, gift-giving, gratuities, kick-backs and other favors, and all employees must sign and abide by the Code. Section 4 of the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics emphasizes the prohibition of bribery and corruption practices by all staff in the countries where the group operates. Li & Fung Limited has also developed the Anti-Bribery Policy and Guidelines on Gifts, Anti-Bribery Policy and Guidelines on Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Entertainment and Hospitality as an adjunct to the Code. Responsibilities are clearly defined in our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, Anti-Bribery Policy, Guidelines on Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality, and Guidelines on Whistleblowing/ Reporting of Concerns. All staff are expected to adhere to antibribery and anti-corruption practices. Executive management and our Corporate Compliance division jointly monitor compliance and support the Code. Our Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting of Concerns enable Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting of Concerns staff to report actual or potential bribery activities to their direct line manager or directly and confidentially to the Group Chief Compliance Officer. Upon receipt of any concerns or reports under these Guidelines, executive management and Corporate Compliance fung group | communication on progress 2013 26 Group will undertake an investigation. Furthermore, our Group Chief Compliance Officer reports any concerns raised under these Guidelines, which have significant impact on the Group’s business, to the operating company’s audit committees on a semi-annual basis. The Group Corporate Compliance division audits compliance performance and reports any material non-compliance directly to the operating company boards. Group company suppliers are required to comply with our Code of Code of Conduct for Suppliers Conduct for Suppliers, which includes principles in relation to antibribery and corruption. Compliance training for newly joined and existing staff, and internal Audits and compliance training for new and existing staff audits by the Group Compliance team, are conducted on a periodic basis to reinforce staff conformance and an ethical culture within the group. Furthermore, Trinity Limited has adopted the Hong Kong ICAC Corruption Prevention self-education materials as part of its education and awareness efforts on the prevention of corruption. Li & Fung Limited has devised “The Ethical Zone”, an internal platform for sharing practical examples and solutions on how to respond to potential ethical dilemmas. New employees are also advised of the requirements of the Code during orientation and provided with their own copy. In 2013, there were no material infractions of corruption across the Group. The Group employees continued to demonstrate integrity and good ethical behavior across all operations in 40 economies. Our Group companies have been recognized for their achievements Recognition for our Group companies in environmental, social and governance (esg) issues. A few examples of such recognition include the following: fung group | communication on progress 2013 27 Li & Fung Limited • Hong Kong Corporate Governance Excellence Awards 2013, by The Chamber of Hong Kong Limited Companies • The Asset Corporate Platinum Award 2013, for all around excellence in financial performance, management acumen, corporate governance, social responsibility, environmental responsibility and investor relations, by the Asset Magazine • Asia’s Icon on Corporate Governance 2013, by Corporate Governance Asia Journal Convenience Retail Asia Limited • Asia’s Most Promising Company on Corporate Governance 2013, by Corporate Governance Asia Journal In recognition of achievements in all areas reflected in the ten ungc Principles, and based on a rigorous third-party esg analysis, Li & Fung Limited was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index and ftse4Good Index Series, while both Trinity Limited and Li & Fung Limited were included in the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. fung group | communication on progress 2013 28 fung group | communication on progress 2013 29
