Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company Kingdom of Bahrain www.gpic.com building a greener future Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Including: UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company About Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) is a leading joint venture setup and owned by the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC), Kuwait. GPIC was set up for the purposes of manufacturing fertilizers and petrochemicals. Being a major manufacturer within the Kingdom of Bahrain, GPIC is also a proactive stakeholder within the Kingdom and the region with our activities being represented by natural gas purchases, empowering Bahraini nationals through training & employment, utilisation of local contractors and suppliers, energy consumption and other financial, commercial, environmental and social activities that arise as a part of our core operations within the Kingdom. For the purpose of clarity throughout this report, ‘GPIC’, ’we’ ‘us’, and ‘our’ refer to the Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company; ‘SABIC’ refers to the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation; ‘PIC’ refers to the Petrochemical Industries Company, Kuwait; ‘Nogaholding’ refers to the Oil and Gas Holding Company, Kingdom of Bahrain; and ‘Board’ refers to our Board of Directors represented by a group formed by Nogaholding, SABIC and PIC. The Oil and Gas Holding Company (nogaholding) is the business and investment arm of NOGA (National Oil and Gas Authority) and steward of the Bahrain Government’s investment in the Bahrain Petroleum Company (Bapco), the Bahrain National Gas Company (Banagas), the Bahrain National Gas Expansion Company (BNGEC), the Bahrain Aviation Fuelling Company (Bafco), the Bahrain Lube Base Oil Company, the Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC), and Tatweer Petroleum. In early 2014 GPIC achieved “Product Steward Excellence” the highest level under the IFA’s product stewardship initiative. “We (GPIC) support UN Global Compact ten GPIC is a Responsible Care Company certified for RC 14001 since July principles and this report is our Communication 2010. We are committed to the safe, ethical and environmentally sound on Progress (COP) in implementing these management of the petrochemicals and fertilizers we make and export. principles.” Stakeholders’ well-being is always a key priority at GPIC. Sustainability at the heart of Bahrain FROM REGIONAL PIONEER TO GLOBAL CONTENDER: THE ECONOMIC VISION 2030 FOR BAHRAIN (Summarised below) OUR VISION SUSTAINABILITY The three interrelated principles that guide our ambitions Our Vision sees our economic prosperity built on a firm foundation. Sustainability, Competitiveness, Fairness Government finances will adhere to the principles of sustainability, upholding a system that is stable and forward looking. Bahrain ‘we aspire to shift from an economy built on oil wealth to will use its resources to invest for the future, improving its human a productive, globally competitive economy, shaped by the capital through education and training, particularly in the field of government and driven by a pioneering private sector –an economy applied sciences. that raises a broad middle class of Bahrainis who enjoy good living standards through increased productivity and high-wage jobs. In a world where modern technology and new competitors from the globe are constantly shortening product lifetimes, Our society and government will embrace the principles of entrepreneurship and innovation will ensure the sustainability of sustainability, competitiveness and fairness to ensure that every a vibrant private sector. But economic growth must never come at Bahraini has the means to live a secure and fulfilling life and reach the expense of the environment and the long term well-being of their full potential our people: no effort will be spared to protect our environment and preserve our cultural heritage. Source: The Economic Vision 2030 for Bahrain 02 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC‘s achievements, challenges and goals Achievements 2012-2013 Strategic Initiatives 2014 • A remarkable safety record with over 16 million • Continue GPIC’s Corporate Social Responsibility man hours without a Lost Time Accident. initiatives. • In 2013 GPIC achieved a combined record for yearly • Be a role model for empowering women in the production of Ammonia, Urea and Methanol upto private sector in general and within the industry 1,594,647 tonnes, highlighting business continuity specifically. and efficiency. • Enhance GPIC’s Succession Plan to maintain our • GPIC became the first petrochemical company in the sustainability and Bahrainisation level above 85%. Middle East to be accredited by ISO-22301 societal security –Business continuity Management System. • Maintain GPIC’s excellent international and regional GPIC is one of the few companies globally who are relationships and continue to exchange knowledge. certified to all the seven main certifications related to Quality, Environment, Occupational Health & • Combat Climate change through renewable (Solar) Safety, Responsible Care, IT information security, energy projects, resource conservation and energy Risk management and Business continuity(ISO efficiency. 9001,ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001,RC 14001, ISO 27001,ISO 31000 & ISO 22301). • Adopt coaching principles as training and development tool and establish coaching committee. • GPIC became a permanent member of the UN Global Compact in 2012. Challenges 2014 and Beyond • Further enhance GPIC’s Safety, Health, • GPIC issued its first sustainability report with a GRI Environment, Efficiency and Quality parameters and 3.1 accreditation. programmes. Challenges 2012-2013 • Further enhance management systems and • To achieve Safe, on time and within budget execution procedures by registering for: of Turnaround 2012. o IFA Protect and Sustain Product Stewardship • To achieve successful completion and initiative commissioning of new HP steam boiler and Sodium o ISO 17025: General requirements for the Hypochlorite unit. Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories • To achieve accreditation by ISO 31000 and ISO 22301. o ISO 22000: Food Safety Management System Standard • To continue work during the year without a lost time accident. • Safe, on time and within budget execution of Turnaround 2015. • To establish the first equal opportunity unit within the private sector in Bahrain. • Finalisation of GPIC Ammonia II/Urea II expansion project after obtaining all government approvals. • Continue to maintain competitiveness in the international markets whilst absorbing increases in the variable cost. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 03 Our Performance Building a sustainable future + 17 million Man Hours without LTA as of May 2014 1,594,647 Metric tonnes Highest ever combined production (ammonia + urea + methanol) achieved in 2013 US $ 9 million Spent on training and development in 2013 US $ 3.52 billion contribution towards Bahrain’s economy since inception Zero incidents of non-compliance to Environmental Legislation 0.12 million in 2012 2013 tonnes CO2 emissions per annum is reduced through the Carbon dioxide recovery plant 2000 Cargo ships loaded since 1985 23% Female employees at GPIC. The highest since inception 04 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 33.3% of GPIC land is dedicated to green areas + 1 million fish released into Bahrain’s territorial waters from GPIC’s managed fish farm since 1996 In-house spare part manufacturing saved Established with a paid up capital of US $ 7.49 million US $ 159 million since the start of the programme in 2001 GPIC has paid US $ 2.06 billion towards dividend to shareholders + 27,000 school students have attended environmental awareness lectures by GPIC employees since 2001 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 05 GPIC’s SUstainabilty journey 1979 1989 1996 1999 GPIC established Ammonia & GPIC Fish Farm GPIC becomes as a joint Methanol Plants established close to ISO 14001 Certified venture between de-bottlenecked to its sea water outfall Government of a capacity of 1200 Bahrain, Sabic-KSA, MT/D each PIC-Kuwait 1985 1995 1998 2001 1000 MT/D Ammonia GPIC Certified for 1700 MT/D Urea GPIC Commissions & Methanol plants ISO 9001 Plant Commissioned its Bird Sanctuary at commissioned the entrance of its complex 06 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2014 GPIC launches renewable energy programme GPIC receives IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship programme “Excellence Award” GPIC continues to 2012 phase out HCFC gases 2008 GPIC issues its first such as R-22 from its 2004 GPIC wins the R.W. Campbell Award sustainability report under GRI 3.1 refrigeration units GPIC becomes OSHAS 18001 from NSC, USA for Certified SHE Excellence GPIC issues its second GPIC wins HRH 2010 sustainability report under GRI 3.1 GPIC launches GPIC becomes Princess Sabeeka GPIC becomes a environmental RC 14001 Certified Award for member of the UN research GPIC President Empowerment of Global Compact programme for selected as school students Bahraini women International CSR Ambassador 2006 2009 2011 2013 GPIC becomes 450 MT/D Carbon GPIC installs its first GPIC achieves +16 ISO 27001 Certified Dioxide Recovery solar heating unit million man-hours Plant reduces without Lost Time GPIC wins the Sir 0.12 million CO2 Accident George Earl Trophy emissions annually from ROSPA, UK for SHE Excellence GPIC’s combined production of 1,594,647 MT is the highest in its history GPIC launched its ‘International Dilmun Environmental GPIC commissions Award’ in new HP Steam partnership with Boiler & Sodium ROSPA-UK Hypochlorite units GPIC President elected as IFA’s VP of sustainable development GPIC becomes ISO 31000 and ISO 22301 Certified GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 07 GPIC’s Long Term Sustainability Goals A vision for the long-term We are pleased to introduce our long-term sustainability goals We are thinking beyond the next several years and are setting for the first time in 2014. In the past, GPIC has set important long term targets for our sustainability goals. We are raising goals to improve our environmental, health, safety, economic the bar higher with the introduction of a more ambitious set of and social performance and we have long been recognised for goals focusing our efforts on climate change, SHE excellence, our achievements. strengthening relations with communities, human capital development and business excellence. We will be constantly In 2014, to make a greater impact, to scale up the contribution of monitoring and reporting our performance against these our business to UN priorities and to align our strategy to Bahrain’s goalsperiodically. We will also share our sustainability goals Economic Vision 2030, we are looking further into the future than and targets with our stakeholders, demonstrating both our we ever have before. transparency and dedication to sustainable development. Area Long-Term Sustainability Goals Target Programmes Champion 1) Expand the use of renewable energy Implement Solar lighting Implementation of the Capex TSM at GPIC and heating in non-process Project PJ/2014/S003 in a phased area buildings in four manner. phases starting 2014 and completing by 2019 2) Phase out Ozone depleting and global Replace R-22 Refrigerant Implementation of the Capex TSM warming potential HCFC ‘s including AC units in 9 phases starting Project PJ/2014/S004 in a phased R-22 as refrigerants from GPIC 2015 and completing by manner. 2023 Climate Change 3) Reduce Green House Gas (GHG) Reduce GHG emissions Ensure efficient and continued POM emission levels below 2013 levels for the operation of carbon dioxide existing plants recovery plant. Maintain the current greenery projects and explore further expansion. Maintain efficient and continued operation of all the plants to have minimum possible flaring and venting of GHGs mainly carbon dioxide and methane. 4) Optimize energy consumption so that <= 7.9 Gcal/MT of combined Maintain all equipment to POM every saleable tonne of product is product operate efficiently and effectively. attained within the target level of energy Energy and Water consumption Conservation Explore & implement projects TSM & Resource with energy conservation Efficiency potential. 5) Reduce water consumption Increase recycle /Reuse of Explore & implement projects TSM waste water stream with water conservation potential. GMM General Manager Manufacturing HRM Human Resources Manager POM Plants Operation Manager PRM Public Relations Manager TSM Technical Services Manager FM Finance Manager SHEM Safety, Health & Environment Manager 08 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 In 2014, to make a greater impact, to scale up the contribution of our business to UN priorities and to align our strategy to Bahrain’s Economic Vision 2030, we are looking further into the future than we ever have before. Area Long-Term Sustainability Goals Target Programmes Champion Zero Lost Time Accidents Enhance SHE culture until it SHEM becomes an established natural behaviour. 6) Protection of Human Health, Safety Safety, Health & the environment by targeting Zero and Environment Zero cases of Non100 % Compliance to SHEM Harm Compliance to Environmental legislation. Environmental Legislation 7) Development of Human capital Achieve yearly target of Invest in employees by providing HRM qualifying local talent to take continuous development and Learning and responsible positions within training opportunities. Development the Company Strategic Philanthropy: Financial contributions and PRM Sustained financial capacity building an important contributions to NGOs, segment of our CSR activities. Educational institutions, charity organizations etc. Reach out: Achieve GPIC Employees to Impart Environment yearly target of schools environmental and responsible Committee environmental awareness care awareness lectures to Chairman 8) Supporting community and community lectures schools. initiatives Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Innovation: Sustained GPIC in collaboration with the Environment Engagement support to GPIC/Ministry of Ministry of Education, Kingdom of Committee Education Environmental Bahrain supports and manages Chairman Research Programme for the yearly Environmental schools Research Programme for the public and private schools in Bahrain. 9) Commitment to UN Global Ensure implementation of Yearly reporting to UNGC GMM Compact(UNGC) Principles the universally accepted ten -Communication on principles of the UNGC Progress(COP). 10) Optimizing plants ( Ammonia, Actual on-stream factor >= Enhance reliability and efficiency POM Methanol and Urea) availability budget on –stream factor of plants and ensure Optimum Plants availability. Business Excellence & Economic 11) Maintaining the financial Health of the Target Debt to Equity Ratio Optimize costs, inventories, FM Sustainability Company to optimum lowest expenditures and resource utilization to maintain financial health of the company. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 09 10 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 CONTENTS 1) Introduction 12 7) Environmental Impact 70 • Safeguarding the Environment 72 2) Leadership Commitment 14 • Chairman’s Message 16 8) People and the Community 86 • Managing Director’s Message 18 • Our People 88 • President’s message 20 9) Human Rights 98 3) Organisation Overview 22 • Our Social Investment Strategy 103 • Organizational Profile 24 • Corporate Governance 26 10) Product Stewardship 108 • Core Values 30 11) Leading Excellence (Awards) 116 4) UN Global Compact 32 • Our Commitment 34 12) What others say about GPIC 120 5) Sustainability Overview 40 13) GRI Indicators Index 134 • Sustainability Strategy 42 • Sustainability Framework 43 14) Our Approach to Reporting 148 • Stakeholders’ Engagement 45 • Our Committees 50 15) Glossary of terms 150 • Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations 53 • Risk Management 54 16) A Page from History 152 6) Economic Impact 56 • Economic Performance 58 • Production Performance 64 • Safety and Health Performance 67 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 11 At GPIC, sustainability is defined as the capacity Along with measuring and communicating our Introduction to endure and persevere as an organisation within economic, environmental and social performance our highly dynamic and demanding industry as per the guidelines, we are also aiming to create conditions. We do that by strategically renewing a solid alignment with other key initiatives like the our assets; creating and delivering quality products UN Global Compact, and this report will also be our that meet the evolving needs of society; devising Communication on Progress on the implementation new strategies to attract and retain talent within of the Global Compact’s ten principles. our organisation; constantly monitoring, managing and taking responsibility for our impact on the This biennial sustainability report also includes environment and proactively investing in projects that information on the various corporate social help nurture a more sustainable environment. We responsibility and sustainability initiatives we have preserve and strengthen the trust and support of our invested in, in the financial years 2012 and 2013 clients, shareholders, other stakeholders, and the (period ending December 31, 2013). communities in which we live and operate. In 2012, we published our first biennial sustainability This is the second cycle that GPIC’s Sustainability report for 2010-2011 “OUR PEOPLE, OUR FUTURE” Report 2012-2013 has been prepared, assessed and in accordance to GRI 3.1 guidelines (Grade B). In reported against the GRI G3.1 guidelines. We will continuation of this and to further enhance our continue to refine our sustainability reporting and will transparency and diligence in our approach to work towards further enhancing our commitments, monitoring, measuring and reporting our economic, and target compliance with the GRI G4 framework in environmental and social performance, we are our future sustainability reports. delighted to issue our new sustainability report for 2012-2013 ‘ Building a Greener Future’ As sustainability issues increasingly move towards the forefront of people’s minds, sustainabilty reporting becomes a key form of communications. Mervyn King Chairman, GRI Board of Directors 12 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 13 • Chairman’s Message Leadership • Managing Director’s Message • President’s Message Commitment Sustainability is at the heart of the GPIC story. For us, sustainability is a journey and we believe that taking the long view has and will continue to serve us well into the future 14 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 15 chairman’s Message We know our business can only be as healthy and resilient as the communities we live and operate within For over three decades, our Company has been committed to environmental care and the well-being of our people and the communities in which we operate. We have always sought new ways of combating global climate change, which has led to the evolution of our scope from a relatively narrow focus to a much broader approach integrating economic, social, environment and governance requirements within our sustainable development framework. In a further step towards our global approach to sustainability, we have become a beacon of women empowerment, a catalyst for business growth, a pioneer in the development of human talent and we have championed the importance of environmental sustainability and consolidated our vision and commitment to all of these principles through our membership and commitment to the UN Global Compact. For us, sustainability is a journey and we believe that taking the long view has and will continue to serve us well into the future. We are calling attention to and effecting positive change on global issues that have a significant impact on building a more sustainable and resilient value chainnot only for our Company, but also for the communities we proudly serve. HE Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, Chairman Thank you for your interest in the efforts of GPIC. We appreciate you taking the time to review this report, and invite you to share your thoughts with us. Sustainability is at the heart of the GPIC story. Together with our shareholders and other stakeholders, we’ve worked to build Together, I am convinced we can continue to refresh the world, stronger, safer, healthier, and more active communities whilst inspire moments of optimism and happiness, create value and also focusing on environmental conservation. We are constantly make a positive difference. aware that our business can only be as healthy and resilient as the communities we live and operate within. Very best regards, 2012 and 2013 were remarkable years in all aspects of our business including Safety, Health & Environment excellence, business continuity, record production, profitability, human capital development and women empowerment. Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa Chairman 16 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 17 Managing Director’s Message We are mindful of the fact that the future growth strategy of GPIC relies on how we measure and manage our stakeholder engagement, social responsibility, environmental sustainability, and our overall financial optimization We are mindful of the fact that the future growth strategy of GPIC relies on how we measure and manage our stakeholder engagement, social responsibility, environmental sustainability and our overall financial optimisation. And in response to this awareness, we constantly benchmark ourselves against the best of the best. We seek to learn from others, we share our best practices and we provide leading examples of sustainability and corporate social responsibility ethics both at regional and international levels. To ensure we lead the path towards responsible business, transparency and accountability and to ensure we remain leaders within our industry, we are taking the next steps towards monitoring and reporting excellence. Our new sustainability report is aligned to GRI 3.1 guidelines and is also our Communication on Progress towards the implementation of the UN Global Compact principles. Together, these efforts embody GPIC’s continuing, 360-degree commitment to the environment and to serving the greater good. It’s a commitment the people of GPIC uphold each and every day and I am incredibly proud of the positive impact this initiative will have on our future generations. HE Yousef A.Rahman Al Zamel, Managing Director At GPIC, we have long believed that business has both an opportunity and an obligation to make the world better. Over the years, this belief has fueled advances in our operations and how we invest in our business and support our communities. And, as always, GPIC continues its investment in making life better Yousef A.Rahman Al Zamel for its people and the communities in which it operates during Managing Director 2012 and 2013. GPIC’s engagement with society has extended far beyond the traditional understanding of corporate philanthropy. It has taken on the form of proactive, handson engagement to assist in meeting the myriad of social sector needs in education, health, skills development, poverty alleviation, women’s empowerment and infrastructure improvement. 18 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 19 President’s Message Looking ahead, we have, for the first time introduced our long term sustainability goals that will help us in achieving our social, environmental and financial improvements incrementally and sustainably Health and Safety remains a core focus of our operations. Our commitment to the well-being of our people is reflected in the Company’s outstanding record on safety which continues with over 16 million man hours without a lost time accident. This accomplishment tops our list of ‘Responsible Care’ achievements. To maintain this success is one of our biggest challenges for 2014 and beyond. GPIC seeks to ensure that the Company persists in safeguarding human rights across its business operations and makes its work environment safe, inclusive and diverse. As part of our commitment to women within our workforce, we continue to recruit and train new talent and provide them with ample opportunities for growth. In 2013, we also established an ‘Equal Opportunity’ committee to oversee gender equity practices and to ensure adherence to the human rights of women. GPIC has long realised that responsible organisations cannot ignore climate change. It is one of the biggest global challenges that has to be addressed to ensure the sustainability of our future generations. And as such, we have continued to reduce our carbon footprint through efficient operations and the use of cutting edge Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, President technology and equipment. We have also embarked upon an ambitious plan of expanding the use of renewable energy at our facilities to further our commitment to the environmental demands Welcome to our second biennial Sustainability Report for 2012 and of sustainability. 2013 on GRI 3.1 guidelines. The aim of this report is to exemplify our approach to sustainability and corporate social responsibility GPIC with its reliable plants continue to be a backbone of Bahrain’s and also to provide our Communication on Progress for the UN economy, supporting the Bahraini people and providing them with Global Compact principles. Looking ahead, we have, for the first suitable job opportunities. time, introduced long term sustainability goals that will help us to achieve our social, environmental and financial improvements This is our second Sustainability Report and the initiatives and incrementally and sustainably. results that you will see here demonstrate the great progress that has been made. However, we are the first to admit that our journey During the past decade, global recognition for the need of is far from complete. The truth is, sustainability is a journey, not sustainable development has increased, with wider understanding a destination. But, with an unyielding determination, a culture of and acceptance leading to coordinated action in many areas. The innovation and responsibility and continued engagement with our scope of sustainability as a concept has extended from a relatively stakeholders across the world, it’s our hope that GPIC will continue narrow focus to a broader approach integrating economic, social, to be a strong and enduring force for progressive growth and environmental and governance requirements within the sustainable positive change for generations to come. development framework. GPIC’s focus on sustainability is embedded in everything we do – Very best regards, our strategy, operations and daily actions. Environmental, social and economic responsibility are key ingredients of our business ethics. Our commitment to sustainability and the UN Global Compact are now more important and relevant than ever. Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery President 20 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 21 • Organizational Profile Organization • Corporate Governance • Our Values Overview Sound corporate governance is the foundation of our long-term success and the sustainability of our operations. Our corporate governance policies ensure that we have strong management and clear direction for all of our business affairs. 22 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company Overview Shareholders • Equal Partnership between the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, represented by the Oil and Gas Holding Company (Noga holding), Saudi Basic Industries Corp.(SABIC) of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Petrochemical Industries Co.(PIC) of the State of Kuwait Date Incorporated • December 1979 Number of Employees • 560, including trainees (>85% Bahrainis as of 31 Dec. 2013) Principal Place of Business • Sitra, Kingdom of Bahrain Core Products • 1200MT/D Ammonia, 1200MT/D Methanol, 1700 MT/D Granular Urea. Key Markets • USA, India, China, South Korea, Australia, Brazil, Taiwan Scale of the Organisation • Medium Total Capitalisation • US $159 million (100% equity) Sales 2012 • US$ 430 million Sales 2013 • US$ 410 million Total Assets 2012 • US$ 539 million Total Assets 2013 • US$ 568 million Net Profit 2012 • US$ 212 million Net Profit 2013 • US$ 186 million Total Products • 2012 1,454,298 metric tonnes • 2013 1,594,647 metric tonnes Certifications • ISO9001:2008;ISO14001:2004;OHSAS18001:2007; PAS99:2012; RC14001:2008;ISO27001:2005; ISO31000: 2009;ISO22301 Memberships in Key • UN Global Compact; National Safety Council (NSC , International USA), Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Organisations (RoSPA, UK), International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA), Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA), Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA), UN Global Compact GCC Network Key Awards 2012-2013 • The Arabia Social Responsibility Award; the RoSPA Chemical Sector Award; the ASTD Best Award, 2012; the American Society for Training and Development; AoN Hewitt, the Best Employer Award for the Middle East and North Africa, 2013; the IFTDO Global HRD Award, 2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 23 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) was established At GPIC, we have a robust and internationally recognised Safety, in the Kingdom of Bahrain in December 1979 as a joint venture Health and Environmental Management System. We have won between GCC member states for the manufacture of fertilizers many accolades, including the prestigious Sir George Earle and petrochemicals. The joint venture is equally owned by the Trophy from RoSPA, UK in 2005 and the R.W. Campbell award Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, Saudi Basic Industries from the National Safety Council, USA in 2008 for excellence Corporation and Petrochemical Industries Company, Kuwait. in HSE management systems. We have effective management GPIC uses natural gas (which is readily available in Bahrain) as systems in place, and some of our accreditations include ISO a feedstock for the production of ammonia, urea and methanol, 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, which have been integrated totalling 1.5 million tonnes each year. In addition to the production into PAS 99. We are also ISO 27001 certified, which deals with plants, the GPIC Complex, which was built in Sitra on a reclaimed information security and have voluntarily embraced Process area of 60 hectares, comprises of a utilities plant, maintenance Safety Management (PSM) at our facilities. Our accreditations workshops, offices, stores and laboratories. also include Responsible care RC14001, Risk Management ISO31000 and ISO22301 Societal securityBusiness Continuity We employ 560 people, including trainees, and over 85% of our Management system. We have also signed up to the United workforce are Bahraini nationals. We have a Board of Directors Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and are committed to comprising representatives of the three shareholding states. Our implementing the ten principles within the organisation. Board of Directors is chaired by H.E. Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, Advisor to His Highness the Prime Minister for Industrial and Oil We are a significant contributor towards the national economy Affairs and GPIC Chairman. Our executive management team is led of Bahrain and have been established with a paid up capital of by our President, Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery. US$159 million, and our cumulative profits since our inception has exceeded a billion dollars. Our activities, represented by natural We believe in the concept of ‘leading by example’ and we consider gas purchases, employment and training of Bahraini nationals, ourselves as a role model in the space of environmental protection. utilisation of local contractors, power consumption and other We use practical demonstration projects to verify our environmental financial/ commercial operations has contributed about US$100 credentials and commitments, i.e. the fish farm, bird sanctuary, million annually into the national economy. palm tree plantations, herbal and aromatic plants garden and our olive tree oasis established within our facilities demonstrates our ongoing commitment. Moreover, the challenges of regional and global climate change have always been taken seriously at GPIC, and in order to manage our greenhouse gas emissions, we commissioned the Middle East’s first carbon dioxide recovery plant in 2010. The unit captures 450 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide per day from the methanol plant reformer flue gases, recycles them to produce more methanol and urea and has significantly reduced our carbon footprint. 24 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 We are a significant contributor towards the national economy of Bahrain and have been established with a paid up capital of US$159 million, and our cumulative profits since our inception has exceeded a billion dollars. Board of Directors HE Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa Chairman (Centre), HE Sa’ad Mohammad Al Ajmi Deputy Chairman (4th from right), HE Yousef A.Rahman Al Zamel Managing Director (4th from left), Mr. Ahmed Ali Al Sharyan Board Member (1st from right), HE Mohammed bin Ali Al Yemni Board Member (1st from left), Shaikh Fahad Bin Salman Al Khalifa Board Member (1st from left standing), Mr. Ehmad Mahmoud Sultan Board Member (2nd from left standing), Mr. Ibrahim Al Musaitir Board Member ((2nd from right standing), Mr. Abdulnasser Ahmed Al Babtain (1st from right standing). Executive management team Sitting (from left), Adel Malik, (Finance Manager) Ahmed Nuruddin (General Manager, Special Projects), Abdulrahman Jawahery (President), Fadhel Al Ansari (General Manager, Manufacturing), and Yousuf Fakhroo (HR Manager). Standing (from left), Zuhair Taufiqi (Public Relations Manager), Ahmed Ghuloom (Maintenance Manager), Khalid bin Ali (Technical Services Manager), Ahmed Mahmood (Marketing Manager), Adnan Al Mahmood (IT and Knowledge Manager), Jassim Darwish (Safety, Health and Environment Manager) and Yasser A. Rahim (Plants Operation Manager). GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 25 GPIC’s Corporate Governance Sound corporate governance is the foundation of our long-term The core of GPIC’s governance structure revolves around success and the sustainability of our operations. Our corporate the thorough and frequent audits of every department from governance policies ensure that we have strong management management to functional levels and clear direction across all our business units. GPIC’s Corporate GovernAnce Framework Corporate Governance Code of Conduct Principles Policies Code of Business conduct Principles of Corporate Corporate Policies Governance Code • Valuing all people • Legal and Ethics Policy • Safety, Health and Environment • Transparency • Accounting Policy policy and commitment • Fairness • Finance and Investment Policy • Protection and maintenance of • Accountability • Credit Card Policy company assets • Responsibility • Vehicles Policy • Confidentiality • Procurement Policy • Good citizenship and social • Inventory Management Policy responsibility • Integrated Quality, Health & • Ethical business conduct Safety, and Environment Policy • Enterprise Risk Management and Business Continuity Management Policy • Information Security Policy • Responsible Care Policy • HR policy • Corporate Governance Policy GPIC’s vision is ‘to be a global ,dynamic, world-class petrochemical supervising the management of the business and reporting to and fertiliser company of choice recognized for excellence.’ shareholders on their stewardship. The board’s actions are subject Sustainability is strongly embedded in our mission statement, which to laws, regulations and the shareholders in general meetings. is ‘to grow and add value to our customers and shareholders by meeting their expectations whilst: producing high quality products; Our governance strategy relies on creating mechanisms designed focusing on customers; optimising business in a cost effective, safe, to ensure that we live up to our commitments and responsibilities to environmentally friendly and socially responsible way; embracing all our stakeholders. knowledge, creativity and best practices.’ When it comes to governance, our first objective is to ensure that Our corporate governance framework controls and directs we remain compliant with all laws and regulations that govern the way in which we do business. Our Board of Directors are our activities. All of our governance policies, whether they relate responsible for the governance framework, and our shareholders to human resources, safety, health and environment or even our play a significant role in appointing our directors and auditors financial reporting will be in compliance with the laws of Bahrain. and that an appropriate governance structure is put in place. The responsibilities of the board includes setting the Company’s strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, 26 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC’s vision is ‘to be a global ,dynamic, world-class petrochemical and fertiliser company of choice recognized for excellence.’ Sustainability is strongly embedded in the Company’s mission, which is ‘to grow and add value to our customers and shareholders by meeting their expectations whilst: producing high quality products; focusing on customers; optimising business in a cost effective, safe, environmentally friendly and socially responsible way; embracing knowledge, creativity and best practices. Yet in keeping to our traditions of enabling excellence and even Code of Business Conduct going beyond, we aim to raise the industry benchmark by going Our Code of Conduct sets the standards for corporate governance beyond compliance. and ethical behaviour within the Company, which must be followed and respected by Directors of the Board, senior management and In essence, our governance strategy is designed to ensure that our people. All our people are requested to sign a copy of this code we live up to its core values and principles, enabling excellence in upon joining, which is placed in their respective personnel file under everything we do. the custodianship of the HR Department. The purpose of developing a GPIC Code of Conduct is to provide our people with a set of Our Corporate Governance system is based on three fundamental standards meant to assist them in avoiding any wrongdoing and to components, namely: promote honest and ethical behaviour in conducting the business whilst laying down a process for reporting suspected violations of • Principles, the Code. The intent of this Code is to provide a set of guidelines • Code of Conduct for all our people in the way they conduct of their business and • Policies. professional activities and when dealing with colleagues, vendors, customers, contractors, government agencies and the public. The The system has been based on our shareholders’ aspirations to document serves as a reminder to all our people that it is important conduct our business within the acceptable international/local for them to uphold the highest standards of integrity and personal guidelines and standards to ensure full protection of the interest of conduct in all matters that involve their work. They should also all our stakeholders. be aware that breaches of these values may result in disciplinary action against violators and those who conceal or hide information Principles against the Company’s interests. References to disciplinary action Our Corporate Governance principles have been developed based in this Code are in accordance with locally applicable rules and on the principles held within our Memorandum and Articles regulations; such action may extend to termination of employment of Association and the principles of the Bahrain Commercial in appropriate cases. In addition to such disciplinary action, one Companies Law. These principles are responsible for providing might be subject to legal action in case of any violation of public law. a basis for a system of goal setting, effective decision making, ethical standards, with the objectives of establishing a fundamental • Valuing all people corporate entity that provides value-add to our shareholders in the Respect for Religious Beliefs long run and are in compliance with our Articles of Association. Our Respect for the Law Board of Directors are fully entrusted with the responsibility and Harassment custody of the corporate governance within the organization. The Rights of Individual objectives of this Corporate Governance Code include: • Safety, Health and Environment • Optimizing the financial returns for the shareholders; Policy and commitment • Improving the performance of the company; • Facilitating the obtainment of necessary credit at acceptable • Protection and Maintenance of Company Assets and reasonable cost; Protection of all Company assets and facilities • Contributing to the long term continuity of the company as Prevent misuse going concern. • Confidentiality The basic principles of this Corporate Governance Code are: Information and Knowledge Management Requests for Employee Information • Transparency Information Technology Privacy, Security and Copyrights • Fairness Confidential Information • Accountability • Responsibility • Good Citizenship and Social Responsibility Substance Abuse Social and Political Relations GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 27 GPIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued) We ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements are fulfilled at all times and we endeavour to comply with the prevailing globally accepted accounting, engineering, safety, environment and other standards. Based on this appropriate detailed and documented procedures are developed to cover every significant process within the organisation. These are validated and certified through independent accreditation bodies to cover all aspects of quality, occupational hazards and safety, health, environment and IT security. Adequate audit systems are also being put in place to validate compliance as well as ensure that necessary controls and checks are in place. The master copy of the corporate policies is kept in the custody of the Secretary to the Board of Directors. Our General Manager/ President distributes a copy of these policies to various department managers to ensure compliance. Our Board of Directors may also amend these policies or issue new policies from time to time to meet the business requirements of the Company based on • Ethical Business Conduct the trends within the industry and market place. Business Ethics Conflict of Interest Our Corporate Governance Structure Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Practices Our approach towards governance is multi-faceted. We have in Gifts, Gratuities and Entertainment place a system of audits, and reporting, both external and internal, Outside Employment designed to monitor and rectify any anomalies periodically. Preventing Fraud and Thefts Representing or Speaking on Behalf of GPIC Shareholders The Company is equally owned by the following three shareholders: Corporate Policies Our Board provides a plan of action to guide decisions and achieve • Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain represented by the Oil rational and desired outcomes. This is communicated through the and Gas Holding Company. Board resolutions and/or Corporate Policies. Currently, the GPIC • Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, “SABIC” Kingdom of Saudi Board of Directors have approved specific policies covering various Arabia. aspects of our operations • Petrochemical Industries Company, “PIC” Kuwait. 1. Legal and Ethics Policy Board of Directors 2. Accounting Policy Our governance structure starts with our Board of Directors. Our Board includes nine members, equally nominated by the three 3. Finance and Investment Policy shareholders, who share the collective responsibility of ensuring 4. Credit Card Policy that the affairs of our organization are managed competently and 5. Vehicles Policy with integrity. As per our Memorandum and Articles of Association, 6. Procurement Policy the duration of membership to the Board of Directors is for three 7. Inventory Management Policy years and the members’ tenure can be renewed based on the 8. Integrated Quality, Health & Safety, and Environment Policy shareholders’ discretion. All the nine directors are non-executive 9. Enterprise Risk Management and Business Continuity directors. The shareholders ensure the Board is comprised of Management Policy qualified members with diverse back grounds in the field of business 10. Information Security Policy and finance, engineering, marketing and other disciplines. The 11. Responsible Care Policy Board of Directors self-assessment document has been developed 12. HR policy to enable the Board members to assess their performance annually 13. Corporate Governance Policy and help to ensure that they are structured and operating in line with best practice governing principles. 28 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 We ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements are fulfilled at all times and we endeavour to comply with the prevailing globally accepted accounting, engineering, safety, environment and other standards. The Chairman of the Board will always be elected from amongst • independence and performance of the external auditors; the Bahraini Board Members, while the Deputy Chairman is to be • risk management processes; elected from amongst either the Saudi or Kuwaiti Board members. • financing plans; The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman will be elected for a period • pension plans; and of three years. • compliance by the Company with ethics policies and legal and regulatory requirements. The Key responsibility of the Chairman is to monitor and evaluate the performance of the Board and senior management to ensure Major Projects Committee: compliance with the Company’s code of corporate governance. The proposed Projects Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and includes the Deputy Chairman and the Managing The Board of Directors appoints a Managing Director from amongst Director along with the General Manager/President. The Major the Board Members representing Saudi Arabia or Kuwaiti Board Projects Committee is responsible for reviewing and making Members and shall determine his/ her level of authority. To ensure recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding important fairness in the process, the selection will be alternated between policy matters and essential projects that have a significant impact the Saudi and Kuwaiti shareholders. The appointment shall be for a on our organisation. period of three years. Strategic Plans: The Managing Director is elected by the Board of Directors as per the The Board has the responsibility for overseeing, understanding, Company’s corporate governance, with the prime task of being the reviewing and monitoring our short, medium and long term strategic link between the Board of Directors and the executive management. plans from their inception through their development and execution by management. Executive Management The Managing Director is responsible for ensuring full External Auditors implementation of the approved policies and strategies set by the The external auditors for the Company are appointed by the Board through the Executive Management. His / her authorities shareholders in the General Assembly Meeting. The auditors with are defined in the Approval Authority Scheduled (AAS) by the respect to their authority, responsibility and conduct will be subject Board of Directors. The Board shall appoint a General Manager or to the provisions of the of the Bahrain Commercial Law. The Auditors President for the Company and shall determine his/her authority, will submit to the General Assembly Meeting of the shareholders a responsibilities and remuneration. Under the stewardship of report. The report will indicate whether the balance sheet and profit the General Manager/ President, the Executive Management is & loss accounts are a true and fair representation of the company’s responsible for the dayto-day operations and activities of the financial state. It will also confirm that the regular accounts are Company. These are based on the overview, guidelines and directives maintained as per guidelines, stock is monitored appropriately and provided by the Board and/or the Managing Director. whether information states in the report are in conformance to those maintained by the company. The report will also highlight if there Board Committees: has been a breach in terms of any contracts, rules & regulations The Board is assisted by committees that are responsible for pertaining to the Memorandum and Articles of association of the monitoring and ensuring compliance with the law and the company during the current financial year. The auditors (acting as companies policies and procedures. the agent of the shareholders) are responsible for the accuracy of the particulars stated in the report to the shareholders. Each Audit, Finance and Risk Committee: shareholder will have the right at the General Meeting to discuss the The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee is one of the most critical auditors’ report and to seek clarification in respect of its contents. governing bodies of the company. The committee is chaired by the The auditors will be liable to the Company for compensation of Managing Director and two other Directors nominated by the Board damages sustained by reason of errors committed by them in the representing the other two shareholders. The Committee assists the course of carrying out their duties. Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility relating to: • the integrity of the company’s financial statements; • the financial reporting process; • the systems of internal accounting and financial controls; GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 29 CORE VALUES Our Values GPIC’s values define the way in which we conduct our business. They guide our behaviour and the way in which we implement our business processes. Respect At GPIC all employees are expected to undertake their activities with due regard to the feelings and rights of others. The development of strong moral principles and ethical behaviour will ensure we give due respect to everyone. Excellence We should strive for excellence in everything we do and achieve. This should be reflected in all aspects of our activities, whether this is managing a department or segregating scrap and waste. Our individual efforts, no matter how small in the grand scheme of things, will ultimately define the level of success we achieve both individually and as a company. We believe that excellence can be achieved by doing quality work and having a relentless commitment to continuous improvement. Transparency At GPIC all employees are expected to carry out their business activities in a clear and transparent manner. The intent behind our actions should be obvious or evident and should be open to scrutiny. Integrity and Fairness All employees are expected to demonstrate the highest levels of integrity and fairness. We are emphatic about how results are achieved and will demonstrate honest and ethical behavior based on integrity and fairness in all our activities. We foster an ‘equal opportunities’ Safety environment and respect all our people without discrimination towards At GPIC, we manage and utilize resources and operations in a gender, religion, and race. RESPONSIBLE way so that the safety of all our stakeholders is ensured. We believe our safety, health and environmental responsibilities extend Choosing the course of highest integrity is our intent and we will beyond the protection and enhancement of our own facilities and we are establish and maintain the highest professional and personal standards. concerned about society as a whole. We always aim for ZERO harm when it comes to safety, health and environmental management. 30 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC’s Core values are the nine pillars that define every aspect of our way of doing business’ Professionalism Teamwork At GPIC, all employees are expected to undertake their activities in a GPIC believes that high performing teams can achieve what skilled and competent manner. Careless or sub-standard work will individuals alone cannot. result in a sub-standard product which is unacceptable to our ethos of excellence. Teamwork encompasses the values of individual excellence, integrity, fairness, and respect for each other. Transparency in all our relationships, safe working methods, professional work ethics coupled with a socially responsible attitude and a creative approach, helps our people achieve this as teams. Social Responsibility GPIC believes that society must have industrial organizations that it can trust. Trust and confidence are earned by our performance, by open and direct communication and by our active involvement in the communities where we live and work. All employees must be aware of the impact of their actions on society both inside and outside the company. Social responsibility includes a commitment to protecting the environment, and all who depend on it for their safety and health. Creativity GPIC believes innovation and creativity are crucial to business success. To achieve this success, we urge our employees to continually strive to improve our activities and business processes by developingnew ideas and/ or adapting world class best practices. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 31 UN Global compact we make a solemn declaration to the United Nations (UN) that we will continue to promote human rights and equality, to respect the labour rights of our employees, to protect the environment for future generations and to fight corruption in all aspects of our activities. 32 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 33 UN Global Compact Our commitment In response to the UNGC’s ‘Call to Action’ and to further align ourselves with Bahrain’s Economic Vision 2030, where sustainability is one of the three defining principles We launched our long-term sustainability goals for the first time on 30 April 2014. Committed to UN’s Zero Hunger Challenge GPIC is committed and convinced that poverty can be eradicated in our life times. Being a prime fertilizer producer GPIC is looking ahead as a member of the International Fertilizer Industry Association( IFA) to contribute in meeting the goals of the ZERO HUNGER CHALLENGE. GPIC supports UN by running a week long campaign of My World GPIC’s President with Queen of Belgium and UN Secretary General at the UNGC Leaders at its facilities; Summit in New York, USA. GPIC in partnership with UNEP provided an opportunity to its employees to express their opinions and raise their voice about GPIC is passionately committed to the United Nations Global future sustainable development goals by voting for the World They Compact since 2012. We want to play an active and leading Want after 2015, a global consultation process launched right after role in the endeavours to make globalization more socially and “Rio+20.” Be it better healthcare, good education, clean water and ecologically compatible and to raise the bar within human rights, sanitation, and more job opportunities. These are key priorities of labour rights and environmental protection and in the fight against development that is sustainable in the long run. corruption across the Kingdom. GPIC ‘s leadership acknowledged for their noteworthy efforts in GPIC provides Communication on Progress( COP) towards UNGC the field of sustainability and corporate social responsibility goals and principles on an annual basis (Standalone COP report GPIC’s President has been selected by the Regional Network for issued in 2013). Our 2013 progress and the Global Compact related Corporate Social Responsibility to be the International Ambassador aspects are covered within this GRI Sustainability report 2012-2013. for Corporate Social Responsibility and last year Dr. Abdulrahman Our COP contains a statement by the CEO and President Dr. Jawahery was elected as International Fertilizer Industry Abdulrahman Jawahery, expressing our continued support association -IFA’s Vice President for sustainable development. for the Global Compact and renewing our Company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Our Progress on the UN Global Compact Principles An overview Our sustainability report covers our progress on the Global Setting a Vision for the longterm compact principles in detail however following is a summarized To deepen impact and scale up the contribution of business to UN view of some of our recent initiates and the next steps that priorities, 2014 must be the year in which we look farther into the highlight our commitment; future than we have before. We will need to retool and reorient our approach to corporate sustainability. I encourage each of • Promotion and advocacy of the UN Global Compact; you to think beyond the next several years and set longer time Even though our membership with UNGC is relatively new, horizons for your sustainability goals. What can your organization we have taken the initiative to promote, advocate and support achieve in the next10, or even 15 years ? the Global Compact. Based on our excellent experience with Mr. Georg Kell, Executive Director, UN Global Compact the UNGC, we are inviting all of our business partners & stakeholders to join the UNGC. 34 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC is passionately committed to the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. We want to play an active and leading role in the endeavours to make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible and to raise standards in the field of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection and in the fight against corruption. GPIC Letter of Commitment to UN Global Compact 21 April 2014 P/E089/189/14 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Your Excellency, The principles governing the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) have long been extolled by Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company( GPIC) Bahrain. The Company is an avid Dr. David Nabarro (center) UN Secretary-General’s special representative with supporter and promoter of the UNGC’s ethical canon and our GPIC’s President and General Manager Manufacturing at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit. commitment to this global alliance is worn as a badge of honour. Our adherence to the conventions of the UNGC underline the It therefore gives me great pride to confirm our membership Company’s inherent belief that those businesses which have of the UNGC and reaffirm our commitment to the universally the support and respect of their stakeholders, which consider accepted ten principles of the UN Global Compact. By doing so, corporate social responsibility as a key measure of their success we make a solemn declaration to the United Nations( UN) that we and which have an exemplary conscience as a result of this, are will continue to promote human rights and equality, to respect likely to perform better. the labour rights of our employees, to protect the environment for future generations and to fight corruption in all aspects of Areas for improvement will be defined and various actions will our activities. What is more, we will share these values with our be taken in the years to come. Progress on these activities will partner companies and espouse their rigorous use within our form the basis of regular communications to inform on measures sphere of influence. As part of our corporate citizenship and taken, evaluate progress and promote the concept amongst those sustainability strategy, these principles are already incorporated companies that have not yet joined. into our business operations; we will continue to develop our strategic plans in line with the broader development goals of the UN, including both the Millennium Development Goals and the UNGC’s principles. Yours sincerely, As one of the leading petrochemical and fertilizer industries in the Middle East, we are cognizant of GPIC’s important role in the alignment of business ethics with those principles upheld by the societies from within which our staff is drawn, recognizing our reach in the national and pan-Arabian arenas. Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery President GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 35 UN GLOBAL COMPACT (continued) Letter of invitation from our President to GPIC’s stakeholders to join the UN Global Compact on 21/1/2014 Your Excellency, Warm greetings and best wishes from GPIC Bahrain. It gives me great pleasure to introduce and invite Your Excellency to consider the subject matter. Embedding sustainability in the business practices of organisations is the way forward to achieve a more shared, secure and sustainable future. Your esteemed organisations are leaders in the field of corporate social responsibility and are, as such, role models in corporate citizenship. GPIC President with H.E Mr. Achim Steiner, UNEP Executive Director. At GPIC, we are mindful of the very fact that we must continue raising the bar when it comes to corporate sustainability. In GPIC President meets UNEP Executive Director 2012, we formalised our commitment by becoming a permanent 21 October 2013 member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s leading corporate citizenship initiative. Through this Mr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC President, met H.E Mr. Achim commitment we have pledged to work to alleviate poverty; Steiner, Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and safeguard the rights of our employees, contractors and the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, communities in which we operate; fight corruption in all its during a recent visit to New York, USA. forms and protect the environment. The meeting occurred during Mr.Jawahery’s participation in the As we all share a passion for sustainability, we would like United Nations Global Compact Leaders’ Summit, which was held to encourage Your Excellency to take a step further towards in New York recently under the auspicious gaze of His Excellency global corporate sustainability by joining us in becoming a Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations. permanent member of the UN Global Compact. By doing so, you will be formally expressing your commitment to the Following the meeting, Mr. Jawahery, who is also Vice-President UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of labour for Sustainable Development for the International Fertilizer standards, human rights, anti-corruption and the environment. Industry Association (IFA), made a statement detailing the beneficial outcomes of the discussion between himself and Mr. Please find the following documents attached for your easy reference. Achim Steiner. I. Global compact brochure Mr. Jawahery commented upon the invaluable nature of the II. Brief introduction to UNGC meeting in strengthening the cooperation between the goals of the III. How to join UNGC UN Environment Programme with GPIC and the World Federation IV. Online application guideline of fertilizers; and in particular, the significance of reinforcing V. Business commitment letter the scientific capacity of developing countries and countries with economies in transition in the field of environmental protection. We trust you will take this important initiative into consideration. Best Regards, He added that the two sides agreed on the importance of the exchange of environmental information for policy formulation Abdulrahman Jawahery and decision making and the necessity of its integration in President development, in order to fulfill the obligations of multilateral Gulf Petrochemical Industries Co. (GPIC) environmental agreements and to achieve the Millennium Kingdom of Bahrain. Development Goals, both nationally and internationally. Mr. Jawahery talked about the importance of businesses, and their role as international actors in a climate of globalisation where their 36 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 influence can make a positive impact towards social, political and economic challenges. He also emphasized that the UNGC’s role is to assist the private sector in managing risks and opportunities, and to help strengthen the links between communities and markets with universal principles and values. Mr. Jawahery concluded by confirming that GPIC will continue its efforts, in cooperation with all international bodies, to build a more sustainable global economy. • Human Rights; Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Empowering Bahraini women a priority at GPIC. complicit in human rights abuses A recent letter of appreciation from the Supreme Council of Ingrained in our organizational fabric, and formalized by Women, Kingdom of Bahrain is a testimony of our progress our signing up to the United Nations Global Compact, is our towards women empowerment. unwavering attention to human rights in all our business activities. GPIC will ensure respect for the human rights of our employees, suppliers & contractors, women, children, Subject: Letter of Appreciation from the Supreme council for communities and all stakeholders. Women Secretariat to GPIC ‘s President Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery Refer for details: Human rights performance( GRI), Labour practices and decent work( GRI), Product responsibility 4 May 2014 performance( GRI), Society performance( GRI) It is my pleasure to convey to you the greetings and Human rights training appreciations of Her Royal Highness Princess Sabeeka bint During 2013 we organized a training course for our security Ibrahim Al Khalifa, Wife of HM the King and President of the personnel on “ General Public Security – UN Human rights Supreme Council for Women (SCW), for your fruitful cooperation etiquette & protocol”. The course will recur this year also, to and the Gulf Petrochemical Company’s (GPIC) distinct ensure that all of our security personnel are appropriately contribution to the Supreme Council for Women’s endeavours. trained on the UN human rights, etiquette & protocol. HRH specifically appreciate the GPIC’s paying the cost of the Women Empowerment new Training Hall expansion at the SCW. Your kind words during GPIC continued its prioritized focus on women empowerment the meeting expresses the Council’s aspiration of building with great progress. To date we have the highest number of links with the private sector. We are highly contented with our female employees(23% of our total day working workforce partnership with GPIC, which undoubtedly benefit the Bahraini and 8 % of our total employees).They work in all business society and women in particular. areas namely administration, engineering, information technology, production, procurement, finance, maintenance, We look forward to continue this partnership in the future in the training, and human resources. They enjoy the privileges of a form of joint programs, projects and activities that would benefit zero discrimination policy and are supported/ nurtured by the our precious Kingdom. equal opportunities committee. My Sincere Thanks and Regards,,, Note worthy steps; In 2013 we established an Equal Opportunities Committee Hala Al Ansari within the business to oversee practices of gender equity The Secretary-General within GPIC and to ensure adherence to the human rights Supreme Council for Women for women. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 37 UN GLOBAL COMPACT (continued) • Labour standards; GPIC Equal Opportunities Committee Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of To: All Employees association and the effective recognition of the From: President right to collective bargaining Date: 5 June 2013 Ref: P/160/13 Principle 4 Businesses should work towards the elimination of all forms of child labor Subject: Equal Opportunities Committee Principle 5 Businesses should ensure effective abolition of I would like to start by expressing my sincere appreciation to child labor each and every one of you for all of the outstanding efforts provided to the Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company. I am pleased to inform you that as per the directives of Principle 6 Businesses should uphold elimination of HRH Princess Sabeeka bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa, Wife of His discrimination in respect of employment and Majesty the King and President of the Supreme Council for occupation Women( SCW);GPIC has introduced an Equal Opportunities Committee. The Company has completed this and each of the GPIC respects the rights of the labour and upholds the committee’s required rules and regulations, in cooperation labour standards within the Kingdom. Suppliers and and coordination with the SCW’s Integrating Women’s Needs contractors will receive the same care in terms of prevention Department. The ‘GPIC Equal Opportunities Committee’ of injuries or illnesses as any of our company employees. consists of the following members: Refer for details; Human rights performance(GRI),Labour 1. Fadhel Al Ansari, General Manager Manufacturing practices and decent work(GRI) (Chairman of the Committee) 2. Najat Sharif, Human Resources Superintendent GPIC launched an e-learning and certification program for contract ( Vice President and Coordinator of the Committee) employees on Safety known as IMIST (International Minimum Industry Safety Training) based on the UK based OPITO guideline for Oil And 3. Yusuf Ebrahim Fakhroo, Human Resources Manager Gas Industries. 30 contract employees have undergone the pre(Member of the Committee) assessment and are in process towards the certification programme. 4. Ahmed Mahmood, Marketing Manager • Environmental Protection, (Member of the Committee) Principle 7 Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 5. Salwa Abdulrahim, Financial Accounting Superintendent ( Member of the Committee) Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to 6. Entesar Falah, Purchasing Senior Supervisor promote greater environmental responsibility. ( Member of the Committee) Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and 7. Noora Al Sharyan, Trainee Legal Adviser diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ( Member of the Committee) In line with the principle no. 7, 8 &9 of the UN Global Best Regards Compact with respect to the Environment we have made a commitment to continuously improve our efforts to promote environmental responsibility and to contribute towards the development and use of environmentally friendly technology. Abdulrahman Jawahery We also share responsibility for protecting people’s health, President safety, security and the environment. This includes everyone 38 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Collaboration with UNIDO and UNEP We have worked extensively with UNEP to demonstrate that industrial development can be carried out in a manner that is respectful to both communities and the Environment. In 2013, to exhibit our solid commitment towards environmental sustainability and active contribution to the global knowledge sharing on the state of the environment, GPIC supported UNEP for the translation and printing of GEO-5 book in Arabic. • Anti-corruption; Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Climate change a global concern. GPIC is committed to conducting business in an environment at GPIC and our activities have a positive impact on everyone of honesty and integrity and all members of staff are within the business expected to share this commitment. The Company has a zero Refer for details; Environmental performance(GRI), Product tolerance for corruption and is committed to the avoidance of responsibility performance(GRI) any corruption within the organization. Climate change: Refer for details; Society performance( GRI) As part of our commitment to environmental sustainability we have launched our renewable energy programme which includes Zero cases of Corruption the use of solar energy in all our buildings outside the process GPIC had zero cases of corruption during the period 2012 -2013. areas. Moreover we have also finalized our road map to phase out This is a testimony of our robust systems, procedures and refrigerants that have high global warming and ozone depleting practices with respect to ethical business conduct. potential such as HCFCs from our facilities. Training on anti-corruption Sponsoring award for Environmental Sustainability As part of its commitment to the UNGC principles on antiIn 2006 GPIC in collaboration with RoSPA launched the RoSPA corruption recently a number of GPIC employees attended International Dilmun Environmental Award. The award is in its specific trainings &conferences. Examples are; eight cycle and GPIC supports it logistically and financially and also participate in the judging panel.Since the launch of the initiative, Forensic Auditing Workshop, London a number of organisations have participated in the award from Asia Pacific fraud conference, Singapore a diverse range of chemical, construction, utilities, consumer 15th Annual Regional Audit Conference, Dubai companies. The winner of 2012 International Dilmun Environment 3rd Annual ERM conference, Dubai Award is Chivas Brothers, which is a testament to the diverse 6th Annual internal auditors forum, Dubai nature of participants and award winners. The 2013 winners are City Development Limited, UK, for their innovative environmental Anti-corruption Policy initiatives in the Construction sector and the expandability of such At present we are in the process of finalizing our new antiapproaches to other companies.The ultimate objective of the fraud and anti-corruption policy and the new revised version initiative as with any other bench marking exercise is continual will be issued in 2014. improvement. Many of the Companies are participating in the award on yearly basis and they see it as a platform to benchmark themselves against the best in class and a step forward to achieving pinnacle of success in EHS excellence with focus on environmental sustainability. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 39 • Sustainability Strategy sustainability • Sustainable Framework • Stakeholders Engagement • Our Committees • Our memberships in key organizations • Risk Management overview At GPIC we dedicate ourselves and our business practices to sustainability – the betterment of society, the environment and the economy 40 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 41 Sustainability Strategy GPIC’s sustainability strategy is centred on the United Nations’ laws of Bahrain. We have also established an Equal Opportunity pillars of sustainable development: People, Planet and Profit. Committee to oversee practices of fairness towards gender equity, We measure our success on social responsibility, care for the and to ensure adherence to women’s rights. environment and profitability. Social Progress: In developing our sustainability strategy, we ensure a closeAnother set of key stakeholders we have identified are the knit integration between the stakeholders’ interest, important communities that host our business and our people. We are aware of environmental concerns and our core business. the fact that negligence in our business could cause damage to our surrounding communities and that it is our responsibility to cater to Our business model is based on principles of sustainable their needs and be aware of their interests. At the same time, the development as we appreciate that all our operations and safety of all our employees, contractors and host communities is activities impact, either directly or indirectly, the welfare of all our paramount. stakeholders, as well as the environment. At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how we manage our Economic Vitality: core business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. First and foremost, we consider ourselves as a corporate citizen of Bahrain. As such, we ensure that our business model is geared Our social investment strategy is crafted with a commitment to the towards Bahrain’s economic needs. We create opportunities for a idea that our stakeholders include a much broader category than much wider community than our direct suppliers and customers, only our people, shareholders or financial investors. We have an helping us to fulfill the economic promise to the nation as a whole. unwavering commitment to invest in helping address the social needs firstly of our neighbouring communities, but also of Bahrain Business Continuity: as a whole. We believe that the real key to profitability is being reliable and maintaining business operations within our market conditions. At GPIC, we believe in giving back to communities, addressing not To achieve this, we have crafted our strategies, prioritised our just their immediate needs but also their long term ability to lead investments, maintained our assets and developed our human talent healthy and productive lives. This is why we have invested heavily in to ensure responsible operations and business continuity. providing and supporting education, technical /vocational training and health care. Furthermore, we ensure that our social investments Business Growth: reach every segment of the Bahraini society in need. We believe that in order to add value for our shareholders and to remain competitive and sustainable in this ever evolving and Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change: challenging global market, we have to grow. In line with this outlook As the world’s climate begins to change, businesses cannot afford we have developed a strategic plan ranging until the year 2020 and to ignore the impact it has on the environment. We have committed will be embarking on a major expansion project to build a multiourselves to some of the most stringent standards towards billion dollar ammonia and granular urea plant adjacent to our environmental management, and we believe that the way any existing facilities. organisation manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of their standards of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness Human Talent Development: and vision. As part of our continual improvement and in addition At GPIC, we are mindful that our success relies very heavily on our to taking responsibility of our own environmental footprint, we are ability to attract, recruit and retain the highest quality of human committed to being compliant to ISO 14001:2004 and Responsible talent. Without our people, our reputation would not be what it Care management system RC 14001:2008. is today, so we focus on nurturing them and developing them throughout their careers. In essence, our sustainability strategy highlights the commitment to manage the entire business in a manner that does not focus only Women’s Empowerment: on profits, but also on factors of social responsibility. We believe that GPIC has a responsibility to be a role model for empowering women being successful is about sharing opportunities; it is about trying to in Bahrain’s industrial sector. GPIC will pursue its strategic priority make the world a better place, by creating a ‘win-win-win‘ situation to employ more women in various positions, as allowed by the for us, our stakeholders and the planet. 42 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Sustainability Framework GPIC’s focus on sustainability is embedded in everything we do – our strategy, operations and daily actions GPIC’s sustainability Framework Corporate Policies GPIC SHAREHOLDERS Nogaholding Bahrain, SABIC KSA, PIC Kuwait • Corporate Governance Policy • Integrated Quality, health & safety, and environment Policy • Responsible Care Policy • Enterprise Risk Management Committees of the Board and Business Continuity BOARD of DIRECTORS Management Policy-( Business Resilience Policy) • Finance and Investment Policy Strategy and direction • Legal and Ethics Policy • Procurement Policy Major Projects Audit, Finance & Managing Director • Inventory Management Policy Committee Risk Committee Corporate • Information security Policy Business sustainability goals • HR Policy Resilience & targets • Vehicle Policy • Credit card Policy PRESIDENT • Accounting Policy Departmental sustainability goals & targets Key Committees / Councils at Management Level Multi Auditing to ensure Sustainable Governance EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • Executive Management Council External audits: • Safety, Health and Environment 1) Statutory Council Departmental Objectives / Targets 2) Quality • Strategic Business 3) Environment Development Committee 4) Responsible care • Management & union high 5) Occupational health council & safety Human Public Technical Plants 6) IT security Finance Resources Relations Services Operation 7) Joint shareholders Key Committees at functional Internal audits: level 1) IMS • Training, Development and 2) Quality Mentoring Committee 3) IT Security Safety, Information • Safety Committee 4) Safety & security Maintenance Health & Marketing Technology 5) ERM Environment • Health Committee 6) Environmental • Environment Committee 7) Responsible Care • Enterprise Risk Management 8) PSM Committee Others: • Process Safety Management 1) Independent Business at Committee Benchmarking functional level • Social Activities Committee & 2) Insurance Audit Review others GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 43 Sustainability Framework (continued) The following framework outlines our approach towards Check: Monitoring, Auditing & Reporting implementing our sustainability strategy. The frame work follows We have a number of monitoring and reporting mechanisms the’ Plan-Do-Check-Act’ cycle. including multi-auditing(both internal and external) in place at every (Please refer to the GPIC’s Sustainability framework chart) level of the organization, to provide a robust process of planning and measuring results. These mechanisms provide a bottomup Plan: Management and direction: and topdown approach to review and measure the achievement of Our Board has a top-down view as the representative of objectives and to decide our future actions. shareholders’ interest, and works with our senior management in deciding the overall strategic vision and direction of the company. The multiauditing mechanisms ensure effective governance within the organization. They ensure that the Corporate policies, including the policy governing quality, safety, security, health, environment and social Salient External Audits: responsibility is aligned with our Board requirements and our • External Statutory Audit business strategy. • External Quality Audit – ISO 9001 • External Environmental Audit – ISO 14001 Our Board is assisted by a number of Board Committees, such • External Occupational Health & Safety Audit OHSAS 18001 as the Major Projects Committee, and the Audit, Finance & Risk • External IT security Audit – ISO 27001 Committee. These committees provide assistance to the Board • Responsible Care Audit – RC 14001 in making decisions related to important policy matters, fulfilling • Societal SecurityBusiness Continuity Audit – ISO-22301 its oversight responsibility relating to the integrity of company’s • Risk Management ISO 31000 financial statements, the financial reporting process, systems • Joint Shareholders Audit –Nogaholding, Sabic and PIC of internal accounting and financial controls, independence and performance of the external auditors, the risk management process, Salient Internal Audits: financial plans, and compliance by the Company with our ethics • Internal Management Systems Audit policy and legal regulatory requirements. • Internal Quality Audit • Internal Environmental Audit Our Board provides a plan of action to guide decisions to achieve • Internal IT security Audit rational and desired outcomes. This is communicated through Board • Security and Safety Audit resolutions and/or corporate policies. Based thereon, appropriately • Risk Management Audit detailed and documented procedures are developed to cover every significant process within the organization. Others: • Independent Benchmarking Do: From Strategy to results: • Insurance Audit Review Our business, at an operational level, is governed by the executive • PSM management led by the President, who is responsible for translating • DAFF (Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry the direction set by the Board into results. Our corporate level of Australia) objectives and targets are set for each financial year, covering the • ISPS( Port security audit) entire business. These Corporate objectives and targets form the basis of setting objectives and targets at functional level, followed Act: Opportunities for improvement: by management programmes and action plans. Key performance Opportunities for improvement identified in the ‘Check’ stage of indicators are selected to track, measure, monitor, report and the cycle are developed into actions for immediate attention or review on a regular basis. and monitor performance. for inclusion in the ‘Plan’ stage of the management cycle. The overall governance is maintained by an internal reporting chain, A number of committees at the operational and functional level through which the function manager reports to a member of provide recommendations to ensure sustainability in business areas senior management who then reports to the Board’s committees. such as health, safety and environment, business investments, The performance at all levels is reviewed periodically to ensure operational excellence, social responsibility, budgetary matters, sustainability and business excellence training and development, compensation and benefit plans, and other core areas. 44 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 stakeholder engagement Whenever we do business, our stakeholders’ wellbeing is a key priority. We strongly believe in the importance of engaging meaningfully and transparently with our local, regional and global stakeholders our stakeholders Shareholders Customers Government & Regulators Local Communities Suppliers & Vendors Employees Media Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) Banks GPIC believes that being a responsible producer of petrochemicals We engage with a wide cross-section of stakeholders and interested and fertilizers means, among many other things, respecting the parties, and our local communities are particularly important to interests of our stakeholders and interested parties, so we take their us because our facilities are located close to residential areas. Our needs and input seriously. We also believe that sustainable solutions commitment to all our stakeholders is strong, deep and multito the pressing issues we face can only be resolved if all groups of faceted. Not only do we support our shareholders and our people, society work together for one goal. but also our host communities and the nation that has given us the opportunity to thrive amidst the challenges it faces. We continually seek dialogue at the, national, regional and international levels with representatives from government, industry, We have identified nine key stakeholder groups on which our society, employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers; and continued success is dependent to some degree, and here we outline strive to build a long term relationship with all our key stakeholders. some of the ways we have engaged with them during 2012 and This way we can increase our responsiveness to their concerns, find 2013. Although the mode of engagement is yet to be formalised and new ways to reduce our environmental impact, balance business customised at some levels, most of our direct engagement activities efficiency with economic success and, ultimately, continue to make a generate productive ideas, thoughts and concerns that have made more competitive, profitable and sustainable enterprise. GPIC more focused in building strong and successful relationships with its stakeholders and provide tangible benefits to the community. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 45 stakeholder engagement (continued) Examples of Engagement Regular Board meetings and other meetings Councils, forums and committees at local and regional levels Online communication tools such as e-mails, websites 2. Our People : Why identified as a stakeholder? Our people are the basis of our success. We rely heavily on our ability to attract, recruit and retain the highest quality of talent. We realise that our success depends on the degree to which we can keep our people engaged to continue performing at their full potential. We have multiple policies in place to ensure the highest motivation and productivity levels. Key interests We follow a systematic approach for identifying and selecting our Recruit the right people at the right time for the right key stakeholders, which includes listing all the stakeholders that position may have an impact on the company’s performance, and select the Employee satisfaction and motivation key stakeholders based on their current and long term impact on our performance. The identification and selection process includes Employee development competency review and a ranking system for the potential stakeholders, followed by group enhancement discussions with line managers. Safety and Health care Employee retention 1. Shareholders: Employee benefits Our shareholders are all co-owners of the business and they Work ethics have a share in its success and a say in how the business is run. They also have an ‘external voice’ as advocates for our Examples of Engagement business and all that we do. By engaging with them, we can Multiple forums throughout the year in which employees create a working environment in which everyone feels valued are encouraged to share their views with executives about a and reaches their potential. variety of issues within the Company. Strategic executive management and management Key interests meeting during the first quarter to discuss and share Corporate governance company performance, future strategies and challenges. Long term future of the company, its impact and The attendees include managers, superintendents, sustainability potential employees, Labour Union members . Enterprise risk management Regular meetings right from shop floor to top-tier Overall sustainability performance ( economically, management level environmentally and socially) Involvement in functional committees and councils Corporate strategic plans and progress Printed publications, such as the company magazine Corporate level audits On-line communication tools such as e-mails, websites, Human talent development, and employee satisfaction intranet Corporate objectives and progress Regular Labour Union meetings with employees and management Open face to face discussions Conferences, forums, presentations Suggestion schemes Regular sectional meetings Regular shift talks 46 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 3. Our local communities : Why identified as a stakeholder? The safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate is paramount. Our local communities are particularly important to us because our facilities are located close to populated residential neighbourhoods. We actively communicate with local communities to share, understand and manage the social, economic and environmental impact of our operations Key interests Support for their community needs Education and awareness on environmental issues Our children, our future. Examples of Engagement Open to visits by community members to our industrial areas Working closely with local authorities during the planning Environmental awareness lectures delivered by GPIC and implementation of new projects employees to Bahrain schools at various levels Working closely with regulators related to environment, Media (electronic and press) safety and health to ensure legal compliance Social investment (financial support) Regular audits by government officials GPIC representation and participation in governmental 4. Government and Regulators: entities, committees and task groups Why identified as a stakeholder? GPIC President’s representation as a member of the Shura We aim to meet the spirit as well as the letter of the law. We Council (Upper House of the Bahrain Parliament) and other engage actively with the government and all relevant regulators governmental entities to discuss and raise awareness of our business and to provide a view on issues that have an impact on our shareholders, 5. Suppliers: customers and the communities in which we operate. Why identified as a stakeholder? We aim to build long term relationships with our suppliers Key interests based on transparency and accountability. They are also Legal, legislative and regulatory compliance indirect representatives of our brand in the market place. Information sharing Skills, economic development and employment Key interests opportunities Long term relationships Labour standards and employee rights Equal opportunity, fair treatment and competitive pricing Minimising environmental impact Sustainability of their products and services Alignment with Kingdom of Bahrain’s vision 2030 Sustainability of raw materials Sustainability of raw materials Social responsibility with a focus on human rights for the Waste management, effluents and recycling activities work force Security Examples of Engagement Examples of Engagement Supplier conferences, forums and workshops Conferences and speaking engagements Day to day communications between suppliers, vendors, Presence at various business leader forums and policy buying teams and technologists advisory groups Meetings with suppliers Formal feedback from contractors, vendors. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 47 stakeholder engagement (continued) As part of our commitment towards UN Global Compact, GPIC ‘s President has written a letter of invitation to all the stake holders of GPIC inviting them to become members of UNGC. 7. Nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) Why identified as a stakeholder? We recognise the importance of proactively engaging with NGOs to understand their views on a range of issues. We continue to work proactively in partnership with NGOs on issues that are relevant and material to our business operations or fit with our business principles. We also understand that we have a responsibility to help capacitybuild these organisations to ensure that their outreach within communities is enhanced. Key interests Environmental protection, social and economic development Media a key stakeholder for GPIC. Establishment of mutually beneficial relationships Examples of Engagement 6. Media: Conferences and speaking engagements Why identified as a stakeholder? Correspondence We engage with the media to ensure that the public perception Face to face discussions of GPIC is a true and fair one. It is our aim to enhance and Communicating our position on a range of social and protect our image and reputation as a responsible business environmental issues within the community through our commitment and actions. Responding to information requests and surveys Bench marking surveys Key interests Financial support towards capacity building the Our progress on sustainability and CSR organisations Share GPIC’s achievements and best practices regionally and internationally 8. Customers : Enhance GPIC’s reputation Why identified as a stakeholder? Value addition to promote unity amongst the people of We aim to deal honestly with our customers and secure their Bahrain loyalty and trust through the supply of high quality products. Only by gathering feedback on our performance from our Examples of Engagement customers can we address their concerns and needs to ensure Responses to media requests for information and that they remain satisfied. interviews Conferences and speaking engagements Key interests GPIC ‘s official website Customer satisfaction GPIC’s engagement of media to cover most of its official Quality and competitive benefits events held internally and externally Sustainable products GPIC ‘s publications and newsletters Press releases in key newspapers Examples of Engagement TV and Radio interviews of GPIC’s President Feedback through marketing and online feedback forms Audits via buyer surveys Customer feedback evaluation forms Customer invitational and group meetings 48 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC marketing manager on a field visit in Brazil to meet customers. The examples of recent feedback received from some of the stakeholders groups are as follows: Stakeholder group Issues of Interest Our Response Replace GPIC ‘s existing perimeter fence with a new higher one for GPIC has responded to this by installing a new fence, Shareholders enhanced security the job is in progress and will complete in 2014. The Ministry of Electricity and Water ( EWA) requested GPIC to GPIC responded by agreeing to increase their in house Governmental bodies support EWA power grid load sharing during daily peak demand in power generation 1400-1600 hrs. every day to off load summer months EWA power grid. GPIC has introduced maternity medical insurance for Employees To provide maternity medical insurance for female employees . its female employees since 2012. InJAz , Bahrain requested to accelerate the provision of volunteers to GPIC responding by increasing its volunteers from 26 support its youth development initiatives to 36 NGOs GPIC ‘s President has written a letter of invitation to UN Global Compact encourages its members to advocate and pass all the stake holders of GPIC inviting them to become on the mission of UNGC to other nonmembers members of UNGC. After completion of every maintenance turnarounds the vendors and All the feedback are converted to turnaround Vendors contractors provide feedback through a structured feedback system recommendations for further evaluation and for improving the system future turnarounds. implementation. Arrange at least one annual joint meeting with Reach out to ammonia and urea buyers through marketers ammonia and urea buyers Customers Make use of the training programs offered by Sabic Share best practices between GPIC, Sabic, PIC Training Center in Riyad , KSA GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 49 GPIC Committees One of the main reasons for our success over the past decade has Since our last report, we have introduced some new committees been our “ONE TEAM” approach to all our business processes. One such as, the Sustainability reporting committee, the Responsible of the pillars of this concept is the crossfunctional committees or care committee and the Equal opportunities committee that focuses task teams covering various segments and addressing the related on women’s rights. issues within the company. We have over thirty committees, councils and teams which Committees play a pivotal role not only in the day to day running of are instrumental in enabling business excellence across our our business but are also a focal point in the innovation process. organisation. The objectives and charter of some of the key committees and councils are as follows: Committee Objective Charter Chair • Review the company’s mission, vision, strategic and corporate objectives and business planning. • Review/Develop all management systems and Overall planning, standards. The Executive implementation and follow-up • Develop the Annual Company Business Plan & Budget. Management Council President of the company’s strategies, • Finalise the year’s operating budget before presenting (EMC) Committee objectives and goals. to the Board of Directors for approval. • Review the implementation and status of the approved operating budget. • Develop the Company Succession Plan. • Develop strategies and plans for future company expansion and growth. • Implementation of Strategy 2020. Strategic Business To explore opportunities • Preparation of project proposals for Executive Development for the future growth of the President Management & Board of Directors’ approval. Committee (SBDC) company. • Preparation of feasibility studies. • Coordination with external organisations in relation to business development. Establish and oversee company policies and Safety, Health and Oversee Occupational Health and Safety, Responsible Care strategies for Safety, GMM-General Manager Environment Council and Process Safety Management implementation and Health, Environment and Manufacturing (SHEC) maintenance. Responsible Care in the complex. • Prepare and publish a biennial sustainability report on GRI guidelines. Sustainability To coordinate all activities • Prepare and publish an annual UN Global Compact GMM -General Manager Reporting Committee related to sustainability Communication on Progress report. Manufacturing (SRC) reporting. • Spread awareness of Sustainability and the UN Global Compact. 50 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Committee Objective Charter Chair • Set the training and development strategies and policies. To oversee all issues • Monitor all training, development and mentoring Training, Development related to the training and programmes. GMM -General Manager and Mentoring development of • Responsible for the recruitment of senior staff, Manufacturing Committee (TDMC) employees and recruitment of graduates and engineers and monitoring their key personnel. progress. • Set the criteria for the promotion of supervisory staff. • Manage the Succession Plan for the company. To strengthen the relationship • Discuss issues with the GPIC Labour Union and agree Management and between the company strategies that affect GPIC employees. Union High Council management and the labour President • Agree plans for efficiency enhancement, cost reduction, (MUHC) union in order to achieve both safety, security etc. parties’ interest. To ensure all major accidents Investigate accidents/ incidents of a serious or potentially Accident Investigation are addressed properly and GMM-General Manager serious nature that have or could have resulted in a major committee (AIC) lessons are learned to prevent Manufacturing injury. recurrence. • Discuss issues with the Labour Union on routine issues. • Follow actions agreed upon. To ensure that day to day • Propose issues to be discussed by the Management Management / Union routine matters are discussed GMMGeneral Manager and Union High Council. Committee (MUC) and addressed in a Manufacturing • Promote cooperation between management and the timely manner. Labour Union. • Carry out activities in support of women inside and Ladies’ Working To promote the role of women outside the company. HRSHuman Resources Committee (LWC) in the company and society. • Organise special events for women. Superintendent • Coordinate with external women’s organisations. • Encourage the implementation of equal opportunities Equal Opportunities To oversee equal opportunity within the company. GMM-General Manager Committee (EOC) initiatives in the company. • Establish equal opportunity rules and regulations. Manufacturing • Coordinate with Bahrain’s Supreme Council for Women. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 51 GPIC Committees (continued) Committee Objective Charter Chair To oversee the • Carry out activities in support of women inside and Process Safety implementation of the outside the company. TSMTechnical Services Management Process Safety Management • Organise special events for women. Manager Committee (PSMC) System and ensure its smooth • Coordinate with external women’s organisations. operation. • Establish an implementation and review plan for RC To oversee the Responsible Care codes for the next 2 to 4 years. SHEMSafety, Health and implementation of Committee (RCC) • Create sustainable reviews/ updates on new issues of Environment Manager Responsible Care. Responsible Care. • Develop strategy and policy for implementing and Innovation &Patent Creating an innovation culture managing innovation and generating patents in GPIC ITKMIT and Knowledge Committee (IPC) across the organization. in the areas of products, process, marketing and Manager. organization. Environment Promote internal and external • Manage internal and external environmental projects. PHES-Product handling and Committee environmental awareness • Promote responsible care initiatives/ awareness. export superintendent. Promote and organize • Manage the GPIC Anti-smoking program. Health Committee health and responsible care • Responsible for hygiene and food quality in main CMO-Chief medical officer. awareness activities. canteen and club canteen • Discuss and recommend issues pertaining to safety in Promote safety and the complex. SHEMSafety, Health, Safety Committee responsible care awareness • Organise and support activities pertaining to GPIC’s &Environment Manager. and training. SHE week. 52 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and professional networking, we participate in several organizations at a national, regional and international level. With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and professional networking, we partner with several organizations at a national, regional and international level. GPIC President attending 82nd IFA annual conference in Sydney, Australia. Bahrain Associations and Committees • National Oil and Gas Authority( NOGA) –Bahrain • Supreme Council for Youth and Sport • Bahrain Polytechnic • National Initiative for the Development of Agriculture • InJAz Bahrain • Crown Prince’s International Scholarship Programme • Bahrain Institute of Public Administration • Bahrain Training Institute • Ministry of Social Development • Ministry of Education • Ministry of Labour • Ministry of Industry and Commerce International/Regional Associations and Committees • University of Bahrain • UN Global Compact • Organising Committee for Bahrain Companies and • UN Global Compact GCC Network Establishment Football League • Gulf Petrochemical and Chemical Association(GPCA) • Major Companies Environment Networking Committee • Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA) • International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA) • National Safety Council – USA • Royal Society for the prevention of accidents ( RoSPAUK) • Saudi Basic Industries Corporation( SABIC), KSA GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 53 Risk Management The GPIC ERM-BCM (Business Resilience) Policy has been prepared and issued to all stakeholders and is also publicly available on our website www.gpic.com Risk Management at GPIC senior staff in order to ensure a consistent level of understanding Integration of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) with Business and knowledge of the integrated systems. GPIC established its ERM Continuity Management (BCM) initially based on the COSO ERM framework. In 2012, we aligned the After the successful implementation and adoption of the Enterprise framework to ISO 31000 Risk Management which provides a robust Risk Management( ERM) programme, our leadership decided framework to effectively identify, assess and manage risk when to drive the next strategic step towards combining the Business consistently implemented and maintained. We identified key risks Continuity Management( BCM) with ERM. Integrating BCM as (ERM risks) at the enterprise level and defined the risk owners, risk part of a comprehensive ERM programme allows complete sponsors, risk champion, risk appetite and mitigation plans for these understanding of the environment of business risk faced by GPIC. ERM risks and consolidated them into a Risk Register. This integration creates efficiencies on how we react towards catastrophic risks. The BCM established the Business Impact Analysis and the recovery plans to get back into normal business again with specified time A Business Resilience Committee has been established and is one bound in order to control and mitigate any potential business losses of the top management’s priorities. We sought the assistance of a and the consequential financial cost implications incurred from such well established international third party certification body to provide interruptions. their professional assessment of our systems and procedures in preparation for certification for ISO 22301 Societal Security – Business The GPIC ERM-BCM (Business Resilience) Policy has been prepared Continuity Management System. Several inhouse workshops were and issued to all stakeholders and is also publicly available on our conducted for the Business Resilience Committee members and website www.gpic.com Enterprise Risk Category Risk No. ERM Risk 1 Bank failure jeopardizing company deposits 2 Legal liability to third party and property damage Business 3 Delay /fault in collection of receivables 4 Volatility in market price 5 Increase in price of gas and power Information and Data 6 Loss of electronic data and hard copies Loss of ability to export( damage to ship loading facilities/closure of shipping lanes due to political 7 instability and natural calamities. Operational 8 Operational Hazards (Plant operational failure, accidents and SHE related issues) People 9 Failure to attract or retain Staff Non Compliance with regulatory/ legislative requirements Concerning Safety, health, environment, Regulatory 10 process and product handling aspects. Reputation 11 Damage to Reputation 12 Change in shareholders Strategic 13 Reduction/Interruption/Limitation of gas/power supply 54 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 55 • Economic Performance Economic Impact • Production Performance • Safety and Health Performance Our financial statements not only provide a look at the current state of the Company, but also at future growth potential. They also provide information on the economic impact for our stakeholders. 56 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 57 Economic Performance in shape of return on loans, payment of taxes to the Government, payment of salaries and benefits to employees, payment to suppliers etc. while our indirect impact includes the economic betterment of local communities through improvements in business environment and investments. We aim to be the growth partner for all our stakeholders by utilising local suppliers within our supply chain where possible, employing Bahraini nationals and contributing to the local community. The financial and operational results for the years depict that the Company operates in a continually evolving market with ample opportunities for future growth. 2012 -2013 were good earning years for GPIC, due to the significant recovery in the global ammonia, urea and methanol market from the economic downturn. The continued investment in projects resulting in enhanced reliability, efficiency , As a prime producer of ammonia, methanol and granular urea, productivity and business continuity along with our close cooperation GPIC’s business growth and financial performance are essential with our marketers ensured smooth exports of our products to its continued sustainability, and creating long term value for our resulting in sustained profitability. Our profits amounted to US$212 shareholders. million in 2012 and US$186million in 2013 We are aware that our operations have major direct and indirect The future of our industry looks positive and we are well positioned impacts, and are taking steps to increase the positive impacts for continued earnings growth in 2014 and beyond. For a full account whilst reducing any negative impacts. Our direct impacts include of GPICs financial performance, please see the 2012 and 2013 GPIC shareholder returns in the shape of dividend or payment to investors Annual Reports. ASPECT : ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Data Data Component 2013 2012 Direct economic value generated US$ 420,199,900 430,609,100 Revenues Economic value distributed US$ Major operating costs 80,347,576 74,123,451 Employee wages and benefits 50,442,104 46,700,778 Payment to providers of capital 186,000,000 211,740,000 Payment to Government 93,298,344 87,201,775 Community Investments 9,910,293 10,831,035 Economic value retained US$ Retained earnings 201,582 12,060 58 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Our financial statements not only provide a look at the current state of the Company, but also at future growth potential. They also provide information on the economic impact for our stakeholders. One of our challenges for 2014 and beyond is the increased natural gas price , hence to remain competitive and sustainable we have to maintain business continuity in a safe and reliable way with higher efficiencies and cost optimisation Financial statement Ratios Ratios 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Current Ratio 7.28 4.44 12.27 8.22 9.57 11.20 Debt/ Equity Ratio 0.09 0.11 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.07 Debt Ratio 0.09 0.10 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.07 Operating Cash Flow/Assets 34.98% 49.37% 22.10% 26.40% 27.66% 69.61% Net operating margin percentage 44.85% 48.88% 58.70% 43.80% 39.98% 64.61% Net Profit margin 45.00% 49.17% 40.54% 43.04% 39.65% 64.41% Return on Total Assets ( ROA) 34.15% 38.50% 47.26% 28.25% 21.99% 55.46% Return on Equity ( ROE) 36.40% 43.67% 53.30% 47.40% 40.77% 65.42% Account Receivable Turnover 5.43 5.17 5.14 4.55 5.00 7.05 Inventory Turnover 11.17 11.58 8.80 14.84 5.25 4.61 Balance Sheets (Expressed in thousands of US$) Ratios 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 NonCurrent Assets Property, plant & equipment 406,441 396,954 352,850 352,031 333,100 300,091 Total NonCurrent Assets 406,441 396,954 352,850 352,031 333,100 300,091 Current Assets Inventories 15,492 14,379 12,474 9,391.6 10,433 23,251 Trade and other receivables 80,727 73,988 92,604 84,829 56,148 52,163 Cash and cash equivalents 65,373 53,856 103,125 62,445 73,121 147,451 Total Current Assets 161,592 142,223 208,203 156,665 139,703 222,865 Total Assets 568,033 539,177 561,053 508,697 472,802 522,956 Equity Capital and Reserves Share Capital 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 Statutory Reserve 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 Retained Earnings 94,886 94,687 94,841 94,814 94,613 99,050 Proposed Dividends 186,001 151,739 190,140 137,999 105,001 150,000 Total Equity 519,387 484,926 523,481 471,313 438,114 487,550 Liabilities Non-current Liabilities Employee Benefits 26,455 22,236 20,477 18,317 19,451 15,510 Current Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 22,191 32,015 17,095 19,067 15,238 19,896 Total Liabilities 48,646 54,251 37,572 37,384 34,689 35,406 Total Equity and Liabilities 568,033 539,177 561,053 508,697 472,802 522,956 *** Employee benefits cover mostly the post-retirement benefits. 2010 shows a decrease in the amount as a number of employees opted for early retirement package and hence a decrease in the liability to the company. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 59 Economic Performance (continued) US $ 2.06 billion dividend to Shareholders since inception Our profits and dividends to Shareholders Year Net profit ( US $) Dividends to Shareholders(US$) 1998 1,000,000 15,000,000 1999 9,000,000 9,000,000 2000 40,000,000 36,000,000 2001 25,000,000 21,000,000 2002 25,000,000 21,000,000 2003 66,000,000 60,000,000 2004 96,000,000 96,000,000 2005 128,000,000 129,000,000 2006 162,000,000 162,000,000 2007 201,000,000 201,000,000 2008 301,000,000 301,000,000 2009 105,000,000 105,000,000 2010 138,000,000 138,000,000 2011 265,000,000 265,000,000 2012 212,000,000 212,000,000 2013 189,000,000 186,000,000 EC2 Financial Implications and other risks and opportunities projects/ investments started with the installation of urea for the organisation’s activities due to climate change project in 1996 and the selection of granulation technology, followed by CDR project commissioning in 2009 to further Financial implications due to climate change include the reduce our GHG emissions. economic costs of the adverse effects of climate change and risk/ opportunities related to actions to reduce greenhouse gas GPIC has also embarked upon a long term plan to expand the emissions. use of renewable energy at its facilities. We are progressing towards phasing out HCFCs from our operations. Energy/ water GPIC has no major financial implication posed due to climate conservation and resource efficiency remains a key priority for change. All the operations are safe from the impacts, however, us and we retrofitted our ammonia converter basket in 2012 that extreme weather change may affect operations. The weather resulted in considerable energy savings. patterns are evolving and sudden changes in weather are no more a novelty or a coincident. Mindful of the fact of water shortage in a changing climate, we have embarked upon an automatic irrigation system project for We are cognizant of the fact that businesses have to play their optimum use of water at our green areas. However, we have not role in combating global climate change. Our climate change yet quantified the impacts of this in monetary terms. 60 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Component Response 2013 Response 2012 GPIC ensures that our people’s compensation and benefit plans are in line with our overall strategy. We have also introduced a new early retirement policy (voluntary) for our Bahraini employees, to improve Coverage of the organisation’s employee attainability of benefits whilst still ensuring Same as 2013 defined benefit plan obligations the company’s financial security and business continuity. Other benefits include a savings scheme, comprehensive health insurance covering all our people and their families, loans, indemnity, annual bonus etc. Allowance & Benefits Bahraini Non-Bahraini Social Allowance Yes Yes Minimum 15% of basic salary to a maximum of 25% of Furnished apartment according to the grade of Housing Allowance basic salary depending on the grade of the employee the employee and number of family members Indemnity Yes Yes Saving Scheme Yes No Housing loan Yes No Emergency Loan Yes Yes Settling in Loan Yes Yes Transport Allowance Yes Yes Medical Insurance Yes Yes Educational assistance for Financial assistance for incoming staff Financial assistance for staff grade 14 and above employees children under 18 years recruited grades 10 and above. Life insurance Yes Yes Canteen food ( Subsidized) Yes Yes Uniform Yes Yes Scholarship programme for staff Yes No EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government Component Response 2013 Response 2012 Significant financial assistance No Significant financial assistance received from No Significant financial assistance received received from Government Government during 2013 from Government during 2012 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 61 Economic Performance (continued) US $ 3.52 billioncontribution towards Bahrain’s economy since inception EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation According to the policy of the Company all kinds of recruitment are made on merit and no personal preferences are accorded to any other aspect. GPIC is an equal opportunity employer. Our HR/recruitment policy highlights the need to tap into local talent first prior to looking for alternate talent. GPIC’s senior management is 100% Bahrainis. GPIC has a wellestablished Succession Plan and Talent Management. We are committed to empowering the indigenous community beyond the stipulated nationalization requirements. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to services provided primarily for public benefit through local minimum wage at significant locations of operation commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement Even though there is no Minimum Wage Law in Bahrain covering Since inception, GPIC has injected US$ 3.52 billion into the economy all type of jobs still GPIC maintains its standard entry level wage of Bahrain. higher than the minimum wages in many similar organisations. The minimum entry level wage at GPIC is 780 US$. This contribution has been made in several areas, including employment, training, procurement, regular dividends to the EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyGovernment, purchases made within Bahrain, etc, based suppliers at significant locations of operations Total Cash contributions towards the national economy since inception Locally based suppliers are defined by the Company as ‘Suppliers Cash injected into the economy of Bahrain up to December 2013 within Bahrain’. Wherever possible we prefer to procure from local US$ Million suppliers. We always promote local suppliers as a priority , and nearly 40% of our approved suppliers include local suppliers. The following factors are considered in selecting suppliers. Suppliers’ ability to meet the requirements. Projects 820 Principal suppliers or original manufacturers. Natural Gas/ Electricity consumed 861 Suppliers’ previous history record of performance in similar Amount spent locally on employees 580 scope of supply. Amount paid to contractors 169 Suppliers who have service facilities in Bahrain. Amount spent on training Bahrainis 88 Suppliers with Bahrainisation level of manpower. Purchases made in Bahrain 155 Safety. Health &Environment system certifications. Finance Charges paid to Banks 157 Dividends paid to government of Bahrain 686 Total Cash injected since inception: US$ 3.52 Billion Average Annual Contribution for last 10 years: US$ 217.0 Million 62 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC supports Bahrain youth development by providing 30 employees each semester each year as volunteers for teaching and coaching students at inJAZ , Bahrain. Initiatives during the year 2012-2013 Initiatives Brief Crown Prince Education program ,Ministry of Education, Bahrain Technical institute (BTI), Bahrain Polytechnic, University of Bahrain , Injaz, Tamkeen. Supporting local technical institutions • US$ 265,960 every year to Crown prince education program, US $ 19,000 every year to Ministry of (includes vocational, technical, education, Bahrain. educational): • GPIC supports Bahrain youth development by providing 30 employees each semester each year as volunteers for teaching and coaching students at inJAZ , Bahrain. Number of schools engaged per year = 30 Involvement with Schools in Bahrain Type of engagement: Environmental awareness lectures, Coaching to secondary school students, Environmental Research Program • Number of scholarships bestowed to employees children in 2013: 31 / 2012: 42 • Level of scholarships: university level Scholarships for children of employees • Number of scholarships for community children (not employees of the company):2013: 2 / 2012 :4 and community • Approximate monetary value: US$ 3700 per semester for the employees children sponsorship & US$ 70 monthly stipend for the University of Bahrain Scholarship students plus the university fees and books expenses Donations and Sponsorships (The following are some of the recent examples, for a detailed outlook visit our website www.gpic.com and browse the section press releases and media). • Ministry of Social Development • AlRahma Centre for disabled • Bahrain Cancer Society • inJAz, Bahrain • Ministry of Education, Bahrain • Crown Prince’s Scholarship Programme Key Social Contributions 2012/2013 • King Hamad Hospital Campus GPIC ‘s leadership believes that corporate social responsibility goes beyond the • Second West Asian Federation for Ladies traditional Philanthropy. It is about • Bahrain Women’s Union building bridges and partnerships to • First National Occupational Safety and Health -Conference and Exhibition make the difference. • Bahrain Football Association • Bahrain Athletics Association • Bahrain Golf Association • Bahrain Tennis Association • Bahrain Special Olympics for people with intellectual disabilities • GPIC becomes the diamond sponsor to hold the first ever Bahrain international CSR conference • Bahrain Handicapped sports federation • Bahrain Society for child development • UNEP for supporting environmental sustainability Please refer to social performance Page 105 to 106 indicators section for details EC 9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. GPIC’s ERM and BCM addresses all the potential risks and impacts including the economic impacts. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 63 Production Performance 1,594,647tonnes Highest ever combined production ( Ammonia + Urea + Methanol) achieved in 2013 Production Performance Urea Plant: • In December 2013 Urea plant achieved the highest ever daily We produced record volumes of quality products and in 2013 we production of 2,034 tonnes. achieved the highest production ever in the history of the Company. • Highest ever monthly Urea production of 62,209 tonnes was achieved in December 2013. The key to our success, like that of any other successful fertilizer and • In April 2013 the average daily Urea production was 2,010.3 petrochemical company, is to keep the plants available and running tonnes for operating days. This is the highest ever daily average efficiently while maintaining our focus on their reliability and process Urea production achieved in a month. safety. During this period, we excelled in our business processes • Urea plant achieved highest ever daily average Urea production and produced and exported quality products whilst achieving our of 1,946 tonnes for the whole year. production targets. Most of our products were exported to USA, • The yearly Urea production of 687,760 tonnes was the highest India, China and South Korea. The United States retained its share achieved so far. as the biggest importer of the Company’s urea as it captured 52% of the total urea exports. Total combined Production • In January 2013 the highest ever daily total production of 4,645 Our chief source of pride during this achievement was the excellence tonnes was achieved. of our SHE performance whilst a simultaneous drive towards • Highest ever monthly total production of 140,411 tonnes was process safety excellence that gained momentum. To maintain achieved in December 2013. the operations of our plants at the optimum, we further reviewed • Highest ever yearly production of 1,206,754 tonnes was available and enhanced our staff training and development programs. for sale. During 2012 and 2013 we reached several significant milestones, • The yearly total production of 1,594,647 tonnes was highest key amongst them being the successful execution of ‘Turnaround ever achieved 2012’ where all the turnaround related objectives were very safely and efficiently accomplished. During 2012 we constructed and Exports successfully commissioned a new HP steam boiler and a new • On 30/06/2013, GPIC made a land mark by loading the 2000th Sodium Hypochlorite unit. Ship, while loading Methanol ship M.T. STOLT SNELAND. • GPIC maintains its compliance with the DAFF (Department of Our Achievements: Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry) and the HQS (Hunter Quality During turnaround 2012 a number of capital projects were Solutions) certifications for its Urea export to Australia and New implemented that further enhanced the reliability and productivity Zealand respectively as level-1 Gold Status.) of the plants. Post-turnaround 2012 performance of the plants was par excellence with record production and business continuity. The following summarises the achievements on the Our Challenges production side in 2013. Significant challenges experienced during the reporting period include the following; Ammonia Plant: • In January 2013 Ammonia plant achieved the highest ever daily • In 2013, we experienced Urea Reactor liner leak and the urea production of 1,352 tonnes. plant had to be shut down for 11.66 Days. • Ammonia plant Process Gas Cooler fouling continued causing an Methanol Plant: increase in the process side temperature resulting in operating • In January 2013 Methanol plant achieved the highest ever daily the reformer with reduced temperature. production of 1,269 tonnes. • Ammonia plant Low temperature shift converter catalyst bed • Methanol plant achieved highest ever monthly production of Pressure drop is gradually increasing and is running on the 39,091 tonnes in December 2013. higher side. • Methanol plant achieved highest ever daily average production of • We experienced a bottom floor plate leak of the refined 1,261 tonnes during a month, in December 2013. methanol intermediate storage tank T-1903. The tank was • Methanol plant achieved highest ever daily average production of decommissioned and the floor plates were replaced. 1,236 tonnes over the whole year. • The Final methanol storage tank T-7201B floor plates also developed a leak. The tank was decommissioned and annular plates were replaced. 64 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 The United States retained its share as the biggest importer of the Company’s urea as it captured 52% of the total urea exports. Our Performance 2012-2013 Yearly Production and Export Units 2012 2013 Performance Data Budget Actual Deviation Budget Actual Deviation Ammonia Production MT 420,000 411,260 -2.08% 452,340 460,610 1.83% Methanol Production MT 614,725 626,985 1.99% 660,450 687,760 4.14% Urea Production MT 414,510 416,053 0.37% 437,980 446,277 1.89% Total Cumulative Production MT 1,449,235 1,454,298 0.35% 1,550,770 1,594,647 2.83% Ammonia Exports MT 69,605 62,566 -10.11% 75,880 70,876 -6.59% Methanol Exports MT 414,510 412,925 -0.38% 437,980 440,992 0.69% Urea Exports MT 614,725 630,602 2.58% 660,450 680,627 3.06% Total Exports MT 1,098,840 1,106,093 0.66% 1,174,310 1,192,495 1.55% On stream Factor (1) Ammonia % 91.80 90.88 -1.00% 98.36 99.81 1.47% Methanol % 93.44 93.96 0.56% 98.36 98.92 0.57% Urea % 91.53 92.51 1.07% 97.81 96.81 -1.02% Utilization Factor (2) Ammonia % 104.17 103.04 -1.08% 105.00 105.37 0.35% Methanol % 101.00 100.82 -0.18% 101.67 103.00 1.31% Urea % 107.94 108.92 0.91% 108.82 114.50 5.22% Capacity Utilization(3) Ammonia % 95.63 93.64 -2.08% 103.27 105.16 1.83% Methanol % 94.38 94.73 0.37% 100.00 101.89 1.89% Urea % 98.80 100.77 1.99% 106.44 110.84 4.13% Plant outages Ammonia Days 30.00 33.39 11.30% 6.00 0.71 -88.17% Methanol Days 24.00 22.11 -7.88% 6.00 3.93 -34.50% Urea Days 31.00 27.40 -11.61% 8.00 11.66 45.75% Notes: 1) On stream factor is the Operating days as percentage of calendar days 2) Utilization factor is the percentage of the design capacity utilized based on operating days 3) Capacity utilization is the percentage of design capacity utilized based on calendar days 4) Urea plant had 11.66 days of plant outages. 45.75% more than the allocated 8 days outage during 2013. 5) 2012 is a turnaround year GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 65 Our Exports 2,000 Cargo ships loaded and exported to the world since 1985 Yearly Exports Units 2012 2013 performance Data Budget Actual Deviation Budget Actual Deviation Ammonia Exports MT 69,602 62,566 -10.1 75,883 70,875 -6.6 Methanol Exports MT 414,510 412,925 -0.4 437,980 440,846 0.7 Urea Exports MT 614,725 630,602 2.6 660,450 680,627 3.1 Total Exports MT 1,098,837 1,106,093 0.7 1,174,313 1,192,347 1.5 2012 2013 Unit Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage India MT 26,049 41.6 12,950 18.3 Indonesia MT 5,250 8.4 0 0.0 South Africa MT 5,131 8.2 0 0.0 Ammonia export Taiwan MT 14,494 23.2 19,456 27.5 by region South Korea MT 7,000 11.2 11,472 16.2 Australia MT 0 0.0 13,499 19.0 China MT 4,642 7.4 13,499 19.0 TOTAL MT 62,566 100 70,875 100 Australia MT 47,908 7.6 16,497 2.4 Usa MT 379,482 60.2 350,132 51.4 Thailand MT 65,666 10.4 103,864 15.3 India MT 12,299 2.0 0 0.0 Pakistan MT 50,356 8.0 0 0.0 Sudan MT 19,492 3.1 0 0.0 Urea export by Brazil MT 39,114 6.2 87,602 12.9 region Uruguay MT 15,000 2.4 39,460 5.8 Bangladesh MT 0.0 27,500 4.0 Philippines MT 0.0 15,000 2.2 Tanzania MT 0.0 27,500 4.0 Argentina MT 0.0 11,545 1.7 Local MT 1,285 0.2 1,527 0.2 Total MT 630,602 100 680,627 100.0 China MT 245,883 59.5 250,547 56.8 Usa MT 65,785 15.9 90,546 20.5 Europe MT 27,090 6.6 13,540 3.1 Singapore MT 33,507 8.1 70,862 16.1 Methanol export Korea MT 2,000 0.5 0 0.0 by region Taiwan MT 38,488 9.3 0 0.0 Brazil MT 0 0.0 5,031 1.1 Thailand MT 0 0.0 10,250 2.3 Local MT 172 0.0 70 0.0 Total 412925 100 440846 100 66 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Safety and Health Performance +16 million Man Hours without LTA as of December 2013 When it comes to a safe and healthy workplace, there can be no compromise. That’s why we do everything we can to create and maintain a safe work environment for our employees and contractors. Our biggest challenge is not to just maintain our achievements but to build on it and reduce our workplace injuries in order to attain our objective of a Zero Harm Workplace. GPIC promotes a SHE plus( Safety, Health, Environment & Security) culture within the organization and also amongst our surrounding communities by maintaining a zero harm workplace. We firmly believe that all work related injuries and illnesses are preventable, and it is on this basis that we design and manage our health and GPIC participates in the United Nations My World Survey. safety programs. We consider employees and contractors as equals when managing risks in the workplace. Our Achievements • We had one reportable process safety incident in 2012, when GPIC achieved a strong Responsible Care performance in 2012an equipment under pressure was offered for maintenance 2013, particularly in the area of employee health and safety. We resulting in ammonia release and minor exposure to several achieved over 16 million man hours without a lost time accident till employees and contractors without injuries. the end of 2013. We continue to benchmark our SHE performance with the best in class. In 2012 our biggest challenge was to have a Wellness at Work at GPIC safe turnaround, which we achieved without any LTA .Even though GPIC, being a Responsible Care company, believes that the health our performance with respect to lost time accidents has improved, and wellbeing of its employees is of paramount importance. The our concern and focus remains on reducing the number of minor Company has taken several key initiatives in this regard and will injuries both for our employees and the contractor workforce. take a step forward towards enhancing the quality of life of its We continue to reinforce our occupational and process safety during workforce. The salient initiatives are as follows: 2012-2013 and on an ongoing basis. • Smoke –free GPIC campaign Our challenges • Health campaign on Diabetes, Hypertension and Fat • During 2012 we had experienced a lost time accident of a composition contract worker when he got injured while manually handling an • Beat the heat campaign electrical panel in a sub-station. • Think Pink campaign • Our recordable incidence rate for 2013 for GPIC employees has • Obesity Management Programme increased from 0.789( 2012) to 1.176(2013) primarily due to minor • Blood donations by GPIC employees injuries. • First aid training for GPIC employees • Occupational health and disease awareness lectures, newsletters GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 67 Safety and Health Performance (continued) Sick leaves statistics Year No. of sick leave days % sick % sick leaves by gender % sick leave days by age leave days Male Female <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 + 2010 5969 2.8 2.6 5.7 1.5 1.5 2.5 3.9 2.4 1.8 2011 4729 2.4 2.3 2.2 1.4 2.1 2.4 2.9 1.8 1.0 2012 5486 2.6 2.76 2.4 1.92 3.08 2.83 3.03 1.97 1.51 2013 4963 2.4 2.39 2.24 0 2.65 2.57 2.65 1.59 1.05 Notes: 1) Sickness Absence % ratio according to International Labor Organization (ILO) (No. S.L days X 100) Sick Leave % = ________________________________________ Total No. of Emp. X No. Calendar days / year Incident statistics LTA Incidents LTA Incidents LTA Incident Rate(GPIC) LTA Incident Rate Injuries and first aids during (GPIC) (Contractors) (Contractors) turnarounds (TA) 2003 33 2005 15 2007 4 2008 0 0 0 0 Non TA year 2009 0 1 0 0.3 Non TA year 2010 0 0 0 0 12 2011 0 0 0 0 Non TA year 2012 0 1 0 0.452 16 2013 0 0 0 0 Non TA year Notes: 1) Recordable injury rate and incident rate is calculated based on 200,000 hours worked. 68 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC sponsored vertical garden in Bahrain. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 69 • Environmental Strategy environmental • Environmental Performance impact GPIC has committed itself to some of the most stringent of standards when it comes to environmental management because it believes that the way any organisation manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of its standards of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. 70 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 71 Safeguarding the Environment CO2 emissions reduction achieved by 0.12 million tonnes annually through the carbon dioxide recovery plant comes to environmental sustainability. Sustainability is embedded in everything we do, our strategy, operations and daily actions. Safeguarding the Environment Compliance to the Environmental legislations, reducing energy consumption and emissions, resource conservation, energy efficiency, hazardous waste management and pollution prevention are some of our main priorities towards the environmental challenges we face at GPIC. GHG emissions Manufacturing of fertilizers is a relatively clean but highly energy intensive process. In a global context, the greatest environmental impact is from GHGs emitted during the production of ammonia and GPIC a habitat for migrating birds. methanol along with the emissions from fossil fuel fired boilers and gas turbines. GPIC has consistently demonstrated that a rapidly growing company in a highly competitive emerging market can, not only meet its We have reduced our GHG emissions significantly by capturing and environmental responsibilities, but also dramatically reduce its recycling CO2 through our urea plant( commissioned 1998) and the carbon footprint whilst simultaneously improving profitability. carbon dioxide recovery unit (commissioned 2009) ‘We believe that the way any organisation manages environmental Energy efficiency issues is a crucial measure of its standard of corporate social In recent years, GPIC has embarked on energy saving projects , responsibility, competitiveness and vision.’ Dr. Abdulrahman the latest being the ammonia converter revamp that involved the Jawahery, GPIC President replacement of Uhde converter basket with Haldor Topsoe S-200 series basket that resulted in a reduction in the synthesis loop Goals and Policy; pressure and a net energy saving of 0.17 Gcal/MT of ammonia The overall objective of the Company is to continually improve on produced. Furthermore our equipments have been technically environmental performance as per the Company policies. Efforts are upgraded to optimize energy efficiency, and energy-saving programs made to adopt cleaner and newer technologies for environmental have been successfully implemented in our other facilities. impact abatement. Improving energy efficiency at our ammonia plant has the added benefit of reducing CO2 emissions. The Company has a wellestablished environmental policy which is part of the Integrated Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Other impacts Policy. Environmental protection and sustainability is also part of the Other, more regional, impacts from GPIC production plants include Company’s Responsible Care Policy. emission of acidifying gases (NOx and SOx) and particulate matter and ammonia from the urea granulator stack. All such impact is Our challenges, impact and response monitored closely to ensure that allowable levels are not exceeded, Core objectives of the GPIC environmental policy and strategy and several steps have been taken to reduce emissions, for instance, include complying with regulatory requirements and reducing our operational improvements and investments in clean technologies environmental footprint. such as the ultra low NOx burners in our new HP steam boiler. GPIC is dedicated to excellent performance in terms of environmental GPIC uses sea water for its desalination plants and cooling impact. We strive to promote industry leading standards, purposes which involve risk of contamination. However with environmental sustainability and stewardship. stringent controls, monitoring and treatment the company ensures the allowable limits are not exceeded. Ground water monitoring is Our biggest environmental challenge is the location of our facilities, also done to ensure the leaking process fluids and chemicals do which is surrounded by sea, neighbouring facilities and the residential not contaminate the sea water and are detected in time. In 2012, communities. We as a Responsible care company are mindful of use of chlorine from sea water system was eliminated and Sodium the challenges and hence follow a precautionary approach when it Hypochlorite was introduced as an alternative. 72 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 We believe that the way any organisation manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of its standard of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC President It is important for GPIC to operate in compliance with permitted levels stipulated by the regulators. The environmental performance of each plant is shown in unit reports where emissions are compared to permitted levels. GPIC’s manufacturing processes does not produce a significant amount of solid hazardous waste. All hazardous waste is dealt with in conformance to regulations. This includes use of catalysts, which are sold to recycling agents. Managing hazardous liquid waste is a challenge in Bahrain and in GPIC. To deal with this issue we have constructed an double HDPE lined evaporation pond that will be commissioned in Q1 2014. Strict environmental standards All GPIC plants are operated under strict national environmental GPIC expanded its fish farm in 2012 2013. standards and have established environmental management systems, developed in cooperation with industry associations and We have adopted a multi-pronged strategy with respect to regulatory authorities, based on the ISO 14001 standard. managing our environmental footprint and have prioritized our investments accordingly. Internal performance data is routinely checked and reported to regulatory authorities. Data is also collected by the government Throughout the life cycle of our products and operations, we aim to environmental inspectors during the mandatory bi-annual site visits. manage their environmental impacts. Global engagement and sustainability Environmental review at design stage In addition to the commitment and responsibilities we have for An environmental impact study and review at the design stage is our own operations, we are engaged in environmental efforts at carried out for all minor and major projects as well as engineering several levels, i.e. creating impact, efforts towards environmental modifications. We identify environmental impacts and seek to avoid sustainability and stewardship. One of these examples is our them or minimize them. Any gaps or concerns highlighted as part commitment to the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles including of the environmental impact study are addressed to ensure an the three principles on environmental sustainability. We take environmentally sustainable project. environmental stewardship very seriously and in this context we are the joint Sponsors of the yearly RoSPA International Reliable operations with minimum business interruption Dilmun Environmental Award that is given to the companies with We believe that by operating the plants in an efficient and reliable outstanding Environmental management system manner with minimum production interruptions and down-time the environmental impacts from our operations will be minimum. Hence GPIC’s Environmental Strategy: to achieve this we invest on reliability, state of the art technology & As the world’s climate begins to change, businesses cannot equipment, and training & development of our employees. afford to ignore the impact it has on the environment. We have committed ourself to some of the most stringent of standards Monitoring and control of emissions ,effluents and waste when it comes to environmental management because it believes As a part of our RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS we actively monitor that the way any organisation manages environmental issues is a our gas emissions ,liquid effluents and waste generation and have crucial measure of its standards of corporate social responsibility, initiated several measures to reduce our carbon footprint and competitiveness and vision. improve our overall environmental footprint. Our environmental management model is founded on the Resource Efficiency and conservation basic concept of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle and is seamlessly We ensure that we are maximizing the efficiency of our resource aligned to the company’s triple bottom line approach towards utilization for everything from water to energy to raw materials to business sustainability. minimize wastage from our manufacturing processes, and making our facilities greener and more eco-friendly. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 73 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) Environmental care beyond borders In line with our business principles of sustainability, coupled with responsible care and corporate social responsibility ethics, our strategy of environmental management goes beyond our facilities. Our RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS strategy ensures that we do not impact adversely on our neighbouring communities. The key goal is to manage our business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. Climate Change Commitments : In an era of global climate change, GPIC greenhouse gas emissions, as well as its carbon footprint, are one of the biggest challenges we face when trying to invest in environmental sustainability. We take care of the marine life. GPIC has been able to implement some projects such as the urea plant and the carbon dioxide recovery plant that have reduced Strict Compliance to Legislative and regulatory requirements the company’s carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions, We ensure regulatory compliance to applicable environmental laws thereby helping to reduce our impact towards climate change. and legislations. This important aspect is embedded in our policies. The Carbon Dioxide Recovery (CDR) plant commissioned in 2010, captures 450 MT/Day of CO2 from methanol reformer flue gases Benchmarking for continual improvement and recycles it back into core processes. Hence reducing our carbon Furthermore we benchmark ourselves against some of the highest footprint in addition to increasing resource efficiency and production global standards by pursuing internationally recognized certifications augmentation. This project is a best example of how we combine such as the EMS ISO 14001:2004, Responsible Care RC 14001:2008 business strategy with environmental sustainability. and others. Commitment to UN Global Compact Principles on Environmental Regular Audits sustainability In addition to internal audits our facilities are frequently audited by Environmental Sustainability professional third party organisations to ensure that we are holding ourselves to the standards we have committed ourselves to. The concept of ‘environmental sustainability’, while a Environmental awareness broad one, rests on a central tenet: meeting human We are also actively engaged in inculcating a culture of needs without undermining the capacity of the planet’s environmental responsibility amongst our people and the community. We train our employees and provide them with skills, ability to support life. Environmental sustainability forms competencies and empowerment to continuously improve in their one of the three integrated dimensions of ‘sustainable professional and personal lives. development’, alongside the economic and social dimensions. Far from being only about the preservation Biodiversity and protection of natural habitats of natural resources, environmental sustainability is Our production site now hosts: fundamental to poverty reduction, human development • a fish farm where about 80,000 sea bream fish are released into the deep sea annually to enrich marine life, and wellbeing. • a bird sanctuary which hosts birds of different species, and Source: UN • a number of gardens specifically made to plant rare indigenous, aromatic and desert plants to form a case study for educating school students on environmental natural presentation. 74 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 We are actively engaged in inculcating a culture of environmental responsibility amongst our people and the community. GPIC is a member of the UN Global Compact and is committed to the support and implementation of the Global Compact’s principles on environmental sustainability. • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges We can be never be certain that an economic activity has positive or at least neutral effects on sustainability and when we are not certain of the impacts we follow a precuationary approach. WeThink before we act and carryout an Environmental impact assessment for any significant change. • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We have well defined roles and responsibilities when it comes to policy making and goals setting. The risks and opportunities with regards to environmental sustainability are GPIC goes solar. assessed in a structured manner. • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally sea. It works as an indicator for us to monitor our pollution levels as friendly technologies well on an ongoing basis. The fish farm is a thriving project for us and Whenever we go for a new equipment or a plant we always has demonstrated success factors in the way our plants are assess the potential environmental, social and economic being operated. Every year, thousands of fish are released into impacts( adverse and positive) and cover all the aspects the Arabian Gulf to replenish depleted stocks whilst many of the including the following remainder are given, together with dates from our date palms, to o Conserve natural resources local charities. o Reduce quantity of waste and effluent generated Since our inception we have felt the need for maintaining o Reduce pollution environmental balance. Possible environmental impacts have always o Create local Income been thoroughly examined and studied. All the necessary measures o Improve working conditions and steps are then carefully taken into account to maintain such a balance. Although more than 28 years have passed since the plants o Reduce raw materials, energy and water costs went on-stream, all the plants are still operating according to the o Reduce waste disposal and transportation costs strictest local and international environmental standards. o Increase returns by selling waste materials for re-use o Reduce costs from potential liabilities, risks and accidents The Urea plant, which came into operation in 1998, was subjected to the same environmental review at the design stage. We even insisted on o Improve productivity installing a granulation process for the production of final solid product rather than the more conventional prilling process, despite the higher Towards a Green Environment cost of construction and licensing. The choice of this technology has GPIC considers itself a role model in the protection of the environment paid off and has resulted in reduced emissions of urea dust. and was the first industrial company to use practical demonstration projects to verify the environmental credentials of its operations. In 2008, GPIC became one of the first petrochemical companies in the Middle East to embark on the 450 tonnes/day Carbon Dioxide Though GPIC’s site is built on an environmentally unpromising Recovery (CDR) Project. The project was initiated to cut down 60 hectares of reclaimed land consisting of sand and rock; GPIC Greenhouse gas emissions and improve the overall efficiency of has managed to create an oasis of award-winning gardens, a bird resources, as it has also facilitated the additional production of sanctuary and a fish farm. The fish farm is placed strategically methanol and urea at the complex. adjacent to and downstream from the plant’s effluent discharge to the GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 75 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) +1 million Fish released rto Bahrain’s territorial waters from GPIC’s managed fish farm since 1996 Expanding greenery to reduce our carbon footprint. GPIC Environmental Projects: • Herbal and Medicinal Plants Garden: The Herbal and Medical Plants Garden was inaugurated on 9th May 2005 under the • Charity Garden: GPIC launched its environmental programme patronage of His Highness Shaikh Abdullah bin Hamad Al in March 1992 with a Charity Garden. Built on an area of 1,500 Khalifa, Governor of the Southern Governorate and Chairman of m2, the yield from this garden has exceeded over 14 tonnes of the Public Commission for the Protection of Marine Resources, fruit and vegetables which are then donated to charities and Environment and Wildlife. Covering an area of 1200 m2, this families in need. Recently, fruit trees and date palms have also innovative project was launched with the prime objective of been added to enhance the output of the Charity Garden. preserving indigenous herbs and plants that were once used by inhabitants to treat various illnesses. The garden currently • Fish Farm: With the aim of demonstrating environmental contains 20 types of herbs and shrubs. This garden has also accountability, setting a good example to other industries become a very useful platform for researchers, school students and replenishing dwindling fish reserves in regional waters, and dignitaries from which to benefit. These efforts have the company embarked on constructing a fish farm close contributed greatly to GPIC winning several accolades, including to the sea water outlet in November 1996. Different kinds of the GCC Environmental Award for the Best Establishment tropical fish found in Bahrain’s waters, like Black Sea Bream Adhering to Environmental Legislations. (Shim), Mullet (Meid) and Rabbit fish (Saffee), are being bred in the farm so that their growth can take place in a congenial • H.H Shaikha Sabika bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa Aromatic Plants atmosphere. Later, these fish are released into the sea. Garden: In March 2009 Her Highness Shaikha Sabika bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa, wife of His Majesty the King, opened the • Bird Sanctuary: The evident improvement in the environment Aromatic Plants Garden at the GPIC Complex bearing her around GPIC has encouraged us further to enhance our special name. This is a unique garden mainly designed to feature all the focus on the surroundings and especially Bahrain’s bird life. perfumed aromatic plants and herbs in the Kingdom. The bird sanctuary was commissioned on 9th September 2001 where a small nesting area and a fresh pond were created for • Queen Margrethe II Olive Oasis : H.M. Queen Margrethe II of the birds to enjoy a natural habitat, with a view to the continual Denmark, accompanied by H.R.H. Prince Henrick, visited GPIC improvement of the environment around the GPIC complex. on 5 February, 2011. During her visit, the Queen of Denmark Built on a coastal strip of 600,000m2, the sanctuary provides opened the Olive Tree Oasis named the “Queen Margrethe II a safe haven for migrating birds, waders and local species. Olive Oasis” in commemoration of the Queen’s visit to GPIC. Over 70 species have been recorded visiting the island. 2000 The Oasis contains more than 300 plants. mangrove trees were also planted around the island to enhance the natural habitat. Today, the mangroves have grown in number and size and are playing an important role in marine ecology and environmental protection. 76 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 • Green belt at GPIC: Tree plantation and care for the in coastal reclamation, 101 practical ways for domestic waste environment is taken up very religiously at GPIC. At present, management and many others. we have more than 2870 trees and plants at our facilities. Expansion of the green belt at the company’s periphery in the Global Engagement and Stewardship second quarter of 2013 has increased the green area to 83473 In 2007, The International Dilmun Award was launched. This m2 , which is 12.64% of the total area of 660000m2. environmental award is sponsored by GPIC as part of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) awards programme. Environmental Awareness The name ‘Dilmun’ was given to reflect the history of Bahrain and in GPIC believes that caring for the environment goes beyond the recognition of GPIC’s commitment and contribution to safety, health borders of our facility. In 2001, GPIC, in collaboration with the and the environment. Ministry of Education, embarked on conducting the Environmental Awareness Lectures to Public and Private schools in Bahrain After winning the 2005 RoSPA’s Sir George Earle Trophy, GPIC every year. To date the programme has completed 311 visits to approached RoSPA with a proposal regarding the introduction schools in Bahrain and more than 27,000 students have benefited of a new award which recognizes organisations that excel in from the lectures. In 2012, 2,500 students and in 2013 2,700 environmental management and initiatives with the aim to expand students attended environmental awareness lectures. these efforts to other organisations. As a result, RoSPA agreed to introduce a new award with more of an emphasis on the The Environmental Awareness Programme for schools is one of environment, rather than purely health and safety. Accordingly, our initiatives towards protecting the environment and society. and since then, GPIC has sponsored the award both financially It aims to enhance the awareness of students regarding major and logistically and will continue its sponsorship based on the local, regional and global environmental issues. Our experience in outstanding reputation and popularity the award is gaining. minimizing pollution and developing our surrounding environment is also highlighted throughout the lectures The International Dilmun Award’s key objective is to recognize excellence in environmental as well as health and safety Environmental Research management. The aim is to recognize participating organisations In 2004, GPIC launched its Environment Research Programme – for their management of environmental issues and the effectiveness Environment Award for secondary school students in collaboration of their corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. with the Ministry of Education, where we fund 20 research projects Thus ensuring the strategic management of environmental issues annually and reward the top three projects. This interactive initiative and their integration in the heart of organisational management allows students to suggest their own research topics as well. The systems and decision making processes. topics that GPIC has sponsored over the years cover a range of environmental issues, such as, the effects of using water saving We are strongly cooperative with the United Nations Environmental devices on water consumption, the impact of the Kena-Capris Programme (UNEP) at both local and international levels. We have tree plantation on the environment, the impact of materials used participated in several initiatives and campaigns spearheaded by UNEP. Environmental Research Programme Statistics Period Academic Received Participating Selected Selected Years Projects Schools Boy Schools Girl Schools 1 2004 – 2005 85 26 8 13 2 2005 – 2006 83 23 8 12 3 2006 – 2007 84 24 10 10 4 2007 – 2008 99 30 11 9 5 2008 – 2009 73 26 9 11 6 2009 – 2010 64 23 10 10 7 2010 – 2011 82 25 10 10 8 2011 – 2012 48 20 9 11 9 2012 – 2013 62 24 9 11 10 2013 2014 77 31 8 9 Total 757 252 92 106 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 77 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) • The use of chlorine for the disinfection of sea water intake has been phased out and a new sodium hypochlorite unit installed in 2012, thus we have implemented a more environmentally acceptable alternative. • Energy saving through the ammonia converter retrofit in 2012. The original Uhde design converter basket was replaced with a Topsoe design Series S-200 basket. The new basket enabled the reduction in operating pressure from 312 barg to 275 barg and an energy saving of 0.17 Gcal/MT of ammonia produced. • The Green IT Concept expansion at GPIC has resulted in substantial energy savings. • In order to make GPIC free from ozone depleting substances, such as class 2 HCFC’s, we are undergoing a phased replacement of ACs using R-22 with an environmentally friendly GPIC’s bird sanctuary. refrigerant. During 2012/2013 about 100 units have been replaced with environmentally friendly refrigerants. Our recent technical environmental projects • A new HP Steam boiler has been installed and commissioned We are aware that the manufacturing of fertilizers is a relatively in 2013 . “One of the salient features is the use of ultra-low NOx clean, but highly energy intensive process and a source of burners that has resulted in reducing NOx emissions by 50%, as greenhouse gases. However, we remain consistently dedicated to compared to standard NOx emissions”. excellent performance in terms of environmental impact and we • GPIC’s changed from old high pressure sodium vapour lamps continuously endeavour to reduce our impact through the constant to energy efficient LED lamps. So far, 35 LED fittings have been implementation of environmental strategies. replaced with a net saving of 12775KWh per year achieved. The energy saving from the total project will be 182500 KWh per year. Strict environmental standards • GPIC is further expanding the use of renewable energy at its GPIC plants are operated under strict national environmental facilities, after the successful experience of solar water heating standards and have established environmental management at one of the company buildings. systems, based on the ISO 14001 standard. Internal performance • GPIC is constructing an evaporation pond at its facilities to data is routinely checked and reported to regulatory authorities. manage liquid waste. The project will complete by Q1 2014. Some of the recent salient technical environmental projects are: GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators ASPECT : MATERIAL EN1 Material used by weight or volume Component Data 2013 Data 2012 Material Unit Quantity Quantity Natural Gas MMSCF 45,548 43,379 Lubricant(Lube oil) Liter 23,269 1,44,140 Chemicals KG 7,445,269 7,346,453 Catalyst M3 Nil 338.5 Paper Kg 7975 10685 Diesel liter 190000 85000 Petrol liter 280000 175000 Note: The quantity of lube oil used in 2012 is significantly more because a number of oil replacements took place during the maintenance turnaround 2012. Similarly a number of catalysts were replaced in 2012 during the Turnaround. The consumption of diesel was significantly higher in 2013 as a diesel powered air chiller was used to cool the hot spots of the ammonia reformer and a similar chiller was used in the urea reactor during the 11.66 days of unplanned outage of the urea plant. Since 2005 we have recycled 50 tonnes of paper. (Waste to charity programme) 78 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 In order to make GPIC free from ozone depleting substances, such as class 2 HCFC’s, we are undergoing a phased replacement of ACs using R-22 with an environmentally friendly refrigerant. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Component Data 2013 Data 2012 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 0% 0% materials EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Component Data 2013 Data 2012 Component Unit Quantity Quantity Natural Gas GJ 1,545,490 1,172,793 Imported power MWH 128,799 97,739 Note: Imported power is on the higher side in 2013 , due to contractual obligations to limit the natural gas consumption below the maximum permitted levels. Hence the load on the in-house gas turbine was maintained lower and the balance power requirement was met by importing more power ASPECT : ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Data 2013 Data 2012 Component Unit Quantity Quantity Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (Non –renewable) Natural Gas GJ 36,654,554 35,092,603 The Company does not consume renewable energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 2013 Data 2012 Component Response Response Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency There was a saving of 605,887 GJ of energy. During 2012, due to scheduled turnaround, improvements The reduction in energy is due to investments there was unproductive energy consumption in equipments & upgrades during Turnaround to facilitate safe shutdown and start up 2012. The salient were: process. 1. Replacement of ammonia converter basket and primary reformer tubes with improved design 2. Replacement of methanol synthesis catalyst with fresh catalyst. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 79 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) EN6 Initiatives to provide energyefficient or renewable energy based products and services and the reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Component Response 2012/2013 EN6 Initiatives to provide energyefficient or The Company has taken a number of initiatives for energy conservation and efficiency and the renewable energy based products and services and use of renewable energy. the reductions in energy requirements as a result of • A project has been launched with a defined road map till 2019 to expand the use of these initiatives renewable energy at GPIC. As part of this project a number of buildings will be provided with solar lighting and solar water heating. Total investment US$ 0.8 million for phase 1. Other salient renewable energy initiatives include; • Shower and change building Electrical water heater replaced with Solar water heating system (Saving of about 5KW load). Total investment US$ 6,700. • A net electrical energy saving of 14,181 KWH/year is achieved. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved The Company has taken many initiatives to reduce indirect energy Replacement of Incandescent lamps with LED type in buildings and consumption. These initiatives include efforts to reduce paper street lights have resulted in energy savings . Old High pressure usage by promoting paper less communication( SAP, email, intranet Sodium vapor lamp wattage of 210W is replaced with 110W LED server, on line data repository, edispatch notes, smart screens lamps. It reduces the power consumption by 100W for each fitting. replacing the conventional flip charts in conference rooms, elog So far 35 LED fittings replaced and saving of 3500W (ie. 3.5KW books of shift personnel, edispatch notes are just a few of the x 10hrs per day x365 days =12775Kwh saving per year).After many examples). Transportation fuel saving is achieved through completing the replacement of 500 Street light fitting energy saved regular use of tricycles within the Complex and also through pool will be 50000W= 50KW (50KW X 10hrs x 365=182500 KWh saving per and shared transport. year) .GPIC has also upgraded its IT servers with state of the art low energy servers as part of its GREEN IT initiative. ASPECT : WATER EN8 Total water with drawl by source Data 2013 Data 2012 Component Unit Quantity Quantity Sea Water M3/year 345,582,000 333,354,000 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No water sources are significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used Data 2013 Data 2012 Component Unit Quantity Quantity Sea Water M /year 3 1,671,165 1,573,842 percentage 0.48 % 0.47 % 80 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Since 2005 we have recycled 50 tonnes of paper. (Waste to charity programme) ASPECT : BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of 60 hectares with a close proximity to the sea shore. We are mindful of our responsibility towards biodiversity and preservation of natural habitats. We have embarked upon several environmental projects that focus on the long term preservation of natural habitats in and around the complex. In November 1996, we established our Fish Farm located on the south west side of the complex. Since then, more than one million Sea Breams have been released into territorial water replenishing dwindling fish reserves and benefiting local fishermen. GPIC maintains a fish farm very close to its sea water outfall and In June 2002, a Bird Sanctuary was inaugurated. Built on a coastal also a nearby bird sanctuary. These are practical demonstration strip of 600,000m2, the sanctuary provides a safe haven for projects that verify the effluents and emissions from the complex are migrating birds, waders and local species. Over 70 species have been recorded visiting the island. 2000 mangrove trees were also not affecting the marine and wild life adversely. More over the green planted around the island to enhance the natural habitats. Today, areas inside the complex and a number of vegetable and fruit plants the mangroves have grown and currently total over 20,000 trees. are also a testimony to this. The sea water inside the fish farm is regularly monitored for its compatibility to marine life. To preserve local herbs that were once used for their medicinal values by our ancestors, our Herbal Garden was officially As GPIC has plans for a new project at the same site in the near inaugurated on 9th May 2005. It was expanded later to include future a comprehensive marine base line study will be carried out. a rare arid plants garden with an overall area of more than 26,800m2. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas. In 2009, Her Royal Highness Princess Sabika bint Ebrahim Al GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of 60 hectares with a close Khalifa, the wife of His Majesty the King of Bahrain inaugurated the Princess Sabika Aromatic Plants Garden containing over 45 proximity to the sea shore. The sea water from the process is discharged rare breeds of aromatic plants. back to the sea. As our operations are controlled and the discharges to sea are monitored and analysed hence during normal operations there On her visit to Bahrain on 5th Feb 2011, the Queen of Denmark are no adverse effect on the biodiversity and related habitats. also inaugurated the Queen Margarethe Olive Oasis. The oasis contains more than 300 trees. EN13 Habitats protected or restored Expansion of green belt at the company’s periphery in second GPIC fish farm, bird sanctuary are protected Habitats. quarter of 2013 has increased the green area to 83473 m2 which is 12.64% of the total area of 660000m2. In addition to this we EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing have planted hundreds of mangroves along the shore leading to impacts on biodiversity our complex. At GPIC we have dedicated working committees overseeing the During 2012-2013 the fish farm was further expanded. natural habitats and bio diversity projects such as fish farm, bird sanctuary. The environment in and around GPIC is monitored with The total area of habitats preserved is summarized as: respect to air and water quality. The sea water inside the fish farm is • Total green area developed and preserved inside the complex closely monitored by our quality control laboratory. 8.3 Hectares • Bird sanctuary 4.2 Hectares We also plan on undertaking a comprehensive biodiversity study in • Fish farmmore than 0.23 Hectares and around GPIC for our future project. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 81 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) 50% NOXreduction in new boiler stack emissions by using ultra low NOX burners EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Our operations do not affect any number of IUCN Red list species within the habitats around our premises. ASPECT: EMISSION, EFFLUENTS and WASTE EN16 Total direct and Indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Weight Data 2013 Data 2012 Material Unit Quantity Quantity Total greenhouse gas emissions as the sum of direct and MeT 1,124,155 1,010,786 indirect emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. CO2 Emissions from direct energy 916,287 865,914 CO2 Emissions from Imported electricity 91,994 69,823 CO2 Emissions due to Granulation Washing 3,673 3,192 CO2 Emissions due to Urea Shutdown 17,003 749 CO2 Emissions due to Diesel combustion 509 228 CO2 Emissions due to Petrol combustion 647 404 CO2 Emissions due to R-22 consumption 376 ** 49 CO2 Emissions due to R-404A consumption 1,672 605 ** R-22 consumption is high in 2013 due to fugitive leaks from Nitrogen plant’s refrigeration system. Scope 1 and Scope 2: We have calculated our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. We also plan on calculating scope 3 emissions in the future. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Data 2013 Data 2012 Component Unit Quantity Quantity The sum of indirect GHG MeT 91,994 69,823 emissions identified in tonnes of CO2 equivalent EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Initiatives CO2 Before (Annual basis) CO2 After( Annual Basis) Net reduction GPIC has taken a number of initiatives since commissioning of its plants in 1985 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Salient ones are as below: 1. Urea plant commissioned in 1998 1.30 x 106 Met 1.12 x 106Met 0.18 x 106Met 2. Carbon dioxide recovery plant commissioned in 2009 1.12 x 106Met 1.0 x 106Met 0.12 x 106Met 3. The extent of GHG emissions reductions achieved in 137,713 2012 ( tonnes of CO2) 4. The extent of GHG emissions reductions achieved in 131,531 2013( tonnes of CO2) 82 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Data 2013 Data 2012 Material Unit Quantity Quantity R-22 tonne 0.208*** 0.027 *** Higher consumption of R-22 in 2013 due to leaks , passing PSV in nitrogen plant’s refrigerant unit, which was attended. EN20 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Data 2013 Data 2012 Material Unit Quantity Quantity NOX tonne 1,076 1,014 SOX tonne 3,354 3,750 VOC tonne 30 26 PM 10 tonne 135,123 139,810 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Data 2013 Data 2012 Destination Unit Quantity Quantity Sea water M 3 343,911,000 331,780,000 Note: The discharge water quality was as per the permissible standards as per the Bahrain Environmental Standards Ministerial Order NO 3 of 2001. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Data 2013 Data 2012 Type Unit Quantity Quantity The total amount of waste (hazardous & non-hazardous) tonnes nil nil in tonnes by type for composting. The total amount of waste (hazardous & non-hazardous) tonnes nil nil in tonnes by type for reuse. 300 tonnes catalyst sold to overseas 172 tonnes catalyst sold to overseas CERTIFIED recycling agencies recycling agencies. The total amount of waste (hazardous & non-hazardous) tonnes in tonnes by type for recycling 359 tonnes of metal scrap sold to 88.5 tonnes of metal scrap sold to CERTIFIED recycling agencies recycling agencies The total amount of waste (hazardous & non-hazardous) tonnes 97.33 tonnes hazardous waste 143 tonnes hazardous waste in tonnes by type for landfill. disposed at Government landfill site disposed at Government land fill site. Since 2005 we have recycled +50 tonnes of paper as part of our waste for charity programme GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 83 Safeguarding the Environment (continued) EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizations discharge of water and runoff GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of 60 hectares with a close proximity to the sea shore. The sea water from the process is discharged back to the sea. As our operations are controlled and the discharges to sea are monitored and analysed hence during normal operations there are no adverse effect to the biodiversity and related habitats however during an unlikely catastrophic failure/ loss of secondary containment the sea water and the related habitats can be significantly affected. To counter this GPIC has a put in place a robust Preventative maintenance and inspection regime and has sound operating and emergency response procedures. Beach cleaning by GPIC employees. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Our products do not have any significant adverse impact on the We did not experience any significant spills during the reporting environment however we have taken a number of initiatives to period however there were several incidents of minor spills. further reduce our impact on the environment; Few recent examples are as below; • Spillage of approx. 500 liters of fuel (petrol ) due to overfill at the garage. Most of the spill was recovered. • The CO2 recovery plant that captures 450 MT/D of CO2 from • Spillage of 200 liters of catalyst contaminated waste water the flue gases of methanol plant reformer and hence plays a due to blocked drainage. 50 litres of contaminated soil was significant role in reducing the GHG emissions. remediated. • The use of ultra low NOX burners in the newly installed • 100 liters of Benfield solution leaked from glands of a valve and HP steam boiler resulting in 50% lower NOX emissions as spilled on paved area , which was contained and cleaned. compared to the old boilers. • Refined methanol tank floor plate developed leak and • Chlorine has been phased out from GPIC and a new Sodium approximately 500 liters of methanol contaminated the soil. Soil Hypochlorite plant has been installed as a safer and ecowas remediated. friendly alternative for sea water conditioning. • 200 liters of MDEA solution leaked and spilled on paved area and was recovered. • In order to make GPIC free from Ozone depleting substances • Minor methanol spill into the sea due to a passing thermal A phased replacement of aging ACs and ones using R-22 relief valve on methanol export system. The defective PSV was with environment friendly refrigerant is in progress. During attended. 2012/2013 about 100 units have been replaced with environment • Minor diesel spill on paved area due to disconnection of a filling friendly refrigerants. hose. The leak was contained and cleaned • Expansion of green belt at the company’s periphery in second quarter of 2013 has increased the green area to 83473 m2 which is 12.64% of the total area of 660000m2 ASPECT: Products and Services • During 2012, we implemented a noise reduction project by EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated replacing a steam vent silencer in process condensate stripper waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel resulting in a noise reduction from 95decibel to 81 decibel(A). Convention Annex I,II,III and VIII and percentage of transported WASTE shipped internationally • GPIC’s efforts towards energy conservation projects continue. 500 street lights in the complex are being replaced from old NIL high pressure sodium vapour lamps to the energy efficient LED lamps. So far 35 LED fittings have been replaced with a net saving of 12775KWh per year achieved. The energy saving from the total project will be 182500 KWh per year. 84 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 • Energy saving through ammonia converter retrofit in 2012 The new basket enabled the reduction in operating pressure from 312 barg to 281 barg and an energy saving of 0.17 Gcal/MT of ammonia produced. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed • All of our three products are loaded and exported through bulk carriers however some percentage( about 1200 MT annually) of our Urea product is sold to local consumers as bagged urea in 50 kg bags. We do not reclaim the packaging material of the urea sold in bags. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation • There were no monetary fines on the Company for any noncompliance related to environmental laws during the Building a greener future. reporting period. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations and transporting members of the work force • GPIC has not yet undertaken a review of the complete transport related impacts of its operations including that from supply chain, travel to and from work, product freight transport i.e shipping. However, this is currently under consideration. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Component 2013 2012 • Hazardous Waste disposal costs 16000 USD 17200 USD • Expenditure on non-technical environmental projects ( Fish farm expansion, outer gate 717,600 USD greenery expansion, auto irrigation system) GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 85 • Our Employees People and the • Our Community Community At GPIC our people are our biggest asset. Their loyalty, passion and dedication are the driving forces behind the Company’s success. Every action we take focuses on our people. 86 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 87 Our People 23% (Considering day workers) of our employees are female employees To make GPIC the employer of choice for fresh candidates and experienced professionals, we have made significant investments in a multipronged strategy. Attracting talented people and investing in tomorrow’s talent Recruiting and retaining manpower with relevant skills has become a major challenge within the chemical industry. As a way forward, we have sought to develop innovative approaches to recruitment, enhance our people development programmes and maintain a highly engaged work force. 2012 -2013 saw important progress in our strategy to maintain continuity in our capability as an organization as we made enhancements to our recruitment, development and management of staff, all designed to help us provide a great workplace for talented, committed and responsible people. Our dedicated employees. We believe that our ability to endure and persevere as an Our goal and Policy organization depends a lot on our capability to attract and retain the We aim to maintain good labour management relations through best talent within the industry. We have also included this into our implementation of good labour practices. GPIC values human Enterprise Risk Management and have taken necessary action to resources as an important capital and believes in treating employees demonstrate highlights of a career with GPIC to potential employees fairly, promoting diversity and inclusion, providing open feedback at all levels. and ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and Company’s own code of conduct. We also endeavour to educate employees and We have improved our outreach to potential employees through many ensure their health and safety. initiatives. We have a sponsorship programme for our people who intend to pursue their undergraduate / post graduate degrees. The At GPIC we have a welldefined HR policies to manage HR company also facilitates vocational/industrial training for Bahraini priorities that are based on Bahrain’s Labour Law. Succession students and our employees’ children. Furthermore, we also sponsor planning, development of local talent, recognizing and rewarding the and support key educational programmes across Bahrain, along with prestigious talent and leadership development are part of our HR also providing scholarships for our employees’ children. development vision. We have also improved our recruitment systems by introducing Our Human Resources Strategy psychometric analysis, which helps in enhancing the recruitment, Our Organization screening and selection processes. GPIC currently employs 560 people including trainees. A Bahrainisation level of 90% was achieved by the end of 2013. The We have introduced a standardized, internet-based system for training and development of Bahraini nationals is a main priority all job applications that will facilitate the process for prospective for our management, and our training policy aims to achieve a candidates in registering their applications. progressive integration of Bahraini nationals into our work force through the implementation of a well-structured and systematic In recruiting potential future leaders and other staff, we focus career development scheme. on empowering the indigenous communities. The minimum age for being recruited in GPIC is 18 years – as per provisions under The periodic organizational review is a process carried out by our senior The Ministry of Labour. GPIC is an equal opportunity employer management, to assess our strengths and weaknesses in people’s and provides equal employment opportunity to all applicants for competencies and capabilities across the business. Our leadership’s vacancies subject to applicable rules and regulations. The Human capabilities and succession plans are also reviewed periodically. Resources Department rules are applied in a non -discriminatory manner in all aspects of employment including recruitment, Our investments in training and development continue to grow. assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, salary and other The company invested about US$ 8.44 million in 2012 and US$ 9.1 benefits and even in nominations for training etc. million in 2013. 88 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Our HR develoment strategy aims to achieve a progressive integration of Bahraini nationals into our work force through the implementation of a well-structured and systematic career development scheme. In 2011 we launched our bridging programme that enables experienced employees to further develop their skills by pursuing their education till they are competent enough to assume supervisory positions. Developing our People: The personal and professional development of our people is a priority for us and we use a variety of methods to help our people develop their capabilities. Each employee has a personal development plan. Our people are provided with growth opportunities in an effort to enhance the Company’s culture. This is achieved through organizational development interventions such as training, the ability to participate in secondments , travel opportunities and engaging in volunteering within the community. We support Toastmasters for leadership development. We have introduced a SAP-based Performance Management System( PMS) to further improve the training and development of to enhance our internal talent pool. As a result of this practice, our work force. The system has been further enhanced by rolling out all current members of our Executive Management Team were a SAPcompetency based training module. promoted from within. Currently all our managers represent the indigenous community. We focus on employee development through periodic training, which is conducted on a competency based needs-analysis. Following Diversity and Inclusion periodic appraisals training is conducted both in–house and through We work towards building an equal opportunities working external trainers. environment, and focus particularly on empowering women and the indigenous communities within Bahrain. About 22% of our Our people are also provided with opportunities to enhance their employees are expatriate workers from Asia, Africa, Europe and skills through self-learning platforms such as E-learning and the the Far East. 23 % (Considering day workers) of our employees Toastmasters programme to improve their communication skills. are female employees. Our Ladies Working Committee is actively involved in promoting the role of women in the company and society. Adhering to our Principles: Its charter includes: GPIC adheres to the strictest principles of merit in recruitment, compensation and promotion decisions to ensure that all our people • Carry out activities in support of women inside and outside feel that they have been treated fairly and without bias. the company. We also recognize and reward our people for their superior efforts • Organise special events for women. and performance through an awards programme and seek to retain • Coordinate with external women organisations. the best of our talent through leadership opportunities. Safety of our Employees and the Host communities: Our Leadership Programme: GPIC considers the safety of its employees and the neighbouring We ensure focus on successive leadership development and have a communities as a prime area of focus. We ensure the highest comprehensive Succession Planning programme in place. To achieve standards of health and safety at our manufacturing facilities, this we manage the careers of our high performers and provide monitoring carefully every potential risk to our operations and our them with opportunities to take on additional responsibilities as they employees so that we can provide a safe working environment build up towards potential leadership positions. for our people and the community at large. We invest in projects related to safety, environmental care and the reliability of our We identify people with potential based on their aspirations, equipment and facilities. engagement and ability, and we support them in their development GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 89 Our People (continued) • Overseeing hygiene & food quality in main canteen and club canteen. • Conducting regular / emergency committee meetings to discuss the health status of the employees as well as all issues pertaining to and affecting the health, hygiene and wellness of GPIC employees at the complex and at the GPIC Club premises. Innovation and Creativity: GPIC believes that innovation and creativity are crucial to business success. We provide lot of opportunities and platforms for our people to express their views, exchange ideas and unleash their talents. The Suggestions and Best Practices Committee and the GPIC committee system are a few examples. Health care at its best. GPIC labour Union: Our commitment towards labour rights is ingrained across We have a number of committees which oversee the implementation the organization and are agreed upon between the Executive and maintenance of our policies related to occupational safety, Management and the Labour Union at the beginning of each Process Safety and Responsible Care. These committees include: year. GPIC is one of the first companies in Bahrain to facilitate a forum to encourage our people to voice their opinions in the form • Safety, health and Environment Council. of a labour union.The management and the labour union share • Safety Committee. a strong relationship and the two groups are partners in working • Process Safety Management Committee. committees such as: Management Labour Union High Council, Management Union Committee, SHE Council, Safety Committee, Health Care: Health Committee, Environment Committee, Savings Committee, Health Care at GPIC is not limited to our people, it covers their Social Committee, Training, Development and Education families too. We maintain a state of the art Health Centre on our Sponsorship Coordination Committee, Housing Loan Committee facility which operates on a 24 hrs. basis for any emergency needs. and Special Needs Cases Committee, etc. This arrangement All our people undergo regular health checks. We also facilitate ensures that the labour union representatives are involved in all several awareness lectures on industrial hygiene and occupational key decision-making processes. health. Obesity control remains an area of focus at the health centre, with a professional nutritionist available to assist our people. Many of Recognising and rewarding employees: the GPIC employees are certified first aiders. At GPIC we have a wide range of awards at every level of the Company, to ensure that our people are duly recognized and GPIC aligns and becomes part of the global awareness rewarded for their extraordinary efforts and work that goes beyond programmes related to health, safety and the environment. the call of duty. This includes performancebased awards across Recently we hosted a campaign on breast cancer that concluded departments and divisions, as well as acknowledgement of best with a ‘Think Pink’ walk that involved our people and our safety practices. We also have an incentivized scheme to reward management. our people during an annual awards ceremony. Some of the awards recognize sustained performance, outstanding performance, Best We have an active Health Committee whose prime objective Suggestion of the Year , Environment Personality of the Year, Safety is to oversee all health issues in the Company in coordination Personality of the Year, Safe Driver of the Year, etc. with the Safety, Health and Environment Council. The committee’s charter includes: Employee Benefit Scheme: GPIC ensures that our people’s compensation and benefit plans • Promoting and organizing Health and Responsible Care are in line with our overall strategy. We have also introduced a new awareness activities. voluntary early retirement policy for our Bahraini employees, to • Managing the GPIC Anti-Smoking Program. improve employee attainability of benefits whilst still ensuring the company’s financial security and business continuity. Other benefits 90 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Discipline, respect, positive attitude, loyalty, hard work, knowledge, fairness, transparency and urge for learning are the fundamental values for our success. Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, President. include a savings scheme, health insurance covering all our people and their families, loans, indemnity, annual bonus etc.c. Our Human Resources Performance 20122013 GPIC achieved most of its objectives with regards to training and development of our Bahraini employees during 2012-2013. We maintained our prime focus on the development of our talent whereby taking measures to mitigate the biggest challenge of recruiting and retaining the best of the talent available. • GPIC‘s investments in training and development continued to grow. The Company invested about US$ 8.44 million in 2012 and US$ 9.1 million in 2013.GPIC started a programme supported by Hay Group over the last year, which begun a systematic development approach Our well-trained employees. for Senior Management. Managers and the Superintendents received 360 degree feedback through the Emotional Competency We have lost 85 experienced employees (mostly due to early Inventory on-line questionnaire in 2012. We were keen to increase retirement) over the past two years and in their place we have our emotional intelligence as a leadership group, because of the recruited 72 new comers into GPIC. It is our responsibility, to train global research showing that personal qualities are what makes the and familiarise the new comers with the GPIC culture and the one difference to business performance. family spirit that distinguishes us from all the other companies . • In 2013, GPIC launched an electronic library, having more than Discipline, respect, positive attitude, loyalty, hard work, knowledge, 1800 titles covering various subjects. fairness, transparency and urge for learning are the fundamental • GPIC’s Academy of leadership and learning has also been values for our success. Hence, our programmes must take into accredited by the US National Safety Council (NSC) as a consideration the teaching and monitoring of these values.” recognized centre for first-aid training. Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, President. • GPIC trained 215 students in various departments of the company under the supervision of qualified employees. The second challenge, which is also common to our industry, is ‘complacence’. We have launched several programmes which will • The number of e-learning users have increased to 217 (2013) assist in combating complacency. These programmes include from 34 in 2008. mentoring and behavioural based safety. • We adopted a company-wide mentoring programme and a total of 100 employees are currently benefitting from the process. Diversity is another challenge. Even though we are on the right • 50 comprehensive training courses were launched in the areas track aligned to women’s employment and empowerment, we still of Safety, Health and the Environment in collaboration with have to go a long way in increasing the number of women within safety media. our organization. Our challenges in the Human Resources Business area. To maintain our competiveness and to sustain and persevere as an organization, our biggest challenge remains to recruit and retain the best of talent. To this end, as a company, we continue to introduce best practices, including highly competitive benefit plans, development and growth opportunities for our people, which may go a long way in reasserting our position as an employer of choice. A number of Bahraini employees opted for the early retirement package which is both a challenge and an opportunity to induct young employees into our work force. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 91 Our People (continued) US$ 9million Spent on training and development in 2013 GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT:EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region Total Workforce broken by gender Employees by gender Female Employees * Male Employees Total Employees No. of Employees 38 498 536 2007 Percentage 7.1% 92.9% No. of Employees 36 503 539 2008 Percentage 6.7% 93.3% No. of Employees 37 521 558 2009 Percentage 6.6% 93.4% No. of Employees 37 542 579 2010 Percentage 6.4% 93.6% No. of Employees 41 526 567 2011 Percentage 7.2% 92.8% No. of Employees 49 533 582 2012 Percentage 8.4% 91.6% No. of Employees 49 521 570 2013 Percentage 8.6% 91.4% * The percentage of women employees includes day workers and shift workers. List of employees left GPIC in 2012 & 2013 2012 2013 Bahraini Non-Bahraini Bahraini Non-Bahraini Reached Retirement Age 2 2 3 6 Early Retirement Illness 32 0 13 0 Resignation 4 5 3 5 Termination 2 1 2 1 Total 40 8 21 12 48 33 List of employees joined GPIC in 2012 & 2013 2012 2013 Bahraini Non-Bahraini Bahraini Non-Bahraini Joined 36 26 8 2 Total 62 10 92 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 LA2 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region Number of employees who Female Male Employees Bahraini Pakistani Indian British Turnover resigned from Employees the company 2009 16 16 0 10 2 4 0 2.8% 2010 14 14 0 6 1 6 1 2.4% 2011 7 6 1 4 0 3 0 1.2% 2012 14 14 0 8 0 6 0 2.0% 2013 8 7 1 3 0 4 1 1.0% LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Allowance & Benefits Bahraini NonBahraini Social Allowance Yes Yes Housing Allowance Minimum 15% of basic salary to a maximum of Furnished apartment according to the grade of 25% of basic salary depending on the grade of the employee and number of family members the employee Indemnity Yes Yes Saving Scheme Yes No Emergency Loan Yes Yes Housing loan Yes No Transport Allowance Yes Yes Medical Insurance Yes Yes Educational assistance for employees children Financial assistance for staff grade 14 and above Financial assistance for incoming staff recruited under 18 years grades 10 and above. Life insurance Yes Yes Canteen food Yes Yes Uniform Yes Yes Scholarship programme for staff Yes No LA 15: Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender Gender Return to work rate Retention rate Male NA NA Female 100% 100% GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 93 Our People (continued) 87% of our employees are GPIC Labour Union members ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Number of Employees as members Year Total Employees % of employees in labour union of labour union 2009 430 558 77.06% 2010 488 579 84.28% 2011 502 567 88.54% 2012 501 582 86.08% 2013 500 570 87.71% LA5 Minimum notice period (s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements The Company has well established conditions of service which are in line with the labour law of the Kingdom of Bahrain. The Company complies to ministerial order 36 of 2012 that clearly specifies the minimum notice period from either party. Either party to a contract of employment may terminate it upon giving the other party 30 days prior notice and such contract shall remain effective during the notice period and the parties thereto shall be bound by all the obligations arising there from. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH and SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 100% of the work force is represented through the members of the labour union in key committees related to safety and health. Even in the Safety, health and Environment Council which is the top tier EHS council the labour union chairman represents the workforce. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities by region Total work force( Employees) Whether first aid is included in injury rate No Lost days mean Scheduled work days Lost day count begins Lost day count begins the day after the incident Rate of Injury by region and gender Organisation(E) Contractor(C ) 2012 Male Female Male Female Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Incident rate 0 0 0.452 0 Recordable Cases Incidence Rate 0.789 0 1.807 0 Restricted Work Case 1 (Combined E+C) Medical treatment case 3 First aid injuries 32 94 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities by region Total work force( Employees) 2013 Male Female Male Female Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Incident rate 0 0 0 0 Recordable Cases Incidence Rate 1.176 0 0.398 0 Restricted Work Case 0 (Combined E+C) Medical treatment case 9 First aid injuries 18 During 2012 we had one lost time accident for a contract worker. (Compensation was as per Baharin Labour Law) GPIC has achieved over 16 million man hours of work without a lost time accident till 31 December 2013. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH and SAFETY LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases Program Recipient Education / training Counseling Prevention / risk control Health Awareness 2012 Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers Workers families community 2013 Workers Workers families community The Company conducts various programmes for training, Distribution of “What you should know about breast cancer” counseling, prevention/risk control and health awareness to ensure Booklet for the wives of GPIC Employees in 2012. the wellness of our employees, their families and the community Distribution of the “Good Life Booklet-2013” for the employees at large. during the SHE Week. A workshop titled “Self Breast Examination” was conducted for Programmes include; GPIC female employees in 2013. Periodic health checks of employees including blood samples, ECG, Audiometry. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in format agreements with trade unions Breast cancer screening and awareness. Labour union members are part of the Company’s top tier Antismoking programme campaigns and Quit Smoking committees such as SHE council, Safety committee, Environment counseling for smokers. and Health Committees and all safety and health related topics are Obesity management. discussed during regular committee meetings. Health campaign on Diabetes, Blood Pressure and Fat All employees are provided with a comprehensive health coverage composition and insurance. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 95 Our People (continued) 20% employees attended training on business etiquette in 2013 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category s.n Classification 2012 (Description) 2013 1 Total Training Hours 25866 Hrs 36082 Hrs. 2 Total Trainings 1324 Trainings 2379 Trainings 3 Total number of employees undergone training 436 533 4 Total Training Hours for Management staff 4771 Hrs 7597 Hrs. 5 Total number of staff who attended management courses 59 244 6 Total number of staff who attended nonmanagement courses 377 516 7 Total Training Hours for Non Management staff 21095 Hrs 28485 Hrs. 8 Total Management Staff Trained 234 Trainees 470 Trainees 9 Total Non Management Staff Trained 1090 Trainees 1909 Trainees 10 Average hours of training per year per employee for Management staff 20.38 Hrs. 16.16 Hrs. 11 Average hours of training per year per employee for Non Management staff 19.35 Hrs. 14.92 Hrs. 12 Total Training Hours for Females 5165 Hrs. 5729 Hrs. 13 Total Training Hours for Males 20701 Hrs. 30353 Hrs. 14 Average hours of training per year per employee for Female 26.08 Hrs. 15.35 Hrs. 15 Average hours of training per year per employee for Male 18.38 Hrs. 15.13 Hrs. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Our approach to training and development of our people is crafted in such a way that it not only develops their job related technical skills but also develop them to be a successful corporate citizen. Trainings to develop: Supervisory Skills Leadership Skills SAP Competency based Performance Management & Appraisal Systems Classroom Trainings Other behavioral interventions Some further examples include. 1) E-Learning, 2) Toast masters 3) Facilitating higher education LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 100% of our employees are subject to regular performance reviews. 96 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. % age of employees category by gender, minority and age group Data 2013 Gender Minority Group Age Group Employee Category Male Female Muslim Non-Muslim <30 35-50 >50 Management 47 2 40 9 1 27 21 Staff 474 47 417 104 190 244 87 % age of employee by gender for minority and age group Data 2013 Minority Group Age Group Gender Muslim Non-Muslim <30 35-50 >50 Male 413 108 163 251 107 Female 44 5 28 20 1 % Age of individual in governance bodies by gender, minority and age group Gender Minority Group Age Group Governing Boy Male Female Muslim Non-Muslim <30 35-50 >50 Board of Directors 9 0 9 0 0 3 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employees category, by significant locations of operation. Distinction based on talent and merit and not gender. 1:1 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 97 HUMAN RIGHTS Engrained in our organizational fabric, and formalized by our signing of the United Nations Global Compact, is our un-wavering attention to human rights in all our business activities. 98 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 99 Human Rights new business endeavours or modifications of existing business arrangements. GPIC’s grievance handling system aims to ensure that any and all cases of grievances are filed. We will provide equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees. Recruitment for all employment vacancies will be based upon relevant qualifications, skills, experience and eligibility. All decisions that directly affect an employee’s employment status will be fair and equitable, in terms of: a) advancement b) development and training c) the disciplinary process Our lady employees comforting the sick. Our employees are encouraged to make suggestions or contribute Goal and Policy; ideas that help improve any aspect of the work process, including The Company aims to encourage protection of human rights through production. All such constructive ideas and suggestions will be organization wide policies. Respecting the rights of all is an integral valued, as part of motivation and innovation. part of our Corporate governance policy, the Bahrain’s Labour law and the UN Global Compact principles . GPIC aims to ensure the confidentiality of all employee information; that personnel records, medical or any other records relating to Human Rights of Employees employees are maintained accurately and securely. GPIC will ensure respect for the human rights of our employees as established in the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles We encourage all our employees to be good corporate citizens and Rights at Work and the Bahrain Labour Law, including nonin that, at work, they will be in a suitable mental and physical discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labour, freedom condition in order to perform their duties in a safe and effective of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining, manner. The employees of the company are also encouraged as prohibition of harassment, providing equal opportunity to employees, individuals to maintain good relationships with society, including and being fair and equitable. participating effectively in professional societies, licensed charities and community centres in the Kingdom of Bahrain. GPIC’s goal is to achieve zero injuries and illness in the working environment as well as emphasising the off-the-job safety of all Human Rights of Suppliers and Contractors employees. Strict compliance with all applicable SHE policies, Suppliers and Contractors will receive the same care in terms of standards and practices is maintained, for the benefit of the prevention of injuries or illness as company employees. Contractors company’s human capital. also enjoy a work environment that is as pleasant, healthy and free from intimidation, hostility or any other offensive behaviour. GPIC will provide a work environment that is pleasant, healthy and free from intimidation, hostility or other offensive behaviour towards Our Suppliers and Contractors will be able to place their trust and employees, contractors, vendors or customers. The working atmosphere confidence in GPIC’s ability to conduct its affairs in a transparent and will contribute to the achievement of economic and social development, ethical manner, pursuant to a standard of fundamental honesty and while providing the opportunity for creativity and innovation. fair dealing. GPIC’s policy is to honour and respect the right of all employees to Those who contract to work with or supply GPIC will benefit from any practise their religious beliefs with dignity. conflict of interest or even the chance of one being declared at the earliest possible stage. Contractors and Suppliers will also benefit Employees will obey all local laws and regulations. The company from guidance in such matters from the GPIC HR Department. will maintain appropriate levels of awareness to protect both the Anyone who deals with GPIC may be assured that their business company’s and employees’ interests by anticipating the legal will be transacted without fear of bribery or corruption as well as requirements that may arise from new laws and regulations, freedom from coercion or undue influence. 100 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC seeks to ensure that the Company continues to safeguard human rights across its business operations and make its work environment safe, inclusive and diverse. Human Rights of Women GPlC aims to remain as a role model in empowering women with in Bahrain’s industrial sector. We pursue our strategic priority to employ more women in various positions as allowed by the laws of Bahrain. We have also established an Equal Opportunities Committee to oversee practices of fairness between men and women and to ensure adherence to the human rights of women. Human Rights of Children GPIC will uphold the human rights of children by the deliberate and methodical support of children in education, innovation, environmental awareness, health, safety, road safety, responsible care and social responsibility. GPIC will do its utmost to protect the human rights of children in GPIC President upholding the rights of children. that the company will never employ children to work for it and will also do its utmost to ensure that all other business with which we have dealings do the same. ASPECT: Investment and Procurement Practices Human Rights of Communities GPIC will at all times respect the cultures, customs and values of HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers ,contractors and other the people in the communities in which we operate. The company business partners that have undergone screening on human will involve the community and protect its rights through open, rights and actions taken. transparent, and amicable partnership with NGOs, local charities, sports clubs, ministries, and parliamentary representatives. NIL. The Company has not carried out any screening of significant suppliers and contractors or other business partners on human The company will serve as a source of positive influence rights . However the Company plans to carryout human rights within the community by contributing, within the scope of our screening in future. capabilities, to the promotion and fulfillment of community human rights through improving economic, educational, ASPECT: Investment and Procurement Practices environmental and social conditions. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Further, GPIC will seek to have open dialogue with stakeholders and operations, including the percentage of employees trained. participate in community engagement activities. In 2013 the Company has carried out specific training for its GPIC will share with the community its performance indicators and security personnel on UN Human Rights and etiquette. Moreover concerns. We have made our integrated Quality, Health & Safety, the Company’s Code of Conduct covers these issues. The copy of Environment Policy and the Responsible Care Policy available to the the same is provided to each employee and each employee signs public by hosting it on our company’s website. the code of conduct. 4% of our total work force has undergone UN Human rights and etiquette training in 2013 and another 4% is GRI 3.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS : HUMAN RIGHTS planned in June 2014. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION ASPECT: Investment and Procurement Practices HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and actions taken HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. In 2012 and 2013 there were no cases of discrimination. The Company strictly follows nondiscrimination policy. NIL .GPIC is a member of the UN Global Compact and strictly adheres to its charter and the principles related to human rights. However no formal human rights screening has been done and we plan to do in the future and will report in our next report in 2016. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 101 Human Rights (continued) ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations In 2013 the Company has carried out specific training for its security personnel on UN Human Rights and etiquette. Moreover the Company’s Code of Conduct covers these issues. The copy of the same is provided to each employee and each employee signs the code of conduct. 35% of our security personnel are trained on Human rights in 2013 and another 35% are due in 2014. ASPECT: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLE GPIC respects the rights of all employees. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING There were Zero incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights ASPECT: ASSESSMENT HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been The employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and subject to human rights reviews and/ or impact assessments. collective bargaining has never been violated by the Company. The Company’s employees have their own labour union. The Company has not carried out any human rights review and/ or impact assessment during the year. However, the Company plans to ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR carry out human rights screening in the future. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken to contribute to the ASPECT: REMEDIATION elimination of child labor HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. No operation has risk of child labour. GPIC strictly complies with labour laws. The information of suppliers has not been included in No grievance related to human rights filed during the year. this review. Moreover the Company respects the rights of all and is committed to the UN Global Compact principles on human rights which includes principle number 5 ‘ Abolition of child labour’ ASPECT: FORCED and COMPULSORY LABOUR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour No operation has risk of forced or compulsory labour. The Company strictly complies with the labour laws. The information of suppliers has not been included in this review. Moreover the Company respects the rights of all and is committed to the UN Global Compact principles on human rights. 102 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Our Social Investment Strategy At the forefront of our social responsibility comes the safety of our employees and the citizens of Bahrain. Our goal and Policy; At GPIC corporate social responsibility is all about how we manage our business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. We feel a substantial responsibility towards the societies and communities in which we work. We believe that the way any organization manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of its standards of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. Every action we take depends on our people. At the forefront of our social responsibility comes the safety of our employees and the citizens of Bahrain. We ensure our plants are operated and maintained in a way that has no adverse impact whatsoever on the safety of our employees and the community at large. School children visit GPIC. We are committed to the idea that our stakeholders include a much broader category of people than only our employees, shareholders environment, education, sport, etc. We have always leveraged this or our financial investors. We have an unwavering commitment to presence to bring in up-to-date legislations, enhanced quality and invest in helping address the social needs, firstly of our neighbouring tighten up rules and procedures. communities, but also of Bahrain as a whole. We are always at the forefront of sponsoring conferences, workshops We believe in giving back to the communities, addressing not just and seminars organised by professional bodies and take the lead their immediate needs but also their long term ability to lead in participating in such events. In this regard, we pride ourselves healthy and productive lives. This is why we invest in providing and in cooperating closely with the Bahrain Society of Engineers to supporting educational, technical / vocational training and health propagate knowledge and promote the engineering profession. care. Furthermore, we ensure that our social investments reach every segment of Bahraini society in need Supporting the welfare of the community is also realized through generous contributions, financial, in-kind , and time towards Our social investments governmental and non-governmental organizations in the fields of GPIC has also contributed over US$ 3.52 billion into the national health, safety, environment, education, charity, sport, culture, child economy of Bahrain since inception. This contribution has been care, the disabled and needy people, sponsorship and many other made in several areas such as employment, training, procurement, worthy causes. dividends to the Government and, most importantly, in the form including local businesses into our supply chain. The educational projects sponsored by GPIC carry significant prestige in the country as they support the Crown Prince’s Community Involvement: International Sponsorship Programme for higher studies. GPIC Community involvement is embedded in the fabric of our business. sponsored and provided material support to the Crown Prince Most importantly, our active participation in various institutions International Sponsorship Programme (CPISP) for high school has been growing by the year. We are represented on the boards graduates. We have a strategic partnership with this over-arching and committees of several organizations both inside and outside initiative by His Royal Highness the Crown Prince Shaikh Salman Bahrain : University of Bahrain, Bahrain Training Institute, bin Hamad Al Khalifa to groom future leaders. In 2009/10, GPIC Bahrain Polytechnic, Bahrain’s National Committee for Safety, in coordination with the CPISP officials devised for the first time The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents(RoSPA, UK), a programme to deeply involve students in community service National Safety Council(USA), Gulf Petrochemical and Chemicals providing financial and material support to the programme. Association(GPCA), International Fertilizers Association(IFA), Arab Moreover, we also support and participate in the Bahrain Institute Fertilizers Association(AFA); to name but few. This allowes us to for Banking and Finance( BIBF) Executive Development Program in positively influence decision making in issues such as health, safety, association with Darden School of Business (USA). GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 103 Our Social Investment Strategy (continued) public speaking and leadership to schools, societies, employees’ children and employees themselves. We have also sponsored almost all major Toastmasters events in the country and consistently had the biggest presence. Community Care: In 2004, GPIC built an exclusive club for the employees and their families and organizes summer activities during school holidays for employees children, in addition to ” Fun Days,” entertainments and a kindergarten running throughout the year. The Family Safety Day is a traditional part of the Health, Safety and Environment Week and our management is keen to ensure that HSE standards are followed by employees and their families at home Our children needs guidance. too. The family get together, held annually, is designed to enhance a safety culture within the community in a fun-filled and relaxed atmosphere. Prizes are awarded to employees’ children who win To encourage good educational skills, we also recognize & reward different competitions such as drawing and essay writing, with a the best students from amongst the employees’ children as well as focus on safety, health and environmental standards. children from neighbouring schools. We generously contribute to the employees’ children’s education and financially support our people As a way forward, during the SHE week in 2013, GPIC launched a for further studies inside and outside Bahrain. SHE and Responsible Care Community awareness stand in one of the country’s busiest malls, ‘Bahrain City Centre’. The prime We have partnered with inJAz Bahrain programme (a non profit objective was to involve the community in enhancing safety culture organisation led by Her Highness Shaihka Hessa bint Khalifa Al across Bahrain. Khalifa and affiliated to Junior Achievements of the USA )that provides a curriculum and teaching of high school students to We have taken a unique approach and have published a series of prepare them for the work environment for smooth transition into books, leaflets and educational aids to share knowledge not only the business world. We support it financially( US$ 200000 annually), within the industry but with the society as a whole. The publications chair its Board of Directors and provide 30 volunteers annually to are suitable for all age categories. teach its subjects.. This is over and above the expert regular advice given to students participating in the programmes. At GPIC, we believe that being successful is about sharing opportunities, about trying to be successful in making our world a Letter from GPIC President to CEOs of Companies supporting little bit better. In the end, everyone in the community should benefit INJAZ from our existence. “As Chairman of the Board OF inJAz, I sincerely hope you will review the figures below and where possible increase the number Our social committees: of volunteers from your individual organisations. As we are all We have an active Social activities committee that oversees all aware, the INJAZ programmes are of great importance to develop social activities organized by the company. The committee’s charter and educate the younger generations of Bahrain who without a includes: doubt will be the leaders of the future. We must all do our part to • To propose overall policy and management of the activities and support INJAZ and help to make this year even more successful social functions in GPIC Club and other social activities. than in the past. Her Highness Sheikha Hessa deserves our full • To organize GPIC Camping activities. support to realise her vision and aspirations. • To coordinate with external organizations for social events. Just for your information, at GPIC we have added 10 additional volunteers to make the total number of volunteers for this Other committees that are actively involved with the community are: semester 36 instead of 26.“ Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery, President • Ladies Working Committee • Environment Committee The company’s Toastmasters Club is also very active and • Safety, Health and Environment Week Organizing Committee. instrumental in providing support to society, spreading the art of • Responsible Care Committee 104 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 In recognition of the amazing efforts and astounding success that GPIC has enjoyed on the Corporate Social Responsibility front and the un wavering commitment by its leadership, GPIC’s President Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery was selected as the International Ambassador for Corporate Social Responsibility by the regional network for CSR. Our CSR Achievements 2012-2013; We were the winners of the Arabia CSR award in 2012 in the ‘Small Since inception GPIC has learned that we can only achieve a Businesses’ category and the second runner up in 2013 in the competitive advantage by weaving social and environmental ’Medium Businesses’ category. Winning the Arabia CSR award, is considerations into our business strategy. This ethos has become the in itself a recognition of our unwavering commitment and ongoing fundamentals of our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility contribution to social responsibility. The success motivates us Strategy. We try to give a human touch to whatever we do. further to meet future challenges. It inspires and reinforces our commitment to manage our business processes to produce an overall impact on society. ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITY SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Component Response Percentage of operations with 100%. The local community is engaged by the Company in identifying the needs of the community, impact of implemented local community Company operations on the Community and development of programs towards creating value in the life of engagement, impact assessments, and the community. The activities for long term sustainable social interventions have been carried out in these development programs. main areas as listed below. Community investment; 1. Strategic philanthropy (Donations and sponsorships) 2. Capacity building 3. Educational Support 4. Women Empowerment Environmental Protection and awareness; 1. Safe & Eco-friendly operations 2. Visits to GPIC by members of the community 3. Reach out programs by GPIC employees delivering environmental awareness lectures to school children 4. Industrial training at GPIC for students during summer break. Employment opportunities to the local community; 1. The Company provides ample opportunities of suitable employment at its facilities and the Bahraini population gets the priority. ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. 100 % all business units were analysed for risks related to corruption. Our financial audits both internal and external across the organization ensure that no financial corruption is taking place. Our Enterprise Risk Management also covers the risk of a major fraud. Our Audit, Finance and Risk Committee along with an external audit, reviews our financial statements and legal/ regulatory compliance on quarterly/ Yearly basis. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. As part of its commitment to the UNGC principles on anti-corruption recently a number of GPIC employees attended specific training &conferences. Examples are; Forensic Auditing Workshop, London, Asia Pacific fraud conference, Singapore,15th Annual Regional Audit Conference, Dubai, 3rd Annual ERM conference, Dubai, 6th Annual internal auditors forum, Dubai. Moreover these issues are covered under the code of conduct for directors and employees. The copy of the same is provided to each employee and each employee signs the code of conduct. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 105 Our Social Investment Strategy (continued) The Company provides ample opportunities of suitable employment at its facilities and the Bahraini population gets the priority. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption The Company did not experience any incident related to corruption during the reporting period 2012/2013. No actions were taken as there were Zero incidents of corruption. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying The Company plays an active role in policy development through various Governmental and non-governmental organisations and Forums. 1) Company’s President is the member of Shura Council (Upper House – Bahrain Parliament) of the Kingdom of Bahrain and other memberships are highlighted under the section’ Memberships’ on page 53 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country The Company has not provided any financial or in-kind contribution to political parties, politicians and related institutions. The applicable laws strictly prohibit companies from making any financial contribution to political parties. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. The Company did not pay any fines for non-compliance during the reporting period and there were no monetary sanctions. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulation. The Company did not pay any fines for non-compliance during the reporting period and there were no monetary sanctions. SO9 Operations With Significant Potential or Actual Negative Impacts on Local Communities GPIC provides a great number of economic and social benefits to the local communities in which it operates. GPIC operates in a highly regulated and monitored industry. We work closely with state officials and regulators on operations, expansions and sales to ascertain the environmental impact of industry activities on local communities. Through this collaboration, GPIC has identified and implemented mitigation opportunities that safeguard local communities from potential negative impact. SO10 Prevention and Mitigation Measures Implemented in Operations With Significant Potential or Actual Negative Impacts on Local Communities GPIC is committed to conducting business in a manner that protects the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and communities. In order to assess and ensure the safety of our operations and communities, GPIC instituted a robust Business Resilience strategy that comprises of the Enterprise Risk and the Business Continuity Management system. Furthermore, we have an established process safety management system( PSM) that ensures we prevent catastrophic failures and releases of hazardous chemicals by implementing the elements of PSM in our business strategy. GPIC is a Responsible Care Company where community awareness and emergency response are part and parcel of our community outreach programme. We carry out drills for emergency preparedness and have a mutual aid contract with neighbouring Companies for assistance during emergencies. Environmental impact is an increasingly important issue against which all human activities must be weighed. GPIC has been a leader in habitat conservation, which mitigate potential environmental impacts on the communities in which we operate. 106 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Night view of GPIC Employees Club. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 107 Product Stewardship GPIC attained the prestigious IFA (International Fertilizer Industry Association) Protect & Sustain Excellence Certification in Q1 2014, which again signifies the importance GPIC Management attaches to the underlying principles of Product Stewardship. 108 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 109 Product Stewardship comprehensive hazard and risk information to them. We also ensure that we communicate product risks to our stakeholders, listen to their concerns and consider their perspectives on the matter. As part of the GPIC Responsible Care Product Stewardship programmes we do the following: • Use innovative solutions during the engineering and design stage of the new projects or modifications to the existing plants to ensure the reduction of our own environmental impact and carbon footprint. • Run responsible operations in terms of producing, handling and exporting the highest quality products to ensure the customers and end users are fully satisfied with our products. We produce for the welfare of humanity. • Communicate in the form of booklets and guidelines on product risks and handling procedures including material safety data sheets (MSDS), distributed to all personnel involved in products GPIC produces the highest quality fertilizers and petrochemicals at the transport, such as ships and trucks. company’s state of the art complex for the welfare of people around • Arrange meetings with local buyers and make them aware of the world. We at GPIC envisage, initiate and effectively see through the GPIC way in conducting business in terms of safety, health, interventions in the areas of sustainable and responsible business environment and product handling. practices, thus setting a precedent for others to emulate. • Hold regular meetings with marketers, namely SABIC, PIC and customers, to further streamline the entire supply chain link We are aware that the benefits of our industry are accompanied by operation with the end users. One of the most important points enduring commitments to Responsible Care in the management on the agenda of each of these meetings is to gauge the level of petrochemicals and fertilizers worldwide. Keeping this objective of customer satisfaction and attain feedback on finding ways to in view, GPIC has become part of the global voluntary initiative to further improve our processes and operations. drive excellence in safety, health and environmental management by becoming accredited to the RC 14001 Management System in 2010. • Use a responsible methodology of collection, recycling and disposal of contaminated product in line with local By attaining the RC 14001 certification, GPIC has demonstrated environmental standards and legislations. its seriousness and staunch commitment towards continual • Observe mandated external independent surveyor improvement and its establishment of product stewardship inspections of Product Handling Facility and ship cargo tanks principles across its functional operations, whether it is the to ensure full compliance with the buyer’s requirements and upstream supply of raw materials, manpower, services and spare international standards. parts or its downstream product supply chain. Today the company is • Maintain GPIC compliance with Level – 1 (Gold Status) by the proud of the fact that in the selection of suppliers for materials and Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) manpower, it gives preference to local suppliers who have service Australian Quarantine Inspection Services (AQIS), which in turn facilities in Bahrain and a satisfactory level of national manpower. provides an added value to all GPIC Urea customers around the world. This accreditation specifies stringent guidelines that We consider our approach to product stewardship as our ensure the GPIC product is fully controlled from the source until commitment to SHE PLUS (Safety, health, Environment and Security) it reaches the end user and is adequately protected from any aspects throughout the product life cycle. We clearly identify risks objectionable contaminants and pollutants. relevant to our product life cycle and try to mitigate them. As a tool • Ensure that GPIC’s Marine Terminal is in compliance with the of continual improvement and benchmarking, GPIC attained the International Ships & Port Security (ISPS) according to IMO prestigious IFA (International Fertilizer Industry Association) Protect regulations and the local port authority. Ships calling at the & Sustain Excellence Certification in Q1 2014, which again signifies GPIC Marine Terminal to load Urea must declare their security the importance GPIC Management attaches to the underlying level according to the ISPS code, before entering berth. principles of Product Stewardship. • Hold shore and ship meetings to achieve smooth, efficient and safe operations so that all safety, environmental and security We at GPIC, work very closely with our marketers, customers, requirements are fully understood and implemented by the ship suppliers and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport personnel. and disposal of Urea fertilizer, Ammonia and Methanol by providing 110 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 We are aware that the benefits of our industry are accompanied by enduring commitments to Responsible Care in the management of petrochemicals and fertilizers worldwide. • Ensure that GPIC Urea and Methanol products are registered disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts, and under the European REACH programme (Registration, (iii) the safe use of the product or service. Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical • Invite customers to visit the company’s complex to exchange Substances) (UREA REG# 01-2119463277-33-0095 & views and ideas with regard to working procedures and further METHANOL REG# 01-2119433307-44-0005). This is the case for enhance business relationships. GPIC procedures with regard to product and service information • Fully extend technical support as deemed required/necessary. and labeling, with particular reference to (i) substances that might produce an environmental or social impact, (ii) the Supply Chain for Bulk Chemical Distribution and Transportation Chemical type Name Capacity (Volume in M3 or weight Type of Labeling; Health & Environment Protection Measures in tonnes transported per year*) transporting facility Fertilizer Product Urea 672,000 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. The product is not flammable. The facility is equipped with necessary safety measures and proper management systems are in place. Petrochemicals Product Ammonia 82,500 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. Proper safety measures and fire protection and firefighting system have been provided. Petrochemicals Product Methanol 424,000 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. Proper safety measures and fire protection and fire -fighting system have been provided. Bulk chemical storage and warehousing facilities Chemical type Name Size/Capacity (Volume in Type of facility Location Area Labeling; Health & Environment Protection Measures M3 or weight in tonnes) Fertilizer Product Urea 100,000 tonnes Completely enclosed Industrial Labeling provided. Proper ventilation is bulk storage facility complex. provided and humidity and temperature are monitored and controlled in the bulk storage. The product in not flammable. Up to date inventory of the stock on site is maintained. Petrochemicals Product Two tanks of 20,000 Completely enclosed, Industrial Labeling provided. Bund wall provided for Ammonia tonnes capacity each. refrigerated, complex containment, fire hydrants provided for atmospheric pressure containing vapors. Up to date inventory of the storage tanks. stock on site is maintained. Petrochemicals Product Two tanks of 20,000 Completely enclosed, Industrial Labeling provided. Bund wall provided for Methanol tonnes capacity each. atmospheric pressure complex containment, fire hydrants provided for storage tanks with containing vapors and fire hazards. Nitrogen Nitrogen blanketing. blanketing provided over the liquid surface in the tank. Up to date inventory of the stock on site is maintained. Process chemicals & List of Two warehouses of Completely enclosed Industrial Labeling provided for the containers. Fire catalysts. chemicals the size 25x70 meters warehouse. complex alarm system and spillage containment and catalysts area and 6.3 meters is provided for the chemical ware house. (Chemicals & used is given height each are used Up to date inventory of the stock on site is catalysts used in in separate for storage. maintained. manufacturing of table below. Ammonia, Urea, One warehouse is for Methanol and related storing chemicals and Utilities at GPIC) the other for storing catalysts used in the process. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 111 Product Stewardship (continued) We observe mandated external independent surveyor inspections of Product Handling Facility and ship cargo tanks to ensure full compliance with the buyer’s requirements and international standards. List of chemicals and catalysts used in the process of making Ammonia, Urea and Methanol at GPIC. Chemical name Composition Physical Sate Potassium carbonate K2CO3, 98% Solid Diethanol Amine ( HOCH2CH2)2NH, 93% Liquid Potassium metavanadate KVO3, V2O5 66%, K2O 33-36% Solid B-51 Antifoam Not available. Liquid Potassium nitrite KNO2, 97% Solid Methyle Diethanol Amine ( HOCH2CH2)2NHCH3, 98% Liquid Rhodorsil (416) Antifoam 100% active Polydimethyl siloxan oil compound Liquid Microbiocide Not available. Liquid Caustic soda NaOH , 45% solution. Liquid Sulphuric acid H2SO4 96% Liquid Caustic Soda Flakes NaOH 98% Solid Hydrazine N2H4 22% Liquid Tri Sodium Phosphate Na3PO4 98% Solid Di Sodium Phosphate Na2PO4 98% Solid Nalco Inhibitors Not available. Liquid CC-100 Inhibitor Not available. Liquid Corrosion inhibitor Corr-shield, NT4293 Not available. Liquid Hydrochloric acid HCL , 30% Liquid Belgard Antiscalant Not available. Liquid Sodium Sulphite Na2SO3 98% Solid Calcium Hypo-chlorite Ca(OCL)2 65% Liquid Calcium Chloride CaCl2 77% Solid Sodium Bicarbonate NaHCO3 99% Solid Freon Not available. Gas Urea Formaldehyde Urea25%, Formaldehyde 60% and water Liquid NALCO-8539 Not available. Liquid NALCO-8514 Not available. Liquid NALCO-7330 Not available. Liquid KS-1 Amine solution Not available. Liquid 112 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 List of chemicals and catalysts used in the process of making Ammonia, Urea and Methanol at GPIC. Catalyst name Composition Physical Sate Mercury guard Activated carbon Solid Primary reformer catalyst NiO 9-15%, Balance 85-90% MgAl2SO4, Solid CaAl2SO4 Secondary reformer catalyst NiO 9%, MgO 25-39%, Al2O3 60-65% Solid HT shift catalyst Fe 59%, Cr 6%, Graphite 4%, Balance oxygen as Solid metallic oxides LT shift catalyst CuO 35-40%, ZnO 35-40%, Al2O3 10-15% Solid Methanator catalyst Ni 27%, balance Alumina Solid Ammonia synthesis catalyst Fe3O4 94%, Balance oxides of Ca, Al, K Solid Methanol synthesis catalyst CuO, ZnO, Al2O3 Solid Hydrogen removal catalyst Platinum 0.3%, balance Alumina Solid Zinc oxide catalyyst ZnO 99.5%, rest Al2O3 Solid Hydrogenation catalyst 2% NiO, 10 % MoO3. &balance 80-90% Al2O3 Solid GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 113 Product Stewardship (continued) GRI 3.1 Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Component Life cycle stage Response Life cycle stages in which health and safety Development of product concept The Company’s products are in two categories 1) Urea and impacts of products and services are ammonia are additive for enhancing agricultural produce assessed for improvement and percentage and due care had been given to health and safety. 2) The third of significant products and services product is methanol, which can be used as fuel additive to categories subject to such procedures households, pharmaceuticals, etc and hence due care has been given to health and safety. Research and Development Products are already developed and the Company does not conduct any inhouse research and development. Certification No certification is required. However, the Company has obtained all the key certifications and we are one of the few Companies who are certified to ISO9001:2008; ISO14001:2004; OHSAS18001:2007;PAS99:2012; RC14001:2008;ISO27001:2005; ISO31000:2009;ISO22301 Manufacturing & production Yes Marketing & promotion The marketing of our three products is done by our share holding companies Sabic & PIC. The health and safety risks are communicated through product safety information, labeling and MSDS. Storage, distribution & supply The health and safety risks are communicated through product safety information, labeling and MSDS. Use & Service The health and safety risks are communicated through product safety information, labeling and MSDS Disposal Not applicable. Reuse/Recycling For ammonia product it is exported as ammonia and also recycled to produce urea. Note: All products of the Company are subject to health and safety analysis. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. There were no recorded cases/ incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. ASPECT: PRODUCT & SERVICE LABELLING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements GPIC’s products and services related to the supply of fertilizers and chemicals are regulated by national and internal codes. GPIC production sites are certified to ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management), OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety Management) and Responsible Care RC 14001. We ensure that GPIC Urea and Methanol products are registered under the European REACH programme (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical Substances) (UREA REG# 01-2119463277-33-0095 & METHANOL REG# 01-2119433307-44-0005). This is the case for GPIC procedures with regard to product and service information and labeling, with particular reference to (i) substances that might produce an environmental or social impact, (ii) the disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts, and (iii) the safe use of the product or service. 114 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 In 2012-2013, GPIC was not subject to any fines for non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Maintain GPIC compliance with Level – 1 (Gold Status) by the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF), which in turn provides an added value to all GPIC Urea customers around the world. This accreditation specifies stringent guidelines that ensure the GPIC product is fully controlled from the source until it reaches the end user and is adequately protected from any objectionable contaminants and pollutants. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling by type of outcomes GPIC has not identified any material non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Our Customer Complaints form provide us feedback. Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction GPIC system for monitoring and reviewing customer satisfaction is conducted through our marketing partners who also happen to be our shareholders. The customer satisfaction surveys are done on an annual basis by SABIC and every two years by PIC for the products sold from not only their own plants/ affiliates but also GPIC. These answers are later analyzed and results are taken into account in evaluating measures to improve satisfaction. ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR 6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications including advertising promotion and sponsorship The Company adheres to the laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communication, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. The voluntary codes include but not limited to fair competition ethics, social norms, cultural values and honest disclosure of benefits/ features of the product. The Company reviews its compliance with the laws, standards and voluntary codes on a regular basis which are dependent on the nature of the activity. PR 7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes During 2012-2013, GPIC has identified no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Our Customer Complaints form provide us feed back. Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data The Company has not received any substantial complaint regarding breaches of customer privacy during the year. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services In 2012-2013, GPIC was not subject to any fines for non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Our Customer Complaints form provide us feedback. Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 115 Leading Excellence Awards During 2012-2013 GPIC was honored with numerous awards recognising our passionate commitment and ongoing contribution to sustainability. 116 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 117 Leading Excellence Awards Some of our key achievements include: 2012 • The RoSPA Chemical Sector Award • The Risk Management certification ISO 31000 GPIC won this award for the twelfth time in twelve years. The Risk Management certification ISO 31000 is issued after a This award is presented by the Royal Society for Prevention detailed audit and assessment by the British Standards Institute of Accidents(RoSPA) and is given to the winner following an (BSI) UK. GPIC is the first petrochemical company in the Middle extensive evaluation of its Safety, Health and Environment East to receive this certification. Management Systems, including strength of leadership, effective participation by the workforce, effective • The Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award communication, risk analyses, performance monitoring GPIC won this award for the second time. and evaluation and personal initiatives. GPIC also received This is a pan-Arabian award which is given to an organization RoSPA’s Distinguished Service Award in recognition of GPIC’s that is most effective and focused in the areas of social contribution to the cause of occupational health and safety, responsibility, sustainability, environmental protection, both nationally and internationally. corporate governance, transparency and other global standards. It is awarded by the Arabia CSR network based in • The ASTD Best Award 2012 United Arab Emirates. GPIC is the only company in the Middle East to win this award This award is presented by the American Society for Training • Sustainability report accreditation by GRI and Development ( ASTD)to businesses and companies for the GPIC attained new heights in sustainability reporting training and development of their people. ASTD is the world’s by achieving GRI checked application level of B for its largest professional association dedicated to the training and Sustainability Report 2010-2011, ‘Our People Our Future’. development field. 118 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC received RoSPA’s Distinguished Service Award in recognition of GPIC’s contribution to the cause of occupational health and safety, both nationally and internationally. 2013 • Resource Development Award 2013 from International • ISO 22301 Societal Security-Business Continuity Management Federation of Training and Development organization(IFTDO) System Overall Winner and Best HRD Practice Category Winner GPIC is the first company in the Middle East to receive this We received this award in recognition for our human resources certification development practices. This award celebrates the projects that ISO 22301 specifies requirements to plan, establish, implement, have made a real impact, as well as, the effort and application operate, monitor, review, maintain and continually improve a of the people who have made them possible. documented management system to protect against, reduce the likelihood of occurrence, prepare for, respond to, and recover • AoN HewittBest Employer Award for the Middle East and from disruptive incidents when they arise. North Africa 2013. This award is given to institutions that excel in employees • The RoSPA Award of Excellence for 2013 engagement to drive workforce performance. This is illustrated GPIC received two awards from Royal Society for the prevention through high customer satisfaction and low staff turnover. of accidents( RoSPA) namely, International Safety Award and Safety Award in Chemical Sector. • E-Government Excellence Award for the year 2013 Multi Sector Award in the e-Education Category • GPIC achieved ‘CREDIT’ ranking in British Safety Council The e-Government Excellence Award Program has been created International Safety Award. under the Patronage of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed Bin Mubarak The International Safety Award recognizes institutions by Al Khalifa as a strategic platform for the e-Government to benchmarking their health and safety performance with best recognize, reward and showcase the pioneering ICT initiatives practices. taken by the Kingdom of Bahrain’s community. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 119 What others say ABOUT GPIC... We at GPIC give paramount importance to the feedback and comments from all our stakeholders. We believe that this kind of remarkable engagement and networking with our stakeholders enables excellence and sustainability. It also keeps us well informed of what others think about GPIC and helps us in maintaining excellent international and regional relationships. It motivates us to attain further heights and successes. 120 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 121 What others say about GPIC Please convey my thanks and appreciation to our colleagues in GPIC for their dedication and hard work to project GPIC’s image as a unique Company in what it does Yousif Al Zamel GPIC Managing Director & Executive VP Chemicals, Sabic, KSA top to bottom. It is the rigidity and sustainability of the CSR programmes you put in place that indeed distinguished GPIC from any other organisation worldwide. The myriad awards won internationally in this field speak for themselves. Your role, Bu Reem, in all these achievements cannot be over emphasised. Your true belief in a better standard of living and well being for everybody on earth and your fervent desire to give the opportunity to everyone around you to participate in Yousif Al Zamel GPIC Managing Director this noble cause, ensured maximum participation not only & Executive VP by all GPIC employees but also those who were privileged Chemicals, Sabic, KSA enough to be associated with you globally. The pride and joy for such contributions, I’m sure were overwhelming. Few days back you were selected by the Regional Network We at GPIC give paramount importance to the feedback and for Corporate Social Responsibility to be the International comments from all our stakeholders. We believe that this kind of Ambassador for Corporate Social Responsibility. Indeed, I remarkable engagement and networking with our stakeholders would argue who would better carry the flag and shoulder enables excellence and sustainability. It also keeps us well informed this responsibility other than you? of what others think about GPIC and helps us in maintaining excellent international and regional relationships. It motivates us to I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate attain further heights and successes. you from the deepest of my heart for yet another great achievement. This indeed was long overdue; the services you Following are some of the examples of these excellent bestowed upon the society were immense and shall remain communications and networking with our stakeholders, globally. for generations to benefit from and remember. I also congratulate GPIC management team members for their Dear Dr. Jawahery, contribution and support to you in this marvelous achievement. I write you this message and hope you receive it in good health and utmost prosperity. Abdulameer Almulla Ex GPIC employee First of all, I am truly indebted to you for the rapturous 27 April 2014 welcome, VIP treatment and great hospitality I received from you especially, the management team and all staff during my short stay in Bahrain. Such treatment reasserts Ex-GPIC employees pride of their affiliation to this prolific organisation and continue to act as GPIC ambassadors. Corporate Social Responsibility has been around us for tens of years. However, many business leaders, especially in our part of the world, were either oblivious or considered it just another fad that will fade by time. The latter were thus never true believers but half-heartedly embraced it for business image. Their contributions and achievements were therefore both minimal and short lived. On the contrary, the CSR model you have engineered at GPIC was one of total dedication that flowed seamlessly from 122 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC exhibits solid commitment towards environmental sustainability and active contribution to the global knowledge sharing on the state of the environment Iyad Abumoghli, Director, UNEP ROWA GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 123 What others say about GPIC (continued) We appreciate your outstanding efforts to serve the Kingdom of Bahrain through your continuous support to social development projects that aids the Bahraini citizens and enhance the services provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Social Development Dr. Fatima Al Balooshi Minister of Human Rights and Social Development ‘I thought I should let you know how touching and incredible your generosity and hospitality were during our visit on Tuesday /Wednesday 18th n 19th of March. On behalf of Gabriel and myself , I would like to sincerely thank you all for the amazing opportunities we had for our mutual meetings and gatherings with your wonderful teams as well as our visit to your fascinating plants. It was really distinguished days in our entire life and deeply appreciated fruitful cooperation, friendly spirit and great support extended to us by your entire teams. Again, I really Dr. Fatima Al Balooshi Human Rights and Social Development Minister appreciate your time, conspicuous care and usual support to our company. As well, I would like to extend my gratitude and genuine thanks for the whole team for the memorable treatment and services rendered to us. Dear Dr. Jawahery, I came across the article published on local newspapers It has been a pleasure being amongst you. Actually you Tuesday, April 8, 2014 entitled “Fitness and Health of GPIC have succeeded in making our short stay in State of Kuwait Employees are top Management Priorities”. kingdom of Bahrain an unforgettable one. Your courtesy exceeded any expectations. It is vital to highlight too the I would like first to express my sincere thanks and difficulties I faced to find the proper wordings to express how appreciation for the efforts exerted by your company in this trip touched our deep heart. Promoting and improving the health and wellbeing of its employees as well as its keenness to mark the celebration Looking forward to reciprocate and have you all here in of the world health day (WHD).I truly appreciate the GPIC Switzerland-Argentina and/or Egypt very soon, interest and dedication towards creating a healthy living culture in the community, emphasizing the importance of Adel Attia the periodic medical examination to detect diseases and put Ameropa’s delegation (urea customer) in place early management to reduce morbidity. There is no 25 March 2014 doubt that the employees’ health is one of your top priorities and I especially admire the company’s medical Clinic which offers top medical services in a modern and friendly environment. It is that kind of dedication that will help this company grow to its full potential. Thank you and Please accept my regards and best wishes. Sadiq Bin Abdul Karim Al Shehabi, Minister of Health, Kingdom of Bahrain April 14,2014 124 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Sheikha Hessa Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa, Executive Director, inJaz Bahrain “Returning to Riyadh, I would like to thank you and the GPIC “ Thank you for your recent contribution of BD 23,500 Team for taking an excellent care of me and my colleagues, to inJAz Bahrain in support of the company and Be the directors of the board. The professional Organisation of Entrepreneurial programmes, received on 10 January 2012. the Board Meeting, Committees and the Year End Gathering Your contribution is already at work, providing young people contributed greatly to the success of these events. So, Please with the real-world skills they want and need, like how to convey our best thanks and appreciation to all colleagues manage money, how to prepare for a career and how to open who took part in this effort. and run a business………. . Because of your generosity, more students are receiving lifechanging financial literacy, work Also, please pass our thanks and appreciation to all our readiness and entrepreneurship education and the results employees, their families and to our retired employees, who can be profound” participated in the Year End Gathering which created a warm atmosphere and demonstrated the real family ties between Hessa Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa GPIC and its employees (old or young, retired or on the job). Executive Director Before closing ,I would like to point out that your inspiring inJAz Bahrain leadership has been instrumental in embedding GPIC values 12January 2012 that built a strong corporate culture, so thank you for your valuable contributions and for a job very well done.” Yousef A. Al-Zamel Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Planning (CS&P) Saudi Basic Industries Corporation 28 December 2013 “I have recently read about your fantastic performance last year when you achieved a record number of working hours without any accidents. My congratulations to you and your team who are setting standards in the Industry that are an inspiration for others to follow.” “We would like to express our sincere thanks and appreciation for the generous financial contribution made Bryan Sauders by GPIC towards the National Social Fund (Supporting the Methanex Aged, Childhood Care and Rehabilitation of the Handicap). 10 January 2012 We also appreciate your outstanding efforts to serve the Kingdom of Bahrain through your continuous support to social development projects that aids the Bahraini citizens and enhance the services provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Social Development. We also extend our thanks and appreciation to His Excellency Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, GPIC Board Chairman and the Board of Directors.” Fatima Al Balooshi Minister of Human Rights and Social Development 30 January 2012 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 125 What others say about GPIC (continued) The recognition of GPCA reflects your dedication, commitment and hard work for which you all deserve praise and tribute Mohamed H. Al-Mady Chairman, GPCA Vice Chairman and CEO, SABIC “It was really a great day and a great tour at GPIC ground! Your hospitality is outstanding. Our team has got super positive emotions so modern, so clean and so friendly. And everything is done with love and high professionalism. We wish the plant and the plants (your healthy and beautiful environment) to flourish and to bring to the Kingdom of Bahrain and its people the feeling of pride for this country and for themselves.” Victor Smirnov Ambassador of the Russian Federation Mohamed H. Al-Mady 30 January 2012 Chairman, GPCA Vice Chairman and CEO, SABIC “ The tour was well organized and highly informative on the importance of GPIC’s work on the national economy and beyond. I was very impressed by the careful thought and attention that have gone into the designing of the plant to ensure maximum efficiency while, at the same time, “I want to thank you for the wonderful hospitality and support minimizing its effect on the environment. I highly commend you and the entire GPIC team provided during my recent visit. your ecological efforts to preserve rare plants and bird The tour of your facility was most impressive and your zeal species in your beautiful park where I was honoured by for creating and maintaining a safety-rich environment is the privilege of planting a palm tree in my name. GPIC’s evident. I also applaud the priority you give to educational and fisheries project is yet another proof of your environment advancement opportunities to all members of the GPIC family.” awareness and GPIC’s role in preserving the ecosystem. I truly believe these are inspiring ways to raise awareness on Gregory A. Feest the importance of protecting our environment, joining the Major General ,USAF UN’s efforts in achieving the Millennium Development Goal Chief of Safety No 7 which is Environmental Sustainability. I also appreciate 20 February 2012 GPIC’s focus on youth and your efforts in training youngsters who, inspired by your visionary mindset, will certainly become the future leading entrepreneurs in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” Nejib Friji Director UNIC ,Manama .29 January 2012 126 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Teresa Budworth, Chief Executive, Nebosh GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 127 What others say about GPIC (continued) “It was indeed a pleasure for me and my team to meet Dear Abdulrahman Jawahery Chairman GPCA your team and visit your excellent plant. You have indeed Responsible Care Committee, many reasons to be proud of an excellent safety record, I just wanted to write a special note of thanks, I attended cleanest plant that we have ever seen and an excellent your presentation at the RC event last week, it was most track record of performance in every field recognized beneficial to me on many levels. by various world bodies. I therefore wish to thank you and your team for this learning experience and above all I would also like to add, that I have visited GPIC several great hospitality. Meeting with Ms Janet CEO NSC and times and met the senior management team, senior and Ms Teresa Budworth Chief Executive Nebosh was very more junior plant engineers etc and I can honestly say, there is a fabulous atmosphere within your company, I now useful. We are now applying for their membership. We will understand what your presence brings to this company. also attend the October NSC meeting in Orlando and look forward to meet you at the conference.“ I congratulate you on a professional work force, who are motivated with love and not with terror. Fawad Ahmed Mukhtar Chairman, Fatima Group, Pakistan Your family must be proud of your achievements. 23 February 2012 Warm regards & Intentions. David Hewitt Business Development Manager | Petrochemical & Chemical Endress+Hauser Instruments International AG, Middle East Support Center 16/12/2012 128 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Janet Froetscher President, National Safety Council, USA GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 129 What others say about GPIC (continued) Most coveted honours in the field of safety management, the International Safety Awards are widely perceived as an international benchmark when it comes to health and safety management in various industries and sectors. GPIC was announced the winner from the shortlisted nominees at the International Safety Award Gala Dinner held at the Grosvenor House in London on Friday. Announcing the winners were British Safety Council Trustees Chair Lynda Armstrong and Chief Executive Alex Botha. The finalists included more than 500 global organisations from across the globe. Dr. Jawahery receiving the award in London. Overwhelmed with the rare honour, GPIC President Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery told DT News from London, “This is a great honour for Bahraini industry. GPIC, through the support of GPIC GOES GAGA the Board and the employees have achieved remarkable results, Apr 27 2014, By dtnews proving that teamwork is the key to success.” GPIC competed with top 500 companies in the world for this high-five He also added that no single company had ever won three or more moment. awards in a single night in the society’s 40-year history. Bahrain Inc is on cloud nine with Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) bagging three of the world’s most coveted awards “At GPIC, we’ve a success strategy – when you reach the peak, constituted by the British Safety Council. GPIC has leapfrogged you’ve to create new peaks for yourself. I’m proud that our at least 500 top global companies to emerge first. Bestowing the employees, our labour unions and executives recognise this awards on GPIC, the award committee evaluated that the company responsibility and themselves brave new heights,” he said. had maintained stupendous professional standards in the areas of both occupational safety and health. The company has put in More than a honour for a particular company, he pointed out that great efforts to disseminate the culture of safety and occupational promoting Bahrain is the main objective of achieving such honours. health in the Kingdom, the committee observed. “No single company has ever won three or more awards in a single night in “We see the leadership, His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, the Council’s 40-year history,” an overwhelmed president of the Prime Minister HRH Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa and company Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery told DT News over phone Crown Prince, Deputy Supreme Commander and First Deputy from London. Prime Minister HRH Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa undertaking trips abroad to actively promote Bahrain. If the leaders Established in 1957 by James Tyre, the British Safety Council is are doing this, then it is very much the job of all chief executives to one of the world’s leading health and safety organisations. Its do the same and support this effort,” Dr. Jawahery asserted. efforts had led to the groundbreaking 1974 British Health and Safety at Work Act apart from the compulsory introduction of seat By Roberto Carrillo belts in vehicles. Bahrain in spotlight Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) has put Bahrain in spotlight by winning three International Safety Awards from the British Safety Council. 130 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Bahrain is on cloud nine with Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) bagging three of the world’s most coveted awards constituted by the British Safety Council. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 131 What others say about GPIC (continued) 132 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 133 GRI Indicators Including Oil & Gas Sector Supplement 134 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 135 GRI Indicators STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART 1 : Profile Disclosures 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS For partially Reason for reported omission and Profile Level of Disclosure location disclosures Disclosure explanation for Remarks Disclosure Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported\ 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision makers Fully 3, 14 20 of the organisation 1.2 Description of Key impacts, risks and Fully 3, 8 9, 42, 54 opportunities 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the Organization Fully 23 2.2 Primary brands, products and/ or services Fully 23 24 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Fully 43 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Fully 23 24 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully 23 24 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully 28 2.7 Markets served Fully 23, 66 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Fully 23, 66 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 23, 148 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully 118 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Fully 12 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully 12 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully 12 3.4 Contact point for questions Fully 149 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully 45, 149 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully 149 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully 149 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting Fully 12, 24 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully 149 calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully 149 information 136 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART 1 : Profile Disclosures 3. REPORT PARAMETERS For partially Reason for reported omission and Profile Level of Disclosure location disclosures Disclosure explanation for Remarks Disclosure Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported\ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Fully 12 periods 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard Fully 136 147 disclosures I the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 149 external assurance for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully 26 29, 50 52, 96 97 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Fully 26 29 governance body is also an Executive Officer 4.3 The number of members of the highest Fully 26 29 governance body that are independent and/or non-Executive members 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or Fully 26 29 direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the Fully 26 29, 90 organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest Fully 26 29, 149 are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Fully 26 29 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Fully 26 31 values, codes of conduct and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully 26 29 overseeing the organizations identification and management of performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Fully 26 29 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of the organizations precautionary Fully 54, 72 85 approach or principle 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles or other Fully 26 29 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Fully 53 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 137 GRI Indicators (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART 1 : Profile Disclosures 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS For partially Reason for reported omission and Profile Level of Disclosure location disclosures Disclosure explanation for Remarks Disclosure Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 45 49 organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Fully 45 49 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Fully 45 49 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully 45 49 through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II – DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMAs For partially Reason for reported omission and Level of Disclosure location disclosures G3.1 DMAs Disclosure explanation for Remarks Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported DMA EC: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EC ASPECTS Economic Performance Fully 58 Market Presence Fully 58 Indirect economic impacts Fully 58 DMA EN: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EN ASPECTS Materials Fully 72 Energy Fully 72 Water Fully 72 Bio diversity Fully 72 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 72 Products and services Fully 72 Compliance Fully 72 Transport Fully 72 Overall Fully 72 138 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II – DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMAs For partially Reason for reported omission and Profile Level of Disclosure location disclosures Disclosure explanation for Remarks Disclosure Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported DMA LA: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH LA ASPECTS Employment Fully 117 Labour/Management Relations Fully 117 Occupational health and safety Fully 117 Training and Education Fully 117 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Fully 117 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 117 DMA HR: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HR ASPECTS Investment and procurement practices Fully 136 Non-discrimination Fully 136 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 136 Child labour Fully 136 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully 136 Security Practices Fully 136 Indigenous rights Fully 136 Assessment Fully 136 Remediation Fully 136 DMA SO: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH SO ASPECTS Local Communities Fully 143 Corruption Fully 143 Public Policy Fully 143 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully 143 Compliance Fully 143 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 139 GRI Indicators (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II – DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMAs For partially Reason for reported omission and Profile Level of Disclosure location disclosures Disclosure explanation for Remarks Disclosure Reporting indicate the the reason of part not omission reported\ DMA PR: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR ASPECTS Customer health and safety Fully 110 Product and Service labelling Fully 110 Marketing communications Fully 110 Customer privacy Fully 110 Compliance Fully 110 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III –Performance Indicators Economic For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully 58 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully 60 opportunities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit Fully 61 plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the Fully 61 government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Fully 62 compared to local minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on Fully 62 locally-based suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully 62 of senior management hired from the local community EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully 62 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully 63 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves Fully 58 62 and production. 140 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Environmental For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully 78 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully 79 materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source Fully 79 OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy Fully 80 OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source Fully 80 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Fully 79 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully 79 improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Fully 80 energy based products and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully 80 reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully 80 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Fully 80 water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Fully 80 reused EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Fully 81 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully 81 products and services on biodiversity in protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored Fully 81 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for Fully 81 managing impacts on biodiversity OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating sites Fully 81 in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Fully 82 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 82 Indirect green No available Presently no weight house gas data mechanism emissions ( in place to Scope 3) collect scope 3 related data GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 141 GRI Indicators (continued) Environmental For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 82 Indirect green No available Presently no weight house gas data mechanism emissions ( in place to Scope 3) collect scope 3 related data EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully 82 reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Fully 83 EN20 NOx, Sox and other significant air emissions by type Fully 83 and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Fully 83 OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water N/A 142 We are not involved in refining or oil and gas exploration EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Fully 83 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Fully 84 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Fully 142 NIL. In our process in normal operation we do not went or flare hydrocarbon OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and N/A 142 We are not involved in refining strategies for treatment and disposal. or oil and gas exploration EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Fully 84 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value Fully 84 of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizations discharge of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully 84 products and services and extent of impact mitigation OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels Fully 142 We have 500 1000 ppm of sulfur in natural gas used as fuel EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Fully 85 materials that are reclaimed 142 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully 85 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Fully 85 products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Fully 85 investments by type Human Rights For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Fully 101 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Partially 101 Human Rights No formal System in place for that have undergone screening on human rights and reported Screening reviews. We plan to report in actions taken of suppliers, 2016. contractors HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully 101 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully 101 actions taken HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Fully 102 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Fully 102 incidents of child labour and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk Fully 102 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully 102 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights Fully 102 of indigenous people and actions taken OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are Fully 105 present or affected by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 143 GRI Indicators (continued) Human Rights For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Partially 102 Human Rights No formal System in place for been subject to human rights reviews and/ or impact reported review of reviews. We plan to report in assessments. operations 2016. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Fully 102 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programme Fully 105 and practice that assesses and manages the impacts of operations on communities including entering, operating and exiting. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully 105 analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Fully 105 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Fully 106 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Fully 106 policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully 106 political parties, politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully 106 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully 106 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulation. SO9 Operations With Significant Potential or Actual Fully 106 Negative Impacts on Local Communities SO10 Prevention and Mitigation Measures Implemented Fully 106 in Operations With Significant Potential or Actual Negative Impacts on Local Communities 144 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with Fully 145 There were no incidents local communities and indigenous peoples of disputes with local communities and indigeneous people OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned Fully 145 No sites or decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned. OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, N/A 145 Location of our industry does the number of households resettled in each and how not result in resettlement of their livelihoods were affected in the process. households OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity. Fully 67 We had 1 process safety incident in 2012 Labour Practices and Decent Work For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully 92 contract and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Fully 93 group, gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully 93 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully 94 bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period (s) regarding significant Fully 94 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Fully 94 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Fully 94 absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and Fully 95 risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in format Fully 95 agreements with trade unions LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully 96 employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong Fully 96 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 145 GRI Indicators (continued) Labour Practices and Decent Work For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully 96 performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Fully 97 of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Fully 97 category LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Fully 93 leave by gender Product Responsibility For partially Disclosure reported Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure location disclosures the reason of Disclosure Reporting omission indicate the part omission not reported PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully 114 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully 114 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required Fully 114 by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully 115 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction including Fully 115 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards Fully 115 and voluntary codes related to marketing communications including advertising promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully 115 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 146 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Fully 115 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonFully 115 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting Fully 147 We do not produce or sustainability criteria. purchase biofuels We are committed to United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles UN GLOBAL COMPACT ‘ The TEN PRINCIPLES’ Principle # Description Category Page Relevant GRI Indicators 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 62, 94-95, 97, EC 5, LA 4, LA 6–9, LA internationally proclaimed human rights; 101-102, 106, 13–14, HR 1–9, SO 5, PR Human Rights 114, 115 1–2, PR 8 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 102, 106 HR 9, SO 5 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 94, 101, 102, LA 4-5, HR 1–3, HR 5, SO 5 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 106 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 101, 102, 106 HR 1–3, HR 7, SO 5 Labor Standards 5 The effective abolition of child labor 101, 102, 106 HR 1–3, HR 6, SO 5 6 The elimination of discrimination in 62, 93, 97, EC 7, LA 2, LA 13 – 14, HR respect of employment and occupation 101, 106 1 – 4, SO 5 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 60, 82, 84, 85, EC-2, EN-18, EN-26, EN-30, environmental challenges 106 SO5 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 78-85, 106, EN 1-30, SO5, PR 3-4 responsibility Environment 114-115 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 79, 80, 82, EN-2, EN 5-7, EN-10, ENfriendly technologies. 84-85, 106 18, EN 26-27, EN-30, SO5 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 105-106 SO 2–6 including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 147 Our approach to reporting 148 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Report profile, scope and boundary Materiality Process: Our first sustainability report “our people or future,” published in At GPIC, “ Materiality “ is determined by considering both: the importance 2012, was prepared in accordance to GRI3.1 guidelines. This is our of our organizations impacts and the priorities of stakeholders. second sustainability report and covers the period from 2012 to end 2013. We observed materiality processes to ensure our reported indicators are having significant impact on the economic, environmental and This report also covers our communication on progress on the social aspects and are mostly relevant to business and are balanced United Nations Global Compact ten principles and includes further in representation. information on the various corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives we have invested in the financial years 2012 GPIC business principles are based on the triple bottom line and 2013(period ending December 31, 2013). approach and hence forms the basis of our sustainability reporting, which is materialized through: This report is aimed at our shareholders, employees, governmental and non-governmental organizations and other parties or individuals 1) Sustainability is strongly embedded in the Company’s mission. with a working interest in GPIC. Our aspects are linked to our corporate goals, some of which In preparing the report we have gone through the following cycles: are aligned with the Company’s prioritized risks covered in the • Post our first GRI report, the team was transformed into a top enterprise risk management. tier working committee. The executive management and the middle management are • Most of the Sustainability reporting committee members actively involved during the process of goals setting at both the attended GRI certified workshops. corporate and departmental level. • Information retrieval from relevant sections related to the GRI 3.1 2) Many of the concerns raised from expert communities, such Performance indicators relevant to our business. as the representative auditors of international standards • An outline of the report with the contents page was prepared in organisations, industry or sector based associations and consultation with consultant KPMG. committees, and representatives from social media and local • KPMG were engaged to assist us in preparing the report community. including review of draft write ups. 3) Stakeholders’ inclusiveness in terms of reporting the most • In parallel with the report preparation a professional designer relevant indicators covering most of their key interests and and publisher was also engaged. concerns. While doing this, we ensure that reporting on common • We observed materiality processes to ensure we only report on aspects does not come in conflict with other stakeholders’ those indicators (GRI3.1) that are relevant to our business. interests. This concept is also extended to the local and • The boundaries are well defined as all our business facilities are international media, to ensure GPIC endeavours are presented in Bahrain and our products marketing is done by Sabic and PIC. transparently to reach and meet interests of various sectors The report boundary covers our facilities and operations covering within the stakeholder group. our manufacturing and export facilities. As our marketing of 4) The key sustainability materiality aspects of GPIC are detailed products is done by our shareholders hence we do not have a in our long term sustainability goals ( page 8 9 ) and the direct link with our customers. sustainability strategy section and summarized as below: • Data collection for the relevant GRI 3.1 indicators, was provided Climate change by the concerned sections of our business . The information was Energy & water conservation and resource efficiency verified by the concerned professionals during the review phase Safety, Health and Environment of the report. Most of the data was already available within the Learning and development company as part of our regular data collection, monitoring and CSR and community engagement reporting process for our day to day business. The compilation Business excellence and economic sustainability of data has been done on the basic scientific measurement & 5) Stakeholders priorities: mathematical calculus method on actual basis, but in some We give paramount importance to stakeholders views and cases where actual data is unavailable due to some reason; feedback on selecting aspects that are material along with different logical methodologies are used for calculations. The selection of relevant indicators. The chapters on “stakeholders usage of any such method is mentioned at respective places in engagement “and “what others say about GPIC” provides several the report. examples of this: • Similar to our previous report we have opted to get a GRI For example: In compliance to the legislation from the national application level check for this years sustainability report in environmental regulators we provide data of our emissions and order to get global recognition and bring more transparency effluents to the regulators. and reliability to the report. The plan to get external assurance At the international arena, we also take care of the priorities from an external party has been delayed and will be considered of our partners such as the National Safety Council and in for the next reporting period, when we report according to G4 collaboration with NSC, USA we carried out a company -wide guidelines. survey on our organisational climate in 2012 which was based • Since our last report the significant changes are the construction on the feed -back from all the employees. We address the needs of a new HP steam boiler and the Sodium hypochlorite unit. of our local community through our financial contributions to Moreover in this report, for the first time we have introduced our support education in Bahrain by aligning with institutions such long term sustainability goals. as inJAz, University of Bahrain ,so on and so forth. • There are some re-statements of information provided in the previous report. Previous years’ figures have been regrouped/ Contact: For any clarifications or queries please contact rearranged wherever found necessary to conform to this year’s Mr Fadhel Al Ansari , General Manager Manufacturing classification. and chairman Sustainability reporting Committee at falansari@gpic.net. GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 149 Glossary of terms and acronyms 150 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Glossary of terms and acronyms; AFA Arab Fertilizer Association OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series API American Petroleum Institute REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals CEO Chief Executive Officer UNEP United Nations Environment Programme IFA International Fertilizer Industry Association IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation association GPCA Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association ISO International Organisation for standardisation GHG Greenhouse Gas CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GJ Gigajoule GRI Global Reporting Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact KSA Kingdom of Saudi Arabia GPIC Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company PIC Petrochemicals Industries Company ppm Parts Per Million ppb Parts Per Billion MT Metric Tonne NGO Non–Governmental Organization CDR Carbon Dioxide Recovery CO2 Carbon Dioxide SHE Safety, Health, Environment NOGA National Oil and Gas Authority EWA Electricity and Water Authority SABIC Saudi Basic Industries Corporation NSC National Safety Council, USA RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, UK PMS Performance Management System On-stream factor Operating days as percentage of calendar days Utilization factor Percentage of the design capacity utilized based on operating days Capacity utilization Percentage of design capacity utilized based on calendar days ERM Enterprise Risk Management LTA Lost time accident BCM Business Continuity Management GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 151 A page from History Tribute to Dr. Haldor Topsoe (1913 2013) “The corporate world in itself means nothing unless it improves the lives of people and the conditions in poor countries” Dr. Haidor Topsoe 152 GPIC Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Note This sustainability report has been sent to GRI Office in Amsterdam, The Netherlands for verification against application level ‘A’. Once the verification process is complete the report will be published along with the verification statement from the GRI. Contact details Your feedback is important to us. You can e-mail the Sustainability Reporting team at gpic@gpic.com or send us feedback on line at www.gpic.com. We have used recycled You can also telephone +973 17 731777 or write to Sustainability Report at: paper for the production GPIC PO Box 26730 Kingdom of Bahrain. of this report. Designed and Produced by
