(RC: 514716) URL: http://elyahaglanigerialimited.yolasite.com 3rd COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP 3) YEAR: JANUARY 2013 – JANUARY 2014 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  This Third (3rd) COP of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited (RC: 514716 and UN Global Compact Participant ID: 13216), is aimed at fulfilling the basic annual requirement of all companies participating in the UN Global Compact;  The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which companies are expected to embrace, support and enact, within their spheres of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption are: Human Rights:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour:  Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment:  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OUR SUPPORT FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES  Between January 2013 and January 2014, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has actively supported the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We actively expressed these principles in our 2 day-to-day businesses within all our spheres of influence and have unequivocally made very clear statements on this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public;  Most of our work is on the field, suffice the reason why it has been pretty difficult for us to be actively engaged in the programmes of the Nigerian Local Network within the last one year;  We are strongly opposed to the practice of “Domestic Servitude” and “Commercial Servitude” both of which are simply put: “Slavery”, practiced in all the countries of Africa, which keeps several vulnerable school age children out of school, hawking wares on the streets, involved in commercial sex in brothels, or busy doing dirty jobs in kitchens, laundries, farms and workshops;  We shall continue to uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in the years ahead;  With gratitude to the founders of the UN Global Compact, we are very proud to be part of the UN Global Compact. This statement is endorsed by: Mr. Samson Babatunde ILESANMI (CEO & Contact Person) Mobile: +234-70-60451145 E-Mail: ehpsafeworld@yahoo.com 3 BRIEF DESCIPTION OF BUSINESS El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited is a Nigerian limited liability company that provides a variety of specialized grassroots and national interventions in the following areas:  Sustainable development projects concept development;  Sustainable development projects appraisal and due diligence studies;  Global, sub-regional, national, state, local government and community sustainable development projects funding, technology and technical needs surveys;  Public, private and institutional sustainable development projects funds raising services;  Public, private and institutional sustainable development projects technology requirement support attraction;  Agricultural, mineral, hydrocarbon and value added products exports and imports;  Global and national agricultural, mineral, hydrocarbon and value added products exports and imports promotion events organization. Events include: (exhibitions, B2Bs, Buyers and Sellers Meetings, Workshops and Conferences);  Commodity and value added products quality tests;  Detective Biochemistry economic, health, crime and other sectors investigations;  Agricultural, mineral, petroleum products and value added products export/import and export/import brokerage services;  Sustainable development projects feasibility studies and reports production;  Sustainable development projects investment performance studies and reports production;  Foreign Direct and Foreign Portfolio Investments promotion;  Foreign Direct and Foreign Portfolio Investors attraction;  Un Global Contact trade and investment promotion activities support;  Project publicity package design and management;  Project management services; GOAL To help each client to identify their sustainable development funding and technology needs through client-specific surveys and adequately mobilizing the conventional and nonconventional resources of stakeholders and appropriate technology, towards the achievement of the most suitable sustainable solutions. MISSION El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited, (RC No: 154716), provides highly skilled and adept services that create the synergies required by our clients to easily conduct their corporate, institutional and operational funding, technical and technology needs surveys; after which we provide the 4 requisite solutions, through the evolution and implementation of mutually beneficial sustainable development interventions. HOW WE OPERATE  We treat our clients preciously because they are worth much more than rare platinum, diamond, gold and cash;  We endorse a Memorandum of Understanding between El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and each client before the implementation of each project;  We design and host each project’s dynamic website;  Each project has a Project Implementation Committee, members of which shall be constituted between El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and each client ;  Our clients do not need to fund the projects we conceptualize and implement for them;  We undertake conventional and non-conventional funds raising activities to support the projects that we conceptualize;  We depend mainly on the grace, wisdom and unction of Jehovah, the creator and possessor of the heavens and the earth for the conceptualization, execution and success of each project because God is eternally good, perfect and stupendously gracious. Jehovah alone takes all the glory of all our achievements;  We are remunerated mainly by earning a standard 15% of the total value of funds that we raise per project; or 15% equity in the total value of the project, in case physical cash is not raised, but other valuable resources are mobilized to support the project;  In all our dealings, investigations, research and projects, we ensure that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption are adequately adhered to. HUMAN RIGHTS: PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, especially , Rights to Life of those Nigerian Christians and minority groups in Nigeria that are daily murdered by the incessant terrorism bomb attacks by Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati Wal-Jihad, otherwise called, Boko Haram in northern Nigeria. ElYah-Agla Nigeria Limited considers the incessant bombing of Churches and other private and public targets in Nigeria as very derelict infringements on the fundamental human rights of Nigerians and foreigners who legitimately live and work in Nigeria. 5 PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: To address Human Rights abuses by Boko Haram and other terrorist groups in Nigeria, El-YahAgla Nigeria Limited configured in February, 2013: “WAKA, SELL & CHOP”, a project that has this GOAL: to create the requisite synergies, within and outside Nigeria, that will effectively mobilize adequate non-budgetary funding and technical support for the Office of the Special Assistant to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Job Creation, Ms. Josephine Washima, so as to, positively reposition her office towards a proper discharge of its statutory mandate, to include the execution of Waka, Sell and Chop, a project conceptualized with the goal of: globally mobilizing resources that will substantially empower vulnerable Nigerian youths by creating 1.5 million new direct marketing and other vocational jobs per quarter; promote “Buy Made in Nigeria”; technically halt the marketing of smuggled, counterfeit, sub-standard and injurious products in Nigeria; protect Nigerian industries and protect Nigerian consumers; in addition to this: the generation of new export markets for made in Nigeria goods through the US Export-Import Opportunities Exhibition www.useximafricaevents.com slated for June 12 to 15 at the Baltimore Convention Centre, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Officials of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited moved into Abuja, were introduced to Ms. Josephine Washima by Mr. Hyacinth Hovel Turnoe, her Personal Assistant. We worked for that office in Abuja between February and June 2013. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: We configured the requisite blueprint for Waka, Sell & Chop and introduced Ms. Washima to officials of UNOPS and sponsors in Abuja, Lagos and Navigroup Incorporation of Baltimore, the organizers of the June 2013 US Export-Import Opportunities Exhibition. We also registered the Office of the Special Assistant to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Job Creation with the United Nations Global Compact. We almost got Waka, Sell & Chop kick-started, but for one Mr. Johnny Okoronkwo, a retired staffer of the Federal Ministry of Labour, who was imposed upon Ms. Washima by the Minister of Labour around March 2013. “Mr. Okoronkwo reasoned that the only way jobs can be created in Nigeria is through mass protests”. He killed Waka, Sell & Chop! All our efforts were wasted by Mr. Okoronkwo. Behold, Boko Haram has grown stronger, with many confrontations with military and civilian Joint Task Force, heavy civilian casualties, and several billions of Naira wasted by government. Violence is the order of the day in Nigeria. EXPECTED OUTCOME: Supposing Mr. Okoronkwo allowed Waka, Sell & Chop to be implemented, six (6) million new jobs would have been created by January 30, 2014. The multiplier effects would have been peace, improved, productivity, improved GDP and progress in Nigeria. 6 PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s board resolved that members of staff should report any latent abuse of human rights at the place of work and in the public every day. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: Our human rights abuse register was operational through January 2013-January 2014. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Each staff received a monthly official human rights appraisal reminder so as to encourage him or her to report any human rights abuse encountered that month. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Besides the constant reports of public abuse of the fundamental human rights of Nigerians and Christians, none was reported at the place of work by any member of staff of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited in the year under review. EXPECTED OUTCOME: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has ensured that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS: PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: As in the past, in the year under review, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s board encouraged management to uphold the freedom of association of the members of staff and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining of staff, especially in any national or state labour issue. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: Management allowed all the representatives of staff to attend all labour rallies, meetings and NGO / labour improving activities throughout the year under review. 7 PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Management bore the cost of all labour meetings and rallies logistics bills within the year under review. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Management and staff were engaged in NGO promoted labour, human rights and empowerment activities between January 2013 and January 2014. EXPECTED OUTCOME: As in the past one year, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited maintains a much more humane and multiskilled staff who have benefitted so much from freedom of association and rights to collective bargaining. This has boosted the morale of the members of staff and will do so in years to come and engender wonderful management/staff relationship. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s corporate policy forbids all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: When a member of stall is ill, he or she is granted health-off-duty-leave. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: His or her hospital bill is usually paid by El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s management because a healthy staff is a productive genius. We also take care of on the job lodging, accommodation, feeding, telephone communication and transportation bills of all our staff, so as to boost their morale. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Improved productivity by staff is noticed between January 2013 and January 2014. EXPECTED OUTCOME: It is expected that such members of staff who benefitted from management’s benevolence should be dedicated to duty until retirement. 8 PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: Management of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited forbids child labour. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: The practice of “Domestic Servitude” and “Commercial Servitude” both of which are simply put: “Slavery”, practiced in all the countries of Africa, which keeps several vulnerable school age children out of school, hawking wares on the streets, involved in commercial sex in brothels, or busy doing dirty jobs in kitchens, laundries, farms and workshops constitute a major concern to El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited. El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and our partners had a Seminar between Monday December 9, 2013 and Friday December 13, 2013 in Ilorin to address this issue. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: The event was a talk show with papers delivered by invited presenters from all over Nigeria. The audience included journalists, parents, legal practitioners, the general public, politicians, clergy men, proprietors and administrators of a large variety of private and public primary, post primary and tertiary institutions all over Nigeria. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: A communique was issued by the participants at the end of the event. EXPECTED OUTCOME: Our seminar was just a drop in the ocean because individuals and businesses in Nigeria still employ child labourers as house helps and cheap labourers. All tiers of government, labour unions and the UNGC should create many more awareness on the fact that businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The employment policy of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited forbids gender, race, tribal, religion or HIV status discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 9 PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has under its employment qualified and dedicated male and female employees from the various tribes and religions of Nigeria. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s employment policy is strictly based on qualification for the job and not the gender, race, tribal, religion or HIV status of prospective employees. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: No matter where they come from, all of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s members of staff have been found to be excellent on duty. EXPECTED OUTCOME: It is certain that all of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s staff shall remain very productive and excellent on duty for more years ahead as we promote the UN Global Compact’s ten principles together in our day to day activities. ENVIRONMENT: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s corporate policy includes support for a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. As in the past year, the board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited noted with dismay the very abject environmental challenges that the immediate society and planet earth faces with the following: (i) Discharge of dangerous fumes from factories, petroleum natural gas flaring, disused and poorly maintained automobiles, generators and spare parts all over Africa; (ii) Sawdust smoldering in the several thousands of sawmills spread all over Nigeria and Africa; (iii) Poor waste management, especially the improper dumping and burning of dangerous toxic radioactive, electronic, chemical, drug, industrial and domestic wastes in Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: In November and December 2013, we organized road shows in Ilorin to create awareness on the need for businesses in Ilorin, especially sawmills and old tyre sellers, who daily fumigate their 10 neighborhoods, to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and stop their pollution. We also told Honourable Ibrahim Olanrewaju Orire, the Supervisory Counselor on Health of the Ilorin West Local Government Council to use his good office to END THE FUMES! PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: We made T-Shirts and Face-Caps and distributed to students and jobless youths who joined the road show campaign. Each participant went home with a Hamper basket filled with beverages and information on Clean Environment. Honourable Ibrahim Olanrewaju Orire, the Supervisory Counselor on Health of the Ilorin West Local Government Council was briefed by the CEO of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and received our plea that he should to use his good office to END THE FUMES! MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Honourable Ibrahim Olanrewaju Orire, the Supervisory Counselor on Health of the Ilorin West Local Government Council got the Magaji of Odo-okun, Sawmill, Ilorin to appealed to the operators of sawmills and sellers of old tyres at Sawmill, Ilorin, to halt the indiscriminate fumes. The Mogaji also wrote a letter to the Honourable Chairman, Ilorin West Local Government Council, appealing to him to use his good office to END THE FUMES! EXPECTED OUTCOME: The fumes have considerably reduced as at the time of writing this COP. We hope the fumigation will not resume in future. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: Further to the incessant environmental pollution at the sawmill area of Ilorin, Kwara state, Nigeria, in January, the management of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited decided to do a follow-up to the August 2012 awareness about the need for the environmental responsibility of the Saw millers, mechanics, vulcanizers and waste disposers who are responsible for the un-ending fumes. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited organized a seminar titled: “STOP FUMIGATING YOURSELVES AND OTHERS!” on Saturday January 11, 2014 at the auditorium of the College of Education, Ilorin. The Goal of the seminar was to promote greater environmental responsibility by the saw millers, vulcanizers, mechanics and waste disposers who 11 indiscriminately smolder sawdust, tires, tubes, rubber, plastics and other toxic materials daily at the sawmill area within the Ilorin metropolis. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: The target audience: saw millers, vulcanizers, mechanics and waste disposers were invited and promised a bottle of soft drink if they attend the seminar. The event recorded 426 attendees. They agreed that they are responsible for the environmental pollution of the sawmill area and said that there is no alternative waste disposal option for the waste they generate by government; The problem is compounded by the allowed indiscriminate felling and lumbering of economic trees all over the forest region of Nigeria, especially at night. Trees from such illicit sources form the pool of raw materials for the smolder emitting sawmills. It appears that environmental laws are not enforced in Nigeria. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Residents of the saw mill area, Ilorin, Kwara state, Nigeria, as well as those of similarly affected residential areas where sawmills are located all over Nigeria and Africa stand the risk of contacting life threatening respiratory-tract infections and lung cancer. It was apparent that those responsible for the pollution are now aware that there are health hazards associated with their activities. EXPECTED OUTCOME: To stall the indiscriminate abuse of the environment globally, all UNGC registered businesses should on their own, undertake similar initiatives in all their spheres of endeavor to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies by Nigerians. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: It is top management’s policy for year 2013 to source for environmentally friendly mining and mineral beneficiation technologies that can help Nigeria to develop the 34 different solid minerals deposits all over Nigeria. 12 El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited tried as much as possible in year 2013 to help boost the solid minerals sector of Nigeria, West Africa and elsewhere in Africa by introducing as many private and public decisions makers to our partners: “Zenith Mining and Construction Equipment Manufactures”. The intention is to get them to procure mining and minerals beneficiation equipment that will boost their economies and individual incomes. We made representations to the C-IN-C through his SSA on Students and Youths, for the procurement of 774 300-350 Stone Crushers for each of Nigeria’s 774 Local Government Areas. The crushers would be privatized when they commence production in such a way that government will buy shares for host communities. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited sent out letters, e-mails, called and SMSed prospective clients, giving details of financial and other economic benefits of the procurement of the equipment to the society and prospective clients. We called, SMSed and emailed the SSA to the C-In-C. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: By December 2013, Zenith Mining and Construction Equipment Manufactures had sold a total of 53 equipment in Nigeria. The SSA acknowledged the package with thanks and promised to book for a one-on-one meeting appointment between the C-IN-C and El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s CEO. This meeting is yet to take place. EXPECTED OUTCOME: If approved by the C-IN-C, each of the 774 300-350 Stone Crushers will yield an annual income of USD$75.6m for each of Nigeria’s 774 Local Government Areas. Millions of new jobs will be created. Grassroots and overall national productivity will be enhanced. Nigeria’s crude petroleum dependent economy will be productively diversified. Crime rate will considerably reduce. Peace, tranquility, progress and political stability will prevail in Nigeria. ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited designed the company’s policies in such a way as to vehemently work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: In July 2013, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited organized an Anti-Corruption Road Show in Ilorin. 13 PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Three notable traditional musicians were recruited for the road show. We interviewed very important private and public figures in the society. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Members of the general public got our hand bills on: “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”. Most members of the public who commented blamed government, politicians and joblessness for the high rate of corruption in the society. EXPECTED OUTCOME: With regular campaigns like this, we expect that businesses operating in Nigeria can create synergies that will enable them to collectively work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This COP will be shared with El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s stakeholders through the usage of various tools. Our stakeholders are staff, external experts, shareholders, clients and partners. The company’s achievements in the areas of responsible entrepreneurship, research and economic crimes investigations will be primarily announced to the public in Seminars, Workshops, staff Memos, General Meetings, Internet, Board Meetings, UN Global Compact Website, brochures, Secret Reports, Newsletters, Business Magazines and the press. We have a very open communication policy. This COP was endorsed by: Mr. Samson Babatunde ILESANMI (CEO & Contact Person) Mobile: +234-70-60451145; +234-80-53666185 E-Mail: ehpsafeworld@yahoo.com 14
