Sustainability Our sustainability strategy is centered on the key areas that we believe contribute to a sustainable business model: people, marketplace, environment and communities. In 2013, u-blox mainly focused on strengthening its supply chain management to ensure that suppliers operate in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Living by our principles Anti-bribery and corruption Fighting bribery and corruption is an essential part of living by our Code of Conduct core values. We have an Anti-bribery Policy and training in place u-blox has employees and business partners with widely different that provide guidance regarding compliance with rules and laws cultural backgrounds and therefore it is important to have a related to bribery and corruption. formal set of common values. Our Code of Conduct is to ensure that all employees and other persons acting on behalf of u-blox During 2013, u-blox was not subject to any investigations, legal know what correct behavior is. u-blox’ Code of Conduct sets the cases or incidents involving corruption or Human Rights violations. framework for the work of supporting the principles of the UN Global Compact. u-blox is a signatory to and member of the UN Global Compact and fully embraces its policies and principles. 4-pillar CSR strategy The UN Global Compact is a public-private strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We care We support innovation about our and help the less In 2013, we made our first Communication on Progress (CoP), employees fortunate in our society which describes the actions we have taken to integrate the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We continued our work to ensure a high degree of business ethics 1 2 and to disseminate compliance with the Code of Conduct. u-blox’ Code of Conduct and relevant information material is accessible for all employees on the intranet and is available in 6 languages. Human rights Our business principles require our employees and contractors to 4 We are environmentally 3 We encourage sustainable and fair friendly business conduct respect the human rights of other employees and the communities where we work. We reinforce our approach by incorporating human rights in our Code of Conduct. Performance indicators 2012 2013 Total headcount (end of the year) 379 454 Jobs created 35 78 Woman in overall workforce 16.6% 15.2% Parttime employees 8.2% 7.3% Fluctuation 8.7% 8.6% Page 42 | Sustainability Sustainability: Introduction 1 Employees We recognize that innovation comes from the minds of u-blox is committed to being a fair and non-discriminatory talented people, and that attracting and retaining them is employer with regards to its compensation policy. Equal pay for the key to our ongoing success. women and men is self-evident. Business review 2013 At the end of 2013, u-blox had a total of 454 employees, of The proportion of female employees at the end of 2013 was which 28.0% were based at our headquarters in Switzerland. 15.2% (Previous year 16.6%). In the management team no The remaining 72.0% worked in eight R&D centers and eleven women are represented. The Board of Directors consists of one sales and marketing offices across the globe. During 2013, woman and six men. u-blox has a relatively low proportion of we increased our head count by 75 positions. The increase is women in its workforce. This is due to the large number of primarily due to the focused organic growth in all regions. technical positions within the company, for which the recruitment potential among women is limited. The company’s employee In view of the increase in market activities, the number of FTE turnover rate in 2013 was low and made up 8.6%. in Sales, Marketing and Support rose from 88 to 101. The share of employees in Research and Development grew from 235 to Employee satisfaction is measured and evaluated in the course 289 (FTE based). The share of employees in Logistics and of annual performance review meetings. Performance and Administration grew from 49 to 57 FTEs. compensation are linked to both Group and individual goals. Every second year, a detailed employee satisfaction survey is Sustainability Fostering and retaining talent carried out. The next survey will take place in 2014. u-blox has developed a corporate culture where continuous Compensation and advancement are coupled with clearly improvement of both technical and leadership skills is integrated defined individual as well as corporate goals, and regularly into our working environment. To securing continued leadership assessment against these goals is institutionalized throughout and innovation, u-blox supports its people to enhance their the company. competence and career opportunities. To support our managers in their role, all managers receive leadership training to develop Work-life balance, employee health their skills. With acquisitions and specialists located worldwide u-blox sets health and safety as a high priority. In June, u-blox more and more projects are handled and lead by virtual global again initiated the employee health program “Bike to work” at Corporate Governance teams. This set-up is connected with challenges and u-blox its Swiss headquarters. 27 employees in 7 teams signed up. therefore also emphasized training leaders on how to run highAnother activity initiated in Switzerland was “how to prevent performing global teams. Specialist training and further educations cardiac arrest”: Defibrillators were installed and training was are decided individually together with the employees in the offered to all employees. Work-life balance is encouraged by annual appraisals and in the process of agreeing on individual offers such as flexible working hours, flexible work/pay/holiday objectives. Whenever possible, u-blox seeks to fill vacant program and a sabbatical after 5 years tenure with the company. management posts and key positions with in-house specialists. Internal communication with employees focuses on interactive, Attractive employer real-time communication that is accessible to employees To attract and keep talented personnel, u-blox offers its world-wide. The executive management team monthly informs employees attractive employment conditions. In 2013, we spent employees worldwide via webinars about the current status of CHF 37.7 million on salaries and social benefits (Previous year the business, its strategy and other general topics of interest. CHF 34.4 million). Details of employee compensation and Financial report 2013 benefits are provided on page 91 including information on salary, social taxes and stock option plans. Employees per region (end of 2013, FTE based) Employees per function (end of 2013, FTE based) Logistics, admin APAC APAC Switzerland 25% Switzerland 13% (57) (113) 27% (122) Sales, 22% marketing, (101) 65% Research & Information for investors 9% Americas (39) support (289) development Americas 39% (173) Rest EMEAof EMEA Sustainability | Page 43 Sustainability | Page 51 Interview with Rita Puntaferro, Team Leader Test & Measurement at u-blox Italy With a Masters degree in Physics from the University of Trieste, Rita started her postuniversity life as a particle physicist working at the Europe CERN particle accelerator. After three years, private industry caught her interest where she decided to pursue a career in the real-world application of wireless cellular communications. She now leads the Test and Measurement Team at one of u-blox’ wireless product centers based in Sgonico, Italy. Married with a young daughter, Rita has now devoted over 15 years of her professional life to the quality, testing and certification of cellular modems used in countless industry and consumer applications by customers all over the world. We asked Rita to share with us some of her thoughts about her work at u-blox. How do you feel working at u-blox, and what is your working environment like? “I really enjoy working at u-blox because we are such a diverse team of multinational employees working all over the world, yet I feel like we belong to a close-knit family. It is a very open and collaborative working environment. In addition to the many people here It is a very open and collaborative working environment. in Sgonico with whom I have been working closely with for many years, becoming part of u-blox has expanded my circle of colleagues to include people in Switzerland, America, UK, Belgium, Korea and Pakistan. What I really enjoy about this job is that each of us has the feeling that we are making a positive contribution to the success of the company, and our accomplishments are recognized. This is personally very satisfying.” What exactly do you do at u-blox? “Our wireless modules are complex products requiring extensive testing and operator certification before they are approved for customer use. This involves many activities including overall definition of the test strategy, product life cycle management, and coordination with test laboratories around the world. To successfully validate a product, we must work closely with Software Engineers, Application Engineers, and Product Teams representing many aspects of product definition, development and deployment. It is a complex process requiring close cooperation with teams located around the world. This Rita Puntaferro, makes it particularly rewarding when we “win” a new customer thanks to the quality of Team Leader our products, or when we achieve a certification. It is like playing on a successful football Test & Measurement team and scoring a winning goal. At the end, we all share in the feeling of pride and accomplishment.” What types of hobbies do you enjoy outside of work? “I really love travelling; visiting new places, learning about different cultures and histories and meeting local people. Organizing the trip in advance, reading and learning about new countries and regions to visit is an amazing experience for me. When I think about my travels I remember not only the images and pictures, I also try to remember the different smells, sounds, impressions and colors I’ve experienced.” Page 44 56 | Sustainability Introduction Sustainability: Savannah Trust Education, Ghana 2 Community u-blox has partnered with the Savanna Trust Education, a British NGO supporting communities in Ghana to build schools. The schools are constructed by local workers with local materials, and teachers are funded by the Trust and the government of Business review 2013 Our support of selected community projects achieves two Ghana. main goals; to provide direct financial assistance to promote health and education to those in most need, and to create Our joint goal was to build a new school house in the Lawra awareness among our numerous employees, customers, District for 400 children. Funded by u-blox, the Savannah partners and stakeholders that u-blox management believes Education Trust began building a school in Metoh village in in the importance of contributing to a stronger society 2012. By September 2013, the main school building was through efficient, well-planned action. completed and in use. The first class enrolled consisted of over 100 children, and a first Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) 1. Education meeting was held. Daily school meals are also provided for the Many of the world’s problems can be directly addressed through students. The village community and the outlook for its children education of the young. Many serious issues facing poorer countries have been significantly improved due this activity. in particular can be attributed to the simple lack of knowledge, for example the awareness of proper hygiene and nutrition, disease prevention and treatment, efficient management of Sustainability natural resources, as well as simply being able to find a job that will pay enough to support a family. The Sunshine School, Nepal This Kathmandu-based school is located in one of the poorest countries in the world. The school enables young children who are otherwise too poor to attend school gain a basic education up to the 10th grade and earn a diploma. With the support of u-blox and a Swiss-based NGO dedicated to supporting the school, a Corporate Governance new school house was completed in 2012 and the curriculum extended to the 10th grade. The first class of 11 children successfully completed their final exam and completed the 10th grade Engineers shape our future and Electronics4you, with very good result in March 2013. Many of the children intend Switzerland to pursue higher education, in which case partial support by the In order to foster the next generation of engineers in Sunshine School foundation will be provided. Switzerland, u-blox funds two Swiss organizations, the “Engineers shape our future” and “Electronics4you”. These organizations provide educational programs designed to foster an interest in technology, especially electronics. In 2013, a Swiss high school class visited u-blox to have a firsthand look at the diverse and attractive possibilities a career in electronics can bring. Financial report 2013 2. Health We believe in promoting health-conscious communities, especially in countries with restricted access to healthcare. In 2013, we continued our focus on promoting health consciousness. Teaching fashion design students electronics, Taiwan mHealth diabetes awareness campaign u-blox aims to broaden the appeal of electronics to young people. In 2013 we participated as a sponsor in a 13-day 2’100 km As part of this u-blox supported a workshop and classes at bike tour from Brussels to Barcelona bike tour organized by the Shih Chien University, Taiwan, where fashion design students GSMA’s mHealth (“Mobile Health”) diabetes awareness initiative. Information for investors developed clothes containing functioning electronics; going from Four u-blox cyclists participated in the tour. The GSM Association simple LED T-shirts through to night club garments that light up is a global alliance representing the interests and goals of over with sound. 800 service providers around the world. The goal of the tour was to raise awareness of the urgent, growing problem of Sustainability Sustainability | Page Sustainability employees 53 45 57 | Page diabetes, while demonstrating live solutions to manage the Anchored by a strong commitment towards our customers, we disease and improve quality of life. are continuously engaged in minimizing the use of hazardous materials and team-up with our production and supplier partners Tour de Munster – race for kids with Down-syndrome to monitor and properly manage potentially harmful substances A team of ‘leisure’ cyclists commenced a demanding four-day and materials used in all stages of the product manufacturing 600 km charity cycle which took them through all the counties of cycle. Munster, Ireland. u-blox was a corporate sponsor for the event. All funds raised went directly to the Down Syndrome Ireland u-blox is committed to addressing the use of conflict minerals foundation. from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) through all means and influencing mechanisms available to us. We have Donation for relief action implemented the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Disaster aid is a component of u-blox’ social responsibility Protection Act and we work together with our key manufacturer commitment. u-blox’ philosophy is to provide targeted assistance partners to determine the origin of the metals in our products. All to people who find themselves in situations of acute need as a smelters in our supply chain have been identified. Suppliers must result of natural disasters. In November, u-blox provided disaster have a policy to assure that cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold aid to typhoon victims in the Philippines in the form of monetary and wolframite in the products they manufacture are conflict free. donations. The money was invested in food packages, water and other urgent needed equipment. In 2013 we strengthened the co-operation with key manufacturing partners throughout the whole year to relentlessly achieve full adherence to legal, industry and customer specific environmental Sustainability: 3 Environment requirements. Such tight collaborations require a structured database and management solution for our environmental data collection, storing, reporting and compliancy checks. In 2014, u-blox is planning to further tighten its collaboration with key Product responsibility: contract manufacturer and suppliers to enable a more effective and efficient control over our environmental and sustainability 1. Minimizing our environmental footprint objectives. u-blox has a long record of targeted efforts in the field of sustainability in order to achieve compliancy with the most 2. Green innovative projects demanding environmental standards. As a fabless semiconductor company, it is important that u-blox’ manufacturing partners are committed to respecting the environment. In order to achieve this objective, u-blox and its manufacturing partners comply with demanding industry as well as customer-specific environmental policies. GNSS modules GNSS chips Wireless modules 2006 Conversion of all products to lead free soldering 2007 RoHS WEEE Compliancy 2007 Green Compliancy chips Solar powered stoves reduce deforestation in Madagascar 2008 REACH position paper (SVHC list) During 2013 we continued our collaboration with ADES, a Swiss 2009 Sony Green Partner Certification NGO who produces solar cookers and energy-saving stoves for 2010 Material declaration and banned substance mgmt. Madagascar. The objective of the project is to preserve an 2010 Introduction of Cobalt Dichloride Free HIC environmentally sensitive area by providing solar cookers as well 2011 GADSL Conformity (Automotive requirements) as efficient wood stoves for cooking. The stoves are provided in 2011 Position paper on Conflict Minerals combination with education to encourage women to give up their 2012 Conflict mineral SEC 1802, Dodd Frank traditional fire for cooking. With regular demonstrations on how 2012 REACH, SVHC updated list to use solar cookers in outlying villages and in urban areas, ADES 2012 RoHS directive actively promotes the benefits of cooking with solar energy. 2013 REACH, SVHC updated list 2013 Roll-out of environmental database portal Page 46 | Sustainability Introduction Sustainability: Phase 2: Introduction 4 Market place u-blox’ Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the principles of the EICC Code of Conduct. EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) is a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies working together to improve efficiency and social, ethical, and Business review 2013 u-blox is fabless and does not own any factories. Six tier-1 environmental responsibility in the global supply chain. The topics suppliers manufacture our products and some of them are covered in the Code of Conduct include labor and human rights, located in countries where human rights violations are at risk. worker health and safety, environmental impact, ethics, and Using our influence to promote sound practices among our management systems. All existing and new suppliers are required suppliers is one of the best ways to make sure that we help to to comply with the principles. As of today, 83% of u-blox’ suppliers make a positive difference. have committed to apply these principles to their production. Responsible supply chain Phase 3: Assessment In 2013 we laid the foundations for further engagement in our Supplier compliance to the Code of Conduct will be monitored supply chain with the introduction of our Sustainable Supplier through a system of a self-assessment questionnaires and if Program. The program commits us to work with suppliers to necessary, regular audits. The questionnaire provides a selfensure they operate in a socially and environmentally responsible evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability management and activities. manner and enables us to systematically identify potential risks We are aware that it will take time for suppliers who do not already in our supply chain. The program consists of five phases: have a system in place to embrace and institutionalize the code of Sustainability pre-assessment, introduction, assessment, validation and conduct and complete the assessment. In 2013, 83% of our improvement. tier-1 suppliers has completed the self-assessment questionnaire. Our goal for 2014 is to have the remaining assessments completed Phase 1 to 3 are designed to ensure that all suppliers comply and all participants analyzed. with our defined sustainability standards. Through phase 4 and 5, we aim to work with our suppliers to improve sustainability Phase 4: Validation standards in our supply chain – for example, through knowledge If the self-assessment questionnaire identifies mid-level or low transfer and discussions about process optimization, resource sustainability performance at the supplier’s facility, we plan to efficiency, and environmental and social standards. carry out on-site audits at suppliers’ facilities. Audits will be Corporate Governance conducted by a u-blox specialist and/or third party consultants. Phase 1: Pre-assessment In 2013, a risk profile of all tier-1 suppliers was created, identifying Phase 5: Improvement and support low, medium and high-risk suppliers. The assessment is based on When the audit reveals areas of non-compliance, u-blox’ logistic the supplier’s sustainability risk profile related to spend, country of team and suppliers develop a joint action plan for improvement. production, criteria of human rights and corruption and type of We prefer to work together with our suppliers to ensure that supplier relationship. sustainability in supply chains will be achieved. Financial report 2013 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Pre-assessment Introduction Assessment Validation Improvement and support • u-blox conducts • Suppliers declare • Suppliers complete • On-site supplier pre-risk assessment compliance with self-assessment audits if required • Collaboration u-blox' Supplier • u-blox review • Corrective actions with suppliers Code of Conduct and feedback and verification, on improvement (based on the if required planing, EICC Code • Follow-up audits if required Information for investors of Conduct). if required Sustainability | Page 47
