2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMPANY: UNIMASTERS LOGISTICS PLC COUNTRY: BULGARIA SECTOR: TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS REPORTING PERIOD: 2013 Introduction Unimasters Logistics has been an active participant in the UN Global Compact since 2003. Over the years we have constantly ensured that the business activities and corporate initiatives of Unimasters are consistent with the universally accepted principles of the Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and its approach to corporate sustainability. We have been releasing our Communication on Progress annually since 2006 thus showing our engagement to the Global Compact, proudly sharing with all our stakeholders our advancement in the protection and support of human rights, provision of high labour standards, implementation of environmentally friendly technologies and acting against corruption. The current report presents our activities in key areas and explains the measures that we have taken in the period August 2013 August 2014 to integrate environmental and corporate responsibility into all aspects of our business. For additional information, please visit http://www.unimasters.com Statement of Continued Support Dear Stakeholders, I am very happy to re-affirm our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which are a rock solid foundation for better and fulfilled life as well as for maintaining and developing safer, healthier and more sustainable world. Our continuous efforts to go digital and become future-of-work enterprise have created moonshots we are striving for in our quest for innovative solutions that are changing the people's perceptions about the general inefficiency of most of the existing logistics solutions. The ongoing digitisation & process optimisation, accompanied by series of steps towards sustainability and energy efficiency is an excellent incentive for our teams to develop green vision for their work and personal life. Our people are amazing at collecting, sharing and nurturing great and often thought provoking ideas which challenge the conventional wisdom and make them and our organisation fit for the future. Through full transparency and information democratisation we have empowered our teams to create their own unique eco-system, which is highly beneficial for all participants. We will continue to report on the progress of re-envisioning our future and the concrete steps in helping our society and our planet. Yours sincerely, Nikolai Bozhilov Executive Chairman 1|Page HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business must ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment: Health & Safety Policy Implementation: Unimasters is committed to providing a health and safety working environment for all its employees. In the reported period we have conducted annual and ad-hoc risk assessment of all work points, including the measurement of working conditions. Based on the results of these initiatives we have planned and undertaken health and safety activities for working environment improvement and monitoring of workplace conditions. In the same period all “Safety in the Office” trainings and instructions required by the law and the good practice were carried out. As a result we have broadened the health and safety knowledge and raised the awareness of the staff. We firmly believe health is the greatest wealth and the access to good quality health care is of utmost importance. In the reported period we have continued our initiative to cover our employees by additional health insurance thus providing easier and faster access to qualified professional medical services. The annual report of our OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE partner for 2013 concluded: The main indicators of morbidity frequency of days , incidence are very low compared with tables Batkis-Lekarev. The average duration in 2013 was lower than the national average. There is no conclusive data on the incidence relation to working conditions. Following the good practice from last year, in August’2014 we have planned and organised additional special trainings dedicated to the utilization of safety measures and prevention of health when handling dangerous goods. According to the plan the number of participants was raised by 24% and the training programme was enhanced with additional subjects. 2|Page Tolerance, respect and collaboration are the drivers of our “One Unimasters” culture. We are committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability irrespective of their race, nationality, sex or religion. In the reported period 10 young people who are at the beginning of their professional pursuit in the field of logistics joined the company at junior positions. In addition, UML supports those who want to continue their university education while working in the company, by ensuring flexible working time and team support. In the reported period the Management of the company has granted permission to 2% of its employees to attend classes in universities during office hours. Being a socially responsible employer, Unimasters Logistics protects the needs of vulnerable groups – pregnant women, mothers of children aged under 2, handicapped people. Pregnant women and mothers are offered flexible working hours and favorable work conditions. The handicapped people have the opportunity to work in alleviated work conditions in accordance to their needs and medical recommendations. In the reported period, 10% of the women in these categories have had flexible working time and 100% of the handicapped people have worked in alleviated work conditions. Unimasters strongly negates any act or threat of physical violence, including intimidation and harassment, that involve the company or that occur in the workplace or in the conduct of company business. This principle applies to all persons involved in company operations, including, but not limited to Unimasters personnel, temporary employees and anyone else in the workplace. In the reported period the total number of incidents related to act or threat of physical violence is 0. We can proudly declare that during our more than 24-year company history there has been no incident related to human rights abuse or labor standards non-compliance. Unimasters is committed to being an agent of positive change within our wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support the communities in which they live through participation in various charitable endeavours. In the reported period our employees supported a local kitchen for single mothers and old people in the city of Varna as well as the Social Care Home St. Panteleimon located near Sofia. 3|Page ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP is our company policy for greener and safer PLANET. Environmental Policy Implementation: Unimasters “Green Planet” policies are tuned to manage the impact of our work on nature and human beings, ensuring proper environmental stewardship for a greener and safer eco system. In chase of our objective to be a Green Logistics Service Provider we took the next step in realisation of our Strategy Plan for 2010-2015 by starting the implementation of ISO 14001:2004. The Environmental Management Systems can provide assurance to company management and employees as well as external stakeholders that environmental impact is being measured and improved. It equips us with practical tools to identify and control our environmental impact and constantly improve our environmental performance in terms of continuously reducing of the carbon footprint in all our operations. It is planned the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems to be certified by the end of 2014. We have continued the development of the transport management software implemented during the previous reported period thus enhancing the ability of our central transport management control tower to reduce the empty running of the fleet which resulted in further reducing company’s carbon print. For the last year since the implementation of the software we managed to reduce the fuel consumption estimated by the KPI “liter per kilogram” by 30%. In addition we have implemented a Suppliers’ Selection Programme where one of the selection criterion area is the environmental policy of the supplier. We have succeeded to keep low levels of our printing activities through the installment of new intelligent printing equipment in July 2014 which increases the control over the volume of the printed paper, is energy saver and needs lower volumes of toner and additional supplies. 4|Page ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment: Code of Business Ethics; Corporate Compliance Policy Implementation: In our Code of Business Ethics as well as in the Corporate Compliance Policy a special attention is paid to the prevention of corruption. Adherence to the company’s standards for ethical behaviour is observed and monitored. It is important that new employees are guided through adoption of a set of values clarifying the expected behaviour of a Unimasters employee. Honesty and integrity as main company values are constantly communicated with all our employees, suppliers and partners. Bribery or other improper payments are also addressed in both documents. No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. Unimasters Logistics provides employees with access to all the necessary information, resources and counsel to prevent violations of the laws (domestic and international) or company regulations. Every supervisor must organise their area of responsibility so as to ensure adherence to company rules and applicable law and thus to this Compliance Policy. All employees are required to immediately report any violations of the Compliance Policy and Code of Business Ethics. 5|Page 6|Page
