COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec 2012 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec 2012 COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 C O R P O R A T E S O C I A L C O M P L I A N C E P O L I C Y E‐W IN NFORMATTION SYSSTEMS LIM MITED WILL W COND DUCT IT'SS BUSINESSS AC CTIVITIESS IN A SOC CIAL RESPONSIBLE WAY EW IN NFORMATTION SYSSTEMS LIM MITED UN NDERSTA ANDS THA AT SOCIAAL CO OMPLIANC CE STAND DARDS ARE STILL EVOLVIN NG AND ITT IS THE POLCIY OF THEE COMPA ANY TO ENNSURE THHAT THESSE STANDDARDS AR RE FOLLLOWED AND A THISS INCLUD 000, BCP (BUSINESSS CONTIINUITY PROCESS) DES ISO 90 AN ND STANNDARDS OFO THE INTEERNATION NAL LABOOUR ORG GANISATIION (ILO) A BUSIN ALL NESS ACTTIVITIES AND A LABO OUR PRA ACTISES ARE A IN COMMPLIANCEE WITH APPLICABLLE LOCALL LAWS AN ND REGU ULATIONSS AND ALL OF OUR O POLIICIES AND D PROCED DURES WILL W BE REE‐VISITED D PERIO ODICALLY Y FOR CONTINIOUUS IMPRO OVEMENTT. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 S T A T E M E N T O F C O N T I N U E D S U P P O R T GLOOBAL COM MPACTT COMM C MUNICATIION OF O PR ROGREESS JANUARY Y TO DECE D MBER R 20112 E‐W E IN NFOR RMATION SYSTES EMS LTD. L COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 S T A T E M E N T O F C O N T I N U E D S U P P O R T Pioneerin ng the rapidlly changing IC S Lanka has been challen CT sector in Sri nging since the inception of E‐WIS. Yett, I am proud d to state thaat E‐WIS has been successful through hout the jou urney of morre than 26 yeears. We have always been b the lo ocal interfacee of the intern national ICT arena. a In a deveeloping country like Sri Lannka, ICT plays a major role. Our contribu ution to the nation had always a been significant s sinnce we manaaged to set high h benchmarks in the field. Most of the time, wee have been the first to break b the icee and open new ventures where any other o party waas invited to follow f us. Solutionss of E‐WIS grroup range frrom ICT conssultancy, ICT solutions, s ware and sofftware retailing, seccured data prrinting, hardw web bassed solutionss to ICT train ning and diveersify to Plantation. P We W bring the globally available knowledge k aand latest tecchnologies thhrough our well w experien nced and high hly skilled professionals. We are expeerts in custom mizing the global technologies to suit thhe local scenaarios. E‐WIS siggned the Glo obal Compactt in July, 2003 3 as the firstt ICT Companny in Sri Lankka to recognizze the importtance of ethiical business practices an nd to adhere to a standaardized appro oach to sett and achieeve goals. This T in return benefits tthe organizattion, stake ho olders and the e country as a whole. Apart froom commercial purposes, we always contribute c to the well‐being of the socciety as a soccially respon nsible corporaate citizen. All A our CSR in nitiatives are geared towards linking the t gap betwween the ru ural and the urban with a digital brid dge aiming at prevention of brain draain from rural to urban. We “go greeen” with ourr environmen ntally friendlyy carbon creedit programss and recycle programs an nd we managee our resourcces to get the maximum uttilization. We belieeve that our commitmentt towards Glo obal Compactt is a responsibility that we must underrtake to drivee our compaany and its stake s holderss to success while w servingg the countryy. We will coontinue to strrive hard to ensure e that we w improve aand enhance our practicess in the years to come. Sanjeewaa Wickraman nayake Chairman n/CEO E‐WIS Grroup of Comp panies April 20112 COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 E W I N F O R M A T I O N S Y S T E M S L T D Serving thet industryy for more th han 25 yearss, we are thee pioneering ICT Compan ny in Sri Lankka. With our gloobal partnerrships, expertise and kno owledge, wee continue to o set very hiigh benchmarkss in the natioonal ICT aren na. Any ICTT related solution is posssible with uss. We have been b the ice breaker for many projeccts and the leader at neew ventures paving the way for otheers. Our pro oduct and seervice portfoolio highlights h our 360 degreee coverage in the ICT showground. The T strongest proof of o our excellent service is our longstanding l g and loyal customer c base which inccludes Top 1 100 compaanies and almost all the government ministries and institutes. This is the true endorssement of our capabilities. We ben nchmark ourrselves again nst global staandards and strive to maaintain the highest h level of quality in n everything we do.We area accountaable to all ou ur stakehold ders and thatt is why we implement sustainable s b business practices to let them “EXPEERIENCE THEE EXCELLENC CE”. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec D 2012 E W I N F O R M A T I O N S Y S T E M S L T D ‐V VISION‐ CUSTOM MERS FOR LIFE ‐M MISSION‐ Is To Be The Inforrmation Technology Ven ndor Of Choice In Areas Which W We Choose C To Seerve In Order To Achievee 100% Customeer Satisfactio on. A Perssonal Commiitment To Su uccess Is Maade By All Staaff Memberss Resu ulting In Team mwork, Exceellence And Pride In Ourrselves And Our Organization. O . COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ Q U A L I T Y P O L I C Y ‐ Ensure we w underrtake commmitmentt we fullyy understaand and posssess the competen nce to deliver on tiime to saatisfy our custo omer’s neeeds andd expectations. Maake a win‐win situation for our customeers, business partn ners and us. Develop p and answ wering deesire to continuou c usly imprrove ourr processe es and syystems so o as to seerve our customers c s better. Adopt an eco‐frriendlt ap pproach to t everyth hing we do and pro otect ourr environmment by reducing our carb bon COMMUN NICATION ON PPROGRESS Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ C S R V I S I O N ‐ “TO O ELIMINA ATE DOMESTIC BRA AIN DRAIN FROM RURAL R TO O URBAN BY FACILIITATING RURAL R COMMU UNITIES WITH W ICT KNOWLE K DGE AND A INFR RASTRUCTTURE” ‐ECO‐FRIEENDLY VISION‐ “G GREEN IS A SHADE OFF BLUE” “To utilize u our maximum potential by implem menting an ndly appro eco‐frien oach in everything e we do to direct d the national IC CT sector tow wards a greeener platfform in ordder to presserve the environmeent for future generaations to co ome” COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec 2012 ‐ O U R P A R T N E R S ‐ COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ A F F I L I A T E C O M P A N I E S ‐ EWIS Pe eripherals (P Pvt) Ltd. Sole autthorized disttributor for Lexmark L Printers and consumable c es, as well ass an authorizzed dealer and a distributtor for APC and Liebert Power products in Sri Laanka. EWIS So olutions (Pvtt) Ltd. s Totally solutions oriented comp d pany in Sri Laanka which develops and secures bu usiness baseed on the immplementation of Inform mation Technology soluttions. EWIS Se ervices (Pvt) Ltd. Structurred cabling & commun nication secttion of e‐wiss was form med to be responsiblee for premises structurred cabling of o Data, voicce and powe er providing LAN and WA AN solutionss. EWIS So oftware (Pvt) Ltd. Offers real‐time r p nterprise strrategies, givving our customers a powerful en annd compelling competittive advantaage that their entire bussiness perforrmance is traansformed. E‐Careerr Training (P Pvt) Ltd. Is the most m innovative Training centre offeering up‐to‐d date and carreer oriented training prrograms. Wishya Online Is into the ISP arena as a provider of interrnet access and other related r services. Main objective o in launching this subsidiary was to popularize p annd enhancee the use off internet and other relaated servicess island widee. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ A F F I L I A T E C O M P A N I E S ‐ Open Syystem Techn nologies (OSST) OST is the t authorized distribu utor for Autocad, CA//Security an nd Backup Softwares Redhat Linux, Researrch Engineers products as well as a the auth horized Traiining partneer for Redhat, AutoC CAD , Project Planning & Management, 3D Sttudio Max, Maya, M oshop, Graph Photo hics & Multimedia, Diplo oma in Interrior Designin ng courses. Open Syystems Integgrators (Pvt)) Ltd (OST) OSI provvides cost effective, e prrofessional Software So olutions usinng CA, Micrrosoft, Lotus & Open Source S (Linu ux) Technolo ogies which covers Network servicces & Soluttions, System m & Securitty Solutionss, Data Backkup Solution ns, Applicattion Develop pment and workflows w annd services of Architectts drawing and a printing.. Toppan Forms (Colo ombo) Ltd. EWIS grooup diversifiied its busin ness portfoliio to data printing p serviice and commputer printing forms arrena by joiniing hands with w Toppan Forms (Japaan) Ltd. So that t Toppan Forms (Colombo) Ltd. joined j the EWIS family. EWIS Plaantations With thhe understaanding of th he need to o diversify in to diffeerent spearss of the eco onomy, this company w was created to uplift and supportt the Agricu ultural prod ductivity in Sri S Lanka. Sttarting with Coconut Pllantation fro om scratch at a Ulhitiya in Badulla districts now moved in to o forestry Plantation in Matale M Distrrict as well. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ C O M M U N I C A T I N G T H E G L O B A L C O M P A C T ‐ EWIS iss a signatory to the UN U Global Compact and a will co ontinue to support th he Ten Prrincipals in the Areass of Human Rights, Labour L Staandards, Environmen nt and Antti‐Corruption. Thesee Principals provide guidance e for the co ontinuous developm ment of our Grroup Police es and Praactices and d are Docu umented in n a manuaal titled 'Globaal Compactt' which is available forf use by all Employyees. This manual clearly identifiees all the Ten T Princip pals identified in n the Globaal Compactt Policy. Ouur report enables e our Shareholders, Clien nts and other stakeholders a to leaarn more about w we condu how uct our bu usiness and d how we measu ure our prrogress on issues of Corporate Social Ressponsibilityy and sustainabi s lity in addiition, we know theree are areass where w we need n to im mprove. This report will be a learnin ng process for our Co ompany an nd will alloww us to sett measurab a benchmarks against ble goals and which we can mon nitor our fuuture proggress. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ PRACTICING THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ‐ Human Rights : Prinnciple 1 Businesss should suppport and re espect the protection off internation nally proclaimed human n rights Access to communiccation as a basic b human right and human rights play a central role in ou ur values, prrofessionalissm, respect and persevverance thatt guides us in our bussiness. Our ethics and Policies to both our employees and suppliers are clearly identified d in the manual which outlines prrocedures fo R or Human Rights, Laboour Standard ds, Environm ment and Annti Corruptio on. Compliance Standarrds are clearly identified in this maanual. EWIS has a Chieff Compliancee Officer wh hose role is to monitorr compliancee with all ap ws and regulations. We are compliaant with all laws and reegulations and pplicable law have no claims or inncidence of fines or non ncompliancee in connectiions with an ny laws, reguulations or rules r regardiing Human Rights, Labo our Standard ds, Environmment or Anti Corruption. C Human Rights : Prinnciple 2 Businesss should enssure that the ey are not complicit in human h rightts abuses. All steps to ensuree a work en nvironment free of Harassment, abuse a or co oporal punisshment in anya form. TThe Compan ny believes that t all Emp ployees should enjoy a working en nvironment that is freee from discrrimination and P intimidaation and adheres to all Policies thatt protect its employees e from f being subject s to an ny harassment and abusse. Best emmployee relaation mechanisms are enforcede forr grievance handling an nd disciplinaary action (iif required),, is taken ass per the naational laws and regulattions, all such actions shall s be documented. AllA Senior Meembers of tthe Management Team m sign a stattement affirming their understandi u ng of the Policy P on Proohibition Haarassment and Abuse. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ PRACTICING THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ‐ Labour Standards S : Principle 3 Businesss should uph hold the freedom of Asssociation an nd the effecttive recognittion of the right r to colle ective bargainiing of the rigght to collecctive bargain ning Approprriate Compaany relations are carrieed out to ensure that freedom off Association n and right to bargainiing without any distincttion. We enssure that thee best managgement pracctices are pu ut into practice to havee a very em mployee frie endly work place throu ugh best em mployee relations mecchanisms. EW WIS does n not discriminnate employees who choose c to jo oin any asssociation or bargain co ollectively annd does no ot discriminaate applicannts who havee previously exercised th heir lawful riights of free Association n and/or collective bargaaining. All emplloyees are not n represen nted by a Laabour Union n or a collecctive bargainning agreement. Howevver, employeees are enco ouraged to use u a number of formal and inform mal methodss of commun nication. Em mployees aree free to maake recomm mendations to the Managgement and provide opp portunities for f employeee feedback at our Staff Meetings heeld every Sixx Months. We also o identify arreas for imp provement suchs as Recoognition and d Rewards schemes, s Teeamwork an nd Information Commun nication schemes. We consult Depaartments in order o to enssure Team Building is do one and use Companywiide e‐mails to t communicate more in nformation to t employeees. Labour Standards: S P Principle 4 Businesss should sup pport the eliimination off all forms of o forced and d compulsorry labour We exclude the usee of child lab bour and pro ohibit forced labour in ou ur Organizattion. All Emplloyees earn more than the t stipulateed minimum m wages in SriS Lanka as prescribed by b the law. Our Manageers and salaried employyees are trained and req quired to formally ensuree that they adhere a to ouur Ethics andd Policies. Employm ment is offerred for the available a vaccancies with the person's consent and we ensurre that no Fo orced, Bondded or Prisonn Labour invvolving in the e Marketing of their Pro oducts and Seervices. Compan ny has a freee access te elephone lin ne for employees for any complaaint or sugggestion to be b done. Su uch complaints can be directed d to General G Man nager Humaan Resources or the Gen neral Mangeer Operation ns/Complian nce or the Chairman/CE C EO. The rece eiver will evvaluate and take correcttive action anda such acctions are reecorded at tthe Human Resources Department. D COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ PRACTICING THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ‐ Labour Standards S : Principle 5 Businesss should sup pport the efffective abolition of Child Labour. We exclude the usse of child and a forced labour at our o Operatio ons. The yo oungest emp ployee is 20 Years of Agge, working as a Managgement Train nee in our Marketing M Section. The minimum age for recruitment is 18 8 years and w we obtain proof p of agee documentaation from all potential Staff S prior to recruitment and revieew the docu umentation ffor authenticity. We deveelop or partticipate in an nd contributte to policiess and prograams, which provide for the transitio on of any chhild found to be perform ming Child Labour L to en nable him/h her to attendd and remain in quality education until u no longger a child. Policies and proced dures of EW WIS, for the employmen nt of youngg persons shall confirm m to the pro ovisions of tthe relevantt National Laws, L ILO sttandards orr Customer Regulationss, which ever e gives higher h prottection to tthe employeee. Labour Standards: S P Principle 6 Businesss should sup pport the eliimination off Discrimination in respe ect of emplloyment and d occupation n. Businesss should sup pport the eliimination off Discrimination in respe ect of emplloyment and d occupaqstion.fx EWIS do oes not diiscriminate any person n in hiring, compensatiion, access to training, promotion n, suspensio on, terminattion, retiremment or oth her employeee related isssues based d on race, caste, natio onal origin, religion, agge, disabilityy, gender, marital status, sexual orientation n, union meembership or o political affiliation or any oth her personal characterisstic or belieff. We ensu ure equal treatment t for equal work w and acccommodatee free exerccise of religgion by em mployees. TThe company expressly prohibits testing applicaants for pregnancy prio or to hiring, refusal to hire applicants that aree in their chhild bearing years, involuntary transsfer of pregn nant workerrs to tasks more m strenuoous that thoose perform med prior to the pregnaancy and refu using to allo ow pregnan nt workers time off when n they are reequired. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ PRACTICING THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ‐ Environm ment: Princiiple 7 Businesss should sup pport a preccautionary approach a to environment challengees. We resp pect the rigght of exisstence for lives of other being an nd committeed to conseerve and preeserve natural resourcees around uss by constan ntly monitoriing and prevventing pollu ution. EWIS is committed d to the protection off the envirronment an nd recognizees the imp portance of incorporatiing environm mental issuees relevant to the activitties of the business. b Environm ment: Princiiple 8 Businesss should und dertake inittiatives to promote p greeater enviro onmental ressponsibility EWIS recognized the potential environmen nt impairmeent, which can be causeed by it's wo ork process.. All Personn nel associated in the Company C caarry out th heir duties in n an environmentally responsible manner m to have h a sound environm ment by conntinual impro ovement and d pollution prevention. EWIS is committed d comply with w the reelevant enviironmental legislation and regulaations, sets out tthe environm mental objeectives and targets in o n the proccess and operating co w onditions, which will be review wed periodiccally and immproved to minimize the t environmental impaacts. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ PRACTICING THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ‐ Environmment: Princiiple 9 Businesss should un ndertake the e developm ment and difffusion of en nvironmentaally friendly technologie es. EWIS supports local and global efforts to o reduce po ollution and gas emissions both internally and d externally by making our emplo oyees aware e and sharing best prractices thro ough involveement in prrograms botth locally and internationally, wheere ever posssible. EWIS haas taken steeps to train all our emp ployees to iddentify different kinds of hazards ata our work place and to take preeventive action as when n the necesssary arise. Anti‐Coorruption: Principle 10 Businesss should work againstt corruption n in all formss, including extortion and bribery. Our Ethics and Policy appliess to both our o Employyees and Su A upplies on Anti‐Corrupt tion. The guuide provid des employeees and con ntractors with directions and advicee on carryingg out busineess within ou ur Organization. Our contribution to society inclu udes the value that flowws from the broader con ntributions of o our Operaations, such as payments to our Em mployees and suppliers and disburssements to government g ts, including taxes and lo oyalties. COMMUN NICATION ON PROGRESS P Jan Dec D 2012 ‐ P R A C T I C I N G G L O B A L C O M PA C T ‐ 2 0 0 8 ‐ GLOBAL COMPACT PR RINCIPLE ACTTIONS TAKEN N AND IMPAC CT ACHIEVED 2011 1.Businesss should support and respeect the Commitmen on of internationally proclaimed humaan rights. We protectio W support the internatio onal declarationof human n rights. We do not discriminate against any person, reggardless of racce, seex color or reeligion. We aim to reduce working capaacity for vario ous soocial or physsical reasons by creating easier workking evironmeent 2. Make sure that they t are nott complicit in n human and easier job flexibility rights abuses A Activities : O Social Ressponsibilityis a key awaren Our ness factor to o all employeees. We W hire new employees e with no D Discrimination n to Race or Caste. Efffective methods to cheeck employm ment of Child Labour w with proper verificaation of birth Certificate is done. A manual on all a procedurees is maintained for this purpose which h is asssessable to all a employeess. Adequate awaareness and training is giveen to all frontt Line Managers A on all Policies laid down on Global Comp pact Principals. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT ACHIEVED 2011 Commitment : 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association We take working conditions seriously and have adequate Safety and the effective recognition of the right to collective measures while working. A 'Vehcile Safety Policy' is also in place to bargaining ensure that the Highest Safety Standards are met. Activities : 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and Health and Safety – Compulsory labour Policy of providing Safe and Hygenic working environment for employees is documented in our manual and all possible meausures 5. The Effective abolotion of Child Labour. to prevnent accident, protect our employees, equipment and buildings. We educate our employees to report unsafe conditions or 6. The Elimination of discrimination in respect of hazards and prevent disaster employment and occupation and occupation Fire evacuation Team is in place and Safety drills are held periodically. Freedom of Association : Company policy on the manual is available for all employees and Labour Law explained to all new recruites at induction. Approppriate Company relations are carried out to ensure that maximum efforts are put into respecting rights for re‐Association and collective bargaining Forced Labour and Discrimination : Employment is done on their Free will for available vacancies. Minumum age verification is done by checking birth Certificate, which is 18 years. Grievance handling is done in three paths, that is Section Head, General Manager Human Resources and Welfare Council Representative. If these are not addressed the employee could meet the Chief Executive Officer In 2011 all employees have gone through awareness on Health and Safety, Child Labour and Forced Labour and Discrimination. No accidents were reported in the 2011 in the Workplace and our goal is to ensure that we will keep it as a goal for the Coming Year by practising good Health and Safety Procedures COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Jan Dec 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT ACHIEVED 2011 7.Business should support a precautionary approach to Commitment : environment challenges. We recognize our environment responsibility. We strive continuously to reduce waste which includes Energy. 8. Undertake iniatives to promote greater environment responsibility Activities : Energy usage is monitored and effective reduction is seen. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Electronic waste is either re‐cycled ordisposed of in a proper environment friendly technologies manner. All sub contractors working in our Organisation is given proper education on Energy Saving. In 2008 we initiated a collection program for used 'Toner Cartridges' from our Customers, used on Lazer Printers which in turn makes the customer liable for a discount on new Toner Cartriges purchased . This initiative is being continued into 2012 was well in our Support to Protect the environment on e‐waste We encourgae the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies and will continue to support environment Classified Changes A way to lower this impact will be to cut down our wastage on areas that will effect the climate. Adequate mesures are taken in the workplace to dispose of e‐waste and thereby support environment change 10. Business should work against all forms of We do not accept any form of corruption and do not use bribe or corruption, including exortion and bribery extortion in any way.All suppliers are Registered with our Company and bribes in any sort not accepted by the Management or Bribes paid to any party who makes purchases from our Organiation. No employees may receive money or any other form of benefit from a supplier. Any employee who owns a financial or other significant interest in a potential or actual customer or competitor may not occupy a position in the company which he/she could influence decisions with regard to that pary and no employee may accept 'incentives' other than agreed goods and services as per thePurchase order given to them.
