DRIVEN BY Responsibility Strauss Group Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Contents 4 6 12 24 Message Strauss Sustainability Improving from our at a glance Strategy lives leadership 20142020 • Healthy lifestyles • Product transparency • Our priority • Engaging our employees sustainability issues • Diversity in everything we do • Ethical supply chain • Reducing resource consumption and waste 66 80 Engaging About our stakeholders reporting • GRI G4 content index • UN Global Compact Message from our leadership Dear Stakeholders, Improving lives is the theme that runs the outcome is an integrated framework excited that our U.S. consumers love the taste through this Sustainability Report as we that we are confident will help us continue to of hummus, with Sabra continuing to lead the continue to be Driven by Responsibility to deliver sustainable value. For Strauss Group, market with 64 percent share. make a positive contribution to people, composed of five different companies, society and the planet. This is our seventh each with a unique business character, this During the year, we consolidated our position annual Sustainability Report and it represents overarching strategic approach will help us in the Russian coffee market through our continuing commitment to do work across company boundaries to address acquisition of remaining shares of Le Café business that creates economic, social and the broader needs of stakeholders, create roasted and ground coffee operations, and we environmental value for all those we reach. synergies, leverage our strengths, learn from inaugurated our Sabra Center of Excellence Improving lives refers to the way we create one another and most importantly, improve research and development center in the U.S., more food, nutrition and beverage options our capability to deliver value for all. the first of its kind in the industry for chilled for consumers and support consumers that dips and spreads. Max Brenner continued to want to lead healthy lifestyles. We believe that Our business context during the past year expand, opening more signature Chocolate sustainable business growth, rooted in our presented new opportunities and enabled us Bars across different continents, bringing new responsible approach to business, will help us to maintain Strauss Group global sales at more chocolate experiences through more than do even more in the future to contribute to than $2.35 billion, delivering more than $220 50 Chocolate Bars in six countries. In Israel, improving lives. million in operating profit as we continue our Strauss Water launched the innovative Tami 4 operations in 24 countries with a global team Bubble Bar, which dispenses carbonated water 2013 was a landmark year in our sustainability of more than 13,500 employees. We were in addition to hot and cold options, bringing journey, as we completed our global able, in 2013, to grow our business across consumers a technological breakthrough in sustainability strategy that will guide and all product categories, indicating a positive the WaterBar category for a healthy, fun and define our actions through 2020. We achieved response from our consumers, especially our environmentally positive drinking experience. this after many long months of analysis, coffee consumers in Brazil with our partners at Strauss Israel continued to innovate with more consultation, dialogue and debate. The Três Corações and the expanded offerings of than 228 new products and product variants process was illuminating and engaging, and our Sabra dips and spreads in the U.S. We are reaching the market across all categories. 4| In 2013, as in previous years, we continued Among these choices has been our We are appreciative of the tireless efforts to face the challenges of delivering value in undertaking to focus on three areas where of our employees around the world who demanding economic circumstances. These we hope to achieve industry leading positions help Strauss Group create sustainable value, include high energy prices, increasing raw as we go forward toward 2020: advancing and we thank our consumers, business material prices and packaging costs, political, healthy lifestyles for our consumers, leading partners, suppliers and all other stakeholders social and economic instability in Eastern our employees to greater health and wellness for another year of trust, dialogue and Europe where we enjoy significant market and achieving greater supplier diversity in partnership. presence, more demanding regulation in our supply chain operations around the areas of food safety and environmental world. We believe we can make a sustainable We hope you will find interest in this report protection and increased frequency of difference through these key aspirations, and as always, we welcome your feedback. weather extremes causing disruption to while continuing to improve our sustainability crop availability and disasters affecting performance in other areas. Further, this many communities around the world. We year, we became early adopters of the have navigated these challenges, Driven by Global Reporting Initiative G4 sustainability Responsibility, striving to improve valuereporting framework, aligning our reporting adding choices for Strauss Group and for our with current leading global practice in consumers and stakeholders. transparency and accountability. Ofra Strauss Gadi Lessin Michael Avner Chairperson President and CEO EVP and General Counsel |5 Strauss at a glance Strauss Group sales by region, 2013 51 %Israel 21 Europe, and % 21 % Brazil the rest of the world 7% U.S. Strauss Group is a food and beverage franchisees, independent distributors and our offering for the benefit of our consumers company, dedicated to enriching and thousands of business partners and suppliers around the world. We partner with respected, improving people's lives through our fresh, around the world. Strauss Group is traded on leading-edge multinational corporations delicious, nutritious, and innovative products. the Tel Aviv 25 Index, which includes Israel's such as Danone, PepsiCo, Haier, Virgin and Our portfolio of five companies provides a largest public companies, and earns an AA+ TPG, and with local leading players such as response to two leading trends in food and credit rating from Ma'alot, a Standard and Sao Miguel, Yotvata and Yad Mordechai, to beverage consumption: Health & Wellness, Poor's affiliate. deliver quality, innovative products which and Fun & Indulgence. We are headquartered offer healthy choices and contribute to in Israel, active in 24 countries, and, in 2013, Our brands include market leaders in several sustainable lifestyles. Strauss Group generated $2.35 billion in countries and categories and reach millions of consolidated sales. consumers each day. We employ over 13,500 people and indirectly At Strauss Group, we have always placed provide employment and economic great value in partnerships, believing them opportunity for contracted employees, to be a sustainable platform for expanding 6| Strauss global presence Israel Germany Switzerland Russia Canada U.S. Mexico Brazil China Australia Poland The Netherlands Philippines Romania UK Singapore Serbia Ukraine Our brands |7 International partnerships We partner with Danone to bring We partner with PepsiCo to deliver Sabra We partner with São Miguel Holding in our consumers in Israel fresh dairy hummus and chilled dips and spreads in Tres Coracoes (3C), a 50/50 JV in Brazil for products with a focus on health the U.S. and Canada, and to bring Fritoproduction and distribution of roast and and nutrition, and we market global Lay's salty snacks to consumers in Israel. ground coffee and other products. brands from the Danone range, such Our joint venture with PepsiCo under the as Activia and Actimel. Obela brand brings hummus to Mexican and Australian consumers. We partner with Haier to bring purified We partner with Virgin Group to bring We partner with the private equity drinking water solutions to customers Strauss Water's purification solutions fund, TPG Capital, to enhance and in China, using our breakthrough and drinking water appliances to expand our presence in the coffee purification technology. customers in the UK. category. 8| Strauss Group sales by company, 2013 1 6 16 26 51 % Max Brenner % Strauss Water % PepsiCo-Strauss Fresh Strauss Israel % Strauss Coffee % Dips & Spreads $34 $139 $347 $574 $1.14 million sales in 2013 million sales in 2013 million sales in 2013 million sales in 2013 billion sales in 2013 Develops, assembles, Develops, manufactures, Develops, Develops, manufactures, Develops, manufactures markets and services sells, markets and manufactures, sells, sells, markets and and sells premium filtration and distributes dips and markets and distributes distributes branded coffee chocolate products purification appliances spreads through our branded food and products, chocolate drinks under the Max for drinking water, Sabra brand in the beverage products and other drink powders. Brenner brand in over using cutting-edge U.S. and Canada, and in Israel in two main We are the fifth-largest 50 Chocolate Bars , technology developed through our Obela categories: Health & coffee company in the world (including franchisees) in Israel, offering brand in Mexico and Wellness and Fun & in terms of green coffee in 6 countries. Max convenient, clean and Australia. Sabra is the Indulgence . We are procurement. In Brazil, the Brenner Chocolate tasty drinking water to fastest-growing chilled the second largest food JV Tres Coracoes processes Bars enhance the social Israeli, UK and Chinese dips and spreads brand company in Israel. Our and sells coffee and other experience of going out consumers. in the U.S. In 2013, the brands are leaders in all products to the local market and enjoying the pure Obela hummus brand our core categories. and exports green coffee to fun of drinking and was launched in the customers abroad. eating chocolate. three leading chains in Australia. Note: Figures for Sabra and Obela reflect Strauss 50% share. Strauss Coffee and Green Coffee figures include Strauss 50% share in 3C. Figures for F&I include Strauss 50% share in the salty snacks business. Strauss Water includes Strauss share in Strauss Water UK and China. In Brazil we operate through Tres Coracoes, a 50%/50% JV with Sao Miguel Holding e Investimentos. |9 Our vision and values Passion & Responsibility Strauss The combination of Strauss Group's unique vision and our ability to take the most Our passion is the joy of creation, our genuine vision: basic of raw materials and turn them into desire for food, the delight of giving, our wonders is instilled in the company: it's both need to nourish others. Taking responsibility a business concept and a driver of product makes us dedicated to advancing our vision, Creating development. Our vision inspires us to enrich reaching our consumers and society as a the quality of people's lives all over the world whole. We act with responsibility and passion by developing businesses, special products for everything we do. wonders and innovative solutions. Team Strauss values We create winning teams where every player is out of a key player. We treat our team members with trust and mutual respect. Beyond our own Caring & Daring employees, we advance partnerships as a way basics Caring means paying close attention to our to increase the scope and scale of our activity consumers, customers, employees, partners and create greater value for society. and the communities we operate in. Daring is the ability to act bravely, taking risks to advance significant change. 10 | Economic value distributed $1,633.76 Direct economic value generated (revenues, interest on assets and million investments) $1,075.91 Operating costs million $338.98 Employee wages and benefits million $93.53 Payments to providers of capital million $68.25 Payments to shareholders million Our economic $34.61 Payments to governments contribution million $3.41 The direct economic value we generate Community through sales of our products is investments distributed among our stakeholders and million $1,614.68 contributes to their prosperity. Beyond this direct contribution, our business activities Total economic benefit many thousands of families value distributed and their dependents in 24 countries, million stimulate economic activity through our $19.08 supply chain through more than 17,000 Economic value suppliers and business partners, and retained support community development and million social prosperity. Note: Financial figures in NIS were converted to $ at the rate of 3.46. This table is for representative purposes only and details may differ from our published annual financial accounts. In the case of any difference, our audited financial accounts published for 2013 will prevail. Also, this chart represents the direct economic value of the revenue generated by companies 100% owned and controlled by Strauss Group and may therefore differ from consolidated financial figures reported. | 11 Sustainability Strategy 2014-2020 Developing our strategy As an international group with five operating issue management. Corporate Responsibility a path forward for Strauss Group, with companies and a relatively flexible structure, trustees in each part of the business helped each company within the group making a allowing for different partnership holdings and advance programs and initiatives. contribution aligned with its unique business interactions, developing a group-wide strategy line and specific risks and opportunities. was never going to be an easy task, and was However, in the past few years, as we have never our first priority. Over the past years, developed greater insight, and as our global In order to do this, we engaged our Group we have been advancing our sustainability footprint has grown significantly, we felt we Management Team and the Executive journey, primarily on a company-by–company needed a more robust structure to leverage Management Teams of each company in several basis, using our corporate vision and values our strengths, create greater synergies and rounds of meetings and discussions, considering and code of ethical conduct as guides, without efficiencies, and present a consistent voice global and local social and environmental prescribing specific objectives, goals or targets. so that our stakeholders can understand trends, stakeholder feedback and aspirations Each company developed its own plans, what we stand for and how we affect their and business objectives across our companies. and our corporate sustainability leadership lives. The compelling conclusion was to This process took almost a full year, and by early at group level drove communications, data draw up a long-term strategic framework 2014, we had agreed on a framework that will collection, reporting, knowledge sharing which would pull together all the elements will take us all forward to 2020, using 2012 as between companies and common areas of of our sustainability practice and define the main baseline. 14 | Three degrees of impact – three levels of performance Our new stakeholderThree degrees of impact driven Sustainability Strategy 2020 has two main types of building blocks: degrees of impact and CITIZENSHIP levels of performance. Degrees of impact reflect the progression of our impacts on different stakeholder groups, and the degree to which we are in a direct position to create value and have a CONSUMERS positive influence. This starts with the most direct relationship we have with our own employees – colleagues – through whom we are able to reach all our other stakeholder groups. Relative to other stakeholder groups, our colleagues are a small number, but their impact on other stakeholders is critical. COLLEAGUES M ad ee t Le | Excee d| Three levels of performance | 15 Three degrees of impact Our Sustainability an inclusive workplace, investing in in this area include efficiency in our supply personal and professional development, chain, product quality and availability, and Strategy 2020 is health and wellbeing and ensuring a marketing and consumer outreach platforms designed to help us vibrant dialogue within the company. We believe that our investment in providing to enable consumers to make informed and healthy choices. improve our impacts an empowering, values-based workplace on all stakeholder Citizenship will translate into improved second and third degree impacts – the way employees groups with the support consumers and customers and Our third degree of impact our overall citizenship objectives. goal of improving As a responsible corporate citizen, we seek to create value for society and the people's lives. Consumers environment in order to improve people’s lives and advance healthy lifestyles. We Our second degree of impact do this through community investment, Colleagues We seek to make a positive difference in the lives of our consumers and help create environmental stewardship and maintaining an efficient and ethical supply chain. Our first degree of impact a healthier, more sustainable society. We Our goals in the citizenship area include We seek to make a positive difference do this through delivering new and more ethical and efficient supply chain practices, in the lives of our employees, so that nutritious food products, providing diverse efficient resource management in our they will be empowered to contribute food choices and engaging consumers in own operations, and investment in the to our success. We do this by creating greater nutritional awareness. Our goals communities we serve. COLLEAGUES CONSUMERS PARTNERS SUPPLIERS REGULATORS SHAREOWNERS AND INVESTORS CITIZENSHIP INDUSTRY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSOCIATIONS GROUPS GROUPS 16 | Three levels of performance Meet Lead performance performance expectations expectations In three focused sustainability priority areas, we aspire to achieve leading performance in line with the best that can be expected of an international This performance level requires us to company in our sector. The three areas of focus in our 2020 strategy are: deliver consistently on a selected range of consumer wellbeing, employee wellness and supplier diversity. basic sustainability objectives, including governance, risk management, ethics and In 2014, we are finalizing ways to progress our strategic objectives, establishing compliance with laws and regulations. This group-wide definitions, methodologies and infrastructure for managing, is not new. We have always done this. But in monitoring and measuring our progress. In some cases, new baselines need to considering our strategic objectives, we felt be established. In others, new tools and ways of working must be agreed. We will it was important to ensure that meeting the report on our progress in future sustainability reports. minimum standards of expected performance across all aspects of sustainability practice, including compliance, will not be taken for granted and lose rigor as we strive to do more. Exceed performance expectations This performance level encourages us to exceed prior performance in key areas that are relevant to a broad range of stakeholders. For the first time, we are establishing group-wide targets in key areas of impact for our employees, consumers and other stakeholders. In this way, we aspire to exceed our own prior expectations and do more than we have achieved in the past. | 17 Our priority sustainability issues Following an initial review and identification of our stakeholders, and develop a more focused Stakeholders section of this report, we our priority sustainability issues in preparation set of core issues and use those to create a conducted a Round Table discussion with for our 2012 Sustainability Report, we spent long term group-wide sustainability strategy. experts in different issues relating to our most of 2013 in dialogue, both internally and In addition to the extensive interactions we business, and also a review with a global externally, to further refine our understanding maintained with our employees and with thought-leader in sustainability. of what matters most to our business and to our customers described in the Engaging Advancing healthy lifestyles Product transparency and Reducing resource consumption and waste responsible marketing Context Improve quality of life Informed consumer choices Preserve the planet Focus • Making food healthier • Clear product labeling and • Technology and innovation • Adding health to food and drink nutritional information for • Operational excellence • Raising healthy lifestyle awareness consumers • Reduce energy, emissions and water • Investing in nutritional research • Customer satisfaction and consumption service • Reduce waste and increase recycling • Responsible marketing • Engaging employees in environmental communications stewardship Strategic • Improve consumer wellbeing • Meet all regulatory requirements • Operationalize at least three significant Goals through increased sales of products in all markets. innovative product technologies that improve with a healthy lifestyle claim by • Continuously improve our sustainable and healthy lifestyle choices by 2020. 15% by 2020. accessibility and service level for • Reduce consumption of energy, water and • Engage consumers in healthy customers and consumers. packaging materials by 15% per ton of product lifestyle activities through each by end 2020. Strauss Group company, reaching 10 • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per ton of million consumers by 2020. product by 15% by end 2020 (2012 baseline). • Engage in a global strategic flagship • Increase % of recycled waste from total waste by social partnership, with a multi-year 15% by 2020. commitment to improve healthy lifestyle practices. G4 Aspects • Local communities • Product and service labeling • Materials • Healthy and affordable food • Marketing communications • Energy • Customer health and safety • Water • Indirect economic impacts • Emissions • Effluents and waste • Products and services 18 | Ethical supply chain Diversity in everything we do Engaging our employees Context Manage social and Innovation and opportunity Align our organization to meet environmental risk sustainability goals Focus • Sourcing of sustainable products • Equal opportunity in employment • Employee engagement • Supplier commitment to • Supplier diversity in procurement practices • Leadership and development sustainability • Advancing women in the community • Health, safety and wellbeing • Product diversity • Employee benefits and compensation Strategic • Increase sustainable sourcing • Diverse supplier spend (focused on women• Improve employee wellness by reducing Goals of top 5 global food ingredients owned businesses) to reach at least 10% of risk in three areas – cardio (fitness, weight), by 15% by end 2020 (2012 total purchasing spend by 2020. respiratory (smoking) and prevention (voluntary baseline). • Achieve a rate of 50% of global checkups), as measured on a health-risk index management positions held by women by using 2015 as a baseline. end 2020. • Maintain employee engagement above 80%. • Offer product variants to meet specific • Reduce work injury rate to no more than 3 health needs (obesity, diabetes, celiac, injuries per 100 employees by 2020. heart disease) in our top 10 selling • Reduce lost days due to injuries to no more brands by 2020. than 40 lost days per 100 employees by 2020. G4 • Procurement practices • Diversity and equal opportunity • Employment Aspects • Equal remuneration for women and men • Occupational health and safety • Local communities • Training and education • Procurement practices | 19 Expert Round Table Our stakeholder Round Table, organized to coincide with our preparation of this Sustainability Report, was structured around the core sustainability issue and opportunity: Promoting Healthy Lifestyles . Participants included seventeen representatives from the Ministry of Health, healthcare professionals, health associations, social and environmental associations and the business sector, in dialogue with eight Strauss Group managers, including members of our senior executive team. The objective of the meeting was to gain insights from each participant on the trends and developments affecting matters relating to healthy lifestyles and to hear feedback and suggestions about Strauss Israel's performance in this area. Collaboration An important discussion The Ministry of Health works to advance This was an important opportunity to hear at first hand the opinions regulation and increase awareness and guidance of leading experts in Israel. Our consumers are for healthy diet and lifestyles. We becoming more aware and more involved with the way we affect encourage and welcome collaboration their lives through both the products we provide and the activities with the business sector to advance we engage in as a food company. We have observed this change these objectives. in consumer attitudes and expect the empowered consumer to have a greater voice in the way we do business. This discussion was extremely valuable in helping us take a strategic view and understand how we can best support new directions for healthy lifestyles. Ruth Weinstein Director, Department of Health Osnat Golan Promotion, Israel Ministry of Health Strauss Group VP Communications 20 | The main aspects raised by stakeholders in this meeting included: Partnerships for healthy lifestyles It is important to develop partnerships between government agencies, retailers and food and beverage companies to improve product nutritional values, and raise products in the market. In parallel, companies Food companies should help encourage awareness among consumers of different must provide clear product labels, inform the adoption of healthy habits among ways to adopt healthy lifestyles. In particular, appropriately about food ingredients and underprivileged populations, and consider alongside healthy eating, physical exercise nutritional values, and engage in responsible adapting products to the needs of those with should be encouraged. In parallel, food marketing practices. specific dietary requirements. companies must address the the nutritional value of their products, including salt, sugar Inclusive food and nutrition and fat levels, and new regulation in this area Impacts on the environment Food companies must help raise awareness As a company with a large footprint in Israel, will continue to provide new standards that all of healthy lifestyle options among diverse companies will be required to meet. Strauss must address its environmental groups with diverse nutritional needs, impacts, especially on agriculture, food and work to increase accessibility and waste and packaging waste. Strauss can also Marketing and communications affordability of healthy food options for help educate the public to adopt greater Food companies must engage in transparent those with low socio-economic profiles environmental consciousness. communications and share information about as well as those with special health needs. Food for all Work-life Clarity balance Healthy food options are generally Maintaining a healthy diet and out of reach for weak socio-economic consuming the right food is of groups. It's important to make healthy Work-life balance is an integral part of maintaining great concern to the public today. food options accessible through a healthy lifestyle, supporting employees in One of the issues often raised is the education and raising awareness maintaining both a productive career and family life. lack of clarity and accessibility of of the importance of healthy food Companies must actively support work-life balance, nutritional information labeling. choices, while also making healthy rather than just make policy declarations. food less expensive. Sharon Abraham-Weiss, Adv. Shelly Mashal Sari Nuriel Regional Commissioner at the Equal Employment District Dietician, CEO, Zionism 2000 Opportunities Commission (EEOC) Maccabi Health Services | 21 Perspectives from Aron Cramer, CEO, BSR (Business for Social Responsibility) today’s world, the challenge for many people is very different. The twenty-first century now Aron Cramer is the CEO of sees health problems caused by excessive BSR, a global organization consumption and poor nutritional content. Food production now faces water scarcity that advances the that is exacerbated by climate change. It is integration of sustainability essential that food companies like Strauss in business and promotes understand this context, and develop their strategies accordingly. collaboration for sustainable development. The ultimate test of the sustainability Aron is recognized of a food and beverage company as it is for any company is about the core globally as a preeminent products and services it markets. Food authority on corporate companies should also be a part of systemic responsibility and changes that enable a truly sustainable food system for a global population. sustainability strategy. He Leading companies engage with global advises senior executives industry and value chain partners to at more than 250 BSR drive meaningful progress, as well as deepening connections in local markets. member companies and The food and beverage industry is central is a frequent speaker on to society’s most fundamental need: An issue which cuts across all aspects of the sustainability issues. food and nutrition. In today’s world, more food value chain is food waste. By addressing people are able to meet their basic needs food waste, especially in a sluggish global for food than ever before. This progress is economy and amidst severe resource scarcity, threatened by the new realities of business the food industry can make a meaningful in a climate-constrained world. As access to difference and create a huge win-win food increases, new health challenges are for consumers, food companies and the emerging. Throughout history, humans have environment. This is not an issue for Strauss faced a struggle to obtain sufficient amounts to resolve on its own but it should be worth of food: the search for more calories. In consideration. 22 | Strauss should be focused on real issues that are driven by core products. These could include enhancing consumer choice, helping consumers understand the health implications of consumption habits, through product labeling and other means, and sustainable sourcing. Strauss should be focused on real issues people's lives, is more complex and qualitative. that are driven by core products. These This is all related to what may be the ultimate could include enhancing consumer choice, challenge for sustainability reports: how to helping consumers understand the health provide crucial information in a shorter format implications of consumption habits, through that is more focused. I believe Strauss's more product labeling and other means, and strategic approach should help deliver a sustainable sourcing. Human rights is also a compelling report this year. topic that is rising in visibility and importance, and there is an opportunity for Strauss to look in particular at its impact on women. There is a big push in the food and agri sector, for example, to help women farmers get into global supply chains. This can provide great social value. Another mark of a leadership company is how well it defines and measures its long term sustainability targets. Some topics, like water and energy use, are relatively easy to measure. But other areas crucial to inclusive prosperity, such as how you measure the way you improve | 23 Improving lives Promoting healthy lifestyles Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Making food healthier • Improve consumer wellbeing through increased • Local communities G4-SO1 • Adding health to food and drink sales of products with a healthy lifestyle claim by • Healthy and affordable food G4-EC8 • Raising healthy lifestyle 15% by 2020. • Customer health and safety FP4 awareness • Engage consumers in healthy lifestyle activities • Indirect economic impacts FP6 • Investing in nutritional research through each Strauss Group company, reaching FP7 10 million consumers by 2020. • Engage in a global strategic social partnership with a multi-year commitment to improve healthy lifestyle practices. Promoting healthy lifestyles is a priority affordability. For others, a healthy lifestyle different forms of chemicals, alcohol and sustainability issue for Strauss Group because may mean avoiding consumption of certain tobacco. For some, a healthy lifestyle includes it is extremely important to our consumers. types of food such as those high in fat, all of the above. Whatever the prime focus A healthy lifestyle can be defined in many gluten, sugar or salt. Many define a healthy of anyone's definition of healthy lifestyle, the different ways, and mean different things to lifestyle as one that includes weight control prime contribution we can make as a food different people. For some, the focus is on and physical exercise, while for others, and beverage company is to provide a broad access to nutritious food, especially for those relaxation and stress management are range of products for our consumers that who face challenges in food availability and important. Others find it important to avoid help improve their lives. 26 | Strategy to action Making food healthier Consumers are more aware than ever before of the nutritional values of different food products, and of the potentially negative consequences of consuming too many calories. As an industry, food manufacturers have been finding ways to reduce levels of high-calorie ingredients to make food that has greater nutritional benefit. At Strauss, we have also been working tirelessly to ensure our brands provide improved nutritional benefit for our consumers and support the adoption of healthy lifestyles. 20 25 7 Unfortunately, these less nutritious food % % % ingredients are often the ones that provide consumers with the taste they love, so reformulation is no easy task. However, for the past several years, at Strauss Israel, we have been progressing a clearly defined multi-year plan to reformulate our products to reduce salt, fat and sugar, while retaining texture, taste and all other healthy parameters of our products. Reduced sugar Reduced salt in all of our fruit yogurts and yogurt beverages content in our Tapuchips snack Sugar A healthy lifestyle includes calorie management and careful management of sugar intake. As food manufacturers, we have reduced sugar levels in our chocolate milk the Israeli Ministry of Health, to reducing supported a reduction in sugar consumption and our chocolate bars under the Elite brand. daily sodium intake of the Israeli population and have been systematically reducing added by 3 grams, from 9 grams to 6 grams per sugar content in our products. For example, Salt day per person, by 2020, in order to reduce we have reduced the sugar content in our During the past three years, we have reduced health risks associated with excessive salt Actimel product by making a change to the salt content of our Tapuchips snack by intake. The program involves Israel's leading the production process without requiring 7 percent, saving almost 3,000 kg of salt in dairy product manufacturers, and after additional ingredients to be added or production of this one brand, as part of our consultation with manufacturers, the first significantly altering the product taste. In all overall multi-year plan to reduce salt content products with focused government-led of our fruit yogurts and yogurt beverages, across a range of products. Alongside our targets for salt reduction were defined as we have reformulated to reduce up to 20-25 own salt-reduction program, we participate cottage cheese and soft white cheese. percent added sugar content. Similarly, we in a governmental initiative, promoted by | 27 Food choices for a healthy lifestyle In addition to making existing food products healthier, we try to create more and better food choices for different types of Fat consumers. This includes products that offer We have been systematically reducing Hummus is 9.5 grams of fat per 100 grams portion control for adults who wish to control added fat content in our products. For of product, which is significantly lower than their calorie intake, healthy vegetable snacks example, in early 2014 we created a the fat content of similar hummus products. attractive to kids, fresh salad options and breakthrough in our leading hummus salad At the same time, we were able to increase products with nutritional benefits under our brand. Hummus is one of Strauss's highest the level of protein in the product by 13 Energy brand. selling products, and is a significant element percent. As Israel consumes in total over of the staple Middle Eastern diet in Israel. 30,000 tons of hummus salad per year, and Adults looking for a sweet chocolate treat Our new Country Hummus product contains much of this is consumed by young children, now have the option of a new chocolate bar no added oil, retaining only fat content that our lower fat content higher-protein with added benefits. Our 92 calorie chocolate is naturally present in the raw sesame seed hummus salad can make a significant bar, a lower-calorie chocolate bar that we paste (tahini), a key ingredient in hummus contribution to improving healthy lifestyles developed in collaboration with a leading salad. Therefore, the fat content of Country and the quality of life for millions. research university, The Technion, and a The fat content of Country Hummus is 9.5 grams of fat per 100 grams of product, which is significantly lower than the fat content of similar hummus products. 28 | Food and more Danacol is a yogurt drink enriched with phytosterols, proven to help reduce cholesterol levels by up to 15%. Actimel is a probiotic yogurt drink that helps strengthen the body's natural defenses. In addition to regular yogurt cultures, each bottle (100ml) of Actimel contains over 10 billion live L. casei bacteria. Strauss's new enriched cottage and white cheese contain a quarter of daily calcium and vitamin D requirements in a half-cup portion. Our new Yotvata Enriched Milk contains 30% of daily calcium and vitamin D requirements. Strauss's Gamadim soft cheese brand is the only product of its kind with a unique composition of iron, zinc, vitamins and calcium, especially adapted for children. leading science institute, the Weizmann Other innovations in 2013 include a singlevitamins and minerals, providing probiotic and Institute, is an example of this. The chocolate portion ready-meal dairy ravioli, which is phytosterol-based functional food options, is rich in nutritional fibers and calcium, with ready in one minute, a wide variety of soft and introducing functional innovations in the a low glycemic index value of 20 (versus white cheese spread with different fresh beverage category to provide more nutritional 50 in regular chocolate), which means the flavors, and more 100-calorie products for benefits in all sorts of different ways. carbohydrates in the chocolate break down strict calorie control options. Overall, in 2013, more slowly, releasing glucose more gradually we offered more than 30 new product or into the bloodstream. Our 92 calorie chocolate product variants to improve the quality of life Overall, in 2013, we offered more than bar comes in controlled portions of 25 grams. for consumers in Israel. Adults and kids looking for fresh snacks and Adding nutritional benefits to 30 new products or menu options can continue to enjoy our food and drink expanded fresh salads range. For example, The pursuit of a healthy lifestyle may also product variants to following the success of our carrot snack packs for adults last year, we introduced a mean, for some, the inclusion of food choices improve the quality which make a positive contribution to health, carrot snack pack for kids. The packaging offering more than standard food choices. of life for consumers in Israel. and marketing of the product includes Fortified and functional food choices contain Disney characters to help children associate ingredients that may help reduce risk for healthy food choices with fun. For adults, we certain health conditions. These products created innovative fresh salad options such are generally based on ingredients that as beetroot, zucchini and onion salads. These occur naturally or can be added during the are made with locally grown produce and manufacturing process. The key areas in provide new and healthy tastes for healthy which we add nutritional benefits to food and lifestyle options. drink include fortifying our dairy products with | 29 Coffee and more In 2013, Strauss Coffee launched two new and innovative coffee products that offer healthy lifestyle solutions for consumers that seek added value from their instant coffee. The first is a unique instant coffee drink that includes nutritional fiber to aid a feeling of satiety for those interested in controlling calorie intake, while the other is a Gum and more Turkish coffee beverage that is enriched with In 2013, we introduced a new chewing gum polyphenols that support health benefits. coated with xylitol under our Bazooka and Must brands. Xylitol is a natural sugar alcohol Balance Coffee that helps prevent cavities while being equal In 2013, we launched a revolutionary new in sweetness taste to sugar. Our regular coffee beverage leveraging the strong chewing gum pellets have been coated coffee-drinking habit in Israel. Our new with xylitol for the past two years. This year, coffee under our Elite brand is called we have expanded this for the benefit of Balance, and is a rich Brazilian coffee children for whom Bazooka is a popular containing corn and chicory fiber and milkIn Israel, people drink an average of 3.5 option and also we developed a chewing based proteins. One cup of Balance contains cups of coffee a day. Balance is designed for gum with 100 percent xylitol that retains up to 23 percent of the recommended daily consumers that want to feel satiated at the freshness for 45 minutes. fiber consumption. most challenging hours of the day between meals or at snack times. Drinking one cup of Balance promotes a sense of satiety for up to three hours. Weight Watchers Israel has tested Balance and recommends it to members as part of a controlled diet. Turkish coffee In 2013, we launched, under our Elite Turkish coffee brand, a coffee beverage that contains 30 percent more polyphenols compared to regular Elite Turkish coffee. Polyphenols are a form of antioxidants that are found in coffee, and understood to possess a variety of potential health benefits. In recent years, studies confirm there are several health benefits to moderate coffee consumption and in particular Turkish coffee. In Israel, 40 percent of adults drink Turkish coffee at least once a week. 30 | Coffee and sports In order to help increase consumers' understanding of the wellbeing benefits of coffee, especially when consumed as part of a healthy lifestyle that includes physical exercise, we hosted an educational coffee campaign designed to raise awareness that drinking Turkish coffee before sporting activities can improve sporting achievements. We provided more than 55,000 cups of free coffee, and more than 80,000 one-cup sachets throughout the year, in collaboration with dieticians and sporting experts. In a representative sample of 500 people that tested their views about coffee benefits, awareness increased to 26 percent in March Institute continues activities conducted by site includes information for consumers 2014 from just 11 percent in July 2012. the Danone Institute in Israel for the past and healthcare professionals to support 14 years, and collaborates with Danone awareness of healthy and balanced diets. Investing in nutritional research Institutes around the world. Strauss Institute During 2013, the site was piloted among We maintain the Strauss Institute to activities are directed by a scientific council of 1,200 health professionals who revisitthe support our mission of improving people’s five leading academics and researchers in the site regularly at a rate of more than 700 lives by advancing nutritional research, field of nutrition in Israel. entries per month. holding scientific conferences for nutrition professionals, and promoting healthy In 2013, we launched a new Strauss Institute In 2013, Strauss Institute awarded research lifestyles in the community. The Strauss website in Israel (strauss-institute.com). The grants for students interested in examining the link between nutrition choices, food ingredients and health. Four grants totaling more than $50,000 went to three doctoral students and one masters student from Weight Watchers different universities. We plan to make available up to $60,000 annually in such Weight Watchers operates over 500 groups in Israel, hosting 15,000 weight watchers research grants. every week. Group members and leaders act as a support system, role models and a source of inspiration. The Points Plus system assists our customers in maintaining a healthy and balanced lifestyle and cope better with their weight. We are happy to collaborate with companies that provide products which are proven to contribute to the efforts of maintaining healthy weight and promoting a healthy lifestyle. Lilit Romem, CEO, Weight Watchers Israel | 31 Excellence “The Center of Excellence is now home to experts in all areas of food manufacturing and we are eager to put our findings to work as we continue to change the way consumers around the world dip and spread. As we build on our heritage to invent the future, we will continue to be inspired by global advances in food production and aim to further our leadership within the category. This marks a significant step forward in our pursuit to bring the diversity of the world to life through an array of fresh tasting, real and wholesome products.” Tulin Tuzel Chief Technology Officer, Sabra 32 | Sabra’s Center of Excellence In 2013, Sabra officially launched a “Center of Excellence”, in Virginia, U.S., alongside Sabra's manufacturing plant. The Center, the first of its kind in the dips and spreads industry, will act as a point of innovation for advancing research capabilities and help improve our products in all aspects of raw material sourcing, manufacturing, packaging and distribution. The Center works in collaboration with The new Sabra Center of Excellence will act as universities and agricultural research centers, and houses experts in culinary arts, food technology and nutrition. The plan is a point of innovation for advancing research to conduct groundbreaking research on chickpeas, fruits and vegetables. This activity capabilities and help improve our products. is aimed at supporting continuous innovation while focusing on product diversity, high that invests considerably in research, we have the Movies, and invites children to create a nutritional values, quality and taste. The many resources at our disposal that can help balanced, portion-controlled meal in a way Center features a state of the art culinary the professional community of dieticians which makes use of the different food items center, research laboratory, ideation space, a and nutritionists, and ultimately, those to form a personal movie on the screen. pilot plant and hands-on research modules. who consume our products. We share our Each of the food types are actors in the professional knowledge with dieticians and movie and explain their role in an animated In addition, in the U.S., the growth of the nutrition professionals through workshops, song. This game makes learning about hummus market has made another positive information booths at conferences, tours nutrition fun, and provides a basic nutritional impact. Farmers in Virginia State have turned of Strauss manufacturing sites and online understanding which should help children to hummus in the face of declining tobacco activities. During 2013, more than 2,000 adopt healthy eating habits as they grow into demand, their primary market up until dieticians participated in different activities adults leading healthy lifestyles. recently. Sabra, in collaboration with Virginia which helped enrich their knowledge and State University, advances research that will understanding of how our products can support Virginian farmers become more contribute to healthy lifestyle choices. efficient and maintain their livelihoods as A highlight of the year was the half-day During 2013, more they convert to hummus production. workshop we hosted with a lecture on healthy products for children by Strauss Israel's chief than 2,000 dieticians Raising healthy lifestyle nutritionist and a cookery master-class by Phyllis Glazer, a well-known culinary expert participated in different awareness A key opportunity to help consumers take specializing in healthy cooking. activities which helped a proactive approach to healthy lifestyles is enrich their knowledge and to ensure they are aware of basic nutritional Nutritional tools for kids guidelines, the impact of different nutritional In 2013, we launched, as part of our Strauss understanding of how our elements in their diet and have the tools to adopt eating habits that make sense for Institute website, a fun game that helps kids learn more about nutrition in an interactive products can contribute to them. As a large food and beverage group way. The online tool is called Meals from healthy lifestyle choices. | 33 Product transparency and responsible marketing Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Clear product labeling and nutritional • Meet all regulatory requirements • Product and service G4-PR3, information for consumers in all markets. labeling G4-PR5, • Customer satisfaction and service • Continuously improve our accessibility • Marketing G4-PR7, • Responsible marketing communications and service level for customers and communications G4-FP8 consumers. Informed Strategy to action Customer satisfaction consumer Clear product labeling and and service Our success is measured in our customer choices nutritional information for consumers satisfaction. We aim to ensure all consumers are delighted with Strauss Product transparency and responsible Within the constraints of product packaging products, including food products, marketing, including product claims and the large amount of information that coffee beverages, Strauss WaterBars or associated with our products, and the must be provided by law for consumers, a delicious dessert at one of our Max nutritional information we provide, is an we aim to make our labeling as clear as Brenner Chocolate Bars. We aim to ensure important sustainability issue because possible and ensure that prominent aspects that our consumers and customers get it helps consumers make informed relating to the product content is visible the best product quality and also the best choices about what foods and beverages to the consumer. For example, in Europe, service. Overall in 2013, we recorded over to purchase and to consume. Proper legislation requires allergenic information 154,000 interactions with customers understanding of what food contains is an on product labels. This will not be law in initiated through our call center and essential prerequisite for making healthy Israel until 2015, but at present, we present online media platforms. That's more than food choices and leading healthy lifestyles. such information on our products to 660 conversations every single working Nielsen research shows that 59 percent of ensure that our consumers have the best day of the year. consumers around the world have difficulty information available at all times. understanding nutritional labels on food Internally, we are constantly vigilant and packaging. At Strauss, we aim to achieve the alert to all new regulation relating to highest possible transparency, beyond food product labeling requirements, and ensure and labeling regulatory requirements where that all relevant staff members are informed possible, and we encourage consumers to and changes are made accordingly. In take a keen interest and ask us for further many cases, we prepare ourselves ahead of information they might require. regulation coming into force. 34 | 85 The voice of the consumer %of consumers confirmed our call-center responses are very good or excellent In 2013, in Israel, we initiated a program to The new flag system 75 %of consumers perceive Strauss as highly attentive to consumers In 2013, we implemented a further improvement in our consumer call bring the voice of the consumer right onto center, based on a system of call center representatives raising flags to the production floor, into the conference help deal with serious quality issues in real time. This new process raises room and into the hearts and minds of our attention to types of complaints that may not have been identified as employees and managers. We do this by immediate priority (for example, not life-threatening) but nevertheless playing recordings of calls from consumers represent a critical issue in terms of consumer trust. An incident raised received by our call center to employees with a flag is immediately addressed, analyzed and action required is taken and managers in a range of roles. The without delay, and information is looped back to the representative who calls inevitably engender discussion about raised the flag to complete the cycle. In this way, we maintain consumer instances of customer dissatisfaction trust and confidence relating to issues that are important to them, and are expressed in the calls, and the corrective thankful to them for alerting us to potentially serious quality issues. action we can take to prevent recurrence. This process brings consumer issues to life and makes them very real for all our staff. Several specific product improvements have been made as a result of these interventions, both to products and to packaging. | 35 Getting close to customers small retailers and chain supermarkets. Our consumers are able to purchase their Three years ago, we launched a program products through a network of wholesale to ensure our entire organization is and retail sales outlets. These organizations compellingly customer-oriented. As part are critical partners for Strauss, as the of this program, we rolled out a workshop way they do business can significantly for 42 sales district managers to increase affect the availability, quality, affordability commitment and provide tools to help the and overall presence of our products in sales team understand and engage with the different marketplaces where we customers at a deeper level. Each sales operate around the world. As our markets manager takes part in visits during which change, our customers become smarter, they shadow the customer to understand more aware and more demanding. We the key issues and decisions that are invest exceptional efforts to understand made in a typical day, and can identify Responsible marketing our customers' needs, create positive more precisely with the customers' needs. communications relationships and establish a framework of More than 30 such shadow visits took Our marketing communications are based interactions based on mutual trust. place in 2013, and helped us see through on our corporate values and comply with all our customers' eyes how we can further marketing regulations, aiming to exclude Strauss Israel has over 10,000 points contribute to advancing healthy lifestyles any harmful, immoral, irresponsible or of sales around the country, including and provide outstanding service. misleading content. We strive to build long-term trust among our consumers by communicating with integrity and fulfilling our promises. Our marketing staff is fully trained in our Code of Ethics and approach Understanding to responsible communications. customers We learned from our customer visits that retailers Customer Privacy interact with multiple stakeholders: customers, At Strauss, we attribute the highest employees, suppliers and others, dealing with many importance to customer privacy. We adhere challenges on a daily basis. We aim to be supportive to all laws, rules and regulations and strict by listening to what's important to them and providing added value through internal procedures relating to privacy. We flexibility and collaboration. carefully manage information security as we maintain our database of consumers Eran Hay-Yosef and ensure we have required approvals for Sales and Distribution Manager, Strauss Israel mailings to them. We do not share consumer information with any third party. 36 | Engaging our employees Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Employee engagement • Improve employee wellness by reducing risk in three • Employment G4-LA1, • Leadership and development areas – cardio (fitness, weight), respiratory (smoking) • Occupational health G4-LA6, • Health, safety and wellbeing and prevention (voluntary checkups), as measured on and safety G4-LA10, • Employee benefits and a health-risk index using 2015 as a baseline. • Training and education G4-LA11 compensation • Maintain employee engagement above 80%. • Reduce work injury rate to no more than 3 injuries per 100 employees by 2020. • Reduce lost days due to injury rate to no more than 40 lost days per 100 employees by 2020. | 37 Aligning our across the entire Group. The common 90 percent or more of our employees organization elements included fifteen specific questions believe that: we asked of all our employees around the • Our products add value to our consumers' to meet world, including questions on corporate quality of life responsibility and business ethics. Overall in • Our company is socially responsible sustainability 2013, we achieved an 84 percent response rate, with 5,634 responses out of a total • Our work environment is free from harassment. goals 6,646 that were invited to participate. In general, across our markets, we found The areas that our employees scored less well were in the areas of driving for personal Aligning our organization to meet that our engagement scores ranged from excellence and leadership. sustainability goals is important because 75 percent to 92 percent in different it is our employees in all parts of Strauss companies, a generally positive result by In general, across Group that determine whether we will our markets, we found any standard, but one that leaves us with be successful or not. As a diverse group, aspirations to do even better. operating in many countries and cultures, that engagement we must all share a common set of values The areas that our employees were most and be inspired by a common vision and positive about include our performance in scores ranged from purpose. We align our organization by embedding our values, truly caring for improving quality of life for our consumers, and being a socially responsible company. 75% to 92% in different our employees' safety and wellbeing, The top three results included showed that companies investing in developing their capabilities and rewarding them for their tireless efforts. We value diversity and aim to create an inclusive workplace. This pays off for our business statistics show that organizations with a high level of engagement report higher productivity and higher profitability and it pays off for society, as, with more than 13,500 employees building a livelihood within the Strauss Group organization, the economic and social benefits for local communities are widespread. Strategy to action Employee engagement We perform a global employee engagement survey every two years and the most recent global survey was conducted in 2013. Within a globally aligned framework, each Strauss Group company tailored an engagement survey to meet specific organizational needs while retaining a core that is common 38 | Leadership, development and training In 2013, we took the first steps towards implementing our new leadership and core competency MOVE model ( Me, Others, Vision, Execution ) in organizational processes throughout the Strauss Group companies. We expect that using the MOVE model will help us expand our leadership pipeline in coming years. Training We provide formal training in a variety of delivery formats to help employees improve their knowledge and skills as part of overall Overall in 2013, we invested over 190,000 development plans identified during the annual performance evaluation. Training is targeted to meeting professional needs hours of training for and personal development opportunities to help employees to do better what they more than 10,000 do best. In 2013, we launched a computeremployees at all levels. based Learning Management System for Strauss Israel office-based employees, covering CR-related topics including sexual harassment prevention, Code of Ethics, office safety, information security, and more. Following completion of the module, participants must confirm understanding in a short test. To date, 1,500 employees have completed the program. Overall in 2013, we invested over 190,000 hours of training for more than 10,000 employees at all levels. Job skills in an automated environment Another area where we invested heavily to improve the capabilities of our employees is in the adaptation to an automated work environment. Automation requires different skills and capabilities from production operators and maintenance staff and the transition is by no means trivial. Rather than release employees as we introduce new technology, we trust the capability of our employees to embrace change and, with appropriate training, work with the manufacturing teams to deliver great results for our consumers. | 39 Health, safety and wellbeing We remain committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment and strive to continuously improve our performance. We employ trained Safety Officers in all our locations and they maintain an intensive pace of safety training and workshops in all parts of the business. In some locations, such as Israel, Romania and Poland, we have implemented the standard OHSAS 18001, a recognized quality standard in safety management. We conduct regular safety audits, identify hazards and take corrective action. We also strive to eliminate health risks to employees, and our safety program includes healthrelated education and training. At some locations, we employ a physician who provides medical consultations and advice for employees. Attention to safety also includes road safety for our staff involved in sales roles which require road travel, as well as instilling a culture of safe driving for those employees who travel to and from work in cars. In cases where we provide company vehicles, these are fitted with the highest standards of safety equipment and accessories. In 2013, we invested $1.85 million in equipment and tools in our operations in different countries to make our working environment safer for all our employees. Expanding safety management In 2013, we expanded our new safety program to our eight factories in Israel. The program is based on hands-on management involvement in safety with daily factory tours by managers on a rotating schedule. 40 | -0.47 -16.94 % Our overall injury rate per 100 employees reduced by 0.47% in 2013. % The number of lost workdays as a result of work injuries reduced by 16.94% in This is a reduction of 65 lost-time 2013. This is a reduction of 1,932 lost injuries in 2013. workdays in 2013. During the tours, managers observe per 100 employees. In 2013, our position production practices, engage in discussion moved slightly in the right direction, down with employees and note safety improvement from 4.93 in 2012 due to our ongoing action for follow up. This is a gemba -style investment in reducing safety risks and practice, taken from Japanese principles of improving practice. lean management. We also implemented a gemba standard work certification for We regret to report that in 2013, one of our managers to ensure alignment and correct employees at our Brazil factory lost his life in use of the system. In 2013, 47 managers at a car accident on the way home from work. our Achihud factory in Israel were certified and engage with employees to improve safety Ergonomics as a regular part of their work. We believe this In 2013, we continued investing in improving approach has contributed to a significant workplace ergonomics to improve employee improvement in our safety performance. In working conditions, prevent occupational 2013, Strauss Israel, recorded a 29 percent hazards, and improve efficiency. We initiated reduction in lost time injuries and a 17 a proactive program for ergonomics percent reduction in lost time days. improvement that included extensive training and skills development for 25 individuals Our safety performance nominated as ergonomic specialists. We Overall, our injury rate per 100 employees conducted risk assessment relating to group-wide in 2013 was 4.46 injuries per ergonomics around our different sites and 100 employees. Our strategic target is to completed work station redesign along reduce lost-time injuries to below 3 injuries ergonomic principles at several locations. | 41 Protecting employees through transitions In 2013, we closed our coffee factory in Safed in northern Israel, after 60 years of operation. From the outset, we took a decision to ensure that the fifty people employed at the factory would be protected through the transition. In practice, we provided six months' notice of the change to all employees, to provide employees with time to consider their future. Employees were offered alternative employment at other Strauss sites in Israel, Planning for the future including relocation assistance, and others were offered generous retirement plans. At the plant closure, all employees After attending the Planning for the Future training session, I realized I need to meet, for the had been successfully transitioned with no first time in my life, with a pension fund counselor to learn about my rights and what I can do to forced redundancies. improve my pension fund terms and performance. I now have an updated, improved and more cost effective policy that I know will be important for me and my family in the future.. Employee benefits Liat Elron and compensation Training and Learning Department, Strauss Israel We aim to maintain compensation and benefits for all our employees that offer fair and competitive packages in line with local 62 percent do not understand the sum they and take ownership for creating optimal market norms in the different locations will receive upon retirement or the way that pension plan savings for themselves and where we operate. In 2013, as every year, sum will be calculated. their families. The Planning for the Future we monitor the way our compensation program included training sessions run packages are performing in local economic We aim to provide our employees with by our human resources department and conditions around the world and make the best retirement plans available in the external professionals supported with adjustments to ensure we stay competitive. Israeli market. Also, we feel it is important an offer of personal meetings for each that our employees understand how to employee with a pension counselor. At Significant progress was made in 2013 in get the best result from their individual these meetings, employees were able to helping our employees in Strauss Israel plans according to their own personal change the provisions of their pension think ahead and plan for retirement. As circumstances, because regulation in plans and saving options to best meet their a responsible employer, we want our Israel prevents employers influencing how individual needs. employees to improve their lives in the employees determine future retirement future by planning ahead in an informed plan schemes. Therefore, in 2013, we 1,100 employees across seven Strauss Israel and considered way. A 2012 survey by the launched our Planning for the Future sites participated in training sessions and 270 Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics showed initiative to educate employees about their employees (25 percent of employees trained) that 36 percent of the Israeli population retirement provisions and provide them completed personal counseling sessions. over age 20 is not covered by a pension with tools to understand them better, This program continues in order to reach all plan and that of those that do have a plan, monitor the financial aspects of the plans Strauss Israel employees by the end of 2014. 42 | Diversity in everything we do Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Product diversity • Diverse supplier spend (women-owned businesses) to • Diversity and equal G4-LA12, • Equal opportunity in reach at least 10% of total purchasing spend by 2020. opportunity G4-SO1, employment • Achieve a rate of 50% of global management positions • Equal remuneration for G4-EC9, • Supplier diversity in held by women by end 2020. women and men G4-LA13 procurement practices • Offer product variants to meet specific health needs • Local communities • Advancing women in the (obesity, diabetes, celiac, heart disease) in our top 10 • Procurement practices community selling brands by 2020. Innovation and opportunity Diversity is a value that is central to the way we work and an inclusive culture benefits all those we touch. It's not just the people in our organizationdiversity is integrated in every aspect of our business and sustainability strategy. Strauss Group: diversity and inclusion COLLEAGUES CONSUMERS CITIZENSHIP ADVANCING WOMEN PRODUCT TO MEET WORKING WITH IN MANAGEMENT DIFFERENT HEALTH NEEDS WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES •R  ecruiting from diverse •A  ccessibility and distribution • Empowering communities backgrounds • P ack sizes and portion control •R  especting the diversity • Valuing age and experience •E  ngaging with diverse consumers of the natural environment •D  evelopment opportunities • Respecting different dietary needs • S upporting inclusive community causes for all • L ocal tastes and preferences •U  nderstanding local • I nclusive culture • P roduct variants to meet community needs • Fair and equal remuneration health needs • Diverse business partners • Equal opportunity • Respecting different consumer • Advancing small businesses cultures • Investing in women in the community • S upporting inclusive public policy | 43 We aim to achieve positive impacts through a diverse and inclusive approach in our business. However, as diversity has such a broad scope, we have chosen to focus on three key areas that support our 2020 sustainability strategy: • Colleagues: Advancing women in management • Consumers: Developing more products to support diverse health and dietary needs We offer products which do not contain Working with the Jewish orthodox • Citizenship: Advancing supplier diversity, gluten, are suitable for diabetics, or are community in Israel focusing on women-owned businesses certified strictly kosher according to the In Israel, about 11 percent of consumers and supporting the advancement of highest religious standards. For example, require strictly kosher certified products women in our communities. in 2013, we converted our fresh salads (Mehadrin), and this community is factory in Karmiel to be entirely glutenexpected to reach 18 percent of the According to Gallup Workplace Studies, free and also removed gluten from our population in coming years. Strauss is organizations with inclusive cultures do potato chips brand, Tapuchips. In both the largest advertiser in the orthodox better than those that are not inclusive, cases, we have received gluten free sector in Israel. Advertising to the delivering 39 percent higher customer certifications and approvals, thereby orthodox community must observe satisfaction, 22 percent greater productivity broadening the number of consumers specific methods and language, and use and 27 percent higher profitability. A that can enjoy our products while radio, billboards and newspapers as TV healthy organization embraces diverse making healthy lifestyle choices that are and internet advertising does not reach people and viewpoints. right for them. these consumers. Strategy into action In order to ensure our diverse In 2013, we certified our main dairy communities of consumers are aware factory in Israel according to the highest Delivering products for diverse of the products we create for them, we Mehadrin kosher standards, required by consumer needs employ different marketing platforms the Orthodox Jewish community. In fact, We aim to make our products accessible with campaigns that meet each during the past three years, we have to diverse populations and this includes population group wherever they are, and tripled the number of products available providing solutions for people with specific speak to them in their own language, for those requiring Mehadrin certification religious, dietary or healthy lifestyle needs. respecting their values and culture. under our Megadim brand. 44 | from mothers to daughters, including the traditional preparation of sweetmeats using cocoa powder rather than chocolate. In recent years, Arab women are increasingly Working with the Arab community in Israel interested in expanding their horizons and Arab consumers make up one fifth of considering other ways of preparing food. consumers in Israel. Advertising to the Arab Salma Fiyumi from the Arab community in community must take into account the Israel was a finalist in the popular television specific preferences and language of our show, Master Chef Israel. We engaged Arab consumers. We employ a specialist Salma to show Arab women how using marketing agency to serve this community chocolate instead of cocoa powder can Food Trends and ensure we meet their needs. upgrade their cakes and how adopting new cooking styles can refresh and even A recent marketing initiative for Arab improve their traditional cuisine. The While remaining true to traditional women was based on the changing practice marketing initiative used a modern digital values and practices, the Arab community of using chocolate in family baking. In the platform in line with the Arab community is becoming more modern in outlook, Arab community, cookery skills are passed preference for online content rather seeking innovation and new experiences. Fadoul Mazzawi CEO Mazzawi Advertising than television, and included a mini-site with short cookery videos with Salma and recipe sharing among users. The campaign brought tens of thousands of views for the video recipes, and hundreds of women shared their recipes during the campaign. Equal opportunity in employment At Strauss Group, we maintain an inclusive culture which welcomes employees from all backgrounds and encourage diversity. A particular area of focus is ensuring that women have equal opportunity to join our company, and advance to the highest levels. We believe this has an important social and economic contribution as well as helping us manage our business more effectively. | 45 Women in the Strauss Group workforce 2011-2013 44% 43% % % 39 % % 39% 41 33 % 38 38 % 37 38 % 25% 32 % women in senior women in middle women in all women in our management management management levels total workforce NB: Senior management represents less than 50 managers across 2011 2012 2013 our global Group which is just over %2 of total management. In 2012, we launched a group-wide women. Also in 2013, we analyzed our new program with a visionary goal of reaching hires, promotions and exits with an aim gender balance in our management levels to establish correlation between gender, with a target of 50 percent women in seniority and other aspects relating to management by 2015. We created an women's development in Strauss Group. infrastructure for implementing processes This analysis helps us identify opportunities for an inclusive workplace, with an to improve gender balance. emphasis on women. These include setting goals and targets, establishing steering In the meantime, we are making progress, Fulfilling teams and raising awareness among all with women representing 41 percent of managers and employees in each of the five our global workforce and 39 percent of our work companies that form Strauss Group. Gender management ranks in 2013. equality performance is also reflected in senior management compensation. We As a supervisor, I enjoy providing maintained our efforts in 2013. Strauss Water: a diverse the representatives in my team the employment opportunity professional and personal support they Some of the specific areas we are In 2013, Strauss Water established a new need, and help them provide the best addressing include ensuring the call center to handle increasing customer service to customers. This brings me inclusion of women in our high potential support demands as part of a growing great satisfaction and fulfillment. management development program business. An opportunity to create and examining our work processes with employment for a section of the population Hadasa Arviv external recruitment agencies to apply that has been underrepresented in Israeli Supervisor, principles for effective recruitment of workplaces was identified. Strauss Water Bereshit Strauss Water call center 46 | engaged a dedicated unit of the Manpower Bereshit organization that provides Strauss provided outsourced call center services, employing knowledge in business women from the orthodox Jewish and production processes, community in Israel. Orthodox women helped us upgrade our are under-represented in the workforce. manufacturing and Recent data indicates that 62 percent of implement best practices orthodox women are employed, compared in production and quality with over 80 percent of women in the assurance. general population. The orthodox religious framework means that unique needs must Eti Shlomi be addressed to accommodate religious owner, Oren Meshi Bakery and lifestyle choices of the orthodox community. Being responsive to the needs of orthodox women, we gain the benefits of our inclusive approach. Our outsourced call center now employs 65 women, responds to more than 2,000 customer queries each day and delivers a 91 percent satisfaction rate based on a customer survey in January 2014. Our experience shows that business needs can be in perfect alignment with corporate responsibility goals. Women-owned businesses are often also collaborative effort between Strauss's small businesses, and play a significant Salty Snacks division and the Oren role in local community integration and Meshi Bakery located in the southern Sourcing from empowerment. Supporting women-owned periphery of Israel. The collaboration women-owned businesses creates a socio-economic ripple began in January 2013 when Strauss businesses effect that creates healthier communities identified the Oren Meshi Bakery as a and improves the quality of life for many. potential partner with experience in In 2013, we conducted an assessment In Israel, of the 400,000 registered small producing pita bread in a special process covering over 2,500 suppliers of Strauss and medium sized businesses, 20 percent on a unique proprietary production line. Israel, with an objective of understanding are women-owned compared with 33 The long term strategic partnership we how we are doing in terms of procurement percent in Europe and 44 percent in the U.S. established with Oren Meshi includes from women-owned businesses. Women-owned is defined as 51 percent or collaborative product development and We discovered that 9 percent of our more ownership by women. knowledge sharing. Since starting to suppliers are women-owned. It is our work with Strauss, Oren Meshi Bakery intention to expand our understanding of our engagement with women-owned A new product from has more than doubled its workforce and a woman-owned bakery secured business from new customers. businesses at a global level, not just in Israel, and significantly increase the In 2013, Strauss Israel launched a unique proportion of our purchasing spend with product, Pita Crunch, a new kind of baked such companies. pita chips. Pita Crunch is the result of a | 47 Advancing women Bedouin and Jewish orthodox communities. Strauss Group Chairperson, serves as the and business in our Most scholarship recipients are the first or only ones in their families to pursue an President of Jasmine. community academic degree, so our scholarships have the Catalyst partners In addition to advancing women as potential to improve their lives considerably. We continue to promote gender diversity employees, and as partners, we also support through our partnership with Catalyst. the women's business community and invest The Jasmine Forum for Catalyst is a leading U.S.-based non-profit resources where they are most needed. women business owners organization with a mission to expand In 2013, we launched the Jasmine Forum opportunities for women and business. Scholarships for the for women business owners that provides Catalyst's Census Partners around the world advancement of women in Israel opportunities to learn from the knowledge work to track the representation of women In 2012, Strauss Group established and experience of women who lead globally on boards and senior management using a scholarship program for the advancement successful businesses. The Forum organizes Catalyst Census methodology. Strauss of women in Israel in honor of Hilda Strauss, meetings for members to meet women Group and the Israel Women's Network founder of Strauss Group. The program business leaders from around the world, have been Catalyst's Census Partners in supports women in Israel, especially those while creating a local community of women Israel since 2010. In 2013, we conducted from excluded and minority groups. The business owners to support each other in the census for the fourth time, providing scholarships provide higher education, different ways. Strauss Group has partnered once again an up-to-date view of women empowering women to become leaders in with Jasmine, the Association of Business in senior management and leadership their communities. In 2013, Strauss Group Women in Israel, to promote women's positions in public companies traded in the granted higher education scholarships entrepreneurship and to help realize the Tel Aviv 100 (TA-100) index of the Tel Aviv for the second year, awarding $26,000 economic potential of Jewish and Arab Stock Exchange. to 16 young women from the Ethiopian, businesswomen in Israel. Ofra Strauss, Women in business in Israel 31 7.5 2 Decrease in women executives in publicly traded companies to 31% (34% in 2012). % Decrease in the number of women CEOs to 7.5% (7.9% in 2012). % % Decrease in women holding chair positions in publicly traded companies to 2% (3% in 2012). Source: Catalyst Israel Census, 2013 48 | Chairpersons of the board TA1002% (3%) CEOs TA1007.5% (7.9%) Women board members TA10017.2% (16.6%) Women top executives TA10019% (20%) Women in executive positions in the workforce 31% (34%) Women in the workforce in the workforce 47% (47%) Census pyramid* women's status in the workforce in Israel 2013 compared to 2012 (figures in parentheses) * The data on the percentage of women in the workforce are from the Central Statistics Bureau 2013 Annual Table 12.20 Employees by Status at Work and Gender. The data on the percentage of women in management positions are from the Central Statistics Bureau 2013 Annual Table 12.18 Employees by Profession, Population Group and Gender. The 2013 census demonstrates that the Israeli business sector has still not fully embraced the benefits of advancing women in management positions. This is unfortunate because, as research has shown, correlations can be made between women in senior leadership positions and economic growth. In Israel, we have more work to do! | 49 Ethical supply chain Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Sourcing of sustainable products • Increase sustainable sourcing of top 5 global food • Procurement FP1, FP2 • Supplier commitment to sustainability ingredients by 15% by end 2020 (2012 baseline). practices Managing potential social and environmental risk, Strategy into action social and and also, driven by responsibility, it helps us address stakeholder concerns relating Our global supply chain is comprised of environmental to human rights and environmental roughly 13,860 suppliers that supply goods stewardship. In a transparent world, and services to a value of almost $2 billion. risk in our the actions we take throughout our We aim to maintain long-term mutually supply chain are under scrutiny by our beneficial relationships with key suppliers, supply chain stakeholders, including consumers that expect us to adhere to ethical and and value the efforts they make to support our business. Where possible, we engage responsible business standards. Sourcing with local suppliers. This often makes Maintaining an ethical supply chain is ingredients from a range of suppliers economic sense and strengthens local important for our business and for our throughout the world, we must ensure we economic development, while encouraging stakeholders because it enables us to are able to reassure our stakeholders that diversity in our supply chain, a strategic maintain business continuity and mitigate sustainable standards are upheld. element of our corporate responsibility 50 | Percentage of procurement budget spent on local suppliers in 2013 innovation, and providing feedback to the supplier while working together to improve 98 78 supply chain efficiency and reliability in % % 65 constantly changing conditions. During % 2013, we assessed 40 suppliers. Brazil U.S. Israel 19 Europe % Sustainable sourcing of key ingredients Coffee Strauss Coffee BV became a member of 52 the 4C Coffee Association in 2007, % followed by our JV in Brazil, Tres Coraçoes, in 2010. Since the beginning of this Total membership, Strauss Coffee has purchased 17,000 tons of 4C verified coffee. In 2013, more than 6 percent of the total coffee procurement for our European and Israeli approach. In 2013, 52 percent of our total percent of suppliers in Israel have signed factories was sustainable coffee verified by purchasing expenditure was for goods and the Charter and this includes all new the 4C Association. services purchased locally. suppliers between 2011 and 2013. Also, in 2013, we updated our Supplier Charter The 4C Association is a multi-stakeholder Supplier commitment to reflect a stronger commitment from organization committed to addressing suppliers, including a commitment to to sustainability sustainability issues in the coffee sector. report ethical breaches to the Strauss Ethics Beyond the usual triangle of quality, price 4C maintains a Code of Conduct which Officer or hotline. and service, we expect our suppliers to provides baseline standards for sustainable uphold our values and comply with our purchasing and production. Key pillars of Social Charter. Developed in 2011 for In 2013, we continued the implementation the code are, amongst others, elimination Strauss Israel, this Charter asks suppliers to of our Supplier Evaluation Program, of the worst form of child labor and slavery, adopt the same high standards of corporate developed in 2012. The process involves implementation of good agricultural responsibility as Strauss Group. Signature a full assessment of individual supplier's practices, support for economic success as of our Social Charter is a condition of doing operations including quality, pricing, costwell as equal rights with respect to gender business for all new suppliers. In 2013, 44 effectiveness, logistics, transparency, and and education. | 51 Cocoa In 2013, we further strengthened our collaboration with Barry Callebaut, a longstanding supplier of cocoa to Strauss Israel, by committing to a long term sourcing of most of our cocoa requirements. Barry Callebaut is the world’s leading manufacturer of high-quality chocolate and cocoa products and is committed to a sustainable cocoa production. Our sourcing Max Brenner: supporting cocoa farmers our Cocoa Max Chocolate Tablet, a 100g agreement with Barry Callebaut includes Max Brenner, our premium chocolate dark chocolate bar that is also organic and a program for knowledge sharing and brand, also sources cocoa through Barry fair trade certified. The tablet is rich in taste, development of collaboration platforms, Callebaut, and 50 percent of Max Brenner's helps build a better world through education, including helping Strauss Group build cocoa supply is procured through the Barry is sustainably sourced, and enables improved our knowledge of different aspects of Callebaut Quality Partner Program (QPP). quality of life for farmers and their families. A sustainable supply and innovation. The QPP was launched in 2005 in the Ivory $0.50 donation from the sale of each bar goes Coast, and today works with more than to support schoolchildren in Tanzania. The 60 cooperatives representing over 30,000 funds purchase much-needed schoolbooks cocoa farmers in the country. QPP supports and support the building and maintenance cooperatives in their efforts to serve the of school facilities to ensure safe and needs of their cocoa farmer members. clean learning environments. In just three Farmer field schools are used to help train months after launch, we sold over 2,300 bars the modern cocoa farmer for increased generating more than $1,100 in donations. productivity and improved quality of cocoa. Other integrated activities of the QPP include The raw cocoa for Cocoa Max is harvested improving access to education, healthcare from the Biolands project in Tanzania, owned and clean water. In 2013, Max Brenner by Barry Callebaut. Biolands is one of the purchased 11 tons of QPP cocoa used in two largest organic smallholder cocoa programs chocolate products, and in 2014, will launch in the world and ranks as Africa’s largest three new bars made from QPP cocoa. exporter of certified organic cocoa. Biolands works directly with smallholder farmers to Another initiative of Max Brenner in the ensure fair prices are paid to the farmers form of sustainable sourcing is support and to improve the quality of cocoa and the provided to the Biolands cocoa program. In farmers’ quality of life. All Biolands cocoa is 2013, we purchased four tons of chocolate certified organic by IMO, the Swiss Institute made from Biolands cocoa and launched for Market Ecology. 52 | Strauss Israel: working with farmers in addition to the two variants we have extreme weather conditions, with strong winds, We maintain close collaboration with our used to date. We select the variants we use low temperatures, and four times the average agricultural suppliers in Israel to ensure based on their robustness against disease rainfall for the entire month of December in we bring our consumers the best possible and the reliable value they bring to our just five days. An estimated 50 percent of fresh produce, grown and supplied growers. Introducing a new variant means agriculture produce in the center of Israel along sustainable principles. We work adapting our hummus production process alone was affected, causing over $14 million with over thirty growers that supply us to accommodate slight differences between in losses to around 2,000 farms. In the region with vegetables for our fresh packaged variants. However, our third variant helps where Strauss Israel sources lettuce, almost 90 vegetables range and our vegetable-based protect our consumers, and our growers, percent of lettuce crops were damaged from chilled spreads. Three years ago, we started from market disruption due to different the storm or due to delays in transportation local purchasing of the agricultural raw weather conditions and other farming systems. Our support for growers through this materials that we regularly use, including variables. period by helping them harvest and distribute chickpeas, eggplants, bell peppers, squash, salvaged lettuce to different buyers was critical beetroot, cabbage, carrots, onions, garlic, Maintaining continuity of supply for them to maintain business continuity. Also, and herbs. To further improve the quality An example of such an issue could have during this period, our consumers were able to of our produce, we began to work directly seriously affected our lettuce supply in 2013. continue to enjoy our fresh salad produce with with growers in Israel, rather than with In December, Israel experienced five days of almost no disruption. wholesalers, implementing new standards and efficient, sustainable ways of working. In 2013, we significantly expanded the range of chilled salads we offer under our We began to work Achla brand, including new vegetable directly with options such as zucchini and beetroot, all grown locally by our partner farmers. growers in Israel, Currently we offer a range of 45 different implementing salads and hummus-based spreads under the Achla brand, which provide healthy new standards choices for the 1.4 million consumers that choose these products to support and efficient, their healthy lifestyles every single day. To sustainable ways of working. support our expanding range and volume, in 2013, we expanded our network of partner growers. To better support our ongoing demand, we introduced a third variant of chickpea | 53 Supporting our distributors Strauss Israel maintains a network of 265 independent and exclusive distributors that ensure our products reach our consumers in more than 24,000 supply interactions every single week. Our distributors are a key arm of our extended supply chain, and although independent, they work with Strauss Israel on a long-term basis, which generally spans more than 15 years. One distributor has worked with Strauss Israel for forty years and continues to make a strong contribution. In 2013, we recruited five distributors from the Arab community as a part of a multi-year program aimed at diversifying our distributor base and making our products accessible to more consumers. We hold an annual distributor conference and recognize those that made an outstanding contribution each year. Our close relationship with our distributors is reflected in a high level of transparency, commitment, involvement and ongoing dialogue. We recognize that our distributors are often the only faces of Strauss that our customers see, so it is important for us to ensure that we understand what is important to them. Every two years, we conduct a formal survey to obtain their Innovating with small businesses feedback and understand the level of their In 2013, we engaged with a small enterprise to develop satisfaction with Strauss Israel and the a new product, mini rice cakes, in a joint program with relationship with our sales team. In 2013, a shared investment. Perach Industries is a factory 97 percent of distributors participated in employing 40 people that has supplied Strauss Israel with our survey and the average satisfaction rate rice cakes for the past six years. In 2013, we entered into was 7.37 (out of 10), a decrease relative to a joint development of flavored rice cakes snacks to offer the last survey. Opportunities to improve consumers a healthy alternative for snacking, with portionthat were noted by our distributors include controlled packs of 100 calories each. Perach Industries efficiency of logistics procedures and service invested in new technology for a new production line to provided by sales and distribution teams at manufacture mini rice cakes, and we worked with the Strauss, and the way financial compensation Perach team to develop a unique process to deliver this new is linked to distributor performance. product. Following a successful launch, Perach Industries As a result, we are currently implementing enjoyed business expansion and we were able to provide improvements in these areas. more product alternatives for our consumers. 54 | | 55 Reducing resource consumption and waste Focus Strategic Goals Aspects Indicators • Technology and innovation • Operationalize at least three significant innovative • Materials G4-EN1 G4-EN18 • Operational excellence product technologies that improve sustainable • Energy G4-EN3 G4-EN20 • Reduce energy, emissions and healthy lifestyle choices by 2020. • Water G4-EN5 G4-EN21 and water consumption • Reduce consumption of energy, water and • Emissions G4-EN8 G4-EN22 • Reduce waste and increase packaging materials by 15% per ton of product by • Effluents and waste G4-EN15 G4-EN23 recycling end 2020. • Products and services G4-EN16 G4-EN31 • Engaging employees in • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per ton of environmental stewardship product by 15% by end 2020 (2012 baseline). • Increase % of recycled waste from total waste by 15% by 2020. Preserve the planet Reducing resource consumption and waste is a priority sustainability issue because we share the burden of responsibility with other organizations and individuals to leave the planet in a condition which is fit for ongoing prosperity and quality of life for future generations. There is no doubt that climate change and weather extremes, dwindling resources, deforestation, soil erosion, water scarcity, overstuffed landfills and air pollution, are all part of the same overriding threat to our long-term prosperity. As a corporate citizen driven by responsibility, we must do all we can to ensure we use only what we need, operate efficiently, manage our supply chain with accountability and minimize negative impacts on society and the planet. Our approach is based on the precautionary principle of analyzing environmental risks in our value chain and putting in place specific actions across our companies to ensure we mitigate these risks. We continue to invest in improving our environmental management infrastructure and have increased our global environmental investments over the past four years, reaching a total of more than $21 million. 56 | Strategy to action technology innovation will bring new ways partnerships with start-up companies of material consumption, manufacturing, and research facilities. Through these Food technology logistics, packaging, shelf-life stability and partnerships, we are getting closer to innovation through our more, which can make our entire value chain operationalizing new technologies for the Alpha Strauss initiative more efficient and help conserve resources. benefit of the entire food industry and its Technology and innovation is critical to Technology is a key to healthy choices for consumers. Internally, we have nominated improving the efficiency of our value chain. our business and for our consumers. 32 Alpha Agents as specialist resources in In some cases, innovation will lead us to our company that are available to support develop entirely new products, which offer Following the launch of Alpha Strauss last and progress innovative ideas. We hosted breakthrough advantages in consumer year, we continued to discover and invest our second Alpha Strauss conference with experience and other tangible consumer in technologies for greater efficiencies participation of 150 entrepreneurs and benefit. In other cases, product and in energy consumption, wastewater, representatives of investment funds and process enhancements achieved through and packaging. We also formed new government officials. Alpha Strauss We launched Alpha Strauss in 2012 with a vision to accelerate the development of the Israeli Food Tech Community. Alpha Strauss is the community we created for inventors, entrepreneurs, nutrition specialists and food scientists in Israel. We encourage them to come together to solve key food industry challenges by using and leveraging the local start-up community with its innovative minds and affinity for disruptive change. The community is nurtured by Strauss, and we support innovators through knowledge sharing, financial support for feasibility assessments, access to equipment, research and business development guidance. Since 2012, our Alpha Strauss team has screened over 500 technologies, 40 are under evaluation process, 20 are in development, and 4 technologies are close to operationalization. | 57 In 2013, our Alpha Strauss team and MassChallenge partnered to launch a food-focused accelerator program based in Israel. Alpha Strauss MassChallenge In 2013, our Alpha Strauss team and MassChallenge partnered to launch a food-focused accelerator program based in Israel. The program, drawing on our food technology expertise and the proven experience of MassChallenge in nurturing young companies and ideas, MassChallenge accepts entrepreneurs from around the world with food-tech related ideas or MassChallenge (U.S.) is the world's largest accelerator for startups, holding an annual start-up companies. In partnership with technology competition for thousands of startups from around the world. Accelerators MassChallenge, we will establish a foodhelp entrepreneurs or early-stage start-ups launch full-fledged businesses more quickly tech Center of Excellence in Israel, led than they would without outside assistance. Help is provided in the form of access to by Alpha Strauss. The center will help advisory resources, potential customers, regulators and funding. entrepreneurs participate in the global MassChallenge program in the U.S., with Since 2010, the 489 start-ups accelerated by an aim to attract more entrepreneurs and MassChallenge have raised over $472 million technologies and help position Israel as a powerhouse in food technology with global in funding, generated $194 million in revenue reach. This collaboration provides another platform for the Alpha community of and created 3,928 jobs. entrepreneurs to develop their technologies and bring them closer to market. 58 | Alpha Strauss innovation packs of salty snacks, piloting the process biodegradable packaging in our salty snacks plant in Israel to produce One current example of a potentially the first commercial scale run of salty successful innovation supported by snacks in biodegradable packaging by Tipa. Alpha Strauss is a new form of flexible We expect to be ready to go to market by biodegradable packaging for food products. 2015. Tipa's technology and potential has During 2013, we collaborated with the Israeli already attracted much attention and, in woman-owned start-up company, Tipa early 2014, Tipa was successful in securing Corp. to help develop a flexible packaging funding of $10 million from a new investor. product. Developing recyclable packaging We are pleased that the support provided options has been a challenge for the by Alpha Strauss was able to contribute to industry and in many cases, such as flexible this significant progress. packs for salty snacks, no viable solution has This is an opportunity to test our been achieved. In general, only 5 percent of Alpha Strauss innovation product in the field. Receiving feedback from the industry is crucial salty snack packages tend to be recycled. wastewater treatment With Tipa, we hope to revolutionize the for the success of the product and Another unique innovation is currently sustainable packaging landscape. to our growth as a company. Strauss being piloted through the Alpha Strauss supports us by providing access to community. In 2013, Strauss Israel Tipa Corp developed a unique multitheir factory for conducting product collaborated with a start-up in wastewater layered biodegradable film intended for the trials, and receiving the feedback technology, AMTR Scientific Ltd. to pilot manufacture of flexible food and beverage we need to improve our product and an innovative wastewater treatment packaging. Packaging materials based on bring it to market. device. Our pilot program used a small the Tipa film are fully bio-degradable in 180 mobile treatment device to test the days, after industrial composting. Strauss Daphna Nissenbaum technology on small amounts of water. and Tipa are currently collaborating on CEO, Tipa Corp Ltd. The device is transferrable between our testing and matching this technology to plants in Israel and its effectiveness can therefore be easily tested on different wastewater types. In 2013, the first pilot in our salads plant in Karmiel gave good results, reducing suspended solids and COD (chemical oxygen demand, an effective measure of water quality) way below regulatory limit. This has typically not been possible in standard wastewater treatment technologies. We plan to expand testing to more plants in 2014. | 59 Operational reduce risk of workplace injury. Since last year, we have mapped our entire operations Excellence in Australia In 2013, we expanded our Obela manufacturing excellence in Israel to identify automation efficiency opportunities and adopted a five-year operations to Australia, establishing a manufacturing plant to deliver a variety of In 2013, within the context of our multiplan for implementation. In 2013, we premium spreads and dips, including hummusyear Operational Excellence program, which implemented several programs in different based spreads in different flavors such as roasted embraces continuous improvement in facilities to add end-of-line robots to capsicum, zesty jalapeno and savory garlic. Our many parts of our supply chain activities, replace manual lifting of product cartons operations in Obela Australia now employ 70 we placed a high focus on automation of to pallets and for pallet transportation people. We established our manufacturing processes to create greater efficiencies, within warehouses. Another example is operations in accordance with the same high production consistency and improved automated removal of products that do not operational excellence standards that we expect precision and quality. Additionally, meet quality standards from packing lines, from our plants all around the world. In the first automation removes much of the heavy improving accuracy and overall product year of operation, Obela achieved impressive manual work, such as lifting, which helps quality levels. energy and emissions efficiencies. Energy consumption GHG emissions per ton Water consumption 2013 per ton of product of production per ton of product Obela 2.01 0.11 7.53 Strauss Group all operations 3.70 0.32 3.54 Operational Excellence Operational Excellence is a program • Streamlining operations launched in 2009 in Strauss Israel. • Lean production It includes: • Reduced resource consumption • Reduced waste • Culture of excellence • Consistent work processes • Empowering employees • Collaboration between business units • Improving production metrics • Shared best practices • Improving quality • Consistent measures and metrics 60 | Managing Focused improvements at Karmiel factory In our fresh salads factory in Karmiel in Israel for example, we achieved impressive results in 2013: energy, emissions, Karmiel Salads Change 2012 2013 factory from 2012 water and waste We continue to drive operational Energy intensity GJ/ton of production 2.97 2.69 -9% 0.36 0.35 -4% efficiencies and identify GHG emissions opportunities to improve our intensity environmental impacts through tons CO2e/ton of production adopting new technologies and different ways of working. Throughout our different facilities around the world, our manufacturing operations seek to optimize Water intensity m3/ton of production 5.97 5.62 -6% This was achieved through detailed attention to compressor control systems to attain maximum production processes through all aspects of resource consumption at every stage energy efficiency. Further energy savings were identifying areas of opportunity to of the factory operation. Annual improvement achieved by turning off non-essential systems use fewer of the planet's resources targets in the factory are established by the nineat the weekend. For example, we changed the and divert more waste from landfill member factory management team, and resources settings of our ice making system which normally through recycling. are assigned for implementation of agreed plans. works through the night, to stop during the Actual consumption is monitored in real-time, weekend while the factory is not in production. enabling factory managers (and all operators Water savings were achieved in 2013 through in the factory) to see exactly how the factory is a combination of equipment upgrades and performing and identify problems as they occur, process improvements. Filters on the vegetables and take immediate corrective action. Progress is washing system were changed to a higher quality reported weekly to all factory employees. alternative to avoid blockage, and improvements In 2013, one project reduced energy consumption were made to peeling processes to reduce water through a recalibration of air and cooling consumption. | 61 Group energy, emissions, water most of our total increase that year. Similar Additional and waste performance in 2013 effects were noted across other metrics. In addition, one of the factories employs an environmental Overall, our environmental results in 2013 unavoidably resource-intensive process for initiatives in 2013 do not fully reflect similar positive initiatives the manufacture of freeze-dried instant Strauss Coffee: at Strauss plants around the world, with coffee, having little effect on production carbon footprint analysis an increase in energy, emissions, water volumes, with just 2% of overall annual and waste levels on a group-wide absolute tons produced, but a far more significant In 2013, Strauss Coffee undertook a carbon basis. We record overall impacts through effect on energy consumption, emissions footprint assessment on two products, MK Café our factories each year – we do not correct and waste, contributing 10 percent, 7.5 premium 250g pack and Chyornaya Karta Gold retroactively for addition of factories. In percent and 13 percent respectively to these 100g jar, to identify opportunities for reducing 2013, we added three sites in Europe to environmental impacts. This had the effect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Carbon our overall operations and data collection of making our overall efficiency levels appear footprint analysis measures the GHG emissions that contributed 11.5% increase in overall worse in 2013. We are working to improve emitted directly and indirectly through the life energy consumption, which represents this position. cycle of a single product. For coffee, the entire 62 | Total energy consumption Total water consumption Total greenhouse gas increased by 15% in 2013 increased by 14% emissions increased by group-wide. On a relative in 2013 group-wide. 1% in 2013 group-wide. basis, per ton of product, On a relative basis, On a relative basis, per this increase was 9%. per ton of product, this ton of product, this increase was 8%. decreased by 1%. raw materials to the production facilities, confirm compliance of all our WaterBar emissions from direct fuel use and electricity models with the Energy Star certification use at the production facilities and emissions program. Energy Star is a voluntary related to product packaging including labeling program designed to identify and emissions from production and transportation promote energy-efficient products. It is a of the packaging. joint program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Our first stage analysis helped us understand Department of Energy. Energy Star the differences in emission sources for certification is a way of confirming to our carbon footprint includes emissions from different products, requiring tailored consumers that they have selected one coffee cultivation, transportation of coffee to solutions for emissions reduction. In 2014, of the most energy-efficient appliances production facilities, processing and packing based on these analyses, we will focus on available, both saving money in energy at production facilities, retail distribution reducing GHG emissions during the coffee in their homes while supporting the of the finished product, use of the coffee roast and grinding stages and also in the area sustainability of our planet. product by consumers in the coffee-making of reducing packaging materials impacts. In In addition, at Strauss Water, we have process in the home, and disposal of any the future, we intend to explore additional been improving the environmental residual coffee and packaging. aspects of the supply chain, including coffee impacts of our packaging, replacing cultivation and consumer use phases. laminated filter packs with cardboard, In this first analysis, we limited our scope to along with other initiatives. focus on those aspects of the coffee supply chain over which we have control and can Strauss Water: reasonably collect reliable data. This relates to reducing energy consumption the stages included from the port of origin of We aim to minimize the environmental the coffee to our finished goods warehouses. impact of our WaterBars throughout their It covers emissions from transportation of lifecycle, and in 2013, we were delighted to | 63 Biodegradable Products Institute. All plastic containers and bottles discarded of our different products now have after consumption of dairy products, environmentally friendly profiles – paper collected in more than 100 locations cups, coffee cup sleeves, trays and cookie around the country, yielding more than bags are made with post-consumer 2,000 packaging units in just a few weeks. Max Brenner: recycled content and are recyclable, Since 2011, more than 200,000 salty green disposable coffee cups compostable and nontoxic. Printing uses snacks packs were collected through the In 2013, Max Brenner launched Fast Max , water or vegetable-based inks. Now Max participation of schools and youth groups a line of disposable takeaway packaging Benner customers can make positive in over 650 collection points around the that is environmentally friendly. One cup choices for the environment as they enjoy country. The unique TerraCycle model consumed per day generates around 10 their daily coffee and cookies. connects recycling with community kilograms of waste packaging every year. involvement, encouraging consumers to As we sell more than 600 cups per day, the bring their Strauss packaging waste to potential for landfill avoidance is over 6 Strauss Israel: collection points throughout the country. tons per year. recycling since 2011 At the same time, consumers select a social The Fast Max line includes plastic In Israel, we continue to involve everyone cause and Strauss Israel donates almost cups and lids made entirely from in recycling through our partnership with $3 for each 200 packs recycled. TerraCycle plant sources, certified 100 percent of the organization TerraCycle. In early 2014, repurposes the materials received into waste compostable by the U.S.-based we expanded the program to include affordable, innovative products. 64 | Engaging employees in environmental stewardship Our employees are critical ambassadors reducing electricity consumption, water consumption, in our program to reduce environmental waste and increasing recycling. We conducted an impacts and conserve resources. They employee survey addressing employee consumption play a big role in every aspect of our habits and environmental behavior and provided operations and help ensure we adhere recommendations for improvement based on the to the best possible environmentally survey results. The 500 employees completing the conscious practices as we make and deliver survey received a financial incentive to support our products. In 2013, we wanted to help environmental investment in their own home. educate and motivate our employees in Strauss Israel to do even more, by showing them how they can benefit personally in their homes. In 2013, we launched our employee environmental program, Think Green and Save Money . The program aims to provide employees with tools to help them save money through | 65 Engaging stakeholders Stakeholder engagement in action Our stakeholders include groups or individuals that are affected by our business activities, whether directly or indirectly. Stakeholders also affect the way we do business through the way they engage with us as consumers, employees, business partners, customers, health and nutrition professionals, local communities, suppliers, regulators, environmental associations and shareholders. We engage in a dialogue with our stakeholders in order to understand their expectations and concerns and update them about our activities and impacts on their quality of life. We aim to support our stakeholders in the pursuit of healthy lifestyles by making more healthy choices available through our products and our different business activities. We engage in different ways, according to the needs of different stakeholder groups. Our approach to stakeholder engagement has been redefined to support a 360 degree perspective. During 2013, we developed a program and supporting tools to help managers understand stakeholder interfaces in all aspects of their internal and external interactions, and ensure that stakeholder perspectives are taken into account at an early stage across diverse decisions that are made each day. In 2014, we are providing training to managers in the use of these new tools so that we can further adapt our practices to reflect an understanding of multiple needs. In 2013, we realigned the way we view our stakeholder groups to be consistent with our 2020 Sustainability Strategy. We again conducted specific consultation with stakeholders for the purpose of helping to define the highest priority sustainability issues for Strauss Group, and to gain their input as we prepare our annual sustainability report. Please read more about that in the section Determining our priority sustainability issues earlier in this report. On a regular basis, however, we maintain a multitude of channels and formats for engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders. 68 | Our stakeholders Colleagues Our colleagues include all our managers and direct employees, and all contract employees that are engaged in advancing our business activities in all of our companies around the world. Colleagues expect us to provide an empowering, safe and inclusive working environment that enables them to make healthy choices in their work and personal lives. We frequently engage with our colleagues in regular performance discussions, satisfaction surveys, a range of internal communications initiatives and many formal and informal channels so that we can understand their expectations and concerns. Consumers Our consumers, and those that represent their interests, such as nutrition and diet experts, are directly affected by the range, composition, quality and availability of the products we bring to market. Consumers want quality, taste, and variety, so that they can consume our products in ways which support their own choices for healthy lifestyles. They expect us to be transparent about the ingredients we use, and provide responsive service if they have a query or concern. In this group, we also include our retail and wholesale customers that sell our products directly to consumers. We engage with our consumers and customers daily, through our call center, market research, and a wide range of interactions in the marketplace as well as through social media. Citizenship Shareowners Partners Suppliers Regulators and investors Industry Community Environmental associations groups groups Stakeholders that represent the citizenship dimension of our sustainability approach are a diverse group with divers interests, expectations and concerns. We engage with each group in accordance with their specific expectations and requirements of Strauss Group. Channels of dialogue include meetings, participation in conferences, working groups, discussion forums, social media and formal communications via our established corporate channels. | 69 Reaching out of thousands of consumers through our our Facebook page we post a corporate to consumers different digital channels. responsibility related article every Monday. We maintain good relations with CR bloggers We maintain Facebook pages, a Twitter and in 2013, we participated in #CSRChat, an The key to meeting consumer needs is account, a YouTube Channel, and an online Twitter discussion lasting one hour on understanding them. Through an intensive Instagram account along with our own the subject of our last sustainability report. program of market research and qualitative platforms such as our informative corporate and quantitative tools, we are able to identify website, our blog, our “My Strauss” We support online interaction through our product innovation that will provide consumers community initiative and more. Throughout Digital Media Innovation team that identifies with a wider variety of healthy choices, and the year, we use these platforms to engage new technology platforms for digital opportunities to lead healthier lifestyles. consumers in different ways. For example, interactions with consumers. In 2013, we in 2013, we conducted ten Ask the Expert introduced two new platforms. Trendimon In 2013, we reached more than 80,000 events hosted on the Strauss Group Facebook sharing platform is now used in our My consumers in Israel in more than 330 page. These events offered our consumers Strauss website, rewarding consumers with specific unique market research initiatives. the opportunity to learn from experts about benefits for sharing content on the website We employ a range of channels, including food and nutrition related topics. Also, on and attracting new members. Roojoom is a social media, focus groups, internet polling reading tool that helps consumers interact and targeted interviews. We are constantly with useful content we provide, including What adopting the latest technologies and recipes, tips and tricks and more. advanced methodologies to help develop consumers an even greater understanding of how consumers want to pursue healthy lifestyles My Strauss website and other issues that are important to them. need My Strauss is a website we created especially for our consumers in Israel, inviting them to Our consumers tell us they want to take part in our innovation process, providing Strong online be involved. They want to be part of feedback, offering suggestions and trying the way we develop new ideas and out products during the development phase. presence new products, and communicate At the end of 2013, we relaunched the My about them. Consumers want to Strauss website to offer community members create content. They want us to We maintain a strong presence online using improved value with bigger discounts, new follow their lead, listen and react. our own digital assets and other social media product tasting and early advice of new platforms to connect with our consumers, product launches. Since the site's launch in inform them of new products and hear Ilanit Vardimon 2011, over 18,000 consumers have become their insights, requests and demands. In Consumer and Market members. They sent us more than 38,000 2013, we directly interacted with hundreds Research Director ideas, leading to 28 product launches. 70 | Engaging with industry and social organizations Strauss leadership is active in several forums, and we participate in many different groups and associations both locally in Israel and around the world. Examples of voluntary governance positions maintained by our leadership are: Ofra Strauss Gadi Lesin Strauss Group Chairperson Strauss Group President • Chair of Maala, Business for Social and CEO Responsibility: Maala is a not-for• Member of the Prime Minister of Israel’s profit organization which aims Round Table Forum: Gadi Lesin was to advance sustainable business selected as one of eleven members of practices in Israel. Ofra completed a this collaborative Round Table which three year term as Chair at the end aims to address social issues through of 2013. collaboration between the public, private • President of Jasmine: Jasmine, the Association of Businesswomen in and non-profit sectors. Israel, was established to realize the economic potential of Jewish and • Chairman of the Manufacturers' Council of the Manufacturers' Association of Arab businesswomen. Israel: The Manufacturers’ Association represents all industry sectors in the • Chair of the Israel-America Chamber of Commerce: The IACC is a local and international markets. voluntary organization dedicated to the promotion of trade and • Director of Shabal (“Healthy Teeth for All”), Israel: Shabal is a non-profit investment between Israel and the U.S. association that provides access to affordable or no-cost oral healthcare for underprivileged individuals. | 71 Catalyst The organizations we engage Catalyst is a global non-profit organization which aims to expand opportunities for women and business. Catalyst, with the help with on a regular basis include of its partners around the world, performs studies to track the those that address both representation of women on boards and senior management using Catalyst Census methodology. Strauss is a Catalyst Census Partner in global and local social and Israel and has executed the Catalyst Census in Israel for the past four environmental causes. years. www.catalyst.org Manufacturers' Association of Israel The United Nations Global Compact Strauss is an active member, supporting the This is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to Association and its sector-specific Food Industries aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted Association in promoting industry interests and principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antihelping advance causes for the benefit of the food and corruption. Strauss Group has been a member of the Global Compact manufacturing sectors in Israel. Strauss also chairs the Association's since 2008 and is committed to upholding the ten principles of Business Forum on Corruption and Bribery. Strauss Group President responsible business and reporting transparently every year on and CEO, Gadi Lesin, is the Chairman of the Manufacturers' Council of progress. www.unglobalcompact.org the Manufacturers' Association of Israel. www.industry.org.il/Eng 72 | Maala Business for Social Access Israel Responsibility Access Israel is a non-profit organization that promotes Maala is a not-for-profit organization which aims to accessibility for people with disabilities, and supports advance sustainable business practices in Israel and their integration into society. Strauss Israel is a member publishes an annual corporate social responsibility of the Business Accessibility Forum, which includes over ranking of Israeli companies. Strauss Group has participated in this 35 Israeli companies. This membership constitutes a annual ranking since its inception and in 2013, achieved the highest commitment to promote accessibility within our organization and possible ranking, Platinum Plus. Strauss Group Chairperson, Ofra through our services and products. www.aisrael.org Strauss completed a three year term as Chair of Maala at the end of 2013. www.maala.org.il ‫בעצמי הביטוח הלאומי המרכז להכשרה‬ ‫ושיקום מקצועי טק קריירה מטה מאבק הנכים‬ The Israeli Forum for TRANSPARENCY Transparency ‫ערבי‬-‫ ישראל המרכז היהודי‬Manpower Diversity Hiring INTERNATIONAL 2000 ‫לפיתוח כלכלי עולים ביחד ציונות‬ the global coalition against corruption International (TI) Israel UJA-Federation of New York ‫קו משווה תבת‬ ‫ ג'וינט ישראל‬,‫מיסודה של תבת‬ This is a non-profit organization Transparency International is a global movement that works to advancing the integration of eliminate corruption in government, business and civil society. Strauss disadvantaged populations into the workplace in Israel, established by supports the efforts of the organization to promote transparency, the Joint Distribution Committee of Israel. We are an active member ethics and responsibility. www.transparency.org of the Forum. www.diversityisrael.org.il | 73 Supporting our community Investing in Kav Mashve social causes We support counseling projects for young adults from the Arab We collaborate with 40 community partners population. in Israel, supporting a range of social causes with a focus on employment for diverse Elem (Youth in Distress) populations and women's empowerment. Our We support an employment project active partnerships include: for young adults in peripheral areas. Yedid The association for Economic Empowerment community empowerment for Women (EEW) Strauss Coffee Romania invited children with special needs from a We support employment courses for women We support employment projects local school to visit the factory during Strauss Group CSR Day 2013. that have left the job market and need for women from the Jewish and Arab guidance and training to rebuild their careers. populations. around our factories in the northern periphery of Israel. Be-Atzmi The Abraham Fund See also the section on Diversity in everything We support training for disadvantaged We support employment training and we do for more initiatives supporting diversity populations from diverse backgrounds to help community leadership programs for in employment and education. them integrate into the job market. women from the Arab communities Our cash and product donations and Community investment ($million) employee volunteering efforts also support the work of organizations throughout Israel that advance social causes such as accessibility 2011 2012 2013 for persons with disabilities, shelters for 1.13 0.73 1.10 Financial disadvantaged youth and socio-economic donations development in peripheral cities. Product donations cost value 1.87 1.56 1.45 Supporting education in Strauss Coffee Romania 0.21 0.22 0.86 Value of employee In 2013, we partnered with two social volunteering time and organizations, World Vision and School of management costs Values, to launch a three year program of non3.21 2.51 3.41 formal education for 100 young people from TOTAL disadvantaged communities. The program includes factory visits to expose students to different types of roles in industry. 74 | In 2013, we donated 600 tons of unsalable Investing in food items to Leket Israel and to Latet, hunger relief thereby diverting waste from landfill and In Israel, hundreds of thousands tons of food more importantly, providing nutritious are wasted every year. This includes products that have reached their sell-by date, food that and delicious food to thousands of Israelis is not suitable for marketing (but is suitable who are unable to meet their food needs for eating) for various reasons, and excess or unmarketable agricultural produce. Over without support. 1.8 million people in Israel suffer from food insecurity and are desperately in need of that same food that goes to waste every day. Investing in Window to the Future education Leket Israel National Food Bank and Latet Strauss Israel's dairy plant in Achihud in Israel Israeli Humanitarian Aid are the two leading and career has participated in the Window to the Future non-profit food banks in Israel. We prefer program since 2011. This program enables that the food waste we generate is put to opportunities youth from underprivileged communities productive use, rather than clogging up our to learn about the job market and the landfills. Therefore, we donate unsalable food challenges and opportunities of having a to Leket and Latet for distribution to those job. Teens joining the program are between Leap to Industry the ages of 16 and 18 and have dropped in need. Both Latet and Leket Israel conform to the highest standards of food safety when Strauss's factory in Upper Nazareth invests out of every other educational structure. By and redistributing our products. In 2013, we in youth employability and participated, for working with Strauss team members, these donated 600 tons of unsalable food items to the second year, in the Leap to Industry young people gain a unique opportunity Leket Israel and to Latet, thereby diverting program that encourages disadvantaged to experience work first-hand and receive waste from landfill and more importantly, teens to learn about industry and develop personal coaching and assistance. More providing nutritious and delicious food to skills to help them secure a job when they than 15 individuals have participated in this thousands of Israelis who are unable to meet graduate from high school. The factory program since we started in 2011. their food needs without support. hired twelfth grade students from local technical schools to work in the factory two days a week and during holidays while Aiming for Success completing their high school studies. Strauss Water once again supported Aiming for Working on the production floor, students Success, a program that supports young adults gain professional skills in a real factory in developing career paths. We partnered environment and gain confidence in with a local community organization to their ability to contribute in a meaningful support a group of young 19 adults from the job in the future. Ethiopian community in Israel to help them acquire tools to guide them through the first steps of deciding on academic studies and seeking employment. 20 managers at Strauss Water participated in delivering courses and providing mentorship for the students. | 75 Governance and ethics Governance The Strauss Group Board of Directors is comprised of 12 members, of which 5 are women. Five are independent (including two public directors). None of the Directors are members of the executive management team or hold any management or other position in the Group. Eight members of the Board have been identified as having financial and accounting skills as defined by regulation. Strauss Group Board Composition, 2013 Men Women 2 under 60 2 under 60 Our Board of Directors maintains five committees which assist the Board in carrying out its duties. 4 60-70 2 60-70 Committee Audit Committee Purpose The Audit Committee is charged mainly with oversight of the 1 over 70 1 over 70 Financial Statements internal auditor, and internal audit reports, and risk management. This Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial 7(58 ) 5(42 ) Review Committee reporting and financial statements and reports. Finance Committee The role of the Finance Committee is primarily to provide financial % % oversight for the organization. Human Resources The role of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and Compensation is to ensure that the Company's compensation program is Committee consistent with the Company’s stated compensation strategy and the requirements of regulatory bodies. Investment and M&A This is an ad-hoc committee that reconvenes to review Committee investments and M&A opportunities. 76 | Managing corporate responsibility We manage our corporate responsibility • The Corporate Social Council was created We manage efforts within a leadership matrix structure in 2011 and is comprised of a group of of global and local managers and trustees senior executives representing corporate our corporate who define and execute strategy, create work plans, and communicate with employees. and Strauss Israel leadership. The council provides direction and support for responsibility Michael Avner is Strauss Group’s General stakeholder engagement at different levels efforts within a leadership matrix Counsel and Company Secretary, and is and helps ensure opportunities for dialogue the Group Management Team member are realized. responsible for CR. The CR Director reports to structure of global him. He oversees and updates the Board of • Corporate Responsibility Trustees represent Directors and Group Management Team on business units from all Strauss Group and local managers CR performance and opportunities. The team responsible for advancing CR includes: companies and help manage CR activities in their operations. Thirty-five trustees meet and trustees who annually, receive training in CR related define and execute strategy, create • Corporate Responsibility Director, Daniela issues, and act as a divisional contact point Prusky-Sion, is responsible for developing to reinforce progress, communications global corporate CR Strategy and ensuring and ethical behavior. In 2013, the trustees work plans, and a framework of implementations across our supported the Strauss Group 2020 global business divisions. Daniela also directs Sustainability Strategy development, communicate with the development of our annual CR report including participating in a review and employees. and represents Strauss Group in external CR discussion with Gadi Lesin, Strauss Group conferences and networks. President and CEO. • Community Leaders act as coordinators between local community partners and our different business units. They work with community partners to identify local needs, execute activities, maintain relationships and engage employees in volunteering activities. Community Leaders in Israel meet annually to review progress and share ideas. | 77 Ethics Risk We aim to ensure that we operate in line with the highest ethical standards at all times and Management maintain an ethical business culture. Our We analyze and assess business, social Code of Ethics, which is translated into eleven and environmental risks, and undertake languages, is available to all employees at each appropriate safeguarding measures as part of our sites around the world, on our intranet of our precautionary approach. The Audit portal, and available to all on our corporate Committee of the Board of Directors of website. All new employees receive ethics Strauss Group supervises and assesses risks training upon joining the company. Every site, identified and directs appropriate action factory and logistics center has a dedicated within the companies in the Group. In 2013, ethics corner, where employees can find the we conducted a full risk survey. For more Code of Ethics, as well as a booklet illustrating information on Risk Management, please see ethical dilemmas and the appropriate our 2013 Annual Report. responses. An Ethics Trustee is appointed in Compliance each of our business units as a point of contact for employee questions, or for reporting suspected ethical breaches. The thirty-five Internal compliance audits by an independent Ethics Trustees in Strauss Group implement auditor take place at each of the Strauss Group ethics training and monitor performance. sites around the world. In 2013, 23 percent of our sites and business units worldwide New Code of Ethics underwent an audit to monitor compliance e-learning module with laws and regulations and internal In 2013, we launched a computerized learning company policies. Areas of focus included module to refresh knowledge of our Code of ethics, prevention of sexual harassment, Ethics. The module provides an efficient, insafety, environmental performance, food depth learning process and requires passing safety, information security, workplace and a short exam upon completion. In 2013, employee rights, and policies regarding 1,500 employees in Israel completed the donations. Subsequently, our internal ethics computerized learning module. Other auditor recommended actions which we are employees have completed face to face ethics implementing during 2014. training throughout the year. In line with regulatory requirements, Strauss We maintain an open 24-hour hotline through Group maintains compliance programs which Strauss Group employees around the for enforcement of securities and antiworld are encouraged to report any breaches trust law. In 2013, we implemented a of the Code of Ethics, without fear of reprisal. computerized learning module on these The hotline is accessible through phone subjects, designed for senior managers or via the Strauss website. In 2013, seven and employees from the finance, legal and approaches were received to the hotline and communications departments. all were investigated and resolved. 78 | | 79 About our reporting This is our seventh annual Sustainability advanced sustainability reporting and interests), Sustainability Context Report and it describes our approach framework available today. The Global (presenting our performance in to sustainability and the key actions Reporting Initiative is a not-for-profit the wider context of sustainability we have taken during 2013 to advance multi-stakeholder organization which issues) and Completeness (inclusion responsible and sustainable practices acts to increase the level of business of all the information that reflects in our global business. It is designed transparency through sustainability significant economic impacts in order to provide our stakeholders with a reporting among companies to enable stakeholders to assess our transparent account of our impacts on throughout the world. The main tool performance). society and environment. In all cases, for assimilating sustainability reporting data relates to the 2013 calendar year is the GRI reporting framework, which We do not seek external assurance for unless otherwise stated. Our last report contains detailed guidelines for our report, due to resource limitations, was published during 2013 covering the reporting on sustainability impacts but external consultants and reporting calendar year 2012. and provides a consistent structure experts assist in our report preparation that thousands of companies around and support environmental data In developing this report, we have the world use to disclose performance collection including scrutiny of data and considered input from our primary related to sustainability. Over 7,000 data collection processes. This report stakeholders, employees and sustainability reports were published in also complies with our commitment to consumers, and additional stakeholders 2013 by companies all over the world, submit an annual Communication on where appropriate. The Corporate many of them using the GRI framework. Progress to the UN Global Compact. Responsibility Director and other The most recent version of the GRI Strauss Group executives determined framework, G4, was launched in May More information about Strauss Group the selection of content for this report 2013. For more information, please see: can be found on our corporate global based on an assessment of material www.globalreporting.org. website, www.strauss-group.com, and issues, including those known to be the websites of our subsidiary companies important to stakeholders and following This report is in accordance with the (accessible via our global website). specific consultation with experts on principles for defining report content priority sustainability issues. set out in the G4 guidelines. These are: Materiality (the issues most important This report is in accordance with the for our long-term business growth Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 and which are of most importance to sustainability reporting guidelines at stakeholders), Stakeholder Inclusiveness Core level, that represents the most (responding to stakeholder expectations 80 | Notes to data collection Environmental data collection includes all the sites listed in the table below on the basis of operational control, and covers more than 90% of our total production operations. Country Location Main Activity Built area Included in our data (m2) collection 2011 2012 2013 Australia Cavan, South Australia Production of dips** 2,000 N/A r a Brazil Santa Luzia, near Belo Production of roast and ground coffee 12,800 a a a Horizonte in Minas Gerais and cappuccino. state Brazil In Eusébio, in the state of Production of roast and ground coffee. 4,650 a a a Ceará Brazil Natal in Rio Grande do Production of coffee, chocolate and 8,100 a a a Norte state cappuccino. Brazil Nova Iguaçu, in the state Production of filter paper for filter 3,150 a a a of Rio coffee. de Janeiro Brazil Mossoro Rio Grande do Production of corn products and drink 13,200 r r r Norte state powders. Brazil Varginha, in Minas Processing of green coffee. 7,300 r r r Gerais state China ShangHai Strauss Water offices. r r r China Changzhen Strauss Water offices and outsourced r r r production. Germany Upahl Instant coffee production. 11,608 N/A r a Israel Achihud Production of dairy products. 21,000 a a a Israel Nazareth Production of chocolate, 35,000 a a a candy and gum. Israel Beit Shemesh Max Brenner chocolates. 2,300 a a a Israel Shderot Salty snacks production. 10,000 a a a Israel Yotvata Production of milk beverages and 6,100 a a a enriched milk. Israel Netivot Production of dairy products. 2,020 a a a Israel Carmiel Production of salads. 9,000 a a a Israel Sde Nitzan Cutting, mixing and packaging of fresh 2,560 a a a refrigerated vegetables. Israel Yad Mordechai Production of honey products, olive oil 4,300 a a a and jams. | 81 Country Location Main Activity Built area Included in our data (m2) collection 2011 2012 2013 Israel Haifa Bay Refrigerated distribution in Israel. 4,735 a a a Israel Acre Logistics center. 8,695 a a Israel Petach Tikva Refrigerated distribution in Israel. 5,790 a a a Israel Beit Shemesh Refrigerated distribution in Israel. 390 a a a Israel Beersheba Refrigerated distribution in Israel. 4,920 a a a Israel Zerifin Refrigerated distribution in Israel. 19,000 a a a Israel Safed Production of instant coffee. 5,300 a a a Israel Lod Production of roast and ground coffee 4,441 a a a and choco powder. Israel Petach Tikvah Corporate Head Offices. 2,500 a a a Israel Nativ HaLamed He Strauss Water plant. 6,092 a a a Kibbutz Israel Or Yehuda Strauss Water headquarters. 6,760 a a a Israel Lod Strauss Water storage unit. 1,250 r a a Mexico Mexico City Production of chilled salads and dips. 1,639 N/A r r Poland In Swadzim, near Poznan Production of roast and ground coffee. 11,540 a a a Romania Bucharest Production of roast and ground coffee 4,365 a a a and instant coffee. Russia Strunino, Vladimir Production of roast and ground coffee 13,370 r r a District and a packaging plant for freeze-dried instant coffee, chicory, etc. Serbia Simanovci, near Production of roast and ground coffee. 8,500 a a a Belgrade Netherlands Amsterdam Strauss Coffee Global HQ . N/A r a UK Guildford, Surrey Strauss Water Offices and sales r r r organization. U.S. Virginia Production of chilled salads and dips. 10,630 a a a U.S. Virginia*** Sabra headquarters a a a U.S. Oceanside, California**** Production of salsa dips. 3,700 r r r U.S. Farmingdale, NY**** Production of dairy dips. 3,900 r r r U.S. Philadelphia, Boston, Las Max Brenner Headquarters and a a a Vegas, New York City Chocolate Bars ***** * In addition, selected data has been collected from 55 points of retail coffee sales in Israel. ** Data from Obela Australia includes only total employee numbers, energy and water consumption and GHG emissions. *** Data from Sabra headquarters excludes environmental data. **** Our Sabra Plants in Oceanside, California, and Farmingdale, NY currently have no reporting infrastructure in place. These sites constitute less than 10% of Sabra production. ***** Data from Max Brenner U.S. excludes environmental data. 82 | Energy consumption where locally published electricity operations including contract and Biomass used in Israel and Serbia is company conversion factors are used. supervised employees, and 12,426 classed as renewable biomass. Renewable biomass has zero carbon direct employees. Employee data in this emissions (CDP). report is based on the total of 12,556 Carbon Emissions direct employees. This gap is due to Carbon emission conversions Employees minor differences in reporting cut-off use latest available GHG Protocol In our 2013 Annual Report, the dates between the different Strauss conversion factors in each country of number of direct employees was companies and differences in the scope operation, with the exception of Israel, reported as 13,565 in our global of data covered in both reports. GRI G4 content index G4 General standard disclosures Page/Link External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker Message from our leadership: page 4 None. of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Strauss at a glance: page 6 None. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Strauss at a glance: page 6, 7 None. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Strauss at a glance: page 6 None. G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization Strauss at a glance: page 7 None. operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Strauss at a glance: page 6 None. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic Strauss at a glance: page 6, 7 None. breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). | 83 G4 General standard disclosures Page/Link External Assurance G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: Total Page 88 None. number of employees; Total number of operations; Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organization); Quantity of products or services provided. G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment Page 88 None. contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by 46% of our global workforce is covered by None. collective bargaining agreements. Collective Bargaining Agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Ethical Supply Chain: page 50, 51 None. G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting There were no significant changes in our None. period regarding the organization’s size, structure, operations during the reporting period ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or Risk management: page 78 None. principle is addressed by the organization. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and Engaging with industry and social None. social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which organizations: page 72, 73 the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 84 | G4 General standard disclosures Page/Link External Assurance G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry Engaging with industry and social None. associations) and national or international advocacy organizations: page 71 organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance body; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; Views membership as strategic. This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s Notes to data collection: page 81, 82 None. consolidated financial statements or equivalent Entities included in the financial report documents. b. Report whether any entity included in that are excluded from this report: the organization’s consolidated financial statements or • Strauss Water operations in China equivalent documents is not covered by the report. (partnership with Haier) and in the UK (partnership with Virgin). • Max Brenner franchise operations: Israel, Australia, Philippines, Singapore. • Operations of Obela Mexico. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content About our reporting: page 80 None. and the Aspect Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Our priority sustainability issues: None. defining report content. page 18, 19 G4-20 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Page 90 None. within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization. If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material: Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization. | 85 G4 General standard disclosures Page/Link External Assurance G4-21 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Page 90 None. outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization. If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified. Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information There are no restatements of information None. provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such provided in previous reports. restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting There are no significant changes in the None. periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Scope and Aspect Boundaries from previous reporting periods. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Engaging stakeholders: page 68, 69 None. organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of Engaging stakeholders: page 68, 69 None. stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder Engaging stakeholders: page 68, 69 None. engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised Our priority sustainability issues: page 18 None. through stakeholder engagement, and how the Expert Round Table: page 20, 21 organization has responded to those key topics and Perspectives from Aron Cramer: page 22, 23 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for About our reporting: page 80 None. information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About our reporting: page 80 None. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About our reporting: page 80 None. 86 | G4 General standard disclosures Page/Link External Assurance G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Daniela Prusky-Sion, None. report or its contents. Global Corporate Responsibility Manager Strauss Group Hasivim 49, Petah Tikvah, 49517 Israel daniela.sion@strauss-group.com G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization About our reporting: page 80 None. has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the GRI Content Index: page 83 chosen option (see tables below. c. Report the reference This report has not been externally assured. to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice About our reporting: page 80 None. with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, Governance and ethics: page 76 None. including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Our vision and values: page 10 None. and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Ethics: page 78 codes of ethics. | 87 G4-9 Scale of the organization Total number of employees: See our response to G4-10 below Total number of operations: See Notes to data collection above Net sales: See section Strauss at a glance Net revenues: See section Strauss at a glance Total capitalization: See our Annual Report 2013 Quantity of products or services provided: We supplied almost 500,000 tons of food and beverage products in 2013. G4-10 Employees Total number of employees by gender 2012 2013 Male 6,939 7,394 Female 5,243 5,162 Total employees 12,182 12,556 Total number of employees by contract 2012 2013 Permanent contract 11,979 11,928 Temporary contract 203 628 Total employees 12,182 12,556 Total number of employees by type 2012 2013 Full time 11,540 11,014 Part time 823 1,542 Total employees 12,363 12,556 88 | Total number of employees 2012 2013 by region and gender Male Female Total Male Female Total Brazil 2,703 1,356 4,059 2,997 1,436 4,433 Europe 889 601 1,490 994 668 1,662 Israel 2,795 2,863 5,658 2,806 2,588 5,394 U.S. 552 423 975 597 470 1,067 Total employees 6,939 5,243 12,182 7,394 5,162 12,556 Percentage male female 57% 43% 59% 41% Total workforce by employees and supervised workers 2013 and by gender Male Female Total Employees 7,394 5,162 12,556 Supervised workers 401 356 756 Total employees and supervised workers 7,795 5,518 13,312 In Strauss Israel, our local product distribution to small retail outlets is performed by 265 independent distributors that work with Strauss on an exclusive basis. There are no significant seasonal variations when considering our entire product portfolio throughout the year. | 89 G4-20 Internal Aspect Boundaries / G4-21 External Aspect Boundaries Material Aspects Category / Aspect / Indicator Boundary (G4-19) Healthy lifestyles Social: Society: Local communities: G4-SO1 External: impacts consumers Social: Society: Healthy and affordable food: FP4 in all the markets where we Social: Product responsibility: customer health and safety: FP6 operate. Economic: Indirect economic impacts: G4-EC8, FP7 Reduce resource Environmental: Materials: G4-EN1 consumption and Environmental: Energy: G4-EN3, G4-EN5 waste in our value Environmental: Water: G4-EN8 Externak: environmental chain sustainability in all our Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN20, G4-EN21 markets Environmental: Effluents and waste: G4-EN22, G4-EN23 Environmental: Overall: G4-EN31 Clear product Social: Product responsibility: Product and service labeling and labeling: G4-PR3, G4-PR5 External: impacts consumers responsible in the markets where we Social: Marketing communications G4-PR7 marketing operate. Social: Product responsibility: Product and service labeling: FP8 Ethical sourcing and Economic: Procurement practices: FP1, FP2 External: impacts suppliers supply chain and economies in the markets where we operate. Diversity in Social: Diversity and equal opportunity: G4-LA12 Internal: impacts our everything we do employees and their personal Social: Labor practices and decent work: Equal remuneration for women and men: G4-LA13 growth and opportunities Social: Society: Local communities: G4-SO1 External: impacts communities and economic Economic: Procurement practices: G4-EC9 development in the markets where we operate. Engaging our Social: Labor practices and decent work: Employment: G4-LA1 Employees Internal: impacts our Social: Labor practices and decent work: occupational Health and employees, their safety and safety: G4-LA6 wellbeing, and personal Social: Labor practices and decent work: Training and education: growth and opportunities G4-LA10, G4-LA11 90 | Specific standard disclosures Material DMA and Indicators Page/Link Omissions External Aspects Assurance (G4-19) Healthy Social: Society: Local communities: G4-SO1 Supporting our None. lifestyles Percentage of operations with implemented community: page 74, 75 local community engagement, impact 100% of our companies assessments, and development programs. maintain local community engagement programs. Social: Society: Healthy and affordable Food: FP4 Promoting healthy None. Nature, scope and effectiveness of lifestyles: pages 26-31 any programs and practices (in-kind Raising healthy lifestyle contributions, volunteer initiatives, awareness: page 33 knowledge transfer, partnerships and product development) that promote healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. Social: Product Responsibility: Customer health Specific data by sales None. and safety: FP6 and category is not Percentage of total sales volume of consumer available. This is in products, by product category, that are lowered development and we in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and sugars. will report in 2015. Economic: Indirect economic impacts: G4-EC8 Promoting healthy None. Significant indirect economic impacts, lifestyles: pages 26-31 including the extent of impacts. Economic: Indirect economic impacts: FP7 Specific data by sales None. Percentage of total sales volume of consumer and category is not products, by product category sold, that available. This is in contain increased fiber, vitamins, minerals, development and we phytochemicals or functional food additives. will report in 2015. | 91 Material DMA and Indicators Page/Link Omissions External Aspects Assurance (G4-19) Reduce Environmental: Materials: G4-EN1 Page 94 Data covers key None. resource Materials used by weight or volume. materials in Israel consumption only. and waste in our value Environmental: Energy: G4-EN3 Page 95 None. chain Energy consumption within the organization. Environmental: Energy: G4-EN5 Page 95 None. Energy intensity. Environmental: Water: G4-EN8 Page 96 None. Total water withdrawal by source. Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN15 Page 97 None. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN16 Page 97 None. Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN18 Page 98 None. Greenhouse gas emissions intensity. Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN20 Page 98 None. Ozone depleting substances. Environmental: Emissions: G4-EN21 Page 98 None. Emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SOx and PM). Environmental: Effluents and waste: G4-EN22 Page 98 None. Total wastewater pollutant levels. Environmental: Effluents and waste: G4-EN23 Page 99 None. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environmental: Overall: G4-EN31 Resource consumption: Data provided is for None. Total environmental protection expenditures page 56 total expenditures. and investments by type. We do not currently report environmental investment by type. 92 | Material DMA and Indicators Page/Link Omissions External Aspects Assurance (G4-19) Clear product Social: Product responsibility: Product and Product transparency: None. labeling and service labeling : G4-PR3 page 34 responsible Product and service information and labeling. marketing Social: Product responsibility: Product and Customer satisfaction and None. service labeling: G4-PR5 service: page 34, 35 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Social: Marketing communications G4-PR7 No incidences of nonNone. Non-compliance with regulations concerning compliance. marketing communications. Social: Product responsibility: Product and Product transparency: None. service labeling: FP8 page 34 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Ethical Economic: Procurement practices: FP1 Page 99 Data is currently None. sourcing and Percentage of purchased volume from available for our supply chain suppliers compliant with the company’s suppliers in Israel sourcing policy. only Economic: Procurement practices: FP2 Page 99 We currently report None. Percentage of purchased volume which is on procurement verified as being in accordance with credible practices for coffee internationally recognized responsible and cocoa only. production standards, broken down by standard. Diversity in Social: Diversity and equal opportunity: G4-LA12 Governance: page 76 None. everything Composition of governance bodies and Page 99 we do breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Social: Labor Practices and decent work: Equal Page 100 None. Remuneration for women and men: G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men. Social: Society: Local communities: G4-SO1 Advancing women and business None. Percentage of operations with implemented in our community: page 48 local community engagement, impact 100% of our companies maintain assessments, and development programs. local community engagement programs. Economic: Procurement practices: G4-EC9 Ethical supply chain: None. Proportion of spending on local suppliers at page 51 significant locations of operation. | 93 Material DMA and Indicators Page/Link Omissions External Aspects Assurance (G4-19) Engaging our Social: Labor practices and decent work: Page 101 None. Employees Employment: G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Social: Labor practices and decent work: Page 102 Data is not split None. Occupational health and safety: G4-LA6 by gender. Some Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational locations were not diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and able to provide total number of work-related fatalities, by absenteeism region and by gender. information. Social: Labor practices and decent work: Leadership, development None. Training and education: G4-LA10 and training: page 39 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Social: Labor practices and decent work: Page 103 None. Training and education: G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. G4-EN1: Materials We note the volumes of our top four ingredients used in Strauss Israel in 2013. Data for global purchases and other locations is not available at this time. We are improving our data processes and expect to increase our reporting against this indicator in coming years. Four key ingredients: Strauss Israel Tons Cocoa 4,988 Chickpea 4,315 Sugar 16,058 Vegetable oil 4,383 94 | G4-EN3 Energy consumption Total energy consumption All figures in gigajoules 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources (Scope1) Natural Gas 413,503 403,040 421,510 591,817 40% Fuel Oil 135,762 140,796 161,684 134,053 17% Diesel Fuel 94,373 96,901 95,707 91,728 -4% Ethanol 725 1,175 1,255 535 -57% LPG 287,930 289,898 281,495 298,192 6% Gasoline 137,325 117,527 139,298 141,010 1% Total fuel consumption from 1,069,618 1,049,337 1,100,949 1,257,335 14% non-renewable sources Fuel consumption from renewable sources coffee 86,520 91,317 29,734 75,323 153% biomass (Scope 1) Total fuel consumption from renewable 1,156,138 1,140,654 1,130,683 1,332,657 18% and non renewable sources Electricity purchased from grid (Scope 2) 482,608 460,340 473,932 504,855 7% Total energy consumption (Scope 1 & Scope 2) 1,638,746 1,600,994 1,604,615 1,837,512 15% Notes: • We do not purchase heating, cooling or steam, and we do not sell electricity, heating cooling or steam • Environmental data from Max Brenner U.S. operations are not included as this is not available at this time. • Coffee biomass usage increased in 2013 as a result of the coffee mass boiler being in operation for a full year. In 2012, it was not functional for part of the year. • The overall increase in energy consumption in 2013 is mainly explained by inclusion of sites not previously reported: Russia, Germany and Holland. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy intensity All figures in gigajoules per ton of production 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Scope 1 2.46 2.63 2.40 2.69 12% Scope 2 1.03 1.06 1.00 1.01 1% Total energy intensity 3.49 3.69 3.40 3.70 9% | 95 Energy intensity calculation Our energy intensity ratio is calculated per ton of production. It has been calculated for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee and Sabra, the three production companies delivering output that can be measured in tons. These companies represent over 97% of Strauss's energy consumption. The ratio includes all energy sources at the relevant sites. Notes: Energy intensity increased due to the addition of one plant in Germany that manufactures instant freeze-dried coffee. Although responsible for only 2% of total production volumes, energy consumption is almost 10% of total consumption for Strauss Group. Due to the nature of the freeze-dry process, all environmental impacts are much higher than other manufacturing operations in the Group. We continue to analyze these impacts in detail, including LCA analyses performed on coffee products in 2013, to identify opportunities to reduce impacts. G4-EN8 Water consumption Water withdrawal All figures in cubic meters (m3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Total water withdrawn from municipal water N/A N/A N/A 1,635,699 supplies or other water utilities Total water withdrawn from ground water N/A N/A N/A 85,828 Total water withdrawal 1,206,436 1,438,678 1,506,410 1,721,527 14% Water intensity per ton of production 3.05 3.32 3.28 3.54 8% Water intensity calculation Our water intensity ratio is calculated per ton of production. It has been calculated for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee and Sabra, the three production companies delivering output in tons. These three companies represent over 99% of Strauss Group's water consumption. Notes: Absolute water consumption increased due to addition of sites – see note to energy consumption above. Similarly, water intensity increased. Our German coffee site consumed 13% of the total Group water consumption in 2013, while delivering only 2% of total production volumes. 96 | G4-EN15 Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) / G4-EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions All figures in tons CO2e 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Natural Gas 23,197 22,278 23,299 32,712 40% Fuel Oil 10,573 10,990 12,620 10,463 -17% Diesel Fuel 6,990 7,276 7,234 6,914 -4% Ethanol 51 83 89 38 -57% LPG 18,653 18,821 18,279 19,352 6% Gasoline 9,482 8,282 9,816 9,912 1% Coffee biomass 0 0 0 0 0% Total direct greenhouse gas emissions 68,946 67,730 71,337 79,392 11% Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Electricity purchased from grid 85,958 82,843 88,432 82,168 -7% Total greenhouse gas emissions 154,904 150,573 159,769 161,560 1% (Scope 1 & 2) Basis for reporting on greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. Fuel emission factors are taken from IPCC Emissions Factor Database. Electricity emissions factors for Israel, Germany and Romania are taken from the national electricity grids. All other electricity emissions factors are as per the GHG Protocol. Israel emissions used the Electricity Company published rates for the reporting year. Prior years 2010 – 2011 have been recalculated to reflect this. Notes: Absolute GHG emissions increased due to addition of sites – see note to energy consumption above. Similarly, GHG emission intensity increased. Our German coffee site generated 7.4% of the total Group GHG emissions in 2013, while delivering only 2% of total production volumes. | 97 G4-EN18: Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity All figures in tons CO2e per ton of production 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Scope 1 0.153 0.156 0.151 0.159 6% Scope 2 0.187 0.191 0.175 0.164 -6% Total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 0.340 0.350 0.326 0.323 -1% Greenhouse gas emissions intensity calculation Our GHG emissions intensity ratio is calculated per ton of production. It has been calculated for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee and Sabra, the three production companies delivering production output in tons. These three companies represent 97% of Strauss Group's GHG emissions. The ratio includes emissions from all fuel, electricity and renewable energy sources at the relevant sites. The small reduction in emissions intensity reflects slight changes in direct energy mix in 2013 – increased proportion of natural gas. G4-EN20 Ozone depleting substances G4-EN21 Air pollutants / G4 EN22 Wastewater pollutants Emissions of ozone depleting All figures in kg substances (ODS) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) Emissions of ozone depleting substances 6,068 15,791 7,023 13,296 89% (inc. R-22, 507, 407c and R410-A) Emissions of air pollutants All figures in tons (NOx, SOx and PM) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) NOx (nitrogen oxides) 93 92 139 110 -21% SOx (sulphur oxides) 138 132 166 151 -9% PM (particulate matter) 28 27 22 26 16% Total emissions of air pollutants 259 251 327 286 -12% Wastewater pollutants All figures in tons 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change from 2012 (%) TSS (Total Suspended Solids) 721 1,921 921 662 -28% COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 2,656 1,368 2,414 2,284 -5% BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) 1,489 1,370 1,128 1,063 -6% Total wastewater pollutants 4,866 4,658 4,463 4,009 -10% 98 | G4-EN23 Effluents and waste Total amount of hazardous All figures in tons and non-hazardous waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 Change Percentage from 2012 of total (%) waste 2013 Reuse 42,016 41,932 47,728 54,198 14% 73% Recycling 4,781 14,095 9,629 7,638 -21% 10% Landfill 14,857 14,824 15,367 12,374 -19% 17% Hazardous waste to safe landfill 3.76 1.03 3.74 47.65 1174% 0.1% Total amount of hazardous and 61,658 70,852 72,728 74,257 2% 100% non-hazardous waste Explanation for increase in hazardous waste Two Strauss Coffee sites (Nova and Santa Luzia) are responsible for 23 tons of the increase in hazardous waste, as they completed a one-time clean-up of sewage treatment plants and the addition of a new site in Germany reported 3 tons of hazardous waste. FP1 Procurement practices In Israel 1,435 of a total 3,272 suppliers signed Strauss Israel's Social Charter (44%). We believe this represents more than 50% of our purchasing volume. FP2 Procurement practices Coffee: In 2013, 6% of our total coffee procurement was sustainable coffee certified by 4C. Cocoa: In Strauss Israel, 100% of cocoa requirements are purchased from suppliers certified to a recognized standard. 59% of Max Brenner's cocoa supply is procured from sustainable sources (through the Barry Callebaut Quality Partner Program (QPP) and the Biolands project. G4-LA12 Diversity and equal opportunity Employee diversity: Gender 2012 2013 Male Female Male Female Senior management 67% 33% 73% 27% Middle management 62% 38% 61% 39% Non-management 56% 44% 58% 42% Total employees 57% 43% 59% 41% | 99 Employee diversity: Age 2012 2013 Group Below Age Over Below Age Over age 30 30-50 age 50 age 30 30-50 age 50 Senior management 2% 71% 27% 2% 58% 40% Middle management 9% 79% 12% 41% 53% 6% Non-management 36% 51% 13% 50% 40% 10% Total employees 32% 55% 13% 49% 42% 9% Employee diversity: Minority 2012 2013 Groups Male Female Total Male Female Total Senior management 5% 9% 6% 9% 15% 10% Middle management 3% 1% 2% 4% 3% 4% Non-management 14% 12% 13% 12% 10% 11% Total employees 12% 10% 11% 10% 9% 10% Employee diversity: Disabled 2012 2013 employees Male Female Total Male Female Total Senior management 2.3% 0.0% 1.5% 2.9% 0.0% 2.1% Middle management 0.5% 0.3% 0.4% 1.7% 0.7% 1.3% Non-management 1.4% 1.0% 1.2% 1.8% 1.4% 1.6% Total employees 1.2% 0.9% 1.1% 1.8% 1.3% 1.6% G4-LA13 Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary 2012 2013 men to women Senior Middle NonSenior Middle Non(% reflects the level management management management management management management of women salaries in proportion to men salaries) Brazil Not reported Not reported 82% 92% 89% 100% Europe No females 83% 88% No females 74% 83% Israel 88% 90% 78% 77% 83% 81% U.S. 95% 108% 89% 58% 81% 87% Strauss total 91% 93% 84% 76% 82% 87% Notes: Coffee to go information was not available by employee category. This has been estimated based on 2012 figures. Russia and Yotvata sites are excluded from this data as information was not available. 100 | G4-LA1 Labor practices and decent work New hires by age 2012 2013 Rate of new Rate of Total new in 2013 Male Female Male Female hires in 2013 new hires hire rate (males) in 2013 (%) (females) Below age 30 1,272 975 1,585 1,115 12.62% 8.88% 21.50% Age 30 50 837 513 972 554 7.74% 4.41% 12.15% Over age 50 50 23 77 42 0.61% 0.33% 0.95% Total employees 2,159 1,511 2,634 1,711 20.98% 13.63% 34.60% New hires by 2012 2013 Rate of new Rate of Total new region in 2013 Male Female Male Female hires in 2013 new hires hire rate (males) in 2013 (%) (females) Brazil 955 519 1,116 468 8.89% 3.73% 12.62% Europe 219 112 244 153 1.94% 1.22% 3.16% Israel 757 687 955 813 7.61% 6.47% 14.08% U.S. 228 193 319 277 2.54% 2.21% 4.75% Total employees 2,159 1,511 2,634 1,711 20.98% 13.63% 34.60% Employee 2012 2013 Rate of Rate of Total turnover by Male Female Male Female turnover in turnover turnover age in 2013 2013 (males) in 2013 rate (%) (females) Below age 30 1,343 974 972 1,137 7.74% 9.06% 16.80% Age 30 50 907 728 722 987 5.75% 7.86% 13.61% Over age 50 70 91 124 205 0.99% 1.63% 2.62% Total employees 2,320 1,793 1,818 2,329 14.48% 18.55% 33.03% Employee 2012 2013 Rate of Rate of Total turnover by Male Female Male Female turnover in turnover turnover region in 2013 2013 (males) in 2013 rate (%) (females) Brazil 1,059 504 384 821 3.06% 6.54% 9.60% Europe 253 195 222 135 1.77% 1.08% 2.84% Israel 799 917 921 1,138 7.34% 9.06% 16.40% U.S. 209 177 291 235 2.32% 1.87% 4.19% Total employees 2,320 1,793 1,818 2,329 14.48% 18.55% 33.03% |101 G4-LA6 Occupational health and safety: Injuries Injuries Injury rate Rate change 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 in 2013 (%) Brazil 210 182 231 5.06 4.39 5.21 0.82 Europe 17 24 17 1.61 2.37 1.75 -0.62 Israel 202 358 254 3.47 6.33 4.71 -1.62 U.S. 35 17 27.00 3.70 1.74 2.53 0.79 Strauss Group 464 581 529 3.88 4.93 4.46 -0.47 Lost days Lost days Lost day rate Rate change 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 in 2013 (%) Brazil 3,701 8,520 6,595 89.25 205.45 148.77 -56.68 Europe 283 342 633 26.77 33.76 65.12 31.36 Israel 1,699 3,744 3,117 29.23 66.16 57.79 -8.37 U.S. 512 181 510 54.07 18.56 47.80 29.23 Strauss Group 6,195 12,787 10,855 51.78 108.42 91.48 -16.94 Absenteeism Absenteeism days Absenteesim rate Rate change 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 in 2013 (%) Europe 10,879 9,953 10,444 4.12% 3.93% 4.30% 0.37% Notes: • Injuries are those which incur lost workdays. Minor injuries are not noted. • Injuries are calculated per 100 employees. • Data split by gender is not available for most locations at this time. • Absenteeism days are not recorded in Strauss locations except Europe. • Data for Europe includes all locations except Russia as details are under review. • No specific occupational diseases are noted within Strauss Group and therefore no such data is available. 102 | G4-LA11 Training and education Employees receiving performance reviews 2013 Male Female Senior management 14 5 Middle management 352 248 Non-management 2,887 2,566 Total by gender 3,253 2,819 Total by group 6,071 Percentage of total employees 75% Note: All Strauss Group companies around the world do not maintain records of non-management performance reviews, although in most cases, these are performed annually. In several operations, employee reviews reached close to 100%. Data above includes estimated non-management evaluation rates. |103 UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative of the United Nations which encourages companies around the world to adhere to ten principles of responsible business relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Strauss Group has participated in the UNGC since 2008. Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact On behalf of Strauss Group, I reconfirm our continuing participation in the UN Global Compact. We commit to upholding and promoting the ten principles of the Global Compact and supporting the broad social, humanitarian and environmental goals. We reconfirm our intention to maintain our adherence to these principles and continue to promote them within our companies and with our business partners. We intend to continue to report on our progress within the context of our annual sustainability reporting. Our sustainability reports are available on our website for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Gadi Lesin President and CEO Strauss Group June 2014 104 | UN Global Compact Index and GRI cross-reference table Global Compact Principles GRI G4 Aspects / Disclosures 1 Businesses should support Human Rights Aspects Respecting human rights at Strauss is a core value. and respect the protection of We conduct our business responsibly according to internationally proclaimed human the highest ethical standards, which encompass rights. respect for all human beings, and acknowledgement 2 Businesses should make sure that Human Rights Aspects of their rights. We work with suppliers in our supply they are not complicit in human Local Communities chain to ensure they are aware of our standards rights abuses. Aspects relating to human rights and encourage them to adopt similar standards. 3 Businesses should uphold the G4-11 We respect the rights of employees to freedom of freedom of association and the Freedom of Association association and collective bargaining. We maintain effective recognition of the right to and Collective a collaborative, open and positive relationship with collective bargaining. Bargaining Aspect employees and address issues relating to their rights Labor/Management in a positive manner. Relations Aspect 4 Businesses should support the Forced and Compulsory We do not engage in any practice which could elimination of all forms of forced and Labor Aspect be construed as forced labor. All Strauss Group compulsory labor. employees are employed within the provisions of the law and of their own free will. 5 Businesses should support the Child Labor Aspect We respect and support the rights of all children, effective abolition of child labor. and we are committed to preventing harm and actively safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. 6 Businesses should support the G4-10 We maintain a policy of equal opportunity elimination of discrimination Labor Practices and and maintain inclusive practices for new and in respect of employment and Decent Work Aspects current employees in all matters relating to their occupation. employment with Strauss Group. 7 Businesses should support a Environmental Aspects We adopt environmentally-oriented practices in precautionary approach to all our operations and have established targets to environmental challenges. reduce our impacts on the environment. We aim to 8 Businesses should undertake Environmental Aspects drive such practices through our supply chain and initiatives to promote greater work to identify food technologies that support environmental responsibility. efficient food supply and a reduction in food waste. 9 Businesses should encourage Environmental Aspects the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption Aspect We are committed to behaving with integrity and act corruption in all its forms, including Public Policy Aspect against all forms of corruption. extortion and bribery. |105 Feedback on this Report We welcome your comments, queries, suggestions and general feedback on this report. Thank you! We promise to respond. Thank you for taking an interest in our Sustainability Report and we sincerely ask you to consider providing your feedback which Please contact us at: will help us improve to meet your needs more effectively. Please Daniela Prusky-Sion, also visit our website, www.strauss-group.com, where you will find Corporate Responsibility Manager additional information and our Corporate Responsibility blog, Strauss Group which is updated regularly. Hasivim 49, Petah Tikvah, 49517 Israel daniela.sion@strauss-group.com We acknowledge the hard work, passion and commitment of all Strauss employees who contribute to our business and sustainability performance, and to over 100 employees who have specifically contributed content for this Sustainability Report. Credits: We would like to deeply thank the profesionals who worked with us on this report, gathering and processing data, and producing the report: Beyond Business Ltd (content and copy) Sher Consultants (environmental data) Studio Merhav (graphic design) Linda Gitter (Translation and editing) Erez Ben Shahar (Photography) www.strauss-group.com
