United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Senaca Canada Inc. 2014 Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 HUMAN RIGHTS 3 Assessment, Policy and Goals 3 Implementation 3 Measurement of Outcomes 4 LABOUR 5 Assessment, Policy and Goals 5 Implementation 5 Measurement of Outcomes 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 Assessment, Policy and Goals 7 Implementation 8 Measurement of Outcomes 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION 9 Assessment, Policy and Goals 9 Implementation 9 Measurement of Outcomes 10 Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The Senaca Canada group of companies proudly renews its commitment to the guiding principles set forth by the United Nations Global Compact. As a new and rapidly expanding organization we have the benefit of weaving these beliefs into our core business initiatives, thus building a culture consistent with these goals. We understand the complexities of the vision and appreciate the continued growth of the Global Compact. With shared ambition and an eye to the future, we look forward to greater participation in the coming years, in an effort to create a larger impact. In this first Communication of Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we discuss our progress against our corporate citizenship goals during fiscal 2013. We have confidence that with sustained effort and cooperation the UN Global Compact initiatives will see continued success. Sincerely, TJ Patton President Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT Senaca Canada Inc. has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since June of 2013. The Compact is a voluntary framework for organizations and individuals who are committed to aligning their beliefs and strategies with the UNGC’s Ten Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a signatory, Senaca Canada and its group of companies is committed to submitting a Communication on Progress (COP) to the UNGC on an annual basis. This is Senaca Canada’s first COP with the reporting period from July 2013 to June 2014. The report highlights our organization’s activities in relation to the Ten Principles. This report is designed to provide an overview of how we have assessed, implemented and measured the Ten Principles within our company; it is by no means a comprehensive disclosure of our activities in relation to the UNGC. NOTICE TO READER Senaca Inc. and its group of companies is shortened to Senaca throughout this document for ease of reading. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Senaca Canada is dedicated and committed to upholding the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international, national or regional laws and bylaws that apply to our company. Our Human Resources department has revised our company’s policies and procedures which are consistent with Canadian best practices. To ensure that we are constantly improving on our commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Senaca Canada is continuously reviewing and revising our internal and external policies. We are committed to respecting the values, the fundamental human rights, and the dignity of each individual as we celebrate the diversity of our employees. It is imperative that our employees are treated fairly and equitably. We hold high standards of health and safety for our employees. Senaca Canada ensures that employment decisions, including hiring, promotion, compensation, and tenure are founded on equal treatment and fairness, and are not influenced by, or based in any way upon race, religion, colour, national origin, gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, and any other classification protected by law. Senaca Canada recognizes the importance of not-for-profit organizations. In the upcoming year, our company will look into supporting some of these organizations. We encourage our employees, as a collective to contribute to charities. Whether it would be volunteering as a company, or as an individual effort; we believe that taking part in our communities is an important value to embrace. IMPLEMENTATION Senaca Canada has a Human Resources “Open Door Policy” regarding human rights; violations, questions or concerns of our employees. We encourage and pride ourselves with the openness and transparency between executives and employees. Senaca Canada has made every effort to ensure that our employees are well informed and current with new regulations. Our Policy Handbook includes the Canadian standards of human rights and procedures. Senaca Canada offers education and support for staff regarding awareness on Human Rights. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 4 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Senaca Canada monitors and evaluates our performance in the area of Human Rights through several measures. Our Human Resources department monitors any human rights concerns and is immediately communicated with senior level management if any ethics issues or potential issues, arise. The Human Resource Department has also developed policies related to harassment-free workplace and equal opportunity employment. We have developed an entire corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics that addresses human rights issues and responsibilities and expectations for our employees as it relates to human rights. As a growing business, we recognize the value of dedicating the assets toward development of strong corporate policies, procedures, and values in this area and we are proud of the work we have accomplished in this fiscal year to support the Human Rights principles. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Senaca Canada offers equal employment opportunities to qualified individuals without regard to race, religion, colour, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, physical / mental disability, and any other classification protected by the law. Our written policies clearly state employee rights and responsibilities, as well as fair employment practices regarding non-discrimination, and compensation. Employees who have a concern involving potential discrimination or harassment are encouraged to speak and consult with our Human Resources department. Any and all complaints of discriminatory behaviour will be investigated promptly, in a fair and discreet manner to ensure confidentiality to the fullest extent possible. Our values and support for the Global Compact Labour principles apply to every employee, as well as it requires our business partners, suppliers, third party employees who include contractors or anyone else representing or acting on behalf of Senaca Canada to abide by this policy in connection with their work with us. Given that Senaca Canada is a fairly new business, the risks associated with labour rights are limited due to the low turn-over rate of our company. We have not done a large amount of hiring therefore our exposure to potential labour violations are still minimized. Forced labour and child labour are strictly prohibited in every area where we work. Our goals in regards to furthering our commitment to Labour Rights and the associated UNGC principles include further formalizing of our training programs for both new and existing employees. IMPLEMENTATION Our Human Resources department’s “Open Door Policy” regarding labour rights, violations, questions or concerns of our employees has been implemented to ensure that all trepidations regarding this matter receive the proper attention it needs. Senaca Canada provides training and discussions for employees on Canada’s Labour Rights. Our policies and procedures supporting Labour Rights are constantly being monitored for changes and updates. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 6 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Senaca Canada continues to make progress in the area of Labour practices by remaining current with governmental and provincial regulations. Our internal policies are regularly reviewed and compared against the domestic and global industry standards. Senaca Canada’s workforce is diverse; comprised of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of age, ethnicity and race. To protect our employees from abuse or harassment and to ensure that our working environment is inclusive and respectful of all employees, Senaca Canada has executed a zero tolerance policy against any sort of discrimination. Every Senaca Canada employee is trained on our policies on non-discrimination, Equal Employment Opportunity, our culture of leading with integrity and excellence, our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, among many others. At the conclusion of our new-hire orientation, every employee is required to sign and return an acknowledgment page, confirming that they comprehend and voluntarily agree to follow the policies by which Senaca Canada is governed. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS As a socially and environmentally conscious company, we are committed to the preservation of our planet. We understand the impact we have on our environment and recognize that natural resources are finite. We, as a company collectively strive to create a positive impact in our environment. To reduce our carbon footprint, we’ve taken the following steps: We’ve chosen the Smart car as our company vehicle which is used daily for our errands. The car is widely known for its low fuel consumption and low emissions. We recycle all our recyclable waste: (bottles, shredded paper, card board, etc.) Conserve electricity, heat and water where feasible. (turning off the heat/air conditioning when the office is closed for the night) We work remotely as often as we can without sacrificing productivity and partnership. (Conducting conference calls and online meetings with out of town clients when it is not necessary to travel for an in-person meeting) Participate in the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program We only use paper that is 100% recycled and FSC approved Use a tap water filtration system rather than bottled water Provide reusable dishes and cutlery instead of paper plates and plastic cutlery Use biodegradable soap and cleaning supplies that come from recycled products Our environmental written policy includes all of the above, as well as the purchasing of recycled and post-consumer products from sustainable vendors and suppliers. All employees are well educated and understand this policy as we actively seek new ways to reduce our carbon footprint. For the upcoming year, we will continue to make every effort to abide by our Environmental Policy. We will carry on to set an example as an environmentally conscious company and encourage our employees to be similarly minded. Senaca Canada commits to reducing our paper use and aim to lessen the overall environmental impact of our paper consumption. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 IMPLEMENTATION With this in mind, a new policy was implemented which encourages all staff to deliver and print out only necessary documents in which. Reports should be delivered in an electronic format and only print files that are absolutely necessary. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Senaca Canada Inc.’s Human Resources department provide company wide information about how each member of the company deals with incidents and violations of environmental risk and protection. Senaca Canada executives conduct a periodic review of environmental concepts, discussions and company survey results. We continue to make progress in the area of environmental protection practices, by remaining current on governmental and city regulations. Additionally, reviewing internal policies and comparing them against the domestic and global industry standards. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Senaca Canada performs business in different parts of the world in which given the different cultures in each of the countries we operate, our employees have and will continue to encounter varying interpretations of business protocol. Because a gesture could be considered typical etiquette in one country and bribery in another, Senaca Canada is proactive in training our employees to follow the most conservative definitions of extortion and bribery. We provide our employees with ample training to prepare them for any instance of corruption they may encounter and implement precautions to ensure that not only Canadian laws are followed, but laws in which wherever we operate are also adhered to. Senaca Canada has a zero tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion which is clearly stated in our corporate code of conduct. This policy has been enacted and communicated to all staff. Senaca Canada supports the Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda which is an appeal by the private sector urging governments to promote efficient and effective anti-corruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. In the coming year, Senaca Canada will aim to implement and enforce the UNGC’s Global Development Agenda into our own policies. IMPLEMENTATION Senaca Canada has a Human Resources “Open Door Policy” regarding anti-corruption; violations, questions or concerns of our employees. Our Human Resources Department and executives provide companywide protocols to assist employees in situations and how to handle any incidents of corruption in the workforce. Senaca Canada’s executives are conducting a review of anti-corruption training and goals for the next year. Senaca Canada United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Senaca Canada executives provide company wide information about how each member of the organization deal with incidents and violations of anti-corruption. We continue to make progress in the area of anti-corruption, by remaining current on governmental and provincial regulations as well as reviewing internal policies and comparing them against domestic and global industry standards.
