Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER To Our Shareholders “In 2013, Pfizer achieved solid results for patients, consumers, and shareholders by maintaining our focus on developing new therapies, driving growth, and delivering value.” Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO 2013: Keeping Our Commitments, Continuing Our Momentum Pfizer’s performance in 2013 is rooted in priorities and strategies we put in place three years ago to address Research & Development (R&D) productivity and create greater shareholder value. The actions we take and business decisions we make across every market continue to be guided by four strategic imperatives. They are: improving the performance of our innovative core, making the right capital allocation decisions, earning greater respect from society, and creating a culture of ownership among our colleagues. In 2013, thanks to the strong execution by approximately 78,000 Pfizer colleagues, we advanced each of these imperatives and took another step forward toward achieving our mission of making Pfizer the world’s premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company. Here are some of the notable highlights for 2013. Continued Transformation of Our Innovative Core Over the past three years we have transformed the ways we discover, develop and commercialize new medicines. In 2013, we launched two important new therapies for patients — Xeljanz, an oral therapy for rheumatoid arthritis, and, with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eliquis, a new approach to stroke prevention. In February 2014, a new Pfizer product became available: Duavee, a novel therapy for relief of moderate-to-severe hot flashes associated with menopause, and to prevent osteoporosis following menopause; a full promotional roll-out is planned for the end of April of this year. These medicines are part of a new wave of therapies taking shape in our R&D pipeline. We continued to focus our research on the therapeutic areas that we believe have the greatest scientific and commercial potential. Today our pipeline is the strongest it has been in recent years. In the area of inﬂammation and immunology, we have a number of Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies underway to leverage the science behind Xeljanz and other novel investigational therapies that target the root causes of a number of immune diseases where new and more effective therapies are greatly needed, including ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, atopic dermatitis and lupus. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 1 Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER Pfizer has longstanding strength in the science of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; that strength is reflected in our pipeline. In 2013, we moved into Phase Our Purpose 3 for bococizumab, which is a new monoclonal antibody aimed at lowering LDL Innovate to Bring cholesterol, sometimes referred to as the “bad” blood lipid, and ertugliflozin, Therapies to Patients That for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, through a collaboration with Merck. Among Significantly Improve Their Lives other medicines in development are additional indications for Eliquis in preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE) in orthopedic patients in the United States, and VTE treatment in the United States and Europe, with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb; Our Mission and a novel compound for diabetic nephropathy. We also have several additional To Be the Premier Innovative medicines in early development for diabetes that have potential as monotherapies Biopharmaceutical Company or combination treatments. In neuroscience and pain, our investigational abuse deterrent formulation of oxycodone hydrochloride and naltrexone, called ALO-O2, met its primary efficacy endpoint in a Phase 3 study of patients with moderate-to-severe chronic low back pain. We are striving to address the significant unmet needs in neuroscience and pain, and we have several new molecules in early-stage clinical development for devastating conditions such as schizophrenia, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease and Huntington’s disease — areas of tremendous unmet medical need. In oncology, we continue to build a strong portfolio of potential cancer therapies, including palbociclib for breast cancer — the most common type of cancer among women. In February 2014, we announced that a Phase 2 study of palbociclib had positive top-line results in patients with certain kinds of advanced breast cancer. We believe this therapy has the potential to change the standard of care for advanced breast cancer patients. We have additional studies underway of palbociclib, including two Phase 3 studies in advanced breast cancer, a Phase 3 study in advanced breast cancer sponsored by the Spanish Breast Cancer Research Group Foundation, and a Phase 3 study sponsored by the German Breast Group in patients with early breast cancer at a high risk of recurrence. Pre-clinical and early-phase studies are also underway to evaluate palbociclib in other tumor types, including melanoma, lung cancer and head and neck cancer. We also have a promising early-stage oncology pipeline. Early clinical data suggest the potential of our smoothened protein inhibitor, or “SMO” inhibitor, to treat a range of hematologic diseases by blocking cancer cell growth and survival. Another promising early-phase asset is from our immuno-oncology program, which includes investigational therapies that harness the body’s immune system to treat disease. The asset targets a protein that is involved in the regulation of immune cell proliferation and survival. We are studying this asset both as a single therapy and in combination with other therapies, such as Merck’s investigational anti-PD1 therapy, also an immuno-oncology agent. The study of novel immuno-oncology combinations is an important next frontier in identifying more efficacious treatment options for cancer patients. We have a growing portfolio of preventative and therapeutic vaccines. Among the most promising is a vaccine that may stimulate the body to ward off the Staphylococcus aureus microbe, a common bacteria that is becoming increasingly resistant to antibiotics. A recently concluded study showed encouraging signals that our vaccine elicits positive immune response, and we anticipate sharing this data at a medical congress in the first half of 2014. We are also encouraged by the levels of immune response and safety data for our meningitis B vaccine now in Phase 3 development and our vaccine for Clostridium difficile, one of the most difficult to Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 2 Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER treat hospital and assisted-living facility acquired infections. Beyond prophylactic vaccines to prevent acute infections, we are exploring potential new therapeutic vaccines to treat allergic asthma and nicotine addiction, both of which are in early Our Strategic Imperatives stage clinical development. We also advanced our pipeline assets in rare diseases, including initiating a late-stage program for Tafamidis in adults with symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy, the first study of its kind for this rare, progressive and universally fatal condition. We are working with our partner GlycoMimetics to advance 1 Innovate and Lead rivipansel for treating vaso-occlusive crisis, a common and painful complication Improve Pfizer’s ability to innovate in biomedical R&D and develop a of sickle cell disease. We also have a program in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. new generation of high-value, highly differentiated medicines and vaccines. Also of note is our work in biosimilars, which are highly similar versions of approved 2 and authorized biological medicines. We see biosimilars as a growth area that complements Pfizer’s depth of expertise in biopharmaceutical science, and we have built one of the leading biosimilar pipelines in our industry, with a particular focus on oncologyand immunology-related diseases. We have five key biosimilar assets in different stages of development, which, if approved, we plan to commercialize Maximize Value when the patents expire on the original molecules. Invest and allocate our resources in ways that create the greatest We have enhanced our progress in transforming our innovative core through long-term returns for our shareholders. research collaborations. In 2013, we expanded our Centers for Therapeutic 3 Innovation (CTI) initiative beyond biologics to small molecules through collaborations with the University of California-San Francisco and Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. CTI puts Pfizer scientists alongside academic researchers in pursuit of drug and vaccine discovery. Additionally, we extended the CTI program to encompass patient foundations, including the JDRF — the leading global Earn Greater Respect organization funding type 1 diabetes research, as well as the Alliance for Lupus Earn society’s respect by generating breakthrough therapies, Research. The continued evolution of our R&D model also has strengthened our improving access, expanding the longstanding collaboration with the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) through dialogue on health care and acting as new pre-competitive partnerships. And, our focus on precision medicine is yielding a responsible corporate citizen. promising results, including in neuroscience research, where we are advancing 4 a new effort to map the brain circuitry to specific functions such as motor skills, cognition, and mood. This effort already has led us to a promising early-stage program on new therapies in Parkinson’s disease and schizophrenia. We also have programs for advancing novel precision medicine cancer drugs for potential subsets of lung and breast cancers, combining drugs and diagnostics. Own Our Culture Build and sustain a culture where We are on the right path to having a pipeline that is both robust and sustainable, colleagues view themselves as owners, generating new ideas, dealing with offering biomedical innovations that patients and payers will value. problems in a straightforward way, investing in open and candid conversations and working as teammates on challenges Capital Allocation Decisions That Drive Total Shareholder Return and opportunities. Our financial and operational performance was strong in 2013. We met or exceeded every element of our financial guidance due in large measure to the strong operational achievements of the business. Specifically, we saw growth in some of our branded pharmaceuticals, including Lyrica and Celebrex in the United States and Enbrel outside of North America, and solid revenue growth by several businesses, including 29% operational growth in oncology. As a large, global business with significant cash flow, one of our imperatives is to continually review and assess the best use of our capital to maximize total shareholder return. In 2013 our efforts at effective expense discipline yielded Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 3 Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER year-over-year operational savings in adjusted R&D and Selling, Informational and Administrative expenses* of approximately $1 billion. In addition, we took major steps to create significant value for shareholders, generating approximately $17.3 billion in after-tax value through the separation of Zoetis, our animal health business. Further, we returned nearly $23 billion to shareholders in share repurchases and dividends in 2013 — bringing the total cash returned to shareholders over the last three years to approximately $53 billion — and, in December 2013, we announced an 8% increase in our quarterly dividend for the first quarter of 2014, reflecting both our continued commitment to returning capital to shareholders and our confidence in the business. To sharpen our focus on maximizing growth, we started 2014 with a new commercial operating structure with three global commercial businesses. The Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business is focused on branded medicines and includes many of the new innovative products coming from the pipeline. The Global Established Pharmaceutical business is a large profitable business with opportunities in both developed and emerging markets. It has a diverse portfolio of medicines that are no longer patent protected or are close to losing their patent protection. The Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business comprises three separate, distinct businesses, each of which has the potential for steady growth worldwide. This new commercial structure recognizes the essential global nature of each business, reflects the way we compete in markets around the world, and is designed to help us realize the company’s full potential for creating greater shareholder value. Every Pfizer colleague understands that making the right decisions to maximize value and enhance shareholder returns is everyone’s responsibility — that all colleagues play a role in how the company uses its capital resources, and that operational performance strongly influences financial performance. Earning Greater Respect from Society: Integrity, Trust and Building Relationships Health care providers, regulators, and patients look to Pfizer to deliver medicines and vaccines that make people’s lives better. By earning their trust, we also gain greater respect from society. We have multiple efforts underway to advance this critical imperative. We have been recognized for a wide range of corporate responsibility programs, especially our collaboration with the International Trachoma Initiative, now in its 15th year, working to eradicate blinding trachoma by 2020. Additionally, we remain committed to making our medicines widely available through a series of patient access programs, such as Pfizer Helpful Answers — a U.S. initiative that provides our medicines for free or at significant savings to uninsured and underinsured patients who qualify. Also in 2013, Pfizer and the GAVI Alliance (formerly the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) announced Pfizer’s commitment to supply up to an additional 260 million doses of Prevenar 13 to help protect infants and young children in the world’s poorest countries from pneumococcal disease. Pfizer’s Advance Market Commitment supply agreements with GAVI now encompass up to 740 million doses of Prevenar 13 through 2025, made available on an accelerated, affordable and sustainable basis to help reduce morbidity and mortality from pneumococcal disease and prevent an estimated 7 million childhood deaths by 2030. Transparency is essential to trust, and Pfizer has taken a leadership role in the industry concerning the access and sharing of clinical trial results. Late in 2013, we announced a policy that simplifies and broadens access to information gathered Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 4 Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER in Pfizer-sponsored clinical trials. While for several years we have published the results of clinical trials we file with regulators, this expanded policy enables the sharing of anonymous patient-level data from recent Pfizer-sponsored studies with qualified investigators outside the company, upon their request. We are also providing, in easy-to-understand language, information on clinical trial results to study participants. Our commitment to quality is exemplified by the work of Pfizer Global Supply, which has responsibility for our worldwide manufacturing and distribution. In 2013, Pfizer’s leadership in supply chain quality and reliability was showcased by the successful passage of track-and-trace legislation in the United States, which we strongly supported. This new law will help prevent counterfeit medicines from reaching patients and require that prescription drug packaging utilize technologies that can verify a product’s source and distribution history from production to patient use. In 2013, we sought to create deeper connections with people who share our goal of fostering a healthy society. We continued our multi-year initiative called “Get Old,” where we are forging a richer societal dialogue on aging, and increased the public outreach of our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall, to share health and medical information in ways that encourage people to take charge of their health care. We have gained recognition from external stakeholders and increased the perception of Pfizer as “honest and trustworthy” among people exposed to these programs. Also last year, we continued our strong, global compliance training programs, which emphasize that every colleague is responsible for always doing the right thing and for understanding the important legal and ethical issues that affect the way we do business. All Pfizer colleagues know that by doing our jobs with integrity every day, society will trust us to develop medicines that make people’s lives better. “We continue to focus our research on the therapeutic areas that we believe have the greatest scientific and commercial potential. Today our pipeline is the strongest it has been in recent years.” A Sustained Ownership Culture — What Can Make Pfizer Truly Different Our imperative to create and sustain a culture of “ownership” — where all colleagues are energized and engaged in the future of the company — has the potential to differentiate us from our competitors. In 2013, we made significant progress in building one unified culture we call OWNIT!, which has had a positive impact on how colleagues interact with each other, engage in forthright and open dialogue, and take responsibility for actions and results. OWNIT! is helping colleagues take appropriate thoughtful risks with an innovation mindset, challenge prevailing opinions and assumptions, and make better and quicker decisions. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 5 Annual Review 2013 CEO LETTER Throughout the year, colleagues brought forward a range of new, highly creative approaches that demonstrated how an ownership culture is helping to drive our operational performance. For example, R&D colleagues took an innovative approach defining the profile of a compound for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that helped result in the formation of a joint venture for advancing this potential treatment. Within what is now our Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business, a team looked at the challenge of detecting fibromyalgia — a complex chronic pain condition characterized by widespread pain, fatigue and other symptoms — and created a new methodology that uses electronic medical records to identify variables associated with a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The commercial team in Portugal developed an innovative contracting approach that helped lead to significant above-market performance for Enbrel in certain accounts. Continuing Our Momentum 2013 was another outstanding year for our company, our shareholders and the patients we strive to serve. We finished the year strongly, with solid momentum across the business in the face of an uncertain global economy and changes in how health care is being financed and delivered around the globe. We are making clear progress towards achieving our mission of becoming the premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company. As we continue on our journey, all of us at Pfizer are thankful for your ongoing confidence. We remain sharply focused on maximizing the value we create for society and our owners. Sincerely, Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO February 28, 2014 *See the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 for the definition of “adjusted income” and for reconciliations of 2013 “adjusted income” and “adjusted diluted earnings per share” to 2013 net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders, respectively. “Adjusted diluted earnings per share,” “adjusted cost of sales,” “adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses” and “adjusted research and development expenses” are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and are components of, the “adjusted income” measure. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter 6 Annual Review 2013 LEADING MEDICINES “I fight.” “I was in the waiting room. My lung cancer was back, and the prognosis was grim. And they told me my oncologist was delayed for 90 minutes. So I started looking things up on my smart phone. That’s when I first heard about crizotinib, which became Xalkori. Suddenly, 90 minutes wasn’t enough! When I got called in, I asked to be tested for the ALK gene. “As a patient, you have to fight with everything you’ve got. It’s up to you, your faith, your strength, your focus. And you need to know what’s out there. That’s why I’ve started Surviveit.org. I want to help people like I’ve been helped. I’ve been blessed. Thanks to Pfizer, I got to see my wife go back to college, my granddaughter’s second and third birthdays, my son marry the love of his life, my stepson win a state championship. I am so grateful to be able to thank the people who developed this drug.” Matt Ellefson Xalkori patient and founder of surviveit.org Precision Medicine at Work Xalkori® (cizotinib) is a kinase inhibitor unmet medical need. In January 2011 authorization for Xalkori for the treatment indicated for the treatment of patients Pfizer announced it had initiated the rolling of adult patients with previously-treated with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer submission of a New Drug Application ALK+ advanced NSCLC. Xalkori has received (NSCLC) whose tumors are anaplastic (NDA) for Xalkori, which was facilitated approvals in more than 60 countries, lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive as detected by the Fast Track designation. In August including Canada, China, Korea, Japan by an FDA-approved test. Pfizer was 2011 Xalkori was granted accelerated and Australia. granted Fast Track designation by the FDA approval due to the critical need for new for Xalkori for ALK+ NSCLC in December agents for people living with metastatic 2010. The Fast Track designation process ALK+ NSCLC. In late 2013, the FDA granted is designed to facilitate development and regular approval, marking the conversion expedite FDA review of drugs that treat of the previous accelerated approval. In serious or life-threatening diseases and October 2012 the European Medicines demonstrate the potential to address Agency granted conditional marketing Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Leading Medicines 7 Annual Review 2013 LEADING MEDICINES Innovating Treatments That Improve Lives Leading Medicines Our Top 10 Best Selling Medicines in 2013 Prevnar 13/ Lyrica Prevenar 13 Enbrel (pneumococcal polysaccharide Outside the U.S. and Canada (pregabalin) conjugate vaccine) (etanercept) $4,595 million $3,974 million $3,774 million Celebrex Lipitor Viagra (celecoxib) (atorvastatin) (sildenafil) $2,918 million $2,315 million $1,881 million Zyvox Norvasc Sutent (linezolid) (amlodipine besylate) (sunitinib malate) $1,353 million $1,229 million $1,204 million Premarin Family (conjugated estrogens) $1,092 million For more information on any of these medicines, visit: Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Leading Medicines 8 Annual Review 2013 LEADING MEDICINES Noteworthy in 2013 The U.S. FDA approved DUAVEE™ (conjugated estrogens/ bazedoxifene) partnered closely with the cross functional and medical/clinical teams to help shape 0.45mg / 20mg tablets, a novel therapy for and optimize the label that was ultimately Duavee Team Owns women with a uterus, for the treatment of approved by the FDA. Their work has Accelerated Approval moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and the culminated in a great brand platform that has strong and aligned enthusiasm to propel prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis. the launch of this exciting new therapy to patients who may benefit from it. DUAVEE was approved by the FDA within the projected timeframe established by the new Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) V process thanks to the Pfizer Asset team’s ownership of the process. The team reinvigorated efforts within Pfizer and Noteworthy in Our Portfolio Bosulif Eliquis Inlyta (bosutinib) (apixaban) (axitinib) Quillivant XR Xalkori Xeljanz (methylphenidate HCl) (crizotinib) (tofacitinib) For more information on any of these medicines, visit: Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Leading Medicines 9 Annual Review 2013 LEADING MEDICINES PATIENT SAFETY Advancing Patient Care and Safety Pfizer is a leader in both medical research and in bringing meaningful and helpful information derived from that research to patients, health care professionals, caregivers and others with a stake in better medicine. We also continue to invest in new tools and technologies that help physicians and other health care professionals improve patient care and ensure patient safety. “Patient safety is a core value and our absolute first priority — from the moment a compound is cleared for clinical trials, to its approval by regulators for use by patients, through its manufacture and distribution, and for as long as it is for sale and in use anywhere in the world.” Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D. Chief Medical Officer Watch Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall speak to many issues concerning your health and well-being at gethealthystayhealthy.com Safe Medicine Pfizer and its partners around the world have joined forces in an effort to ensure Use Campaign that patients get genuine medicines and vaccines, not counterfeits. The Safe Counterfeit medicines are easy to make and pose a serious public Against Medicine Use campaign is provider led, consumer focused and government engaged. health risk. To protect patients, Pfizer works very closely with national Counterfeiting and international law enforcement authorities, health care providers In India, the campaign launched with and multinational coalitions to fight endorsement by the government and various the counterfeiting of medicines. local and international health professions groups. Consumer outreach focused on working women with families, encouraging them to choose medicines with the same care that they use when choosing food for the family table. The U.S. campaign, focused on oncology medicines, is slated to be launched in 2014 in conjunction with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Leading Medicine > Patient Safety 10 Annual Review 2013 OUR VACCINES “I thrive.” “I don’t want anyone to have to go what I went through. There was no meningitis-B vaccine when I was an adolescent. I spent ten months in the hospital, lost both my legs below the knee. But I’ve also been given a lot in life, and want to give back. I am inspired by all the hard work Pfizer is putting into this. I talk to a lot of people about this disease, and I can’t wait to be able to tell every family that they’ll be able to protect themselves against this terrible disease.” Kayla St. Pierre Nursing School Applicant Meningitis-B Meningococcal meningitis-B disease is a devastating, potentiallyfatal, infectious disease that typically strikes infants, adolescents and young adults, and tends to spread more quickly In the U.S., about 4,100 cases of bacterial meningitis, including 500 deaths, where large groups of people gather together. College students occurred each year between 2003-2007. living in dormitories and military personnel are at increased risk for meningococcal disease, including meningitis. Serogroup B Source: Thigpen MC, Whitney CG, Messonnier NE, Zell ER, is one of five serotypes of the bacterium Neisseria meningitidis Lynfield R, Hadler JL, et al. Emerging Infections Programs Network. (A, B, C, Y and W) responsible for the majority of meningococcal Bacterial meningitis in the United States, 1998-2007. disease worldwide. There is currently no vaccine against N Engl J Med. 2011;364:2016-25. serogroup B approved in the U.S. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Vaccines 11 Annual Review 2013 OUR VACCINES Ushering in a New Era of Vaccine Innovation Pfizer is building on our world-leading Prevnar franchise, to expand the benefits of vaccines to more patients across ages and geographies. This includes tackling deadly adult and adolescent infectious diseases, and evaluating therapeutic vaccines for chronic disease and conditions. We are leveraging leading technology in vaccine design and conjugation in an effort to provide preventative solutions to complex, difficult-to-treat diseases. Currently, we are conducting clinical trials with new vaccines designed to prevent the deadly infections of meningococcal serogroup B, hospital-acquired Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium difficile associated diseases. We are also exploring the power of novel therapeutic vaccines to provide long-lasting treatment benefits for chronic conditions and diseases such as smoking addiction and allergic asthma. Vaccines can generate effective levels of specific antibodies in the body that could prove beneficial for managing these difficult conditions. The Value of Vaccines Vaccines are one of the greatest public health advances of all time, resulting in the control, elimination or near-elimination of numerous infectious diseases that have plagued humankind. Immunization has generated tremendous value by preventing diseases and sustaining healthy communities. For every $1.00 the U.S. spends on childhood vaccinations, we save $10.20 in disease treatment costs.1 1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Fact Sheet Immunizations and Respiratory Diseases. 2010. Available at: www.cdc.gov/fmo/topic/ budget information/factsheets/IRD_Factsheet.pdf. Accessed October 29, 2013. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Vaccines > Ushering in a New Era of Vaccine Innovation 12 Annual Review 2013 OUR VACCINES Meningococcal B Vaccine Candidate Our clinical vaccine candidate to prevent Meningitis-B recently completed Phase 2 trials, and we anticipate sharing results of the study data at a key medical congress in the first half of 2014. Our investigational vaccine candidate is currently being tested in Phase 3 trials. Of note, our bivalent vaccine contains two protein components that elicit functional antibodies in immunized individuals that are broadly active against meningococcal B disease causing strains. We are encouraged by the functional antibody responses and tolerability data seen to date. When complete, our clinical development program will have studied more than 20,000 participants. Prevenar 13/ Prevenar 13, or Prevnar 13 as it is called in the U.S., Canada and Thailand, is the Recently, Prevenar 13 was approved in the EU for use in adults 18 to 49 years of age, Prevnar 13 most widely used pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the world, and more than 640 making it the only pneumococcal vaccine in the EU approved to help protect against million doses of Prevenar 7/Prevenar 13 invasive pneumococcal disease from have been distributed worldwide. Prevenar infancy through adulthood. In the U.S., 13 was first introduced for use in infants we announced results from our landmark, and young children in December 2009 in Phase 4, Community-Acquired Pneumonia Europe, and is now approved for such use Immunization Trial in Adults (CAPiTA), and in more than 120 countries worldwide, are working with government agencies, including the U.S. and Japan. In addition, including U.S. and worldwide regulatory the vaccine is approved for use in adults authorities and vaccine-recommending 50 years of age and older in more than 90 committees, to share the CAPiTA data in countries, including the U.S. order to inform decisions regarding potential label and recommendation updates. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Vaccines > Ushering in a New Era of Vaccine Innovation 13 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT “I investigate.” “There is great beauty in science and in the research we do. When we find or make a compound with a novel mechanism of action for a disease that affects millions, and our compound shows a tolerability and efficacy profile that could lead to a best-in-class therapy, it is breathtaking. And the greatest reward, if we can help bring this new medicine to the world, is knowing you’ve improved the lives of the people suffering from this disease, compared to what was previously possible.” Neeta B. Amin, Pharm.D. Clinical Lead, CVMED Research Unit, Pfizer Worldwide R&D Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development 14 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Strengthening Our Innovative Core R&D Priorities We continue to transform our R&D approach and capabilities to position Pfizer for sustainable innovation and productivity. Three years after launching a comprehensive R&D turnaround effort, we are working toward a future where R&D is delivering value, both for our shareholders and for the patients who are counting on us. By collaborating with a range of partners in new ways, instilling greater business discipline, end-to-end portfolio management, and leveraging emerging technology platforms, we are advancing our purpose of innovating to bring new therapies to patients. From discovery through commercialization, Pfizer is focused on aligning our portfolio with priority therapeutic areas where we bring cutting-edge capabilities in medicine and vaccine design and development. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Strengthening Our Innovative Core 15 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Pre-Proof of Concept: Inventing the Highest Potential Candidate Medicines and Vaccines In the pre-Proof of Concept/invention phase, we have three key R&D priorities: 1 Deliver the 2 Nurture Leading 3 Advance the R&D Portfolio Capabilities Ecosystem of the Future Integrating science and business, we We continue to invest in innovative Key to expediting the translation of continue to focus on areas where we platforms, technologies and science into breakthrough therapies is can deliver the greatest commercial partnerships that position Pfizer driving greater, deeper and stronger impact and meet significant patient for sustainable future leadership, collaborations across the health care needs including: for example: landscape. We are actively supporting the emergence of a highly networked • Immunology and Inflammation • Our vaccine development program ecosystem. • Oncology now includes therapeutic vaccines, • Cardiovascular and Metabolic with the potential to target chronic We work to advance new models of Diseases diseases such as asthma, addiction partnerships with creativity, flexibility • Neuroscience and Pain and cancer. and openness to deliver innovation • Vaccines • We have a leading platform in quickly, regardless of where the talent • Rare Diseases next-generation antibody drug and resources live. This includes conjugates, which are targeted working with patient foundations, therapies that combine the patients, governments, payers, health specificity of an antibody with the care professionals, academia and other potency of small-molecule cancer leading biopharma companies. chemotherapy. • Pfizer is also applying nextgeneration technology to enhance selectivity of small molecules to target specific tissues and deliver therapy to localized areas. • Our advancing Precision Medicine approach uses cutting-edge science, biology and medical knowledge to select the right targets, develop the right therapy/combination therapy and identify the groups of patients who are more likely to respond to a specific therapy. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Strengthening Our Innovative Core 16 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Post-Proof of Concept: Developing Medicines for Maximum Value and Impact in the Real World A critical part in the process of bringing new therapies to patients is clinical development — the study of potential new therapies in humans. Pfizer is committed to enhanced clinical and regulatory quality, and compliance to build trust among key stakeholders, including patients and payers. We work with payer organizations to ensure our medicines are valued and reimbursed appropriately, and with regulatory authorities around the word to meet and maintain their standards. Clinical Innovation Integrated Regulatory & Safety Pfizer has taken an early leadership position in creating a discipline Patient safety is a paramount concern for Pfizer, from the moment around Clinical Innovation, ensuring we are taking advantage of a new compound is discovered, and for as long as a medicine is cutting-edge tools, approaches and partnerships to ensure our prescribed. It is our ethical and regulatory responsibility to monitor clinical trials are executed with optimal quality, speed and agility. the safety of our medicines everywhere they are marketed. Once a Pfizer’s Clinical Innovation investments and initiatives are focused drug compound is approved, we continue to monitor its safety and on patient engagement, making work easy for sites and leveraging work with governments and others to secure the supply chain and real world data. prevent counterfeiting. Key Programs in Key Programs Registration / Phase 3 in Phase 2 • Xeljanz® (tofacitinib): • Xeljanz® (tofacitinib): Ulcerative Colitis, Psoriasis Crohn’s Disease, Ankylosing (oral), Psoriatic Arthritis Spondylitis, Psoriasis • Palbociclib: Advanced (topical), Atopic Dermatitis Breast Cancer (1st Line & • Anti-IL-6 Antibody: Recurrent), High Risk Early Crohn’s Disease, Lupus Breast Cancer • Anti MadCAM: Crohn’s • Prophylactic Vaccine for Disease, Ulcerative Colitis Meningococcal Serogroup B • PDE5 Inhibitor: • PCSK9 Inhibitor Diabetic Nephropathy (bococizumab/RN316): • CCR2/5 Antagonist: Hyperlipidemia Diabetic Nephropathy • Ertugliflozin: Type 2 • Inlyta®: Hepatocellular Diabetes (in collaboration Carcinoma w/ Merck) • PI3K/mTOR Inhibitor: • Trastuzumab: Colorectal Cancer Breast Cancer • ALK-1 Inhibitor mAb: Hepatocellular Carcinoma • SMO Inhibitor: Acute Myeloid Leukemia • Prophylactic Vaccine for Staphylococcus Aureus • GMI-1070 (Rivipansel): Sickle Cell Disease • PDE10 Inhibitor: Huntington’s Disease, Adjunctive Treatment for Schizophrenia Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Strengthening Our Innovative Core 17 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Advancing Our Pipeline We prioritize our R&D efforts in areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise: immunology and inflammation, oncology, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuroscience and pain, vaccines, rare diseases and biosimilars. Through major research efforts across multiple modalities — including small molecules, biologics and vaccines — Pfizer is developing the medical solutions that will matter most to the people we serve. View the latest pipeline on pfizer.com Programs in Clinical Trial or Registration as of February 28, 2014 Discovery Projects 32 23 20 Phase I Phase II Phase III 7 Registration 82 Total Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Strengthening Our Innovative Core 18 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Improving Clinical Trials $1B Much of the cost of developing a new medicine or vaccine is found in clinical development — the long, highly regulated process, managed by independent experts, of determining if a proposed product is safe and effective. Clinical trials may run Clinical trials can range in from the tens of millions of dollars to one billion cost from tens of millions to dollars or more. Pfizer is committed to improving over a billion dollars the effectiveness and efficiency of clinical trials, while protecting the safety and interests of clinical trial volunteers. We recognize that clinical trials and those involved in them play a vital and heroic role in bringing new breakthroughs to patients. Broadening Access to Information from Clinical Trials Recently, we simplified and broadened access to information gathered in Pfizeragencies for approved products. Overall, we sponsored clinical trials, expanding upon are working hard to protect patient privacy Pfizer’s updated policy on clinical trials meets or exceeds our established methods of clinical trial while allowing qualified researchers to the “Principles for Responsible information sharing. Qualified researchers access data for further research. Data Sharing” issued by the now have access to anonymized patientPharmaceutical Research and level data upon request via our INSPIIRE New trial participants can receive layManufacturers of America (PhRMA) (Integrated System for Pfizer Investigator language summaries of clinical trial results and the European Federation of Initiated Research) public web portal in countries where regulations permit. Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) in July 2013. for investigator-initiated research Pfizer is also piloting the use of “Blue (iirsubmission.pfizer.com). An external Button®” technology (launched by the Independent Review Panel will rule on any U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and denied requests. We also are publishing, on Health and Human Services), to enable The full version of Pfizer’s updated clinical data access policy and related information, including pfizer.com, anonymized synopses of clinical trial participants to download their own the data request portal, are available at study reports filed with regulatory electronic clinical data. http://www.pfizer.com/trialdataandresults. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Improving Clinical Trials 19 Annual Review 2013 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Clinical Pfizer has created a discipline around Clinical Innovation, focused on making To enhance these efforts, we also participate in key industry collaborations Innovation research participation easier for patients and health care providers. We are using new that seek to improve the clinical trial process. For example, Pfizer is a founding approaches and partnerships for clinical member of TransCelerate BioPharma Inc., trial recruitment, particularly in the drive a novel non-profit partnership of 10 major to increase the diversity of such trials. We biopharmaceutical companies working are also using mobile health, social media to develop shared solutions to common and health information technology to ensure research and development challenges. that clinical trials can be conducted most effectively by the thousands of independent researchers we rely on for expertise. Investigating We conduct our clinical trials, wherever they take place, to the same ethical research organizations we use, so that we can increase vigilant oversight. As part of with Integrity standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations to ensure we fully protect this quality process, we routinely conduct thorough inspections of clinical trial sites the rights and welfare of our clinical trial and audit the data generated in studies, to participants around the world. In 2012, we assure patient safety, data integrity, protocol completely re-engineered our clinical trial adherence and regulatory compliance. processes. Our new process integrates wellknown quality management principles such as “quality by design” into the process. We have also narrowed the number of contract Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Research & Development > Improving Clinical Trials 20 Annual Review 2013 R&D COLLABORATIONS “I collaborate.” “We are excited to collaborate with Pfizer in our search for better treatments and a cure for cystic fibrosis. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation has been a pioneer in venture philanthropy — a drug development model that provides funding and scientific resources to allow biopharma research teams to bring full and sustained focus to this disease. We have been impressed with Pfizer’s science and their chemistry — and together we expect great things from this relationship, including the next generation of breakthrough drugs. We are still early in the process and there’s a long way to go, but this collaboration represents important progress for CF patients and their families.” Robert J. Beall, Ph.D., President and CEO, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Partnering on Cystic Fibrosis Our research collaboration with Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc., the nonprofit drug discovery and development affiliate of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, is designed to speed potential therapies that target the most common underlying causes of the disease, and strengthens Pfizer’s position in developing therapies that help “correct” the action of mutated proteins. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > R&D Collaborations 21 Annual Review 2013 R&D COLLABORATIONS Creating an Ecosystem of Innovation External collaboration is critical to advancing our R&D strategy and expediting new medical breakthroughs. We continue to work with a broad array of organizations to connect the assets and capabilities that have the potential to speed the development of new medicines for patients. Working with Patient Groups Innovative collaborations between industry and patient organizations are seen as increasingly critical in expediting the translation of basic science into potential new treatments. Patients have long been powerful advocates on the care side of the continuum. Now, they are increasingly involved in earlier stages of R&D to provide critical guidance, investment and partnership. At Pfizer, our R&D teams work with patient foundation partners to help de-risk early stages of research, prioritize endpoints, inform clinical trial recruitment and provide insight into disease. Today, we’re partnering with groups devoted to a range of patient needs including the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, CHDI Foundation (Huntington’s disease), The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, Alliance for Lupus Research, the JDRF and the Melanoma Research Alliance. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > R&D Collaborations > Creating an Ecosystem of Innovation 22 Annual Review 2013 R&D COLLABORATIONS Examples of Collaborations CTI CTI Expands into Predicting and Treating Targets Lupus Small-Molecule Kidney Failure in Research with UCSF Type 2 Diabetes The Alliance for Lupus Research and Pfizer is extending its partnership Pfizer, Eli Lilly and Company and Joslin Pfizer’s Centers for Therapeutic with University of California, San Diabetes Center have come together Innovation (CTI) are partnering to Francisco (UCSF) through CTI to to identify biomarkers for predicting discover and develop new therapies begin developing small-molecule kidney disease in patients with Type for patients living with lupus. As part drug candidates. This partnership 2 diabetes. This is the first time two of this first-of-its-kind collaboration provides investigators from UCSF with pharmaceutical companies have joined in lupus, we will jointly support novel access to Pfizer’s industry-leading forces with Joslin, the world’s leading translational research projects driven small-molecule drug development diabetes research and clinical care by leading academic medical centers capabilities, working side-by-side organization, in a co-funded research within the CTI network. with Pfizer scientists with the goal effort of this kind. The collaboration is of jointly translating promising basic designed to accelerate research aimed research into drug candidates, which at predicting kidney failure in patients have the potential to bring innovative with Type 2 diabetes and developing new therapies to patients. potential ways to treat and prevent this complication of the disease. Treating Complications Strategic Collaboration Partnering with Biotech of Obesity and Diabetes in Cancer Immunotherapy on Novel Technologies We are collaborating with SanfordPfizer entered into a partnership We have entered into a global Burnham Medical Research Institute to with The University of Texas MD collaboration with BIND Therapeutics, identify new therapeutic targets for Anderson Cancer Center to develop a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical preventing and treating complications immune-based approaches to cancer company developing a new class of obesity and diabetes. The team treatment, the first agreement made of highly selective targeted and will utilize novel screening tools through MD Anderson’s Moon Shots programmable therapeutics called including systems biology approaches Program immunotherapy platform. Accurins™, which have the potential and technologies developed at The partnership is designed to to improve patient outcomes in the Sanford-Burnham with the aim of accelerate the progress of immuneareas of oncology, inflammatory discovering new therapeutic strategies based treatments to cancer patients diseases and cardiovascular disorders. for reducing insulin resistance in and to more efficiently identify new The collaboration is focused on the obesity and diabetes. Investigators combination therapies, as well as development and commercialization of will utilize Sanford-Burnham’s Conrad biomarkers to guide and monitor Accurins utilizing select small molecule Prebys Center for Chemical Genomics treatment. targeted therapies. to screen for new relevant targets using investigational compounds from Pfizer, as well as evaluate compounds previously identified from the National Institute of Health chemical library, in the interest of identifying novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of diabetes. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > R&D Collaborations > Creating an Ecosystem of Innovation 23 Annual Review 2013 R&D COLLABORATIONS Exploring Innovative Taking a Novel Approach Technologies for to Autoimmune Diseases Neuroscience Research Pfizer entered into collaboration We have entered into an exclusive with Akili Interactive Labs Inc. to worldwide licensing agreement test the ability of Akili’s mobile video with Gliknik Inc., a privately held game platform to detect cognitive biopharmaceutical company, for differences in healthy elderly people GL-2045, Gliknik’s recombinant at risk of developing Alzheimer’s stradomer™, a drug candidate that disease. As part of the collaboration, is designed to replace and improve we will conduct a clinical trial that will on pooled human intravenous evaluate approximately 100 healthy immunoglobulin. GL-2045 has shown elderly subjects with and without the promising results in a broad range presence of amyloid in their brains, of preclinical tests and is being as determined by Positron Emission developed as a potential treatment Tomography (PET) imaging. The goal of for a wide variety of autoimmune the trial is to investigate the Akili game diseases and cancer. as a biomarker or clinical endpoint for potential use in future Alzheimer’s trials. We believe that a tool that enables cognitive monitoring for the selection and assessment of clinical trial patients has the potential to be an important advance in Alzheimer’s research and beyond. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > R&D Collaborations > Creating an Ecosystem of Innovation 24 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE “I bounce back.” “Advil relieves pain. That’s what it’s about. Pain is a holistic thing, it involves the mind, body and spirit. To relieve pain in other capacities — like helping communities devastated by a tornado or a flood — is such a great service. Advil is supporting organizations, including Team Rubicon, that are actively bringing relief to people who have been affected by disasters. It’s a really forward thinking approach.” Elizabeth O’Herrin Iraq War Veteran and Volunteer, Team Rubicon Team Rubicon—Veterans Advil® Relief in Action Campaign Volunteering for Disaster Relief The recently launched Advil® Relief in Action campaign honors Team Rubicon is a non-profit organization whose mission is to volunteers who don’t let pain get in the way of providing relief provide disaster relief in ways that conventional organizations to people in need, and supports the efforts of organizations such cannot — by focusing on the unique strengths that veterans can as Team Rubicon, Habitat for Humanity® and Wounded Warrior bring to the equation. These strengths, including emergency Project®. During 2013, consumers who purchased Advil were given medicine, risk assessment and mitigation, teamwork and the opportunity to support these organizations and the everyday decisive leadership, are invaluable in disaster zones — from an heroes among us by making a financial donation through their earthquake-shaken Haiti to a treacherously flooded Vermont. purchase of participating Advil bottles. We have encouraged people to upload photos of themselves giving back onto Twitter and Instagram by using #ReliefinAction. An inspiring collage of photos celebrating these tireless heroes can be found on advil.com/reliefinaction. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare 25 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Delivering Pfizer Consumer Healthcare helps consumers around the world take control of Recognized as a Leader • A survey of pharmacists across the United Science-Based their health and well-being with sciencebased, differentiated self-care solutions. States conducted by U.S. News & World Self-Care Solutions Report and Pharmacy Times shows Advil®, We are ranked fifth globally among Centrum® and Robitussin® as the number multinational, branded consumer health one pharmacist-recommended product in care companies, and second in our largest their respective categories. markets — the U.S., Canada and China. • CVS/pharmacy presented Pfizer Consumer Our products include over the counter Healthcare with its Health Partner of (OTC) medicines, supplements and other the Year Award, the first time we have treatments that are household names and garnered the honor. The award is based on top sellers in their categories. We are the consistently delivering thought leadership, only company with two of the top 10 global strategic collaborations and results that OTC brands — Advil® and Centrum®. outpace market and category growth. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare 26 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Leading Consumer Health Care Products Advil® Caltrate® The No. 1 selling branded OTC analgesic in the world, and Caltrate® is the No. 1 selling brand of calcium supplements trusted by millions of consumers for three decades, Advil® is globally, and is sold in 57 countries. In the U.S., our formula one of Pfizer’s billion-dollar brands. In 45 countries, Advil helps offers a higher amount of vitamin D3 — which aids in the consumers treat headaches, backaches, muscle aches, minor absorption of calcium — than any other brand. Because bone is arthritis and other joint pain, and the aches and pains of the composed of two-thirds calcium and one-third collagen, healthy common cold. 2013 saw the launch of fast-acting Advil Film bones require both calcium and collagen for resiliency. Caltrate Coated tablets, the latest innovation in pain relief. This first600+D Plus Minerals contains calcium and vitamin D3, plus extra to-market formulation in the U.S. marks the debut of Advil Ion minerals, to help stimulate collagen production and deliver bone Core®technology. This new, fast-dissolving technology, along with health. Caltrate is available in four formulas and in a variety of a unique, specially formulated ultra-thin coating, is built for forms to suit individual consumer needs. speed, going to work in minutes and stopping pain quickly before it worsens. In addition, Children’s Advil is the No. 1 selling OTC Learn more at caltrate.com pediatric brand in Canada. Learn more at advil.com Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 27 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Centrum® ChapStick® Centrum® is the most doctor and pharmacist recommended ChapStick® is sold in 25 countries globally, and is America’s brand in the U.S., and the most-preferred and most favorite lip balm. Some of consumers’ favorite ChapStick clinically-studied multivitamin brand in the world. Sold in 86 products include Moisturizer, Classic Cherry and Classic countries, Centrum provides a range of scientifically advanced Original. With a history of more than 125 years, the brand multivitamins for adults and children that help fill dietary continues to evolve, incorporating new technologies to meet gaps and support important life benefits. Our latest release is consumer demands for a product that replenishes, rehydrates Centrum Gender — multivitamins specially designed to support and protects lips while providing great taste. ChapStick men’s and women’s unique health needs. Centrum Gender Hydration Lock, the brand’s latest innovation, provides eight has been launched in 11 countries, including Australia, Brazil, hours of moisturization and contains ingredients, including Singapore and across Europe, and will reach 35 countries by the antioxidant CoQ10 and hyaluronic filling spheres, to 2016. Additionally, our Centrum Silver multivitamin was used in support soft, supple lips and give them a fuller appearance. the Physicians’ Health Study II, a landmark 12-year study that Alex Morgan, gold medalist, a member of the U.S. Women’s has established the long-term benefits of taking multivitamins National Soccer Team and a long-time ChapStick loyalist, has for men age 50 and older. The quality of Centrum® multivitamins, become the brand’s first spokesperson in more than a decade. among other factors, led the investigators to select Centrum Silver for the duration of the study. Current Centrum Silver Learn more at chapstick.com multivitamins have been improved and updated since the study began to reflect advances in nutritional science. Learn more at centrum.com Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 28 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Emergen-C® Robitussin® Emergen-C® features vitamin C in vitamin drink mixes, and in Robitussin® has been providing effective relief from cough and its more than 30 years on the market has built a loyal customer cold symptoms for more than 50 years. The brand partnered base. The brand is sold in more than 15 flavors, including top with WebMD, the No. 1 online source in the United States for sellers Super Orange and Raspberry. Specialty formulas include health information, to educate consumers about treating their Emergen-C Immune+ System Support, Joint Health, Heart coughs. Worldwide, Robitussin is a top five branded cough Health and Vitamin D & Calcium. Emergen-C has shown strong remedy and is available in 41 countries. In addition to an performance as a Pfizer brand. extensive lineup of liquid cough and cold products, Robitussin Day & Night Cold + Flu products are also available in liquidLearn more at emergenc.com filled capsules. These products provide multisymptom relief of cough, nasal congestion, headache and sore throat in a convenient liquid-filled capsule form. Learn more at robitussin.com Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 29 Annual Review 2013 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE ThermaCare® Available in more than 20 countries, ThermaCare® Heatwraps deliver heat that penetrates deep, warming the muscle right where it hurts — to relax, soothe and unlock tight muscles. ThermaCare HeatWraps have transformed the field of heat therapy by making it portable and long-lasting. ThermaCare HeatWraps keep on working even after a person takes them off — totaling up to 16 hours of relief. Learn more at thermacare.com Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Consumer Healthcare > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 30 Annual Review 2013 OUR COLLEAGUES “I own it.” “Creating a culture of ownership helps us to apply our expertise and work collaboratively to get things done and done well. I was the tech leader, but I decided I wasn’t going to be just the scientist on the project. I got involved in every area. I wasn’t thinking of it in these terms at the time, but my team and I, we owned the project. And we’re proud to have done our part on this important study to advance the knowledge base in nutritional sciences and support the Centrum business.” Alpa V. Shah Senior Medical Manager, Dietary Supplements, Global Medical Affairs, Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Owning the Possibilities In Pfizer’s ownership culture, we encourage people to seize the nutritional science of dietary supplements. Alpa showed scientific opportunity to try something new, and be accountable for the and business leadership in guiding the team that prepared for success of their projects and the work around them. We call this the publication of study results. She worked with a small group owning the business. Such efforts advance our mission, helping to dig into all existing data to help provide direction on possible us shape the industry and win in the marketplace. Our colleagues outcomes and set up an advisory board to get further perspective. strive to deliver on their commitments with speed, decisiveness Taking ownership — it’s the new way of business for Pfizer and integrity — to impact results. colleagues around the world. That is just what Alpa Shah and her team did in preparing Pfizer for the results of the Physicians’ Health Study II — a more than decade-long clinical trial that contributed to research in the Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Colleagues 31 Annual Review 2013 OUR COLLEAGUES Owning a Culture of Accountability Unprecedented 91% OWNIT! is about owning the business, winning in the marketplace, impacting results, confronting corrosive behaviors, and having trust in one another — all of which are vital to becoming the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical company. colleague participation in the 2013 Pfizer Voice Colleague Engagement “Having an ownership culture is what will give us the ultimate survey and a significant 4 point increase competitive advantage, and it is a key priority for me and Pfizer’s entire senior leadership team.” in overall engagement from last year. Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO We are building a culture where colleagues marry expertise and innovation, recognize the value of 90+ appropriate risk-taking, are accountable for their Colleague Resource Groups decisions, work collaboratively, deliver on their engaged in diversity initiatives worldwide. commitments, invest in candid and constructive debate to ensure one another’s success, and operate with integrity and in compliance with applicable Colleagues energized legal requirements and company policies. In this about Straight Talk feel confident, empowered and way, each and every colleague is actively engaged in excited to start having driving the business outcomes we seek. candid conversations. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Colleagues > Owning a Culture of Accountability 32 Annual Review 2013 OUR COLLEAGUES Global OWNIT! In early 2013, we held our first Global OWNIT! Day where, throughout the The day sparked a level of participation and candor that was fresh and palpable Day Inspires company and around the globe, colleagues stepped away from their day jobs to focus with high levels of participation from every market and every group across the Colleagues on creating an ownership culture. Held in conjunction with the one-year anniversary company. Personal stories from executive leaders demonstrated their commitment of the kick-off of Pfizer’s ownership culture, to the culture and local activities led OWNIT! Day Broadcast: OWNIT! Day 2013 ushered in the next phase by leaders in every part of the business Learn more about our Ownership Culture. of the transformation — a phase that calls reinforced the priority we have placed on for colleagues at every level of the company transforming our culture. The energy and OWNIT! Day Reflections Video: to embrace the OWNIT! culture and, where commitment by colleagues to embrace Learn more how colleagues at every needed, make concerted efforts to reshape OWNIT! was notable and showed the power Pfizer facility marked our progress their behaviors. of every Pfizer colleague working together toward creating an ownership culture to influence change. on OWNIT! Day 2013. Talent Matters Our managers and senior leaders are responsible for engaging today’s talent Colleagues at Pfizer have a wealth of development opportunities and and building the next generation. Each management support to own and grow At Pfizer, we believe our year managers participate in a global their careers. Our Discover Talent talent makes the difference. enterprise wide talent planning process internal website provides colleagues to ensure we have the right talent in with information and resources on the right place at the right time. This career planning, mentoring, Pfizer’s helps us align colleagues’ professional core competencies, and learning and aspirations with organizational needs development programs. As a global and allows us to focus on shortand organization, we offer opportunities long-term career opportunities. to get involved in local, regional or Developing a strong talent pipeline is key international projects and assignments. to positioning Pfizer’s potential to fulfill our mission to be the premier innovative biopharmaceutical company. With over 75% 16% 47% Creating an environment that fosters the growth and development of our of Pfizer’s managers increase in the number of of colleagues having nominated for the prestigious mentors actively engaged people: 40% an approved individual Great Manager Award in in Mentor Match in 2013, development plan, Pfizer 2013 recognizing managerial resulting in increased empowers its employees excellence, outstanding opportunities for colleagues of open positions were to seize development performance and ability to develop important filled by Pfizer colleagues, opportunities and shape to create a culture of relationships, grow exceeding the benchmark of their career experiences. opportunity, accountability professionally and enhance 37% at other companies. and engagement. organizational capability. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Colleagues > Owning a Culture of Accountability 33 Annual Review 2013 OUR COLLEAGUES Employee Health and Safety At Pfizer, we recognize that our colleagues are the key to our ability to succeed. Health and safety remain integral parts of a broad environmental and workforce sustainability strategy that reduces the risk of harm to colleagues and helps them remain healthy, engaged and productive. Pfizer has had an effective global occupational health and safety program in 70%+ place for many years, helping us achieve of Pfizer colleagues in the US participate in a very low incidence of occupational “Healthy Pfizer”. ill-health. We believe there is value in doing more to enhance employee health, and have established employee wellness programs in many countries where we 260+ Occupational operate. In 2013, our U.S. wellness program Health professionals “Healthy Pfizer” joined forces with our employed globally. “Get Old” outreach campaign, highlighting actions colleagues can take to improve their well-being and support healthy aging. In the U.S., our annual Health Questionnaires have shown that our colleagues’ health risks are being reduced over time as individuals make healthier choices, supported by “Healthy Pfizer”. For further information, please see our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy statement and related materials at pfizer.com. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Colleagues > Employee Health and Safety 34 Annual Review 2013 OUR COLLEAGUES Diversity and Inclusion At Pfizer, creating an ownership culture includes building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace. Diversity and inclusion expands Pfizer’s access to diverse markets, talents, resources and ideas. We realize our success depends on having colleagues with a wide range of backgrounds and capabilities to approach problems from different angles and perspectives, and who will challenge prevailing opinions. At Pfizer, diversity and inclusion are everyone’s business; colleagues, managers and senior leaders have access to a comprehensive collection of learning tools to promote and support inclusiveness, including tipsheets and toolkits to help identify and mitigate unconscious bias. Throughout our enterprise we have more than 90 regional and local business resource networks of colleagues that inform and implement strategies and initiatives that align with Pfizer’s business imperatives. Our seven Pfizer Colleague Councils (PCCs) work to expand access to diverse talent pools to engage, develop and retain diverse talent and advance Pfizer’s business. The seven PCCs include Veterans, Asians, Blacks, Latinos, LGBTA, Women, and people with disabilities or (disAbility). Recognized as a Leader 2013 Top 50 Companies Top 50 Companies for Working Mother 100 for Diversity — Executive Women — Best Companies in 2013 — DiversityInc magazine. National Association of Working Mother magazine. Female Executives (NAFE). Most Friendly to Women Employer 100% score on Human of the Year — The Gulf and Levant Rights Campaign Corporate Markets, Women in Leadership Equality Index. Middle East and Africa Forum. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Our Colleagues > Diversity and Inclusion 35 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS “I contribute.” “Having this opportunity to make a trusted product that keeps people around the world from going blind, bringing hope and a chance at a better quality of life ... it’s beautiful. We are very proud of what we do here. And it goes well beyond making Zithromax for the ITI. My parents, my children, sometimes they take medicines we produce right here in Puerto Rico. We are a part of the fabric of life.” José A. Mercado Site Leader, Vega Baja, Pfizer Global Supply Working to Eliminate Blinding Trachoma Pfizer is a founding partner of the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), a global program that recently marked its 15th anniversary of working to eliminate blinding trachoma as a public health concern. Through the ITI, we have donated more than 340 million doses of the antibiotic Zithromax® (azithromycin) to prevent and treat trachoma in support of the World Health Organization-led Global Alliance for the Elimination of Trachoma by the year 2020. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access 36 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS Expanding Access to Essential Health Care We are committed to bringing more medicines to more people and helping to improve health around the world. Our social investments focus on effective and sustainable health care delivery for underserved patients, wherever they live, while empowering our colleagues, strengthening our stakeholder relationships and ultimately having a positive impact on society and our business. Although price and enforcement of intellectual property rights are formidable barriers to access to medicines in poor populations, access is a complex issue, affected by many factors. For example, weak or non-existent health care infrastructures represent a significant impediment — perhaps the largest — to access. We continue to explore and implement models and approaches tailored to the diverse needs of patients in different geographies. Seeking holistic approaches, we work closely with governments, health organizations and other stakeholders to address the complex challenges around improving health for the underserved. For an interactive map of all our access-related programs, see here. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > Expanding Access to Essential Health Care 37 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS Commercial We are developing a portfolio of innovative business approaches as part Pfizer has long-standing business partnerships with both the U.S. Agency Strategies to of our strategy to increase access to our medicines and improve health care for for International Development and the United Nations Population Fund to make our Improve Access underserved populations in both developed and developing countries. We are also injectable contraceptive, Depo-Provera, available to women all across the globe, taking innovative approaches to pricing in from sub-Saharan Africa to Southeast Asia various markets, including tiered pricing to Latin America. We are working to expand both across and within countries, and our relationship with such institutional portfolio offerings that address and balance buyers in an effort to make a broad customers’ cost sensitivities. portfolio of our medicines accessible to as many low income patients as possible. This includes working closely with global institutional buyers who purchase medicines for the neediest of patients. For example, Accelerating Access to Pfizer Vaccines in the Developing World Today, more people benefit from safe and efficacious vaccines than ever before. As Pfizer works to usher in a new era of vaccine innovation — both to prevent and treat serious diseases Up to — we are also working with governments and global health 740 organizations to expand access to these prevention measures. We are committed to helping protect millions of infants and young children in the developing world from pneumococcal disease; the leading cause of vaccine-preventable death in young children. Under the auspices of the GAVI (formerly the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) Alliance’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC) for pneumococcal vaccines, million doses of which provides vaccines to the world’s poorest countries on Prevenar 13 an accelerated, affordable and sustainable basis, Pfizer has through 2025 committed to supply up to 740 million doses of Prevenar 13 through 2025. Prevenar 13® is available in more than 32 GAVIeligible countries, with many additional launches planned. We are committed to helping meet the AMC’s primary goal of reducing morbidity and mortality from pneumococcal disease and, specifically, to prevent an estimated 7 million childhood deaths by 2030. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > Expanding Access to Essential Health Care 38 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS Improving Access through Drug Development Strategies Pfizer is committed to and collaborating on developing effective treatments for diseases that disproportionately affect the underserved, including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and otherwise neglected tropical diseases. WIPO Re:Search Global Health Investment Fund (GHIF) WIPO Re:Search is an R&D Global Health Investment Fund consortium dedicated to developing (GHIF) is a first-of-its-kind fund new solutions — including medicines, that will finance late-stage global vaccines and diagnostics — for health technologies that have the neglected tropical diseases, malaria potential to save millions of lives and tuberculosis. The consortium in low-income countries. GHIF will was created in partnership with help advance the most promising the World Intellectual Property interventions to fight challenges such Organization (WIPO), BIO Ventures as malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, for Global Health and other leaders and maternal and infant mortality, in the R&D pharmaceutical industry. while expanding access to health The consortium, which was launched care and fostering new possibilities in 2011, has over 80 members, has that come from improved health in 44 research agreements in place and underserved communities. To help has facilitated five arrangements fill the funding gaps for late-stage whereby developing country scientists clinical trials and development are hosted by developed country expenses, GHIF will invest in new members of WIPO Re:Search. Pfizer is drug and vaccine candidates, involved in several agreements where emerging diagnostic tools, childwe are making specific contributions friendly formulations of existing to advance external research products, expanding manufacturing programs targeting diarrhea, dengue capacity and other applications fever and cerebral malaria. that will help bring affordable technologies to those most in need. The Pfizer Foundation has committed a $5 million investment in GHIF as part of $94 million in initial financing for the fund, which was structured and/or supported by JPMorgan Chase & Co., The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, International Finance Corporation, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck and Storebrand. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > Expanding Access to Essential Health Care 39 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS Strengthening Health Care Systems Pfizer helps build health care infrastructure and capacity worldwide primarily in two ways. First, by working in partnership with non-government organizations, government agencies, multilateral aid organizations and other global health stakeholders to strengthen health care systems and improve care. Second, through product donation and patient assistance programs that improve access to our medicines. Our investments include programs that provide direct assistance, such as product donations and steep discounts, to help bridge current gaps in health care delivery to various underserved populations. For example, we donate Diflucan® to fight opportunistic fungal infections associated with HIV and AIDS in the developing world. Healthy Connections Global Health Fellows Pfizer Helpful Answers® Healthy Connections is a joint effort Global Health Fellows is our Pfizer Helpful Answers®, Pfizer’s by Pro Mujer, Mayo Clinic, Sesame renowned colleague volunteer program family of patient assistance programs, Workshop and Pfizer to promote that places Pfizer colleagues in shorthelps eligible patients in the U.S. disease prevention and family term assignments with international obtain their Pfizer prescriptions for health among women and children development organizations to work free or at a savings and, for some in numerous countries across Latin together to bring about meaningful medicines, offers reimbursement America. Healthy Connections will use and systematic improvements in support services. In the past five a new technology platform integrating health service delivery. During years, from 2009 to 2013, the program mobile, web and video technology assignments, Fellows transfer their has enabled more than three million along with remote training and access pharmaceutical and business expertise uninsured or underinsured patients to to specialists. in ways that promote access, quality get access to nearly 37.5 million Pfizer and efficiency of health care. In prescriptions. exchange, Fellows return with experience and relationships that help inform their ability to have an impact on pressing health concerns. 2013 marked the 10th anniversary of the GHF program. The GHF program has been recognized as a “best-inclass” program model for its impact on global health, as well as its value to Pfizer colleagues and the business. To date, more than 350 colleagues have completed an estimated 345,000 hours in skills-based pro bono service, valued at more than $50 million with local partners, throughout the developing world. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > Expanding Access to Essential Health Care 40 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS It’s Happening at GetOld.com Vitality is not an age-dependent notion: it is a fact of life for everyone. Challenge yourself to rethink what it means to age. Find inspiration, declare yourself and explore how people of every age are finding a better quality of life and a brighter view of tomorrow. Age-Friendly Cities We support and are working with Community AGEnda; a program founded in 2012 in conjunction with Grantmakers in Aging. Community AGEnda focuses on helping communities across the U.S. become more age-friendly, meaning great places to grow up and grow old. Efforts include: improving mobility and walkability; informing regional planning efforts; designing affordable, accessible housing; promoting healthy lifestyles; improving access to public services; and increasing volunteer, intergenerational and social opportunities. Healthy Aging Pfizer is developing a robust platform on caregiving to communicate the breadth practical advice for balancing work and caregiving, and advocates for policies that Initiative Focuses of our portfolio for the growing caregiving market segment. As part of this initiative, help employees and employers manage the nation’s caregiving responsibilities. on Caregiving we are co-launching a caregiving suite of offerings with AARP, the nation’s largest organization focusing on the needs of older 25M+ Americans. These offerings help caregivers better manage their own time and health. Through a public-private partnership called ReACT (Respect A Caregiver’s Time), Pfizer is active in supporting an online community people in the U.S., many of them of employers and caregivers addressing the employed full time, are caregivers challenges faced by employees who are for family members also caregivers at home. ReACT provides Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > It’s Happening at GetOld.com 41 Annual Review 2013 EXPANDING ACCESS Get Healthy Stay Healthy Site Helping People Manage Their Health The fresh, distinctive experience at gethealthystayhealthy.com helps guide 1M+ people to better health outcomes, U.S. adults watched a Pfizer medical video providing patients and caregivers with or read an article practical information on a variety of online in 2013 important health topics. This site is designed to foster a healthy dialogue Millions of American among patients, caregivers and health adults have care providers, and consolidates access to viewed television Pfizer’s medical expertise and information. programming featuring Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall, our Chief Medical Officer Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Stories > Expanding Access > It’s Happening at GetOld.com 42 Annual Review 2013 Board of Directors Dennis A. Ausiello, M.D. W. Don Cornwell Frances D. Fergusson, Ph.D Director, Center for Founder and Retired President Emeritus Assessment Technology and Chairman and CEO Vasser College Continuous Health (CATCH). Granite Broadcasting (2,4,5) Physician-in-Chief, Corporation Emeritus at Massachusetts (1,2,4,5) General Hospital (1,3,4,5) Helen H. Hobbs, M.D. Constance J. Horner James M. Kilts Investigator Former Assistant to Founding Partner Howard Hughes the President of the Centerview Capital Medical Institute United States and Director (2,5) (3,4,5) of Presidential Personnel (3,4,5) George A. Lorch Shantanu Narayen Suzanne Nora Johnson Chairman Emeritus President and Chief Executive Retired Vice Chairman Armstrong Holdings, Inc. Officer and Director of The Goldman Sachs (6) Adobe Systems Inc. Group, Inc. (3,5) (1,2,5) Ian C. Read Stephen W. Sanger Marc Tessier-Lavigne, Ph.D. Chairman and CEO Retired Chairman and CEO President General Mills Rockefeller University (1,3,5) (4,5) (1) Audit Committee (2) Compensation Committee (3) Corporate Governance Committee (4) Regulatory and Compliance Committee (5) Science and Technology Committee (6) Lead Independent Director Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Board of Directors 43 Annual Review 2013 Executive Leadership Team Ian C. Read Albert Bourla Frank A. D’Amelio Chairman and CEO Group President, Executive Vice President, Global Vaccines, Business Operations and Oncology and Consumer Chief Financial Officer Healthcare Business Mikael Dolsten, M.D. Ph.D. Geno Germano Chuck Hill President, Group President, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Research Global Innovative Worldwide and Development Pharma Business Human Resources Rady Johnson Doug Lankler Freda C. Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Lewis-Hall, M.D. Chief Compliance General Counsel Executive Vice President and Risk Officer and Chief Medical Officer Anthony J. Maddaluna Laurie Olson Sally Susman Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, and President, Strategy, Portfolio and Corporate Affairs Pfizer Global Supply Commercial Operations John Young Group President, Global Established Pharma Business Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Executive Leadership Team 44 Annual Review 2013 How We Are Organized Our new operating structure represents the next steps in Pfizer’s journey to further revitalize our innovative core, enhance the value of our consumer and off-patent established brands and maximize the use of our capital to deliver value to patients and our shareholders. Through this evolution, we are enabling greater independence, focus and responsiveness for our commercial businesses. Global Commercial Business Global Innovative Pharma Business Global Global Established Vaccines, Oncology Pharma and Consumer Business Healthcare Business Worldwide Pfizer Enabling Research & Global Supply Functions Development Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > How We Are Organized 45 Annual Review 2013 Global Innovative Pharma Business Global Innovative Pharma (GIP) is focused • Growing global business with potential in • A robust pipeline of medicines in on development, registration and developed and targeted emerging markets inflammation, cardiovascular metabolic, commercialization of novel, value creating • Launch brands include Xeljanz, Eliquis pain and rare diseases medicines that significantly improve and Duavee • Transformative capabilities that will help patients’ lives. GIP includes: • Market-leading strategic brands include to meet the challenges of an evolving Enbrel, Lyrica (U.S., Japan), Viagra (U.S.) global health care market and Champix Global Established Pharma Business Global Established Pharma (GEP) is a • Products that will go off patent (also • Legacy emerging markets large, attractive, highly diverse known as Peri-LOE) business in developed • Growth opportunities which include and profitable business with unique markets, including major brands such as Biosimilars and sterile injectables, opportunities across portfolios and Celebrex and Zyvox partnerships in key markets, and geographies. GEP is comprised of four • Legacy established products, comprised targeted opportunities in the distinct portfolio segments: of mature off-patent medicines in developed markets developed markets Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Business Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer • Each of these businesses is poised for Healthcare (VOC) is comprised of three high, organic growth over time separate, unique businesses that share • Each business requires distinct certain key elements: specializations and operating models in science, talent and market approach • Structure provides each business with the dedicated resources required to further strengthen and position it to be a market leader on a global basis Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > How We Are Organized 46 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Governance and Ethics At Pfizer, we understand that good corporate governance is essential to our standing as a trusted member of society, and we conduct ourselves accordingly. Board of Directors Compliance Pfizer’s Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight We believe that compliance with all applicable laws is of management, including the overall strategic direction of integral to our ability to serve society. We train colleagues the company, and for the company’s policies on governance, extensively in compliance and have an organizational structure executive compensation and compliance. designed to ensure good oversight of our colleagues, vendors and business partners. Read more about our Board of Directors here. Read more about our Compliance here. Ethical Sales and Marketing Disclosing Payment to We are committed to promoting our products responsibly, educating patients and providers about their appropriate use, Health Care Professionals and reporting about our business practices in a fashion that We do not pay health care professionals for prescribing our promotes transparency. medicines or as an inducement for promoting our products. We believe it is appropriate and ethical to fairly compensate Read more about our Ethical Sales and Marketing here. health care professionals for work they do on our behalf. Read more about our Disclosing Payment to Health Care Direct-to-Consumer Professionals here. Advertising in the U.S. Our strict internal standards, going beyond compliance with the law, have been developed to ensure that the information Human Rights we share with patients is scientifically sound, balanced, easy to Pfizer strives to uphold human rights in all our business activities. understand and helpful in encouraging them to consult with a We also work to advance human rights by working to improve the health care professional. health of people around the world. Read more about our Direct-to-Consumer Advertising here. Read more about our Human Rights here. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Governance and Ethics 47 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Environment Committed to a Sustainable Future Our commitment to advancing health includes being good stewards of the environment. We constantly assess our business practices and advance those that we believe produce measurable value for society and our business, while minimizing risk to our shareholders. Our Path to a Sustainable Future — Our strategic approach focuses on reducing energy and water 2020 Public Goals* consumption in addition to innovative ways to manage waste. 20% 15% Our “green journey” focuses on three areas key to our business: ENERGY — mitigating climate change and its impacts WASTE — minimizing the environmental impact of our GHG Emissions Waste Disposed products and processes WATER — managing water resources sustainably 5% For a comprehensive view of our contributions to a sustainable future, see here. Also, by the end of 2015, Pfizer plans to announce targets that it believes have the potential to result in meaningful Water Use environmental improvement across our supply chain by the end of 2020. *Compared with Pfizer’s 2012 baseline. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Environment 48 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Building on a Strong Record Carbon Disclosure Project We have a strong record in reducing Recognizes Pfizer’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. From Sustainability Efforts 2000 to 2007, we reduced our GHG In its 2013 rating, Carbon Disclosure emissions by 20 percent. From 2007 to Project (CDP) scored Pfizer 91 out of 2012, we reduced them an additional 100 for Climate Disclosure. Pfizer has 25 percent. Our current goal is to reduce participated in the CDP rankings since our GHG emissions by another 20 percent their inception, and this year’s rating by 2020, from our 2012 baseline, which — our highest — places us among the is consistent with the 60 to 80 percent top group of health care companies reduction by 2050 that scientists in both the S&P 500 and the Financial indicate is necessary to stabilize Times Global 500 listings. In 2012, Pfizer global temperatures. was also commended for incorporating sustainability information in commercial Pfizer is also an acknowledged leader tender requests, and for implementing in Green Chemistry, having made 116 energy efficiency projects yielding significant solvent and waste reductions, $3.6 million in annual savings, and for more than a decade, by investing in reducing greenhouse gas emissions by safer chemistry pathways that result in more than 33,000 tons of CO2. greener processes. Product Stewardship Managing Environmental Risk Pfizer evaluates and manages risk supporting existing guidelines such as EHS professionals at Pfizer support throughout the product life-cycle. We those offered by the FDA (www.fda.gov) line management in the identification, have an active program to assess and and participate in product take-back management and mitigation of address the issues associated with programs in locations that operate them. environmental risks and liabilities. pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE) To aid U.S. hospitals, health care clinics Oversight of environmental compliance and unused medicines. Although studies and long-term care facilities, Pfizer, in is governed by our Environment, Health have indicated that only a small portion of collaboration with Waste Management, and Safety Steering Team. medicines enter the environment through Inc., introduced an online guide listing waste disposal (patient excretion accounts disposal information for our products For more information on our environmental health and safety policy, programs and performance, for a much larger share), we consider — a first in the industry found at Pfizer please see www.pfizer.com/ehs. impact from all sources. Responsible Disposal Advisor. In addition to advancing the science For more information on product stewardship, please see here. associated with PIE, we encourage the safe disposal of unused medicines by Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Environment 49 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Manufacturing and Supply Chain Pfizer is committed to supplying products to patients that significantly improve their lives. Therefore, our manufacturing and supply division focuses on ensuring that all Pfizer products are produced to the highest standards of quality, safety and efficacy and are available when needed. To maintain the quality, safety and Pfizer’s global supply network pre-engineered and tested module, from availability of Pfizer products requires encompasses our internal manufacturing our Pearl River, New York facility, to enable sophisticated and complex manufacturing sites and a network of external partners. production at our local partner in Garin, and distribution processes and systems. External partners are selected based on Argentina, reducing the expected start Consequently, Pfizer has built its capability their ability to reliably supply quality up time by about 40 percent. While a few and expertise to supply a wide range products at a competitive cost. Contracts Pfizer colleagues remain on site in Garin, of medicines, from the simple to the with our key suppliers mandate rigorous other Pfizer experts log in remotely and technically complex therapies increasingly controls and inspections to help assure watch real time data acquisition, monitor being deployed to combat some of the most quality and compliance throughout the the equipment’s performance and assist in devastating diseases afflicting humanity. entire supply chain. trouble-shooting. We take a holistic, multi-faceted approach We are taking advantage of technology to to quality and compliance with programs leverage expertise throughout the network that are among the best in the industry. as a cost-effective way to help ensure a We relentlessly challenge ourselves consistent level of quality globally. For to further enhance our systems and example, to supply Pfizer’s pneumococcal processes, and are conducting numerous vaccine Prevenar 13 to the children of continuous improvement projects Argentina, we are using a Pfizer-developed throughout our network. rapid deployment module based on our 600 Major Product Groups 175 Markets 130+ Market Distribution & Logistics Center Operations 200 Contract Manufacturers 56 Manufacturing Sites Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 50 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Quality and Compliance Ensuring high-quality medicines and drugs standards, logistics service providers complex and varying global demand requires vigilance and a strong quality and supporting information management profiles. This trend has been driven by culture. Product quality is everyone’s infrastructures help ensure products are innovative, results-oriented work in responsibility at Pfizer. We work diligently to delivered on time and in compliance with such areas as cloud-based information supply our products in full compliance with internal and regulatory requirements. management, platform operating all applicable legal requirements everywhere structures, transportation control towers, we work and, just as importantly, to our own Our end-to-end supply chain is designed to supply planning and orchestration, high standards worldwide. align inventory and supply chain planning, and our Supply Model Transformation transportation management, temperature (SMT) program. We are equally diligent about making control management, logistics and logistics certain that our products transit from security, environmental health and safety, The SMT program is our approach to plant to patient in a safe, secure and dangerous goods compliance, global trade managing our supply chain more effectively compliant manner to ensure quality compliance and trade management. It also by having greater visibility and control of and patient safety. Transporting and supports business continuity and proactive the entire supply process, from sourcing distributing medicines require wellissue identification and resolution. raw materials to delivery of products to designed procedures that address the our customers and consumers around the particular handling requirements for In Gartner’s annual survey of the top 25 world. Those are combined with a strong each product class, such as temperature health care supply chains, Pfizer was the trade compliance program designed to control, controlled substance licensing only company that rose in the rankings ensure Pfizer operates as a secure and and environmental management. Pfizer’s in 2013. Gartner cited Pfizer’s focus on trusted import/export organization. harmonized global supply chain procedures, patients, and ability to meet increasingly Supply Chain Security As an industry-recognized leader in supply As global pharmaceutical supply chains chain security, Pfizer developed a dedicated become increasingly complex, we see security program that encompasses every supply chain security as a growing and part of the manufacturing and delivery critical component of our commitment to process, starting with the procurement patient safety and to the prevention of of raw materials and continuing through adulterated or counterfeited drugs entering to the delivery of product to the point of the health care system. We have been dispensation to our customers. open and active advocates for legislation designed to improve the security and safety of the global pharmaceutical supply chain. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 51 Annual Review 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Environment, Health and Safety in the Supply Network At Pfizer, responsible supply chain In addition, we participate in the management is central to our business industry-wide Pharmaceutical Supply model. We operate within a framework of Chain Initiative to advance EHS in principles aligned with ethical, social and the global supply chain. In China, we environmental responsibilities to enhance partner with the Institute of Sustainable the sustainability of our business and the Communities, an organization committed communities in which we operate. to advancing sustainability in developing countries through education and To that end, an Environmental Health and training. In October, Pfizer participated Safety (EHS) team performs risk-based in events with delegates from China’s reviews of chemical and biological product Ministry of Industry and Information suppliers to ensure effective management Technology (MIIT), including hosting of risk. We have made considerable the delegation at one of our U.S. progress over the years through these facilities. The delegation was visiting reviews, and now focus our site assessments the U.S. to gain better understanding of on newer suppliers and on reducing the risk environment, health and safety systems, at a select number of suppliers who can here so it could inform the development most benefit from our expertise. of guidelines for the expanding pharmaceutical industry in China. For more information, click here. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Responsible Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 52 Annual Review 2013 Performance Financial Performance Three-Year Summary as of and for the year ended December 31(a) % change MILLIONS (Except Per Common Share Data) 2013 2012 2011 13/12 12/11 Revenues(b) $51,584 54,657 61,035 (6) (10) Research and development expenses (b) $6,678 7,482 8,681 (11) (14) Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (b) $1,182 1,810 2,841 (35) (36) Income from continuing operations(b) $11,410 9,021 7,860 26 15 Discontinued operations — net of tax (c) $10,662 5,577 2,189 91 * Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. (b) $22,003 14,570 10,009 51 46 Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc. shareholders $3.19 1.94 1.27 64 53 Weighted-average shares — diluted $6,895 7,508 7,870 (8) (5) Number of common shares outstanding $6,399 7,276 7,575 (12) (4) Total assets $172,101 185,798 188,002 (7) (1) Total Long-term obligations(b),(d) $72,115 74,934 75,914 (4) (1) Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity $76,307 81,260 82,190 (6) (1) Shareholders’ equity per common share $11.93 11.17 10.85 7 3 Net cash provided by operating activities $17,765 16,746 20,240 6 (17) Property, plant and equipment additions $1,206 1,327 1,660 (9) (20) Purchases of common stock $16,290 8,228 9,000 98 (9) Cash dividends paid $6,580 6,534 6,234 1 5 (a) Reflects the acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on January 31, 2011 and Wyeth on October 15, 2009. (b) All amounts reflect the June 24, 2013 disposition of Zoetis and its presentation as a discontinued operation in all periods presented. (c) Includes (i) the Animal Health (Zoetis) business through June 24, 2013, the date of disposal, (ii) the Nutrition business through November 30, 2012, the date of disposal and (iii) the Capsugel business through August 1, 2011, the date of disposal. (d) Defined as Long-term debt, Pension beneﬁt obligations, net, Postretirement beneﬁt obligations, net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A-1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s and AA by S&P. Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. * Calculation not meaningful. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2013 Financial Report. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Performance > Financial Performance 53 Annual Review 2013 Key Performance Indicators Access to Medicines 12 Number of global programs and commercial transactions to increase 17 Number of top 20 global burdens of disease addressed by 67 Number of emerging markets in which Pfizer has implemented access to medicines in emerging products and pipeline2 intra-country tiered pricing3 markets1 Employees 0.53 Injuries Per 100 Employees Total Injury Rate4 Total injury rate in 2013 was 10% lower than in 2012. Environment5 1.67 Million Metric Tons CO2e6 44.3 Million Cubic Meters 154 Thousand Metric Tons7 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Withdrawal Waste Generated Total GHG emissions in 2013 Total water withdrawal in 2013 Total waste generated in 2013 were 7.2% lower than in 2012. was 4% lower than in 2012. was 10% lower than in 2012. (1) Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, MLO, NGO, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. (2) As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. (3) Represents minimum number of emerging markets with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. (4) Represents >90% of Pfizer employees and directly-supervised contractors. (5) Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. Excludes Zoetis sites (formerly Pfizer Animal Health). The 2012 GHG data was independently verified to the “Limited Assurance” level. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. (6) Carbon footprint includes total direct (including fleet and aviation) and indirect emissions. Does not include Scope 3 emissions. (7) The overall recycling rate was 33% and the quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous waste decreased 12% and 3% respectively from 2012. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Performance > Key Performance Indicators 54 Annual Review 2013 Performance and Guidance1 Adjusted Revenues5 (in Billions) 2013 Guidance2,3 $50.8 – $51.8 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 $49.2 – $51.2 $51.5 Adjusted Cost of Sales5 as a % of Adjusted Revenue 2013 Guidance2,3 18.0% – 18.5% 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 19.0% – 20.0% 18.0% Adjusted SI&A Expenses5 (in Billions) 2013 Guidance2,3 $14.2 – $14.7 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 $13.5 – $14.5 $14.2 Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Performance > Performance and Guidance 55 Annual Review 2013 Performance and Guidance1 Adjusted R&D Expenses5 (in Billions) 2013 Guidance2,3 $6.3 – $6.6 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 $6.4 – $6.9 $6.6 Adjusted Other (Income)/Deductions5 (in Millions) 2013 Guidance2,3 Approx. $400 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 Approx. $100 $164 Effective Tax Rate on Adjusted Income5 2013 Guidance2,3 Approx. 28.0% 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 Approx. 27.0% 27.5% Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Performance > Performance and Guidance 56 Annual Review 2013 Performance and Guidance1 Reported Diluted EPS6 2013 Guidance2,3 $3.05 – $3.15 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 $1.57 – $1.72 $3.19 Adjusted Diluted EPS5 2013 Guidance2,3 $2.15 – $2.20 2013 Actual3 2014 Guidance4 $2.20 – $2.30 $2.22 (1) Please refer to Pfizer’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. (2) At exchange rates that reflected a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through September 29, 2013 and the mid-October 2013 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. Our 2013 guidance did not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of September 29, 2013, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, and excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of September 29, 2013. (3) Financial results from the Animal Health business were reflected as a discontinued operation through June 24, 2013. The weighted average shares outstanding used in the computation of Adjusted and Reported Diluted EPS guidance reflected the 405.1 million share reduction resulting from the Zoetis exchange offer. Since this reduction occurred on June 24, 2013, Adjusted and Reported Diluted EPS(6) guidance reflected only a partial-year benefit. Reported and Diluted EPS(6) guidance included the gain on the final disposition of Zoetis and income from a patent litigation settlement. (4) Our 2014 financial guidance is as of January 2014 and does not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2013, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, and excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2013. The exchange rates assumed in connection with the 2014 financial guidance are as of mid-January 2014. Revenues and Cost of sales from the transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis have been excluded from the applicable Adjusted components of the financial guidance. Adjusted and Reported Diluted EPS(6) guidance assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.4 billion shares. (5) “Adjusted Income” and its components and “Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)” are defined as reported U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) net income(6) and its components and reported diluted EPS(6) excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. Adjusted Revenues, Adjusted Cost of Sales, Adjusted Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A), Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted Other (Income)/Deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis and, therefore, components of the overall adjusted income measure. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, management uses adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP reported to Non-GAAP adjusted information for 2013, as well as reconciliations for full-year 2014 guidance for adjusted income and adjusted diluted EPS to full-year 2014 guidance for reported net income(6) and reported diluted EPS(6), are provided in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. The adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS. Despite the importance of these measures to management in goal setting and performance measurement, adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS are Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, have limits in their usefulness to investors. Because of the non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. (6) “Reported Net Income” in accordance with U.S. GAAP is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. in accordance with U.S. GAAP and “Reported Diluted EPS” is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Performance > Performance and Guidance 57 Annual Review 2013 Corporate and Shareholder Information Stock Listings Political Action Committee (PAC) The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York To review our most recent PAC and corporate political Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our stock is also listed on the NYSE contributions report, go online at www.pfizer.com/pac. Euronext Brussels Exchange, the London Stock Exchange and the SIX Swiss Stock Exchange, as well as various United States regional stock exchanges. Helplines Patients, customers and health care professionals who have Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. Uninsured or underinsured patients who need help getting their 250 Royall Street Pfizer medicines should call Pfizer Helpful Answers, our family of Canton, MA 02021 patient assistance programs that provide Pfizer medicines for free Telephone: 1-800-PFE-9393 or at a savings to patients who qualify. Some programs also offer Outside the U.S., Canada and reimbursement support services for insured patients. To learn Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 more, visit www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com or call 1-866-706-2400. Internet: www.computershare.com Shareholder Services and Programs Additional Information Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar with You can find more information about Pfizer online at inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock www.pfizer.com. Real-time news about Pfizer can be found on our transfer matters, and also for information on the following Facebook page (www.facebook.com/Pfizer) and through Twitter services and programs: (www.Twitter.com/Pfizer_news). Computershare Investment Program This Annual Review is produced by Pfizer’s Corporate Affairs group. Direct purchase of Pfizer stock Dividend reinvestment Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service Automatic monthly investments marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether or not appearing Book-entry share ownership with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc Direct deposit of dividends or its affiliates. Design: Ideas On Purpose, New York Forward-Looking Information Please refer to Pfizer’s 2013 Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. Our Form 10-K is available on our website at www.pfizer.com/sec and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. Pfizer Annual Review 2013 www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Corporate and Shareholder Information 58
