COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2014 CONTACTS Karen Blixen Camp Ltd. 40C Marula Lane, Karen Nairobi, Kenya, PO BOX 9913 00 100 GPO NBO www.karenblixencamp.com info@karenblixencamp.com Contact persons Ronald Ngulu Mutie, Managing Director ronald@karenblixencamp.com Jesper Stagegaard, CSR Manager jesper.stagegaard@reepark.dk Sector Tourism, leisure and holiday Number of employees 86 staff members UN Global Compact signatory since Karen Blixen Camp registered our support in 2008 1 COMMITMENT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Karen Blixen Camp continues fully committed to the implementation of the four principles of UN Global compact in all its aspect of operations namely 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anticorruption Regards Ronald Mutie Managing Director Karen Blixen Camp CSR PROGRESS REPORT AS FROM JANUARY 2013-JUNE 2014 Introduction to Karen Blixen Camp Karen Blixen Camp is a 44 be ecofriendly luxury camp located in the beautiful Mara North Conservancy. Karen Blixen Camp is a founding member camp of the Mara North Conservancy and protects 30,000 Ha of pristine wildlife area in the vital northwestern zone of the Greater Maasai Mara Ecosystem. The Land under which Mara North Conservancy seats is owned by individual local Land Owners who have voluntarily through an agreement with the Tourism Investors have agreed to set and protect the land for the purpose of Conservation and tourism. In return the Land Owners receive payment from the Investors inform of cash for signed leases. The local community-Maasai make more than 60% of our employee population; any available vacancy is always prioritized to the Community. We will only outsource outside the Community if we cannot get the right candidate locally. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to responsible wildlife experiences. We invite our guests to explore and understand the complexity of the Maasai Mara Ecosystem with its great wildlife on game drives, game walks, nature walks, balloon safaris and eco camp walks. Understanding the intricacies of how the Maasai Mara Ecosystem works adds the ultimate dimension to the very unique and outstanding wildlife experience. Karen Blixen Camp conducts our business in a manner that benefits the environment, the people working at the camp and the neighboring community. Our mission is to become one of the most recognized ecofriendly luxury camps in East Africa and make ecotourism a very successful business imperative in today’ tourism industry. Karen Blixen Camp is a Kenyan registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a development loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. Danida, Danish International Assistance to developing countries has granted us funding through its UN based IPD, International Partnership for Development Programme to establish a hospitality and forestry school for the Maasai youth, combating low education and extreme poverty. 2 CODE OF CONDUCT  Ensure we raise and improve the standard of living of the local host community  Train Masai you in different hospitality disciplines in order make them competitive in job markets and as well enabling them to have a direct benefit through employment in Tourism Sector  Promote literacy and make available computers and internet technologies for competitiveness in Job market as well  Ensure full and decent employment for all staff employed  Assure proper working conditions and respect workers’ rights to join an association  Protect the Mara North Conservancy with 30,000 of pristine wilderness area  Make use of the latest green technologies and minimize our impact on the environment  Promote environmental responsibility and find sustainable solutions on energy consumption THE SCOPE –COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS In this COP we will be reporting on the progress we have had on CSR practices since early 2013. This will be reported within the principles of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption as required by UN Global compact HUMAN RIGHTS The principles under Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure our company is not complicit in human rights abuses. We adhere to the UN Human Rights Declaration of 1966, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Constitution of Kenya of 2010 which declare protection of human rights and how they should be observed in relation to operation of companies. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to ensure equality and freedom from discrimination, freedom from well as slavery servitude and forced labour and further guarantee freedom of association and the right to fair labour practices within our business practices and sphere of influence. We are committed to contribute positively to the Children’ Act and children’ rights to education and proper healthcare. 3 OUR ACTIONS IN SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT 2013-2014 Karen Blixen Camp Directors through the Management have ensured that no discrimination takes place in employment related procedures and decisions based on a person’ origin, sex, religion, political or union affiliation, sexual orientations or physical challenges at the workplace Karen Blixen Camp is an equal opportunity employer and our recruitment is based on merit and support for local community. Due to the recent downturn in Kenya tourism, we have not recruited much but the few done above been above board. In addition any staff who opts to leave the employment or laid off as per the provision of Kenya Law has been accorded a descent monetary pay off as per the law Women are given equal opportunity in employment as men and we encourage them to apply for the jobs than we do for men. In 2013, we came up with our Human resource policy document which covers the human rights aspects of our staff rights .It will be attached to this COP for your reference OUTCOME MEASUREMENT The Camp has a mixture of employees from different races and communities in Kenya No child is employed at the Camp We have no human rights dispute case with the Labour ministry LABOUR RIGHTS The principles under Labour rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp has worked and will continue to work under the Kenya Labour Laws act 2007 in order to fully obey the labour rights of our Staffs. We are also fully committed in implementing the principles of International Labour Organization’s (ILO) declaration on rights to work. We have also endorsed the labour principles of the UN Global Compact. 4 Kenya being a third world country and less industrialized, employment is the main source of income for citizens. Karen Blixen understands this fully and has always meant sure that all her staffs receive legally what is due to them. Karen Blixen Camp does not and will never condone child and forced labour . Our staffs are free to join any union of their choice to fight for their labour rights. OUR ACTIONS IN SAFEGUARDING LABOUY RIGHTS AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT 2013-2014 Karen Blixen Camp through the guidance of Kenyan Labour laws act of 2007 and ILO has allowed the staffs to join the staff union of their choice. We have also for a bigger representation and understanding of staff needs allowed them to form their own staff committee which will occasionally pass their grievances to management. Within the period in question, a human resource policy document detailing the relationship between Karen Blixen Camp Employer and employees’ relationship was launched and implemented. Under the HR Policy, re  Staffs are entitled to medical care  General Leave and off days are clearly stipulated, a total of 107 days covering both Off and leave days are approved for all the staffs working at the camp  Maternity for women and paternity for men are cleared stipulated in the document  Sick leave as well clearly explained  Termination of employment under different scenarios well explained  Conflict/grievances resolution procedures are well explained  All the above are worked in reference to Kenya labour laws act 2007 OUTCOME MEASUREMENT Higher staff commitment to their duties has been witnessed compared to 2012.This is attributed to the fact that staffs feel more secure in their jobs. The gap between the Management and the staffs has been minimized and team work enhanced. Very positive guest feedbacks registered with more than 90% returning excellent service verdict ENVIRONMENT The principles under Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT 5 Karen Blixen Camp has throughout the reporting period in question been committed to minimizing environmental impact from its daily operations. Through the greener and renewable energy initiatives Karen Blixen camp has greatly minimized the environmental impacts through utilization of Solar system to provide lighting and water heating systems and planting of trees to offset the CO2 emission. OUR ACTIONS IN MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 2013-2014 Huge investment in new solar system Karen Blixen Camp has in between 2013 and 2014 invested in new solar system of USD 170,000.This has in essence guaranteed a sustainable provision of green energy to the Camp and an almost insignificant CO2 emission. We have put all the areas of the camp under the solar system. These includes and not limited to  All the lighting and water heating of the 22 tents  All lighting of the Kitchen  All lighting of the Restaurant ,Lounge and Reception  All the administration area  All staff quarters  Pool , conference and Massage area Liquid and solid waste disposal Liquid (water) waste from Kitchen, Tents showers, flush toilets, laundry, and staff quarters is channeled through piping to collection area referred to as Septic Tank. An ecofriendly treatment takes place and the water is further channels through a natural filtering process made of sand, gravel and Natural reeds before it is used to water the plants within the compound. The water is regularly tested in the government chemist to ensure its safety. Solid waste We have introduced an ecofriendly management of solid waste. Our solid waste is now being separated in 1. Biodegradables 2. Non-Biodegradables 1. Biodegradable Mainly consist of food left overs like, vegetables, fruits and any other left overs mainly from the Kitchen. These leftover are collected and taken to a very well protected pits where they are allowed naturally to decompose and make compost. Once the compost is ready, it is used for planting and growing new trees within the Camp Compound 2. Nonbiodegradables 6 This consist items like plastics, metals, foils etc each waste is sorted to its unit closure then they are transported back to Nairobi for recycling. This leaves our Camp with minimal polluting elements ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND COMMUNITY BENEFITS In addition to the Mara North Conservancy where more than 750 land owners have leased their land for the purpose of protection and conservation of the habitat plus its wildlife. The tourism investors/partners own and run tourist camps in the conservancy. From their business entity they also raise money to be paid as leases to the landowners. Karen Blixen has also secured the land surrounding the camp by signing a lease and bed night fee agreement with 12 landowners Other benefits to the community include a. Bed night and lease fees paid to the 12 Karen Blixen Landowners, a total of usd 63,000 per year b. Employment and training of locals as rangers in the conservancies c. Employment of locals in the Camps d. Funding of amenities like health centers, clinics and schools by the Tourists e. Financial support to school going kids especially girl child who is very vulnerable in the Masai Community f. The Hospitality School Karen Blixen Camp continues to run the hospitality school which trains the local Masai youth on i. Cookery-After the course one gets a competitive job in the Tourism industry ii. Language and IT, Key to communication and competitiveness in job search iii. Forestry ,environmental course ,gives the you the insight understanding how important is for them to help protect and conserve environment if they are to get and keep job in the Tourism sector in Masai mara iv. We also plan to expand the school to cover mechanic training for the local youths as well. We also planning to start an Art and craft center for the Masai women since the women are also very vulnerable culturally Habitat protection and conservation benefits a. Enhancement in fight against poaching b. Protection of habitat vegetation which provides shelter and food to wildlife c. Increment in wildlife dispersal areas 7 MEASUREMENT OUTCOME Great support gotten from the community in form of conservation of the habitat and its wildlife due to both direct and indirect benefit they get from the Camp. Travel agents have increased promotion of the camp to their guests in order to support the environmental conservation effort of the camp The density of the wildlife has increased in the conservancy hence guaranteed quality game viewing drive ANTI-CORRUPTION The principles under anticorruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp has a zero tolerance policy to corruption and supports the United Nations Convention against Corruption of 2005, the Council of Europe with the Crime Law Convention on Corruption and the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act of Kenya. OUR ACTIONS IN STOPPING CORRUPTION AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT 2013-2014 Karen Blixen Camp has an open policy of payment of leases and bed night fees to our 12 landowners. Late 2013, Karen Blixen Camp renewed the 12 leases it has for another 15 years in a very open and democratic manner. Every landowner was involved in the open Every month the calculations are done and each and every landowner is invited to the Camp to scrutinize and confirm that all is correct with the payment amount. We have also introduced in our purchasing department has a strict direction to get quotes from at least three suppliers for any item we want to buy. The policy is the fair price and quality carries the day OUTCOME MEASUREMENT There is a very strong trust by the local community to us A School has been built through collaboration between Karen Blixen Camp and the community General living standards of the Locals have been improved Best quality products at fair pricing are the ones utilized at the camp. Karen Blixen Camp does not have any corruption related case 8
