25th Oct 2013 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary – General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary – General, I am pleased to confirm that Pathologists Lancet Kenya Limited supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Inspiration & Solutions will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s effort to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on the progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Yours Sincerely, Dr. Ahmed Kalebi MD, Pathologists Lancet Kenya Ltd Human rights Our values define who we are ,with a code of conduct that guide us in achieving the standards set for our business through respect and support for human rights. We ensure that human rights are at all times adhered to as stated below:  It is our responsibility as an organization to support a successful and sustainable society through giving quality and credible services .  Any form of bribery is highly prohibited. No reports are altered under any circumstance, we have highly automated systems that ensures no illegal alterations are made as well as a team of well trained and disciplined staff.  No external factor outlaws the ethics, integrity and reputation of PLK which is geared towards providing quality services to anyone who walks to our facilities.  We are very keen on the wellbeing of our staff who are given the necessary vaccinations before starting work.an example of this is the Hepatitis B vaccine among others and also health checks .  The company has also ensured all its employees and their dependants have a medical cover.  The employees are also given frequent trainings on first aid as well as other emergencies like fire. We ensure that our clients both internal and external have their right of expression exercised through: We have questionnaires that are accessible at our reception areas We have hotlines where our clients or anyone can call and get assisted We also have suggestion boxes and all these are reviewed and implemented accordingly. Through these suggestions we are able to measure the outcome . Labor At PLK,our staff are our greatest asset.They are the face of our company and justify our good reputation. We have talented people performing at their best and we bring them together through training to create highest performing teams,who in turn deliver exceptional services to our clients . Hence we are committed to providing the best possible working environment for our employees. This does not only cover their health and safety but also nurturing them into becoming leaders and positive minded people. We give people opportunities to develop diverse careers and develop skills as well as grow critically. Our Human Resource Department is committed to providing quality HR functions.We aim to contribute towards Lancet’s business success by providing the following expert services that are done fairly and professionally as well as in accordance with the labor ethics.  Recruitment  Organisational development  Payroll services  Health and safety  Human resource support and administration  Training and development  Employee wellbeing  Promotions We also ensure that our employees are fully compensated for costs incurred while undertaking company duties. We have overtime programs where employees are paid for extra hours worked. Employees are also given time to rest by having their annual leaves . PLK is dedicated to providing outstanding development opportunities for professional growth to employees to help them reach their goals ,achieve their potential and make a difference to clients,business,communities and each other. We also encourage our employees and motivate them through awards,promotions and recognition to best performing staff. It is important for us to track and measure our progress. It’s how we keep improving and feedback is vital for us. We have an open forum through which suggestions ,complaints and compliments are welcome and later reviewed . Environment We at Lancet Kenya continue with the progress we have made ,not only in areas important to us as a medical practice,but also to the environment in which we operate . In 2012,we initiated many internal projects geared towards reducing our carbon footprint. These include switching off water heaters where hot water is not needed, minimizing use of air conditioning where not required ,encouraging recycling ,and replacing cars with motorcycles where possible. Another facet of environment impact is our drive towards reducing the use of paper. To this end we have implemented many electronic alternatives to hard copy print outs. These include upgrades to Pathportal and the development of apps for both Android and Apple platforms. We are also working closely with our insurances and corporate clients to utilize paperless electronic platforms. Anti-corruption Our code of conduct provides a clear set of standards that guides our employees. They comply with applicable laws and regulations ,and our values underpin our commitment to do the right thing. Lancet Kenya has demonstrated leadership by implementing effective anti-corruption programmes within the institution. Common features of these programmes include:  Detailed policies on company –specific bribery issues such as kickbacks,extortion,pretection money,conflict of interest etc.  Management systems and procedures outlining frameworks for risk assessment ,training,continuous internal self review and external reporting.
