COP Royal HaskoningDHV Communication on Progress (COP) for 2013 (from 1-1-2013 to 31-12-2013) Statement of continued support by the Chair of the Executive Board The world is changing rapidly. The social and economical development of our society is challenged, as the world’s capacity to provide the services and resources we need to improve global living standards is limited and increasingly strained. New thinking and acting is needed from businesses, governments and science. As Royal HaskoningDHV we consider this to be a reality that is fundamental to the services we deliver to our clients. We are able to further increase our contribution to clients and society: Enhancing society together. Our ambition is to show leadership in sustainable development and innovation. We include corporate responsibility as an integral part of our activities: we serve our clients in making steps forward with practical solutions, we ‘walk the talk’ by reducing the footprint of our operations, and we inspire youngsters and school children to engage in the challenges of the future; sustainable development and technology. Our policies and global code of business principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Our annual report 2013 is a web-based and integrated report (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport) that summarises our achievements in 2013. The report includes a CR and Sustainability Statement, in which we elaborate on the steps we have taken, the performance and results of 2013 and the ambitions for the future. It confirms our commitment to the UN global Compact. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on CR.info@rhdhv.com. Mr. Erik Oostwegel Chairman of the Executive Board Amersfoort, 21 May 2014 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV is an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy with over 130 years of experience. Our professionals deliver their services in the fields of asset management, aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, strategy, transport, urban and rural planning, water management and water technology. With its headquarters in Amersfoort, The Netherlands, the company’s 6.500 staff provide services worldwide from more than 100 offices in over 35 countries. Royal HaskoningDHV had a turnover in 2013 of euro 667 million. The company carries out some 30,000 projects every year in planning and transport, infrastructure, water, maritime, aviation, industry, energy, mining and buildings. In combination with its international office network, Royal HaskoningDHV delivers world-class solutions locally to clients around the globe, for the public and private sector. Royal HaskoningDHV, with its proud heritage of bringing leading expertise and innovation to the market, is deeply committed to business integrity and sustainable development. As leader in sustainability and innovation, Royal HaskoningDHV provides the next exciting step in working towards enhancing society together. Communications on progress 2013 – UN Global Compact Principles: Global Compact Action taken & impact achieved and plans for the coming Cross reference* Principles year UN Global  The UN Global Compact principles are included in the www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Compact Global Code of Business principles. In 2013 Royal Global Code of Business Principles Principles HaskoningDHV continued to communicate the Global Code Business principles for partners and (general) of Business Principles worldwide. All staff received a copy. suppliers To raise awareness, integrity-modules have been included CR policy statement in our in-company training program. Also, a Code for Integrity management system partners and Suppliers has been developed and implemented.  In 2013, we have paid extra attention to develop our approach towards controversial projects. This resulted in Annual report 2013 – website several dialogue sessions at top level and a guideline to (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; instruct and support staff. This guideline is currently being CR and sustainability Statement 2013 enforced by setting the example in practice.  In 2013, Royal HaskoningDHV was mentioned by the press frequently in relation to a project in Israel. We decided to See the CR and Sustainability Statement terminate a contract for the Kidron wastewater treatment 2013, page 18 on dilemma’s and plant project. This decision was based on the understanding controversy that future involvement could be in violation with international law. Principle 1:  Respecting human rights is a business condition to our www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Businesses company. In our global code and in the new business Global Code of Business Principles should support principles for partners and suppliers human rights are CR policy statement and respect the included. Purchase conditions protection of  Safety is a key value in our human resource management. Integrity management system internationally Partly we are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and QHSE management policy proclaimed Safety standard – certified. We are implementing OHSAS human rights; 18001 into the company world wide in 2014. This Annual report 2013 – website management system includes Travel security and Crisis (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; management. CR and sustainability Statement 2013 Principle 2: make  In the compliance reports and Speak-up line, no violations Annual report 2013 – website sure that they are have been raised in 2013 on human rights. We will continue (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; not complicit in to execute and develop our Integrity management system CR and sustainability Statement 2013 human rights and reporting. abuses 2 Principle 3:  We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labor Annual report 2013 – website Businesses Organisations (ILO). (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; should uphold the  We have a global HR policy and an international HR CR and sustainability Statement 2013 freedom of management team and system, which enables us to association and recognize labor related issues worldwide. the effective  In 2013 we have developed and implemented a global recognition of the performance and development system (P&D). In 2014 we right to collective implement a global job positioning system (GPS) to create bargaining; transparency and equal opportunities for careers for all staff. Our works council is actively engaged. In the Netherlands, the UK and South Africa, our primary centers of operations, the rights are also defined by the National Law. In our employee owned company, all employees have access to shares, and in general staff is also represented by the Foundation (shareholder).  No violations on freedom of association etc. have been reported in 2013. Principle 4: the  This is managed and monitored with our Integrity Annual report 2013 – website elimination of all management System. We work in countries in which forms (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; forms of forced of forced labour occur. We do not accept any involvement in CR and sustainability Statement 2013 and compulsory this. In our activities, no violations have been reported in labour; 2013. Principle 5: the  This is managed and monitored with our Integrity Annual report 2013 – website effective abolition management System. We work in countries in which forms (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; of child labour; of child labour occur. We do not accept any involvement in CR and sustainability Statement 2013 this. In our activities, no violations have been reported in CR policy statement 2013. Principle 6: the  Diversity and equality is a key value in our company. This is Global Code of Business Principles elimination of part of our Integrity management. No violations have been CR policy statement discrimination in reported in 2013. respect of  In 2014 we implement a global job positioning system (GPS) Integrity management employment and to create transparency and equal opportunities for occupation careers. Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to Annual report 2013 – website Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; should support a clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is CR and sustainability Statement 2013 precautionary illustrated in our annual report (enhancing society together) Global Code of Business Principles approach to and CR Statement. environmental Global management system (ISO 14001) challenges;  In 2013, we re-introduced e-Value, a project tool to define added value in sustainability in advance.  Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists that integrate environmental management in our Strategy: Four challenges – See website; engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge www.royalhaskoningdhv.com internationally (Knowledge Management program).  In our innovation program, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance (e.g. water treatment).  In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions.  Partly we are certified for the ISO 14001 standard. In 2013 we made good progress to implement a global Environmental Management System (ISO14001). This will continue in 2014. 3 Principle 8:  In 2013, CR and Sustainability (people, planet, profit) was Annual report 2013 – website undertake included in our training modules, to develop skills and (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; initiatives to awareness, and to communicate our ambition of showing CR and sustainability Statement 2013 promote greater leadership in sustainability. environmental  In 2013, we included 4 global challenges in our “Vision responsibility; 2018” – which is our strategic plan: This helps staff to focus On the annual report webpages, you can on opportunities for improvement; It was presented in all find a Video on our strategy. countries, to all staff; The urban challenge (urbanization and sustainable cities) The four global challenges are also The water challenge (drinking water, water management) presented on our website The transport challenge (clean transport systems) (www.royalhaskoningDHV.com) The industry challenge (clean, circular, sustainable industry) .  In 2013, we became a member of Circle Economy, to take initiatives with partners to stimulate the transition to a circular economy. We have several projects and initiatives now running.  With our membership of ‘De Groene Zaak’ (local business WBCSD = World Business Council for network of the WBCSD), we actively engaged to develop Sustainable Development and promote sustainable business and circular economy.  In 2013, we facilitate knowledge development and sharing across the company, globally. Many groups have been formed that share expertise, project cases and new insights on many environmental and sustainability topics.  We stimulate and steer our staff towards taking personal See more info on CO2-footprint in the responsibility for the reduction of their personal Annual Report. environmental impacts (e.g. video conferencing instead of travel). We measure progress with our CO2-footprint, and carry out plans for continuous improvement. Principle 9:  Our business lines work with a Sustainability Agenda that Annual report 2013 – website encourage the outlines key developments and improvements that further (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; development and increase their contribution to sustainable development. With CR and sustainability Statement 2013 diffusion of our sustainable project proposal tool (e-Value), we scan the environmentally opportunities to add additional value in client’s project on friendly people, planet and profit parameters. The revised tool is Awards and Nominations: technologies introduced internationally in 2013. www.royalhaskoningdhv.com  Innovation is steered by the Technical Directors (tools and support for innovation across market sectors). Our cleaner technologies are shared and promoted internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda, an innovative and efficient water treatment technology). In 2013, we started an annual competition (Da Vinci award) for staff to present their best innovations. Royal HaskoningDHV earned several awards in 2013 for clean technologies, and promoted new and cleaner technologies at conferences and events. Principle 10:  Integrity and anti-corruption is key to our business and our Annual report 2013 – website Businesses (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance towards (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport; should work corruption. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by CR and sustainability Statement 2013 against corruption our Integrity management system, which includes clear in all its forms, instructions and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Group including extortion Compliance director Officer and local compliance officers, Integrity Management System and bribery reporting structures, anonymous speak-up line, a living reference book, training, and approach to auditing.  In 2013 the integrity system was further enhanced and Ethic Intelligence – Anti-Corruption communicated on our global Intranet and training sessions Compliance Certificate (See website) with staff. The International Integrity Council has discussed improvements (2x) and Local Compliance Officers reported on issues quarterly. Our integrity principles are included in our project management (Risk) procedures and in selecting and contracting our partners and suppliers. 4  In 2013 several incidents of violations and non-compliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated, and appropriate measures have been taken for correction and prevention. Four fraud incidents were reported. These resulted in disciplinary sanctions, dismissal and potential prosecution of the offence (Poland and South Africa). Two cases are finalised, and two cases are pending further police investigation. Internal processes have subsequently been strengthened to avoid a recurrence of these offences. All four could be categorised as a form of unethical declarations or theft from the company.  Our goal is to continue to comply with the requirements of our externally provided certificate for Ethics Intelligence. (On 30 April 2014, we have been awarded an extension of our Anti-corruption compliance certificate for two years) (*) Cross reference can be made with documents that are available on our website (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com) or available on request (info.CR@rhdhv.com). 5
