GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 2014 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Table of Contents 1 Chairman’s letter 2 INTRODUCTION 10 HEALTH 34 ENVIRONMENT 48 SOURCING 11 Overview 35 Overview 49 Overview 13 Our approach: invest and innovate 36 Our approach: measure and reduce 50 Our approach: plan and execute 12 Our strategies and actions 36 Our strategies and actions 50 Our strategies and actions 14 Provide quality nutrition 38 Reduce resource usage in our operations 51 Increase sustainability of ingredients 26 Champion global food safety 47 Increase sustainability of ingredients 64 Collaborate to improve global 30 Educate consumers water stewardship 66 Advance socially responsible supply chains 68 WORKPLACE 88 COMMUNITY 102 APPENDIX 69 Overview 89 Overview 102 Environmental data summary 70 Our approach: inspire and win 90 Our approach: connect and lead 103 Commitments 70 Our strategies and actions 90 Our strategies and actions 108 GRI Index 72 Build a strong workplace culture 91 Alleviate hunger and advance 78 Maintain a safe workplace nutrition wellness 81 Respect, develop and invest in employees 96 Improve education 98 Strengthen communities To our Stakeholders: As a global food company, General Mills consumption and activity. We have a number of key global efforts, such as is positioned not only to create economic nutritionally improved more than 750 the United Nations Global Compact. We value in the countries where we operate, of our products since 2005. We improve are encouraged by the progress we’re but to create social and environmental the safety of food around the world by making and remain committed to our value as well. In pursuit of our goal to sharing our best practices across the pursuit of continuous improvement. stand among the world’s most socially industry, including training suppliers to In this, our 44th year of reporting back to responsible food companies and to sustain meet international food safety standards. our communities and stakeholders, we our business for the long-term, we continue The safety of the food we produce – provide updates across five key focus to improve our practices, our products and of our employees – is a top priority areas: Health, Environment, Sourcing, and our supply chains as we work to across the company. Workplace and Community. Our 2020 fulfill our mission of Nourishing Lives. We recognize the importance of sourcing commitment, health profile For the global food business, the challenge transparency to our stakeholders and have improvements and water stewardship is clear: How do we balance the need to made progress in this area. This past year, efforts are among the highlights of produce more food for the world’s growing General Mills was named to the 2013 Dow the year. Our progress helps move us Ken Powell population with the need to conserve and Jones Sustainability North America Index. toward our goal of being one of the most Chairman, Chief Executive Officer protect the natural resources on which This placement reflects our operational sustainable food companies on the planet. General Mills our business depends? In response to this efforts to be more sustainable as well as Thank you once again for your challenge, General Mills announced in 2013 our commitment to more transparent interest. As always, we welcome our commitment to sustainably source reporting. Additionally, we conducted our your questions and comments. 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by first materiality assessment with internal 2020 – representing more than 50 percent and external stakeholders. The assessment Sincerely, of our annual raw material purchases. informs our understanding of key business Through our sustainable sourcing work, and sustainability topics and their we’re ensuring the long-term viability of longer-term relevance to General Mills. our business while advancing sustainable We collaborate with others to address agriculture and strengthening responsible global challenges and pursue solutions practices throughout the supply chain. related to our sustainability priorities. Our consumers around the world will Through collaboration with businesses, face many challenges related to food and governments and nongovernmental nutrition in the coming years. We view our organizations, we work to advance role in this equation as being part of the systemic improvements in the areas solution – through our products, consumer of health, sustainable agriculture and WATCH VIDEO education and philanthropic efforts, we community investment. We work with promote healthy lifestyles that balance external partners and are signatories on GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 INTRODUCTION General Mills has been fulfilling our mission of Nourishing Lives – making lives healthier, easier and richer – for 147 years. Our values Everything we do reflects our strong core values, and we live these values every day around the world. Play to win Jogar para ganhar 战而必胜 Participer pour gagner Actuar para ganar Grow and inspire Crescer e inspirar 成长与激励 Grandir et inspirer Crecer e inspirar Act boldly, Agir com ousadia 大胆实践、快速行动 Faire preuve d’audace, Actuar con audacia, move quickly e rapidamente agir rapidement moverse rápido Win as a team Ganhar como equipe 众志成城，团队致胜 Gagner en équipe Ganar como equipo Do the right thing, Fazer o que é certo, 始终做正确的事 Toujours prendre Hacer lo correcto, all the time o tempo todo une décision juste en todo momento GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Highlights 10x20 750+ $153 59% 9 commitment to sustainably source General Mills products nutritionally improved million+ of packaging volume improved since 2009. countries honored General Mills with 100 percent of our since we implemented our donated to charitable workplace awards in 10 priority ingredients Health Metric in 2005. causes in 2013 – 2013, and 86 percent of by 2020. General Mills has given our U.S. employees said $1 billion+ to charitable that General Mills is a causes worldwide since the great place to work. General Mills Foundation was created in 1954 (US$). 60% 60 86% 100% 388 billion increase in R&D years of giving by the grams of whole grain spending on health and General Mills Foundation to of all solid waste from of General Mills facilities shipped by General Mills in wellness since 2004. nourish our communities. our North American certified using globally the U.S. and produced by operations is reused recognized food Cereal Partners Worldwide or recycled. safety criteria. (our joint venture with Nestlé) in 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 We produce and market more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. $17.8 $1.9 $153 41,000 100+ $5.2 147 billion billion million employees consumer brands billion years Global net sales* Net earnings Community About half work outside Our many brands can be Net sales for our We have been contributions the United States found in more than 100 International making lives countries on six continents business segment* healthier, easier and richer for more than a century *Excludes $1.3 billion proportionate share of joint venture sales All figures represent fiscal 2013 results and U.S. dollars. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Opportunities and challenges Our business depends on the availability of natural resources and the strength of the communities where we operate. As one of the world’s largest food companies, we carefully consider our responsibilities to shareholders, employees, stakeholders and the broader community as we determine our role in addressing global challenges. Materiality: Identifying business and sustainability relevance In 2013, General Mills partnered with strategy and reporting. The assessment sustainability impact for both external and n Transparency Forum for the Future, a leading nonprofit included interviews with external internal stakeholders. They are: n Biotechnology sustainability organization, to conduct a partners – suppliers, customers, nonn Health and nutrition wellness We address all of these issues materiality assessment. Incorporating profit organizations and academics – and both internal and external stakeholder internally with leaders across our company. n Diverse consumer needs within the report. feedback, the assessment helped to frame n Food safety Material issues: Seven issues emerged the most material topics as they relate n Commodity pricing and availability as the most material topics for General to General Mills’ global responsibility n Water stewardship Mills in terms of business relevance and Our products and consumers Health and nutrition wellness include making nutritious food choices through philanthropic efforts and by nearly three-quarters of our U.S. retail and balancing food intake with activity. providing technical assistance. We sales volume since 2005. For example, NUTRITION – More than At General Mills, we are committed support hunger-relief programs and 50 percent of General Mills’ U.S. retail 15 percent of the global population to helping educate people around the donate food around the world. We provided products now have 150 calories or less today is undernourished. General Mills world to live healthier lives. We invest in US$46 million in food donations globally in per serving. delivers nutrition to millions of consumers programs that promote balance, including 2013 and have donated US$300 million around the world. General Mills products – a six-year US$10 million commitment to in food worldwide since 1999. We founded Food safety including vegetables, cereal, yogurt, soup encourage fitness among children through Partners in Food Solutions to share SAFETY – Keeping food safe and grain snacks – contribute to healthy the Presidential Youth Fitness Program. technical expertise with food companies in the global economy poses lifestyles in more than 100 countries. General Mills helped launch the program in sub-Saharan Africa, and to address challenges. At General Mills, food safety We offer foods enriched with nutrients, in 2012 with the President’s Council on chronic food supply issues and extreme is a priority, and we invest to ensure that such as vitamins, minerals and fiber. We Fitness, Sports and Nutrition. Another hunger in the developing world. our food is safe wherever it is produced or also offer foods for special diets, such as example is our Champions for Healthy Kids consumed. General Mills is recognized as gluten-free and high protein products. REDUCTION – Many people program. Since launching Champions for a leader in food safety. We use rigorous around the world consume too BALANCE – In more developed Healthy Kids in 2002, we have funded processes and verification systems at many calories and too much fat, sugar regions of the world, obesity is 510 programs and reached nearly our facilities and audit our suppliers to and sodium. General Mills and other food a major health issue. The World Health 1 million kids through grants totaling increase food safety. We invest 3 percent companies are reducing calories, fat, sugar Organization reports that the number US$5.5 million. of our capital spending each year on foodand sodium in our products. Since 2004, of overweight children has tripled in the safety related projects, including more past three decades, with rates holding Diverse consumer needs General Mills has increased R&D spending on health and wellness by 60 percent. than US$15 million in 2013. steady since 2007. Key consumer actions ACCESS – We increase access to We have improved the health profile of for addressing the obesity challenge food in a variety of ways, including GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 Sustainable agriculture Water stewardship and the company’s operations, primarily in livelihoods of smallholder farmers and contributes to water pollution. Farming commodity pricing agriculture. Improving sustainability is a supporting ethical standards and safe accounts for approximately 70 percent continuing process – one that General working conditions across our supply chain. of water used in the world today. General SOURCING – Through sustainable Mills does not undertake alone. We Mills is addressing water use across sourcing, we are able to create WATER – According to projections have committed to sustainably source our value chain to improve sustainable long-term economic, environmental and from the Organisation for 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients management of water resources. We have social value. The vitality of our business Economic Co-operation and Development by 2020. These ingredients represent set targets within our operations to reduce depends on access to high-quality (OECD), almost half of the world’s 50 percent of General Mills’ total raw water usage rates. Through our water ingredients. Nearly two-thirds of General population could be living under severe material purchases. We focus on the stewardship strategy and collaboration Mills’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions water stress by 2050. Agriculture is a areas of greatest environmental and with partners, we are developing strategies and 99 percent of water use occur outside major user of water resources and also social impact, including improving the for critical watershed risk areas. Transparency REPORTING – We realize the commitment. Inclusion of General Mills on health and nutrition; raw material sourcing; General Mills was importance of greater transparency the 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability North and corporate citizenship and philanthropy. included in the 2013 and are making progress toward this goal. America Index is recognition of greater We continue strengthening the global Dow Jones Sustainability Steps we are taking include our 2013 transparency. Key drivers were increased nature of our reporting by standardizing North America Index. materiality assessment, adoption of the disclosures, both in our annual reporting data collection across our operations. Global Reporting Initiative guidelines in and in our application. We had significant our reporting and our sustainable sourcing improvements in priority areas, including: GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 Food security and biotechnology GROW – One in eight people in Food Safety Authority, U.S. Food and the world today – or 870 million Drug Administration, U.S. Department of people worldwide – do not have enough to Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection eat. And by 2040, the world’s population Agency, and Health Canada. The National is projected to increase to nearly 9 billion Academy of Sciences, American Medical people. Global experts project that to Association, and the British Royal meet the growing needs of an increasingly Society also say there is no health risk hungry world, we will need at least: associated with GM foods or ingredients. n 50 percent more food This technology is not new. Biotech seeds have been approved by global food safety n 45 percent more energy agencies and widely used by farmers in n 30 percent more water food crops for almost 20 years. Because U.S. It’s a daunting challenge. But biotechnology farmers use GM seed to grow certain crops, shows promise to address such issues 70 percent of foods on U.S. grocery store as strengthening crops against drought shelves likely contain GMO ingredients. As and extreme temperature, and delivering a result, if an American food or beverage r General Mills is a leading purchaser of oats in the U.S. Oats are a non-GMO crop. more nutritious food, even in poor soil product lists corn, soy, canola, cottonseed OPTIONS – We know that some developing world, much of the waste conditions. We agree with the U.N. World or beet sugar as an ingredient – and it’s not consumers remain uncomfortable stems from inadequate food storage and Health Organization (WHO) that the organic it likely contains GMOs. Global with GMOs. As a global food company, transportation. In the United States, where development of genetically modified food safety experts will note there has not we produce products without GM as much as 40 percent of food is wasted, organisms (GMOs) offers the potential been a single incident of harm to health or ingredients in some markets – we also more than 90 percent of that waste for increased agricultural productivity safety demonstrably linked to the use of offer organic and non-GMO alternatives occurs at homes or in foodservice settings. or improved nutritional value that GMOs anywhere in the world. Numerous in most of our major categories in the General Mills is a founding member can contribute directly to enhancing studies have found certain benefits, however. U.S. In the spirit of transparency, we’ve of the U.S. Food Waste Challenge, a human health and development. SUSTAINABLE – Ensuring safe enrolled several products – especially our program launched by the U.S. Department SAFE – We know consumers care and effective food production, organic products – in the U.S. Non-GMO of Agriculture and the Environmental about the foods they eat and while conserving precious natural Project. We oppose state-based labeling, Protection Agency in 2013. The U.S. Food we care about the foods we provide. As resources, is a long-standing commitment but we support nationally standardized Waste Challenge urges producer groups, genetically modified (GM) ingredients for General Mills. We believe biotechnology labeling of non-GMO products in the processors, manufacturers, retailers, become more common in the global food can help. GM crops generally need less U.S., where there has generally been communities, and other government supply, particularly in the U.S., we know insecticide, and may allow for the use of no requirement for special labeling. agencies to reduce food loss and waste, that some consumers may have questions less harmful herbicides. GM crops often recover wholesome food for human For further information about about this technology. On safety – our require less energy use by farmers. They consumption, and recycle leftovers to use biotechnology, we invite you to No. 1 priority – we find broad and deep are associated with reduced greenhouse as animal feed, compost, and to generate visit www.factsaboutgmos.org. global consensus among food and safety gas emissions (GHG), improved water energy. This mission aligns with work regulatory bodies that approved GM quality, improved nitrogen retention, and FOOD WASTE – One-third of already underway at General Mills and ingredients are safe. Those who have improved water filtration and erosion the food grown globally is wasted, the work we have been leading across the approved biotech crops to be as safe reduction in soil. Because GM crops can according to the Food and Agriculture industry as co-chair of the Food Waste and acceptable as their conventional protect against weeds or disease, farmers Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Reduction Alliance. counterparts include: the WHO, U.N. Food planting GM crops tend to generate more Reducing food waste is critical to feeding and Agriculture Organization, European stable – and sometimes higher yields. the world’s growing population. In the GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Approach and scope Organizational Stakeholder are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In addition, we Report scope responsibility engagement are guided by the International Labour We report our progress on key metrics for Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration fiscal 2013. For the first time, we include The General Mills leadership team has Each year, we solicit input from on Fundamental Principles and Rights at data from Yoplait S.A.S. and Yoki Alimentos ultimate responsibility for the company’s stakeholders such as Ceres (a coalition Work. With regards to nutrition, we work S.A., which we acquired in fiscal 2013. corporate social responsibility. The team of investors, environmental organizations includes: Ken Powell, Chairman and Chief and other public interest groups working with several organizations, including the The report scope includes global operations Executive Officer; Kim Nelson, Senior with companies to advance their American Academy of Family Physicians except where otherwise noted. Vice President of External Relations and environmental and social performance). (AAFP) and the Academy of Nutrition President of the General Mills Foundation; This feedback helps us understand and Dietetics to fund nutrition research Report responsibility Jerry Lynch, Chief Sustainability Officer; external perspectives on both concerns and help promote nutrition education. The General Mills leadership team, and John Church, Senior Vice President and opportunities. In 2013, as part of of Supply Chain; as well as our Board of the materiality assessment, we engaged Public policy noted earlier, has responsibility for the development of this report. Directors’ Public Responsibility Committee. additional external stakeholders to help We recognize the importance of us prioritize material topics related to accountability and transparency regarding We help increase Increasing our business and sustainability. Finally, our public policy engagement and political sustainability through transparency we respond to stakeholder concerns regarding material issues to our business. contributions. Our civic policy describes our partnerships and our approval process for using corporate We are strengthening the global nature of funds for political contributions. The Public participation in coalitions. We are active members in key industry our reporting by working to standardize data collection across our operations. coalitions such as the Consumer Goods Responsibility Committee of our Board of Our efforts include Forum, Grocery Manufacturers of America, Directors oversees the company’s political collaboration with the For the third year, we have used and Field to Market. We partner with activity, including our policy, an annual World Wildlife Fund and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) list of corporate political contributions, Guidelines to help inform our reporting major trade association memberships, and The Nature Conservancy such as the World Wildlife Fund and scope and content. Again this year, we The Nature Conservancy on sustainable any independent political expenditures and membership in the are including indicators from the GRI sourcing and water stewardship. We (although the company has not made any). Roundtable on Sustainable Food Processing Sector Supplement. have been participants in the Carbon A list of our political contributions is made Palm Oil, Bonsucro and the Our report is undeclared and is not Disclosure Project (CDP) since its available on our website. We have been Innovation Center for U.S. externally assured. Looking ahead, we inception in 2000 and are members of publicly disclosing this information since Dairy Sustainability Council. plan to adopt the G4 Guidelines within the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 2005. We are a leader in the disclosure the GRI defined transition period. The (RSPO), Bonsucro and the Innovation of information we provide about our materiality assessment we conducted Center for U.S. Dairy Sustainability Council. public policy engagement. In 2013, the in 2013 also will continue to guide the As part of our commitment to supporting Center for Political Accountability rating scope and content of future reports. human rights in our supply chain, we metric tied General Mills at No. 7 in its are leaders in the AIM-PROGRESS annual ranking of the top 200 companies Responsible Sourcing task force, and in the S&P 500. In addition, we rank No. 1 in the consumer goods sector. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 Across the company, responsible practices guide our work. Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community We provide people with Our goal is to continually reduce We are committed to sustainably We foster a safe, ethical, diverse We nourish our communities convenient, nutritious food that – our environmental footprint. We sourcing 100 percent of our and inclusive workplace where globally with remarkable when combined with exercise focus our efforts on areas where 10 priority ingredients by our 41,000 employees can thrive. philanthropy. Our philanthropic and activity – can help them we can have the greatest impact, 2020 – representing more than We respect, develop and invest work is an extension of the live healthier lives. We believe both within our own operations 50 percent of our annual raw in our employees and continue company’s Nourishing Lives that a variety of foods plays an and outside of them, primarily material purchases. We partner to improve workplace safety mission and ties closely to important role in people’s diets, in agriculture. Across our global with industry groups to advance through our efforts to prevent our company’s core business. providing nutrition, taste and operations, we work to reduce our sustainable sourcing frameworks, injuries and illnesses. We support We work in innovative ways convenience at a reasonable natural resource consumption. then pilot scalable solutions and our employees in being active, with partners locally and cost. Improving the health profile Additionally, we focus on share our findings so others can eating healthy and staying well. around the world to harness of our products over time and sustainably sourcing the raw refine their efforts. At the same our collective impact in key promoting healthy lifestyles materials we use in our products. time, we are improving water target areas, while engaging that balance nutrition and stewardship and reinforcing employees through skills-based activity are fundamental to our socially responsible practices and other volunteerism. mission of Nourishing Lives. across our extended supply chain. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 HEALTH OUR GOAL is to provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help them live healthier lives. We believe that a variety of foods plays an important role in people’s diets, providing nutrition, taste and convenience at a reasonable cost. Improving the health profile of our products over time and promoting healthy lifestyles that balance nutrition and activity are fundamental to our mission of Nourishing Lives. Our strategies At General Mills, our mission is Provide Champion Educate Nourishing Lives – making lives quality global food consumers healthier, easier and richer. nutrition safety HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Overview Improving nutrition and health – Consumers around the world seek nutritious, convenient and affordable food for themselves and their families every day. There are many challenges to achieving this simple, daily imperative – ranging from hunger and malnutrition to obesity. Performance dashboard (fiscal 2013) 235 billion grams shipped by U.S. Whole grain retail operations and 153 billion grams Cumulative* health metric achievement produced by Cereal Partners Worldwide (our joint venture with Nestlé) U.S. RETAIL PRODUCTS 73% 68% 64% 60% 1 billion servings (1 serving = 1/2 cup) Vegetables shipped by U.S. retail operations 40% 45% 33% 21% 16% 2 billion servings of low/nonfat dairy (1 serving = 1 8-ounce cup) shipped by U.S. Dairy retail operations; 19,000 servings of Yoplait FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 eaten every minute around the world *products are counted only one time even if improved more than once 50 billion grams of dietary fiber Fiber shipped by U.S. retail operations “At General Mills, we put consumers first. This commitment is reflected in our products – such as cereal, yogurt and vegetables – as well as our efforts to educate people about making healthy lifestyle choices. Achieving a balance of nutrition and activity contributes to consumers’ overall good health.” – Jeff Harmening, General Mills Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Retail GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Holistic view of nutrition & health Our products: Unique portfolio, global impact Our strategies and actions n H ealthy: General Mills products – including 1 vegetables, cereal, yogurt, soup and grain snacks – contribute to a healthy lifestyle. Provide quality nutrition p. 14 n A ccessible: We make nutritious foods convenient and accessible to A Delivering nutrition to millions of consumers consumers in more than 100 B Improving product health profiles countries on six continents. C Offering nutritious new products n E xpertise: Our 50 years of nutrition expertise drives continued enhancements to our product portfolio. 2 Champion global food safety p. 26 Our practices: Promoting healthy lifestyles A Expanding food safety leadership B Partnering to increase food safety We promote healthy lifestyles that balance consumption and activity in our workplaces and communities around the world. We communicate responsibly about our products. 3 Educate consumers p. 30 Workplaces: We invest in our employees’ health (learn more in the A Promoting better health Workplace section of this report). B Supporting responsible marketing Communities: We raise awareness and invest in helping children achieve a balance of good nutrition and physical activity. n C  hampions for Healthy Kids: promoting healthy nutrition and fitness n N  emours: partnering to reduce obesity beginning in early childhood n P  residential Youth Fitness Program: cultivating lifelong skills and healthy Learn more about these efforts on page 30 habits to fight childhood obesity and in the Community section of this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Our approach: invest & innovate Our focus on health and nutrition helps drive business growth Investment: Our investment in of General Mills’ health strategy. The year and snacks. This structure increases our reports indirectly to the Executive Vice nutrition science helps us to better 2013 also marked the 15th anniversary of capacity for innovation and information President of Global Strategy, Growth understand the relationship between our Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition. sharing. We continue to grow our and Marketing Innovation. The Bell food and health as we enhance our portfolio through acquisitions that meet Institute also reports regularly to the product portfolio. We invest in research our investment guidelines and consumer Public Responsibility Committee of the Taste: Taste is the dominant driver and development (R&D) to help improve demand for health, taste and convenience. Board of Directors, which oversees the of consumer food consumption, so we the health profile of our products. company’s health and wellness strategy. always balance taste and health. While Health improvements to our product consumers are focused on health, they Leadership and governance: 60% portfolio are included in the performance will not accept compromises to the great Operationally, product responsibility objectives for our Chief Executive Officer taste they have come to expect from lies within the R&D and Marketing and his direct reports. The company Since 2004, we have increased General Mills. We have found the most organizations. The Executive Vice receives guidance from our global Health R&D spending on health and successful approach to improved nutrition President of Supply Chain, and the and Wellness Advisory Council, a group wellness by 60 percent. is a series of small, incremental changes. Executive Vice President of Innovation, of leading external health and nutrition Technology and Quality are responsible for experts. We have had an external consumer health and safety, and product History: General Mills has a long history Structure and growth: In fiscal 2013, scientific advisory council since 1989. and service labeling. Responsibility for of health and nutrition stewardship. Fifty we organized our R&D function into key Marketing Communications is held years ago, we established a nutrition category platforms that are fundamental by the Chief Marketing Officer. The department to strengthen the company’s to the company’s growth and our longBell Institute reports directly to the expertise in nutrition science. Since 1963, term health strategy. These platforms Executive Vice President of R&D and our nutrition team has led the formulation include dairy, meals, cereal, baked goods Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition The Bell Institute of Health and world. This team brings together research in nutrition and health. based educational materials for Nutrition influences General capabilities in scientific research We contribute to the advancement health professionals and their Mills’ product development and health communications for of scientific understanding on patients about nutrition topics. and guides our global health the benefit of our customers, a variety of important health It also sponsors continuing and nutrition strategy. With consumers, the food industry topics, including: whole grains, education programs to advance backgrounds in nutrition science, and nutrition communities. digestive health, vascular the knowledge of health and public health, clinical nutrition health, weight management, foodservice professionals. Scientific research: Members of government and corporate and food science, Bell Institute micronutrients and breakfast. The Bell Institute also helps the Bell Institute collaborate with nutrition regulations and policies. experts provide guidance to ensure that all of General Mills’ leading scientists from universities Health communications: The General Mills business teams and health and nutrition claims around the globe to further Bell Institute develops sciencehealth professionals around the are accurate and comply with GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1 Provide quality nutrition 1A Delivering nutrition to millions of consumers Providing products that boost nutrient intake General Mills has a long history of Challenge: Many people’s diets are leader in enriching foods with nutrients Commitment: In 2009, General Mills providing a broad array of convenient, lacking in key nutrients and food groups. in the United States since the 1940s. joined the Partnership for a Healthier affordable, nutritious foods to help Research shows that enriched and fortified America (PHA). PHA brings together Our role: Our portfolio offers a range of consumers meet key health and foods make a substantial contribution public, private and nonprofit leaders making products that deliver key nutrients and food nutrition recommendations. to the nutrient intakes of consumers. meaningful commitments and developing groups. General Mills has been an industry strategies to end childhood obesity. General Mills key product categories Benefits Impact Cereal Vegetables Yogurt Snacks Soup More whole grain WHOLE GRAIN: 235 billion grams of whole grain shipped by U.S. retail operations and 153 billion grams More calcium produced by Cereal Partners Worldwide (our joint venture with Nestlé) More vitamins & minerals CALCIUM: 100 percent of our yogurts provide at least 10 percent of the recommended Daily Value of calcium More fiber FIBER: 50 billion grams of dietary fiber shipped by our U.S. retail operations in 2013* Fewer calories CALORIES: 800+ U.S. retail products (50 percent) have 150 calories or less per serving Less fat GLUTEN FREE: 600+ gluten-free products offered in the U.S.** Gluten free * cereals, snacks, flour and baking mixes ** cereals, vegetables, yogurt, snacks, soups and baking products Good value* *value based on cost per serving GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1B Improving product health profiles Increasing nutrients in key food groups while reducing sugar, sodium, fat and calories are proceeding with our sodium reduction Progress program as part of our pledge associated U.S. Health Metric with the Responsibility Deal, a set of U.S.: 73 percent of U.S. retail sales volume nutritionally improved voluntary agreements covering food, 73% Product improvement guidelines physical activity and health at work that is since 2005 (20 percent in fiscal backed by the U.K.’s Department of Health. 2013, including baking, cereal, Australia: As part of the Healthier Reducing dairy, meals and snack foods) General Mills has improved Australia Commitment, General Mills the health profile of nearly Reducing calories, fat, saturated fat, trans International: 90+ products and other companies have pledged fat, sugar or sodium by 10 percent or more to collectively deliver on targets that three-quarters of our U.S. retail nutritionally improved in fiscal 2013 include reducing sodium by 25 percent, sales volume since 2005. Canada: 45 percent of retail reducing saturated fat by 25 percent product portfolio nutritionally and reducing energy (calories as improved since 2010 educating consumers about balanced Increasing measured by kilojoules to address diets and healthy, active lifestyles Increasing beneficial nutrients – calorie consumption) by 12.5 percent and promoting employee wellness. including vitamins, minerals and by 2015. The commitment also includes fiber – by 10 percent or more Challenge: According to the World Health Organization (WHO) of the United Nations, obesity has nearly doubled worldwide since 1980. The Drivers of nutritional improvements FY05-FY13 U.S. RETAIL PRODUCTS fundamental cause of obesity is an energy Formulating imbalance between calories consumed Formulating products to include at and calories expended. Globally, there 12% Whole grain 9% Calories – portion control least a half-serving of whole grain, fruit, has been an increasing intake of energyvegetables, or low or nonfat dairy dense foods combined with decreasing 10% Vitamins and minerals 3% Gluten physical activity due to the sedentary 2% Other* nature of 21st century lifestyles. 34% Sodium Our role: Around the world, we 3% Fiber Formulating/reformulating are reformulating our recipes Formulating/reformulating products to meet and making progress toward our 18% Trans fat 7% Sugar specific internal requirements, including limiting calories, and meeting health or healthier product commitments. U.S.: More than 750 of our products have 2% Total fat – saturated fat nutrition claim criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) been nutritionally improved since 2005. U.K.: We already have removed artificial 27% Increasing positives 73% Decreasing limiters trans fat from foods across Europe and *other includes protein, fruit, vegetable, probiotics GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY At a glance: 2013 global new and reformulated products We introduced new and reformulated products around the world in 2013, including in the locations noted below. 8 5 Reformulated products New products 6 2 3 4 5 9 8 1 U.S. 1 U.S. 1 1 2 6 2 France 2 Canada 3 UK 3 Argentina 13 4 Ireland 4 Australia 10 11 5 Sweden 5 UK 6 Canada 6 France 7 Brazil 7 New Zealand 8 China 8 Norway 9 Latin America 9 Switzerland 7 10 Caribbean 11 Middle East 9 12 4 12 Australia 13 South Korea 3 7 Canada: We continue to make 26 percent of retail volume in Canada These achievements are helping improve improvements to our product portfolio. qualified for our “health improved” criteria, diet quality in areas such as whole grain, Since 2010, 45 percent of our retail with meaningful increases in nutrients fiber, sodium and heart-healthier fats. volume has been nutritionally improved targeted for increased consumption or PR1, FP6, FP7 or launched with a strong nutrition decreases in nutrients that are overprofile. In fiscal 2013 alone, more than consumed in the Canadian population. “Health is a core growth strategy for General Mills. We continue to focus on providing healthier products through what we call the ’trifecta of innovation’ – delivering great taste, with a meaningful health benefit, at an affordable cost – and helping consumers lead healthier lifestyles.” – Maha Tahiri, General Mills Chief Health and Wellness Officer and leader of the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Cereal Partners Worldwide nutritional improvements Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) about 5.3 billion portions of breakfast joint venture with Nestlé makes and cereals in more than 140 countries markets cereals such as Fitness, Cheerios, by boosting the amount of whole Chocapic and Nesquik globally outside grain, increasing calcium, and reducing North America. CPW is the secondsugar and salt in its recipes. CPW has largest cereal provider in the world. As made significant progress against this part of its Global Nutrition Commitment, commitment, with 41 percent of global CPW announced specific targets in sales volume already achieving the October 2012 for nutritionally improving commitment criteria after just one year. Improving health by boosting whole grains 20+ Challenge: Nine out of 10 Americans Canada: Four of our five Nature Valley Impact aren’t getting enough whole grain. Crunchy granola bars have been Most Americans are barely eating reformulated to increase oat fiber, which U.S. – 100 percent: Every Big G More than 20 one serving of whole grain a day. can help Canadians reach the daily amount cereal contains more whole grain of the fiber shown to lower cholesterol. General Mills cereals Our role: Research shows that eating have at least 16 grams than any other single ingredient and whole grains as part of a healthy diet CPW: Since 2003, CPW has increased of whole grain. at least 10 grams of whole grain per can help improve heart health, weight the whole grain in its recipes by more serving; more than 20 General Mills management and diabetes management than 3.8 billion servings annually. cereals deliver at least 16 grams. while reducing the risk of some cancers. International – 100 percent: All General Mills products deliver whole global cereal brands offered by grains to consumers around the world, CPW now have at least 8 grams including the examples below. of whole grain per serving; CPW U.S.: We increased whole grain by is working to increase levels 10 percent in our Fiber One 80 Calorie of whole grain so it is the main Honey Squares and several Big G ingredient in all CPW cereals. cereals, including Kix, Honey Kix, Cinnamon Chex and Chocolate Chex. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Benefits of cereal Weight management: People who consume more whole grain and intake and only 4 percent of Cereal provides key nutrients for children eat cereal have healthier body eat less cholesterol and fat. the dietary intake of sugar of weights and lower cholesterol. American children. Cereal has Percent of selected nutrients provided by Nutrients: Cereal contributes ready-to-eat cereal, children ages 4-12 30% Whole grain: Cereal is the vital nutrients to the American fewer calories than almost any 23% other common breakfast option. 20% No. 1 source of whole grain for diet: 30 percent recommended 17% 13% 15% 14% Americans, including children. Daily Value of folate, 23 percent Value: A serving of cereal with Since 2003, our Cereal Partners iron and 20 percent vitamin B6. 3% milk costs about US 50 cents on Worldwide (CPW) joint venture People who eat cereal have better average, making cereal one of the Calories Vitamin A Thiamin Niacin Vitamin B6 Folate Iron Zinc with Nestlé has increased intake of nutrients, including most inexpensive and efficient Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Center for Health Statistics global consumption of whole fiber, calcium and vitamin D. ways to get key vitamins and (NCHS). National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Data. Hyattsville, MD: U.S. grain by more than 3.4 billion minerals into people’s diets. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Low fat: Cereal is low in fat. servings. Research has shown Low calorie: Cereal accounts Learn more about the that people who eat cereal for only 3 percent of caloric benefits of cereal. Improving health by increasing beneficial nutrients Challenge: Many people lack key nutrients Impact in their diets. Insufficient vitamin D status is a widespread problem that may affect Calcium: Calin+ yogurt, CPW at least half of the Australian population cereals and all Big G cereals as well as 85 percent of women and are fortified with calcium. 90 percent of children in France. Most r Calin+ yogurt available in France, U.K., Americans also do not get enough calcium Ireland and Sweden is enriched with calcium Fiber: Our Fiber One brand offers or vitamin D. Studies show that nearly and vitamin D to support bone health. 49 fiber-added products. nine out of 10 American kids do not vitamins, minerals and fiber. Our Vitamins: 100 percent of Big G consume enough vitamin D, and about products also include whole grain, fruit, cereals are fortified with vitamin D, four out of 10 do not consume enough vegetables, and low or nonfat dairy. Big G cereals advertised to calcium. Calcium promotes healthy France, U.K., Ireland and Sweden: Calin+ children are fortified with bones and teeth, yet 60 percent of U.S. yogurt available in France, U.K., Ireland iron and B vitamins. women, less than half of Australian and Sweden, is enriched with calcium adults, and seven out of 10 women and Protein: Our U.S. protein snack and vitamin D to support bone health. six out of 10 children in France do not get bars deliver a range of 6-10 the recommended amount of calcium. CPW: CPW is increasing calcium in grams of protein per bar. cereals to at least 15 percent of the Our role: We increase beneficial nutrients recommended daily allowance, which in our product portfolio, including varies in different parts of the world. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Canada: Our expanded Fibre One contains peas as line of cereals in Canada includes the main protein four flavor varieties that provide at source and delivers least 10 grams of fiber per serving. 10 grams of protein without using dairy Benefits of yogurt Nutrients: Yogurt provides 10% U.S.: General Mills has launched 18 U.S. or soy. The No. 1 ingredient in our Nature Valley Protein bar is roasted nuts. protein, calcium, potassium and snack bars that provide at least 10 percent other important nutrients; Yoplait® Daily Value of protein since fall 2012. General Mills offers Original contains 20 percent One example is LÄRABAR ALT, which 18 U.S. snack bars of the Daily Value of calcium and vitamin D in each cup. with at least 10 percent Healthy weight: Research indicates Daily Value of protein. that women who regularly eat yogurt have a healthier body weight, smaller waist size and consume more essential nutrients. r In Brazil, we introduced two new flavors of our w Learn more about Yoki Mais Vita soy beverage: orange/papaya and the benefits of yogurt. tangerine, which contain 1.2 grams of protein per serving. As with our other Mais Vita fruit/ soy varieties, these products use natural colors r Trix fruit rolls in China now contain more than Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT and have 24 percent less sugar than the original MARQUES (France) used under license. 50 percent real fruit and use natural colors. 2008 formulation. Benefits of vegetables Fiber and vitamins: Peak of Perfection, packed Frozen vegetables Americans get as much as and frozen within eight hours offer the convenience 30 percent of their daily of being picked to lock in of longer shelf life. fiber and 50 percent of naturally occurring nutrients. Low in fat: Vegetables their daily vitamin C from Frozen: According to are naturally low in fat frozen, canned and dry research by the University and pack a lot of nutrition fruits and vegetables. of California, Davis, frozen in fewer calories. Nutrients: Green Giant vegetables are as nutritious vegetables are Picked at the as their fresh counterparts. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Reducing sugar daily discretionary calorie allowance, since Impact sugar adds calories without contributing Food sources of total sugar nutrients. Food and beverage companies CHILDREN AGES 4-12 Big G cereals: 100 percent of around the world are being challenged General Mills cereals marketed to cut the amount of sugar in products. 1% Miscellaneous to children contain 10 grams Our role: General Mills continues to reduce 25% Milk and milk products of sugar or less per serving. 22% Carbonated beverages sugar across our global product portfolio. and fruit drinks CPW cereals: As of December U.S.: Since 2007, we have lowered sugar 2% Meat, poultry and fish 2013, 63 percent of CPW’s volume 10% Candy and sweets levels in Big G kid cereals by 16 percent. 8% Other grains of brands popular with kids and For example, all Monster cereals, Booberry, teens has achieved the committed Frankenberry and Count Chocula now have 4% READY-TO-EAT CEREAL sugar reduction targets. 9 grams of sugar per serving (down from 19% Fruits and vegetables 9% Desserts 10 grams in fiscal 2011 and 15 grams in Yogurt: Since 2007, we have r Ready-to-eat cereals account for a relatively small amount of children’s sugar consumption. 2007). In addition, in 2013 we reduced sugar reduced sugar in our main kid United States Department of Health and Human Services. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. by 10 percent in Oatmeal Crisp Hearty Raisin yogurts (Yoplait® Go-GURT®, National Center for Health Statistics. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), 2009-10. and Oatmeal Crisp Crunchy Almond cereals. Yoplait Trix and Yoplait Kids®) parts of the world in 2014 and by a line average of 24 percent. Latin America: We achieved at least a 2015. In 2013, CPW removed an Cereals reduced in sugar in 2013 10 percent reduction in total fat, sodium, 14g 14g Granola bars: We reduced additional 7,000 metric tons of 12g or sugar in selected Big G cereals. sugar in several varieties of sugar from its cereals (beyond 10g 9g 9g 9g 9g Caribbean: We reduced total fat, sodium, the 9,000 metric tons eliminated Cascadian Farm chewy granola or sugar by at least 10 percent in Cheerios previously). CPW is reducing bars by more than 10 percent. and Oatmeal Crisp Hearty Raisin cereals. sugar by up to 30 percent across 07 13 07 13 07 13 07 13 Europe, Middle East & Africa: CPW has several cereal brands, including Challenge: The American Heart Association Nesquik, Chocapic, Honey reduced sugar levels in 25 cereal recipes recommends limiting the amount of added Cheerios and Cookie Crisp. sold in Europe, the Middle East and Africa sugars to no more than half of a person’s and will continue this process in other Cereals at single-digit sugar levels KEY 2007 Sugar level 2013 Sugar level 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 6g 6g 5g 4g 3g 3g 2g 1g 0g GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Improving health by reducing sodium product portfolio, especially in cereals CPW: Since 2003, CPW has removed Commitments and meals. For example, we reduced v Latina Fresh pasta in Australia contains more than 900 metric tons of salt from sodium in our Cascadian Farm Raisin less sodium. its cereal recipes. As of December 2013, U.S. commitment: Reduce sodium Bran and Cascadian Farm Maple Brown 96 percent of CPW’s recipes have achieved by 20 percent across top 10 retail Sugar Granola cereals. We also achieved the committed sodium reduction targets. product categories by 2015 significant sodium reductions in several varieties of Hamburger Helper, which now U.K. commitment: Reduce contain at least 20 percent less sodium Europe, Middle East, South Korea: We sodium in food, helping consumers get closer to the than in 2008, and many canned and frozen vegetables. reduced sodium by an additional 10 percent in our Green Giant canned sweet corn in 20% 2.4 grams per day maximum Europe and the Middle East and in three recommended daily intake Canada: Since 2010, 13 of our 17 Canadian of the four varieties sold in South Korea. Hamburger Helper meal starters have Australia commitment: Reduce been reformulated to reduce sodium by Green Giant consumers historically have In the U.S., General Mills has sodium in products by 25 percent been sensitive to changes in product taste, committed to reduce sodium at least 10 percent, several reduced by 2015 (collective industry resulting in a “slow and steady” approach by 20 percent across our top 10 by more than 20 percent. Three goal as part of Healthier to reducing sodium. Through consumer of our five Betty Crocker scalloped retail product categories by 2015. Australia Commitment) research, we discovered that consumers potatoes also have reduced sodium like the 30 percent reduced sodium by a minimum of 15 percent. product just as much as the higher sodium Challenge: Around the world, consumers v We reduced sodium by at least 10 percent variety. We continue to decrease sodium eat an average of 9 to 12 grams of salt a in 13 Canadian in our Green Giant canned vegetables. day. Many health authorities recommend Hamburger Helper reducing this level to around 6 grams – products. These sodium reductions include or about a teaspoonful – a day. our most popular Our role: General Mills has a broad flavors: Lasagna Sodium reduction – corn v Green Giant is and Beef Noodle. 0.30 lowering the salt in commitment to reducing sodium in its canned vegetables our products around the world while 0.25 by 5 to 35 percent across Latin America: We reduced sodium Europe, Russia, Africa meeting consumer taste requirements. Sodium g/100g by more than 10 percent in a third of 0.20 and the Middle East. We have a team of researchers This sodium reduction our Green Giant 0.15 dedicated to reducing sodium in effort has already vegetables (seven been implemented foods through gradual reductions. 0.10 out of 21 products). in 90 percent of U.S.: In 2008, General Mills committed 0.05 Green Giant products – Australia: We reduced sodium by an including sweet corn, to trim sodium by 20 percent in our top average of 30 to 35 percent in our 0.00 artichokes and hearts of 10 product categories by 2015. We are Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack Latina Fresh filled pasta products. In 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 palm – in these markets. on track to meet this ambitious, industryselected Betty Crocker cake mixes, we leading effort. General Mills made strong Standard (UK, FR, MENA, BENIT, RU, ASIA) reduced sodium by 10 to 30 percent Low salt (SP, NO) progress toward this goal with sodium No salt (UK, FR, SP, MENA) and sugar by 25 to 30 percent. reductions in fiscal 2013 across our GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Improving health by fat free with low saturated fat. These meals are also an excellent source of Our role: From Green Giant vegetables to Fiber One bars to Yoplait® Light reducing trans fat fiber and a good source of protein. yogurt, General Mills offers a variety of options for meals or snacks throughout Impact U.K.: We have achieved our goal of removing trans fat (partially the day that are easy on the calories. We also offer smaller portion options 90+ percent of U.S. retail products hydrogenated oils) from our products, and single-serving packages for Exceeding our Healthy meeting the trans fat elimination labeled as zero grams trans fat consumers seeking portion control. Weight Commitment target of the U.K. Responsibility Deal pledge. In addition to these ingredient Yogurt: We offer a variety of lower-calorie Foundation pledge Zero trans fat from partially hydrogenated oils used selection and reformulation efforts, we dairy options, including eight flavors of In 2013, General Mills and 15 other in U.K. products have put in place nutrition standards Yoplait Greek 100, which provide two leading food and beverage companies ensuring continued absence of trans times the protein of regular yogurt at together exceeded the Healthy Weight fat from our products in the U.K. 100 calories and a Weight Commitment Foundation (HWCF) pledge Challenge: While dietary fats are essential Watchers PointsPlus® value to reduce calories by 1.5 trillion in the for energy, nutrient absorption and to Improving health by of 2 points per serving. U.S. marketplace by 2015. In 2013, this support cell growth, many people consume more fat than they need. The American reducing calories r We reduced calories in Yoplait Greek 100 yogurt. goal – part of a multi-year effort designed to help reduce obesity – was achieved three Heart Association recommends limiting consumption of trans fats to less than Impact Soup: Progresso Light soups also carry years ahead of schedule. The companies surpassed the calorie reduction goal by an endorsement from Weight Watchers. 1 percent of a person’s total daily calories. introducing lower-calorie options, changing 500+ General Mills U.S. retail The 16 varieties contain 100 calories Our role: General Mills has successfully recipes and reducing portion sizes of products (33 percent) have 100 or less per serving. reformulated a number of products to existing single-serve products compared calories or less per serving reduce or remove trans fat while maintaining v We reduced calories in with products available in 2008. Several the quality and taste consumers expect. 800+ General Mills U.S. retail Progresso Light soups. of the largest food companies (including products (50 percent) have 150 General Mills) trimmed 6.4 trillion calories U.S.: Since 2008, we have reduced trans Cereal: Seventycalories or less per serving. from our products – more than four times fat to zero grams in more than 270 of five percent of our what was pledged – reducing daily intake our U.S. retail products, including Betty Big G retail cereals 6.4 trillion calories trimmed by an average of 78 calories per person. Crocker Rich & Creamy Frosting, Pillsbury have 130 calories or from U.S. food by a coalition of Toaster Strudel, Toaster Scrambles, low-fat less per serving. partners, of which General Mills Pillsbury breads, reduced-fat crescents, is a part, through the Healthy reduced-fat sweet rolls, reduced-fat v A serving of Total cereal biscuits, and the Simply... line of cookies, Weight Commitment Foundation. has just 100 calories. 50% bread and biscuits. All Totino’s Pizza and PR1, FP6, FP7 Pizza Rolls snacks are now labeled zero Challenge: Rising levels of obesity around grams trans fat. We continue to reduce the world are driven by the energy our use of partially hydrogenated oils. imbalance between calories consumed and Fifty percent of General Mills calories expended. Reduction of calories in U.S. retail products have 150 Australia: Our Latina Fresh ready-to-eat foods and beverages is part of the solution, calories or less per serving. meals now offer healthier options in along with portion control and exercise. single-serving packs that are 97 percent GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Improving school meals Our foodservice business helps for the school market contained zero Alternative breakfasts for students: schools deliver nutritious foods for grams trans fat, and more than 70 For the past five years, General Mills students. In the U.S., we updated some of our products already met the new Foodservice has helped schools boost of our products to meet revised U.S. whole grain-rich requirements. We also breakfast participation through the Department of Agriculture (USDA) introduced new items, including Yoplait® National Dairy Council Fuel Up Breakfast standards for K-12 school meals, Greek Blended yogurt. In addition to grant program, which has awarded effective in July 2013. Under these food, we provide school foodservice US$325,000 to more than 100 schools standards, school meals must include staff with educational materials since 2009. Schools use the funds to more fruits, vegetables and whole and also partnered with add alternative ways to serve breakfast grains, items with zero grams of trans the School Nutrition outside of the cafeteria, giving more fat, and meet specific calorie ranges and Association to develop kids access to a healthy breakfast and sodium targets. Most of our products parent education brochures. improve opportunities for learning. v We provide school meal options that meet updated USDA standards. 1C Offering nutritious new products Providing products with more whole grain, more calcium, more vegetables and fruit, reduced sodium, less fat, fewer calories Impact Cereal General Mills delivered healthful new product options across a broad range of categories in a variety of markets in 2013. Five percent of total company sales were from new products in 2013. Honey Nut Cheerios Peanut Butter Fiber One PR1, FP6, FP7 Medley Crunch Toast Crunch 80 Calories Chocolate 17 grams of whole 11 grams of whole 10 grams whole grain, grain per serving grain per serving 80 calories, 35 percent Daily Value of fiber per serving U.S. U.S. U.S. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Dairy Yoplait® Yopa!® Yoplait® Source® Yoplait® Greek Go-GURT® Greek yogurt Greek yogurt blended yogurt Twisted yogurt BFast Yogurt with stirredFat free, 50 calories 150 calories Calcium and vitamin D 8-ounce dairy-based portable in ingredients drink; 8 grams of protein; 8 grams CANADA U.S. U.S. (JULY 2013) of whole grain; 3 grams of fiber CANADA (JUNE 2013) U.S. (JUNE 2013) Meals Wanchai Ferry Old El Paso Progresso Heart La Salteña Light Latina Fresh Old El Paso dumplings Casserole mix Healthy soups Pastas Healthy Line pasta varieties Mini Tortillas Reduced fat (25 percent Encouraging No more than 120 Reduced fat Focus on freshness (ricotta Less than 90 calories less than regular scratch cooking in a calories per serving; meet with spinach, basil) and per tortilla, 40 percent ARGENTINA dumplings), more convenient manner FDA criteria as a low-fat convenience (varying reduced fat vegetables and low-cholesterol food portion/serving sizes) U.K. U.K. CHINA (HONG (SEPTEMBER 2013) U.S. AUSTRALIA KONG MARKET) (JULY 2013) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Snacks Healthier indulgences Fiber One Green Giant Roasted Cascadian Farm Nature Valley Häagen-Dazs Pillsbury gluten free Protein bars Veggie Tortilla chips Crunchy Granola bars Sweet and Nutty bars sorbets dough products 20 percent of the Daily 17 grams of whole Organic, 23 grams Less than 150 Non-fat Gluten free Value of fiber and 6 grams grain per serving of whole grain, calories per bar EUROPE U.S. of protein per serving 7 ingredients (JUNE 2013) U.S. U.K. AND AUSTRALIA U.S. U.S. Nature Valley: Innovation through collaboration Introduced in January 2012, Nature Valley Protein strategy known as the General Mills Worldwide Bars have fewer than 200 calories and contain Innovation Network (G-WIN). During product 10 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber. The development, for instance, one external partner protein in Nature Valley Protein Bars comes helped incorporate high levels of protein in the from roasted peanuts, peanut butter with bars, while another partner developed the “crisps” almonds and soy. used in the bars specifically for General Mills. In September 2013, Consumer Goods Technology Nature Valley Protein Bars also were named the magazine named Nature Valley Protein Bars the No. 8 item in the Food & Beverage Brands r Nature Valley Protein Bars were Most Innovative Product of 2013. Nature Valley category on Information Resources Inc.’s (IRI) named the “Most Innovative Protein Bars were developed in collaboration with 2012 New Product Pacesetters list. The IRI report Product of 2013” by Consumer several outside partners, combining externally is released annually and recognizes the top 100 Goods Technology magazine. Ingredients include roasted sourced innovations with the expertise of General food and beverage and non food products. peanuts and almonds. Mills’ R&D teams. This partnership approach is an example of General Mills’ open innovation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2 Champion global food safety 2A Expanding food safety leadership Setting high standards for prevention, quality and investment that our consumers want assurance (read more in the Workplace section of Commitment that the food we provide is safe. this report). We were the first to include Priority: Safety is a priority focus area for food safety in the survey, a best practice US$25+ million food safety that DuPont can replicate with other our company leadership and part of our spending in 2013 (10 percent organizations across the industry. culture. Leading with safety – both the of essential capital investment safety of our employees in the workplace Results: Of the more than 10,000 on average each year for food and the food they make – is one of the key employees who participated in the r We are building food safety capacity safety-related projects) around the world, including training these operating principles that guides our work. survey, 83 percent of global supply ingredient suppliers in Brazil about the 600+ trained quality professionals Survey: In 2013, we partnered with chain and technical employees said Global Food Safety Initiative. and 50+ certified quality engineers DuPont – a globally recognized leader in that leadership at General Mills plants and regulators. Food safety leadership monitoring food safety worldwide workplace safety – to conduct a survey places a high priority on food safety. is a differentiator for General Mills, but to assess human and food safety at our 100 percent of General Mills facilities worldwide. The survey measured Building global not an area of competition. We share freely our best practices, emerging areas facilities certified using globally recognized food safety criteria our employees’ perceptions about the capacity of concern, regulatory activities and help importance of safety at General Mills Expectations: As General Mills’ operations raise standards industrywide. We work 90+ percent of products expand around the world, we carry with industry consortiums, partners and worldwide from third-party v Our incident-free with us the food safety processes and government agencies to advance food audited and/or certified facilities focus applies to the expectations we have been developing safety. For example, in Brazil (where we safety of our food and our employees. for more than half a century. Our acquired the Yoki food business in fiscal Learn more standards are the same in developed 2013), we helped build local food safety Challenge: Keeping food safe in a about employee and developing countries, though the capacity by piloting the Global Food global economy poses challenges. safety in the food safety challenges vary widely across Safety Initiative (GFSI) global markets Public awareness around food safety Workplace section of this report. locations. We tailor our training accordingly, program to help suppliers in Brazil has increased in the aftermath of highbuilding the capacity to ensure globally prepare for future GFSI certification. profile incidents of tainted food, such harmonized food safety standards. as peanut butter in the U.S. and baby food in China. While those incidents are Collaboration: Our investment in food Global systems unrelated to General Mills, we understand safety education around the world includes Expertise: Our food safety systems our suppliers, partners, industry peers focus on prevention, intervention and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY response. We apply this approach External certification: More than are shared annually as part of a global systematically on a global scale. 90 percent of our total worldwide volume – report. In 2013, we voluntarily recalled History of food safety leadership Planning: We integrate food safety including products produced at our own four products (two in the U.S. and plants and at co-production sites – is two in Australia). Our recalls ensured 1950s into all our processes, beginning with R&D and extending across our supply from facilities audited and/or certified by that no consumers were adversely Established raw an independent third party, according to impacted and were limited in scope. material vendor chain. Our 1,500 R&D employees publicly available standards. All General PR2 management program 1960s incorporate food safety considerations when planning for new products to Mills facilities (excluding Yoki sites) are Consumer response: All General Mills Established food certified under globally recognized food safety, quality and evaluate and guard against potential safety schemes. By the end of fiscal products around the world contain 1970s regulatory policies food safety risks. Our food safety board labeling with basic nutrition facts, and and standards includes senior leaders from across our 2013, half of our plants had achieved almost all branded products provide Developed food ISO 22000 and FSCC 22000 GFSI safety program for Hazard Analysis supply chain, R&D, legal and quality/ General Mills contact information, certification, indicating they meet global quality engineers at and Critical Control regulatory organizations as well as including phone numbers, web sites and production facilities (HACCP) process subject matter experts in areas ranging standards for food safety management addresses. When consumers contact us developed recognized in more than 150 countries from microbiology to consumer product with questions or concerns, that data 1980 usage. This board provides guidance and through the Consumer Goods Forum. is systematically collected and tracked, risk management review to ensure that We expect to have all our facilities GFSI offering a powerful early warning system Established food certified by 2017 with the exception safety regulatory we design food safety into our products. of our Yoki facilities in Brazil, which we for any food safety risks. We monitor that affairs role 1996 data daily and respond rapidly when food Surveillance: We are committed to are in the process of bringing in line safety questions arise. We work with Pioneered food mitigating and eliminating potential with our global food safety standards. allergen labeling regulatory agencies and local governments 2006 food safety risks. Our surveillance Seventy percent of our co-production on all products to take appropriate action when needed. programs monitor risk and provide sites and 40 percent of our ingredient We also use this consumer response Established internal early detection to minimize any impact supplier sites also are GFSI certified. food safety training system to help deliver the products when food safety issues are identified. academy 2008 Traceability: Our inventory control and consumers want – we first identified Internal verification and validation: We supplier management systems include interest in gluten-free products, for Initiated global conduct internal risk-based surveillance the ability to trace the sources of our example, based on consumer inquiries. In food safety and food safety testing at each General 2013 supplier schools ingredients, which is key to isolating risks 2013, we continued the global expansion Mills facility. Our processes also undergo in the event of food safety concerns. We of our consumer feedback system. Surveyed employees many layers of review. Our Global Internal evaluate our suppliers’ systems to ensure about global food Audit group periodically audits the they meet our traceability requirements. Governance safety culture effectiveness and efficiency of Quality and Regulatory Operations’ internal controls Our approach to selecting, auditing and and auditing Hazard Analysis and Critical Control training suppliers helps ensure the safety and operating procedures. This risk Detailed policies: Governance of General Points (HACCP) process of the raw materials we use to make our assessment is reported to the company’s Mills’ food safety and regulatory matters More than 50 years ago, The Pillsbury Company products (see story 2B on page 29). (prior to acquisition by General Mills) developed Global Governance Council and Board begins with a corporate policy signed Action: As a prevention step, we the HACCP approach with NASA for ensuring food of Directors. General Mills’ rigorous by our Chief Executive Officer. This safety. The HACCP approach identifies key stages in internal review of food safety procedures regularly conduct mock recalls at our corporate policy is further supported by production where food safety risks can be minimized exceeds standard industry practices. warehouses, production facilities and an additional set of 16 detailed policies or eliminated. Today, HACCP has become the food co-production sites worldwide. Results industry’s gold standard and the backbone of many with accompanying standards and countries’ food safety regulations around the world. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY guidance documents providing more granular requirements. These food safety sanitation. These policies form the foundation for internal audits conducted Strategy: people of excellence focused on key food safety requirements, such as sanitation, quality policies are developed by a global team by our global internal auditing group. and processes engineering and auditing. We provide involving subject matter experts relevant Expertise: Our food safety formula includes comprehensive, consistent training through Leadership: The Vice President of to the policy. Policies are signed by the people – our team of experienced food our global online training academy with Quality and Regulatory Operations has senior leader(s) in the functions primarily safety professionals – backed by adequate materials in English, French, Mandarin direct responsibility for food safety. responsible for assuring compliance. resources and clearly defined processes. Chinese, Portuguese and Spanish. The Global Internal Audit group These global policies cover a broad From board certified toxicologists to quality periodically validates that our food Global reach: In addition to onsite food range of food safety areas, including: engineers, our people have the expertise to safety processes and controls are safety teams at each of our facilities regulatory compliance; trace and recall; make informed food safety decisions from in place and operating effectively. and our global centers of excellence, labeling; claims; physical, chemical product design through consumer use. The company’s Global Governance we deploy additional resources when and biological hazards; transportation; Council conducts a quarterly review Training: We continually refine our training needed from across our network. and good manufacturing practices and of risk, which includes food safety. approach, including creating global centers FP5, PR1 “There’s nothing more precious than the food we put in our bodies and serve to our loved ones, families and friends. The trust people have in our brands is at the heart of our company and it all starts with food safety. Food safety is part of each of our jobs at General Mills. We focus on food safety everywhere: in every country, every brand, every package, all the time.” – Peter Erickson, General Mills Executive Vice President, Innovation, Technology and Quality Promoting food safety in China Food quality and safety are paramount for General Mills’ Wanchai Ferry business in China, where food safety is a key concern among consumers. Our quality control practices include strict hygiene standards beginning at the farm and food safety procedures throughout all our processes, including refrigerated transportation that ensures food arrives safely to supermarkets. To highlight our strong food safety practices and reassure Chinese consumers about the quality of our Wanchai Ferry dumplings, General Mills shares information via print, television and online channels. In 2013, the videos were viewed more than 5 million times. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2B Partnering to increase food safety Increasing supplier and co-producer audits, training and awareness we use in our products, we continue Impact to expand the number of supplier and co-producer audits we conduct globally. 768 supplier audits conducted The General Mills Quality and Regulatory in 2013 – a fourfold increase organization performs direct audits and from 2008 also encourages third-party audits and/or certification, such as through GFSI, as an 138 co-manufacturer audits additional preventive control measure. conducted in 2013 Supplier training: Our products are only Fivefold reduction in ingredient as safe as the ingredients they include, so r More than 80 attendees participated in this food safety supplier school General Mills conducted in suppliers classified as high General Mills brings together our suppliers Mumbai, India, in September 2013. risk from 2010 to 2013 around the world to share food safety in China and Thailand in 2012 and the U.S. than 100 suppliers participated in each knowledge and communicate food safety in 2011. Those seminars address topics webinar. The audits we conduct of supplier 800 suppliers trained through expectations. We conduct supplier schools such as biological and physical hazard facilities provide additional opportunities eight supplier schools since 2009 in classroom settings tailored to the needs controls, allergen management and plant for individual food safety training. of each market. In 2013, we held supplier sanitization. We also offered a series of FP2, FP5, PR1 Audits: To help ensure the safety of the schools in Spain and India, building on the training webinars in 2013 covering a range raw materials (ingredients and packaging) success of our supplier schools conducted of food safety and sanitation topics. More Collaboration: Project Peanut Butter in Sierra Leone, Malawi and Ghana We continued to build international food safety capacity through philanthropic efforts in 2013. For example, General Mills employee volunteers working through Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) provided onsite support and conducted webinars with small food processors in Africa about topics such as preventing contamination (read more about our work with PFS in the Community section of this report). One r James Blair shares food safety r Blair visited Project Peanut Butter r In 2013, Blair spent a week in Malawi of our PFS volunteers is James Blair, Quality and Regulatory knowledge with African food processors in Sierra Leone in 2011 to provide food helping Project Peanut Butter maximize Operations Manager at General Mills’ Quality Engineering through Partners in Food Solutions safety and quality training and help the food safety at a new peanut butter Center of Excellence in Berwick, U.K., who has traveled to (PFS). In addition to supporting facility prepare for an audit. Training factory. Blair provided advice on sanitary Project Peanut Butter facilities in topics included HACCP, pest control, design, pest control, process and people Sierra Leone, Malawi and Ghana to provide food safety Sierra Leone, Malawi and Ghana, Blair traceability, hygienic design, microbiology flows as well as supplier improvements. guidance to Project Peanut Butter, a nonprofit organization also participates on the leadership and environmental sampling. that provides nutrition for malnourished children in Africa. team for PFS projects in Ethiopia. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3 Educate consumers 3A Promoting better health Educating consumers around the world about nutrition and fitness Projected impact activity through healthy lifestyle choices – especially for children. Addressing Champions for Healthy Kids: Through overconsumption Nearly 1 million youth reached In developed this signature program, we promote through Champions for Healthy economies healthy nutrition and fitness for America’s Kids initiatives promoting such as the U.S., youth through community organizations. nutrition/fitness since 2002 where many r In the U.K., we support Change4Life, a General Mills invested US$5.5 million to public health campaign that promotes provide nearly 1 million kids with health people consume 50 million students and 90 making “smart swaps” toward a healthier and fitness education since 2002. more calories percent of U.S. schools reached lifestyle. The campaign encourages families than they need, by 2020 through Presidential to make healthy choices about nutrition and Presidential Youth Fitness Program: We we support efforts aimed at achieving a Youth Fitness Program increase activity levels to reduce obesity. helped launch this program in 2012 with balanced diet. General Mills helps promote community level, in schools and through the President’s Council on Fitness, Sports 30,000 children and 300 programs Dietary Guidelines for Americans through early childhood learning centers. and Nutrition and our commitment of targeted through early childhood our strategic partnership with the USDA US$10 million over the next six years – the partnership with Nemours Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. Promoting nutrition/ largest single grant in the history of the As part of this combined effort between activity balance General Mills Foundation. Our ongoing support helps cultivate lifelong skills and government and industry, our Bell Institute Challenge: Obesity is a problem globally of Health and Nutrition helps equip health In the U.S., we support initiatives that healthy habits in the fight against childhood as people consume more calories than professionals and consumers with practical raise awareness about the importance obesity through school fitness programs. they expend through physical activity. nutrition tips in the context of Dietary of balancing good nutrition and physical Our role: We believe that healthy Nemours: We announced a new Guidelines to help encourage healthy eating lifestyles include not only a balanced partnership in 2014 with Nemours, a habits. Learn more at ChooseMyPlate.gov. diet but also exercise and activity. nonprofit children’s health organization, to FP8 For this reason, we take a holistic help reduce the prevalence of childhood approach to educating consumers obesity and increase healthy eating and about nutrition and fitness. To combat physical activity in young children through the problem of childhood obesity programs at early childhood centers. and help children form good lifelong Learn more about these partnerships in r We support programs that encourage habits, we support programs at the physical activity. the Community section of this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Promoting vegetable w In 2013, General Mills’ Green Giant business in consumption France received approval to use the prestigious General Mills actively encourages “Origine France Garantie” consumption of vegetables as (Guaranteed French Origin) label from the French Food part of a balanced diet. Industry Minister indicating that Green Giant Europe: Our Green Giant business in vegetables sold in France are primarily locally produced. Our Häagen-Dazs business in France Europe is expanding its promotion of also received this distinction in December the “5-a day” message encouraging 2012. Studies have shown that 95 percent of daily intake of five servings of fruits r Green Giant Veggie Blend-Ins provide an easy way for consumers to blend vegetables into meals, French consumers say they want to know the snacks and desserts. geographic origin of products they buy, with a and vegetables across the U.K., France strong preference for products made in France. and Spain. The messages appear on product packaging, in stores and online. Providing nutrition markets in the European Union (EU). The commitment will ensure that consumers information have access to consistent, meaningful General Mills’ product packaging provides nutritional information on products, clear nutrition information for consumers who want access to information that will help them construct a healthy diet. U.S.: Currently, more than half of our U.S. products feature front-of-package labeling and, by early 2014, all of them will. The “Nutrition Keys” are a set of icons adopted by the packaged food industry that provide information about calories, saturated fat, sodium and total sugars – designed r In Spain, Green Giant is partnering with the 5 Al Dia organisation to promote the to make it easier to make informed food World Health Organization recommendation choices in the grocery aisle. All of our r In the U.K., our Green Giant to eat at least five portions (400 grams) Big G cereal boxes also display grams of business introduced in of fruit and vegetables every day. January 2014 a “One Giant whole grain per serving so consumers Pledge” campaign asking U.S.: In 2014, our Green Giant brand can see how cereal helps them meet consumers to make just one introduced new Green Giant Veggie dietary recommendations. General Mills small change to their routine Blend-Ins to help boost vegetable was the first to use a “contain” statement to help eat better or become to highlight allergen information boldly more active, such as eating one more portion consumption. These vegetable purees of vegetables a day. Research shows by making contain 100 percent vegetables on our product information panels. a small change and sticking to it for 14 days, with no additives or preservatives. Europe/Australia: In Europe, we joined consumers can establish new routines that will soon become habit. Pledge participants Consumers can access recipes for 11 other leading food and beverage receive recipes and tips with adding carrots, squash and spinach to manufacturers in November 2012 in ideas for eating more vegetables breakfast, lunch, dinner, desserts and reaffirming our commitment to harmonized and controlling portion sizes, smoothies at VeggieBlendIns.com. along with coupons and prizes. front-of-pack nutrition labeling across all GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY including continuing to display calorie delivered through more than 1 billion information on the front of packages. product units in Canadian stores. Currently, 92 percent of our products Health Canada’s evaluation shows that Quality service award in Brazil across all EU markets feature Nutrition exposure to these messages is making Our Yoki business received a quality service award in 2013 from Keys printed on the packaging. We a positive impact on consumers’ use consumer advocate website Reclame Aqui. Nearly 2 million began this labeling in 2008. Thirty-six of on-package nutrition information. Brazilian consumers voted Yoki the “best brand for quality” in percent of Australasia region products use FP4, FP8 the “high turnover grocery” category (Yoki provides a variety of similar labels with daily intake guides. $550 million products including side dishes, seasonings and popcorn). The Canada: We continue to actively award was based on Yoki brand’s 97.6 percent favorable participate in the Nutrition Facts Education rating for identifying and solving consumer problems. Campaign. In the past three years, this We’re investing US$550 million partnership between the Canadian to promote U.S. vegetable government and the food industry has consumption during 2014-2017. resulted in label reading education Reinforcing healthy choices in Canada: ‘World without dieting’ mentoring and awareness campaign As part of General Mills’ focus on campaign reinforces our support of CA$205,000 funded by our Champions balancing nutrition and physical activity, Go Girls! mentoring programs across for Healthy Kids program since 2008. our Multi-Grain Cheerios business in Canada that focus on physical activity, Canada has launched an integrated balanced eating and self-esteem with communications campaign about the girls ages 12-14. General Mills Canada has downside of dieting and the importance supported 41 Go Girls! group mentoring WATCH VIDEO of living a healthier, more balanced programs through Big Brothers and life. The campaign encourages adults Big Sisters throughout Canada with r Champion Canadian rower and author to serve as role models and help end Silken Laumann takes the ‘Never Say dieting for the next generation by Dieting Oath’ for her daughter, Kate. taking the “Never Say Dieting Oath.” This recent initiative is part of our Generation Healthy campaign that aims to make the next generation WATCH VIDEO r This website (worldwithoutdieting.ca) healthier in a variety of ways. Since the encourages adults to take the ‘Never Say campaign launched in September 2013, Dieting Oath’ and set a positive example WATCH VIDEO r This commercial invites consumers to sales of Multi-Grain Cheerios across for children by embracing a healthy, help make the next generation healthier balanced lifestyle. Canada have increased 7 percent. The by taking the ‘Never Say Dieting Oath.’ r This video reinforces the importance of helping girls avoid the dieting roller-coaster. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3B Supporting responsible marketing Addressing advertising to children around the world Review: General Mills has had child country where they operate. Compliance Canada: In Canada, we participate Impact marketing guidelines in place for more with this commitment is monitored in the Canadian Children’s Food and than 30 years. The guidelines are reviewed independently and publicly reported by Beverage Advertising Initiative (CAI), a Global: Commitment to and updated annually by the company’s Accenture annually. This means that we voluntary initiative by 19 of Canada’s International Food and Child Marketing Review Council. These apply our nutrition standards to products leading food and beverage companies Beverage Alliance pledge guidelines are reviewed annually with that we advertise to children under the to promote and support healthy dietary the company’s Chief Executive Officer age of 12 everywhere that we operate choices and healthy lifestyles to children U.S.: Full compliance with and the Chief Operating Officers of around the world, including Europe, Latin under 12 years of age. The 2012 CAI Children’s Food and Beverage the company’s U.S. and International America, North America and Asia. Compliance report includes General Mills’ Advertising Initiative guidelines operating units. We adhere to strict internal support of Breakfast Clubs of Canada U.S.: General Mills has been at the forefront and industry guidelines in producing and Boys and Girls Clubs of Canada. of efforts to strengthen the Children’s Food Philosophy: We believe children and reviewing ads to ensure they are and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) Europe: As a founding member of the should be encouraged to consume appropriate for the intended audience. child advertising nutrition standards. The EU pledge, a voluntary initiative by leading low-calorie, nutrient-dense foods. Commitment: As charter members of the company is in full compliance with the food and beverage companies, General Guidelines: General Mills’ marketing International Food and Beverage Alliance CFBAI guidelines, which took effect on Mills and other signatories, including guidelines underscore our commitment to (IFBA), we joined other leading food Dec. 31, 2013. These category-level our cereal joint venture CPW, agree responsible marketing and advertising by and non-alcoholic beverage companies guidelines apply more rigorous nutrition to advertise only products that meet stating that all marketing should respect in a public commitment to the Director standards for specific food groups, such specific nutrition criteria to kids under 12. three key steps to healthier living: balance, General of the World Health Organization as yogurt and cereal, consistently across Participants in the EU pledge have also moderation and physical activity. We take to extend our responsible marketing the U.S. food and beverage industry. In a adopted uniform category-level nutrition particular care around advertising directed and advertising initiatives globally. December 2012 report issued by the U.S. standards, which will be fully implemented to children – including prior review by the Lower calorie, higher nutrient foods are Federal Trade Commission (FTC) reviewing by December 2014. We continue to Better Business Bureau’s Child Advertising advertised to children as part of the food marketing to children and adolescents, refine and strengthen these standards. Review Unit in the United States. pledge by companies to reduce children’s the FTC noted overall improvement in the PR6 exposure to marketing communications for nutrition of products offered to children. products high in fat, sugar and salt in every “One excellent example emanating from the platform is the EU Pledge…The effectiveness of the Pledge is made evident by the latest monitoring report…which showed a downward trend in children’s exposure to food advertising.” – Tonio Borg, European Commissioner for Health & Consumer Policy (June 2013) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 ENVIRONMENT OUR GOAL is to continually reduce our environmental footprint. We focus our efforts on areas where we can have the greatest impact, both within our own operations and outside of them, primarily in agriculture. Across our global operations, we work to reduce our natural resource consumption. Additionally, we focus on sustainably sourcing the raw materials we use in our products. Our sustainability mission is to Our strategies conserve and protect the natural Reduce resource Increase resources and communities upon usage in our sustainability which our business depends. operations of ingredients HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Overview 2013 progress: We continue working toward our fiscal 2015 goal of achieving significant, measurable reductions in energy Impact of acquisitions usage, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water usage and The recent acquisitions of Yoplait International and Yoki have had a material impact other sustainability metrics. In fiscal 2013, our rates now on our volume, and hence our sustainability metrics. incorporate the acquisitions of Yoplait International and Yoki Yoplait International: Yoki: High water use in yogurt Significant use of renewable energy sources resulted Alimentos SA. Our most significant improvements were in the manufacturing and associated in a reduction in our reportable GHG emissions rates areas of GHG, transportation fuel usage and packaging. We cooling systems led to a significant associated with fossil fuels. This acquisition enabled us remain committed to making progress toward our goals. increase in our water usage rates. to reach our 20 percent GHG reduction goal. Performance dashboard FY2015 target (% rate FY2013 excluding Yoplait/Yoki acquisitions FY2013 including Yoplait/Yoki acquisitions reduction from FY2005) *,** (% rate reduction from FY2005) (% rate reduction from FY2005) Energy usage rate* (kilowatt hours/metric ton of product) 20% 9% 10% GHG emissions rate* (metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product) 20% 9% 20% Water usage rate*,** (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 20% 11% -22% Solid waste generation rate* (metric tons/metric ton of product) 50% 42% 40% Transportation fuel usage rate*,** (% fuel reduction/metric ton of product shipped) 35% 24% 24% Packaging improvement rate*,** (% of packaging volume improved) 60% 58% 59% (increased from 40% in FY2012) * Energy, GHG emissions, water and solid waste generation absolute and rate-based data in this section are from wholly owned production facilities globally. Transportation fuel use data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. Packaging improvement data are global. ** Water usage rate goal and progress are based on fiscal 2006 baseline data. Transportation fuel usage rate and packaging improvement rate goals and progress are based on fiscal 2009 baseline. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Our approach: measure & reduce We track our environmental footprint, work to reduce our global impact and report progress Our strategies and actions We continue to measure and report our progress according to key performance indicators (see table on page 102) as well as other metrics. Using our environmental management system, which follows Reduce resource usage 1 a “plan, do, check, act” approach, we make changes to our processes and facilities to improve our p. 38 environmental performance. At each facility, we use scorecards to track and report progress. in our operations Strategy: Two key business strategies inform our approach to reducing our environmental A Reducing energy usage impact. The first is Continuous Improvement (CI), which focuses on loss elimination and prevention. CI encourages employee ownership of company processes – from plant B Reducing GHG emissions and addressing climate change production workers to our executive management team – to eliminate and prevent waste, C Reducing water usage including time and effort. The second is Holistic Margin Management (HMM), which calls D Reducing solid waste generation on cross-functional teams to understand the value drivers for our brands and eliminate E Reducing transportation fuel usage nonvalue-added costs. In addition to improvements in environmental performance, savings from these initiatives enable us to offset inflation increases in our raw material costs F Reducing packaging footprint which, in turn, help us to keep our consumer prices stable and to invest in innovation. Our companywide goal – which includes environmental and non-environmental initiatives – Increase sustainability 2 is to accrue US$4 billion in HMM savings between fiscal 2010 and 2020. To date, sustainability p. 47 initiatives have contributed substantially to our progress against this goal. Since 2005, our of ingredients North American operations have saved more than US$60 million through proactive environmental management, CI and HMM tools to make our plants more efficient and environmentally sustainable. A I mproving sustainability of raw materials and watersheds Investment: General Mills invests in creating shareholder return while reducing our environmental footprint. Each year, we invest millions of dollars in cost savings projects to reduce energy and water usage. Measurement: To pinpoint areas of greatest energy and water usage across our most resource-intensive production facilities, we have installed metering equipment for specific equipment and processes. This investment has helped us identify and implement energy and water saving improvements. At our Big G cereal facility in Cincinnati, Ohio, for example, our investment in a steam meter and dew-point sensor helped us to reduce steam usage by nearly 50 percent, saving US$70,000 annually. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Building design: We also design for energy and programs to achieve corporatewide goals. To ensure water savings when updating our facilities. As part of the ownership across the company, these goals are expansion of our plant in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, broken down and assigned annually to the relevant for example, we installed storm-water treatment executives within business units, supply chain and equipment. Expanding the grassy storm-water absorption production facilities. The Board of Directors’ Public area and water treatment ponds at the site will remove Responsibility Committee regularly reviews the company’s 90 percent of solids and nutrients from the water, sustainability objectives, strategies and performance. reducing the flow destined for the Stones River watershed. Monitoring and audits: In addition to oversight Installing meters Leadership and governance: At General Mills, by the Sustainability Governance Committee, our our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has ultimate Global Safety and Environment team reviews the and sensors company’s compliance status and progress toward Our investment in meters accountability for environmental sustainability sustainability goals on a quarterly basis with senior and sensors enables precise performance, which is included in his annual performance measurement of water, natural objectives. He convenes the Sustainability Governance management, production facilities and business units. gas, electricity, compressed air and Committee three times per year, made up of operating In fiscal 2013, we completed refrigeration safety audits steam usage as well as dew point. and functional heads. The committee reviews and at five of our largest North American facilities. We use this data to target approves strategies, programs and key investments. Best practice sharing and training: Global resource reduction efforts. Our Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports to the Safety and Environment teams at our plants hold Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and the Senior regular meetings to share best practices about Vice President of External Relations, leads our global environmental initiatives and compliance requirements. environmental sustainability initiatives. Executives in In each facility and targeted business operation, we Supply Chain, External Relations and Sustainability conduct training annually with relevant personnel. have responsibility to develop, coordinate and execute Collaboration and continued compliance Across our operations, we particulate emissions resulting a much lower level of particulate and helping the Buffalo location collaborate to reduce General from the cereal-making process. emissions at the Buffalo facility avoid additional related costs. Mills’ overall environmental The Buffalo team worked with during cereal making, and it This example demonstrates impact, lower costs and ensure two of our flour mills to reduce reduced costs. By installing how General Mills innovates continued compliance with the amount of oat slivers in the improved technology at the flour broadly throughout our supply local regulations. In 2013, for flour before it is shipped to the mills, we reduced particulate chain to gain efficiencies and example, our Big G cereal facility Buffalo location to be made into emissions by 55 percent at the environmental benefits. in Buffalo, New York, identified cereal. This modification to the cereal facility, keeping emissions an opportunity to control flour-milling process resulted in well below acceptable limits GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1 Reduce resource usage in our operations 1A Reducing energy usage Improving energy efficiency of our facilities around the world system improvements; and lighting cost savings. In fiscal 2013, we reduced Progress replacement innovations. The combined the energy usage rate at our seven Big G savings from individual projects at each cereal locations by 6 percent using this GOAL: 20 percent reduction of our sites results in significant energy process (almost 60 million kwh), saving in energy usage rate by reductions across the company (overall US$3.7 million. These results were 2015 (2005 baseline) energy reduction rates are also affected achieved by focusing on optimal dryer by changes in product mix and volume). efficiency – since dryers are the single USAGE: 524 kilowatt hours per Five-step energy reduction process: largest user of energy in the cereal-making metric ton of product in 2013 We are rolling out to more facilities the process – along with improvements (1 percent decrease over 2012) five-step energy reduction process piloted to boilers; heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems; lighting; r Recognition: General Mills’ energy saving SOURCES: Primarily natural in 2012 by our Big G cereal business. That efforts received external recognition in gas (48 percent) and five-step process includes adding resources, refrigeration; pumps; and fans. We September 2013. Graham Thorsteinson, right, electricity (44 percent) installing meters and systematically continue using meters to sustain energy Big G energy team leader, was recognized as one analyzing energy use at each site to identify reductions and are on track to save of the world’s top young energy professionals by REDUCTION: Many locations an additional US$3 million in fiscal the Association of Energy Engineers. He received the greatest opportunities for energy and the “Young Energy Professional” award for his achieved significant reductions 2014 (45 million kwh). role in leading implementation of General Mills’ (example: energy use reduced five-step energy reduction process. 6 percent by Big G cereal facilities) Energy usage, 2005 2013 EN3, EN4, EN5 3.0 700 In June 2013, we expanded use of the Kwh/metric ton of product 2.5 600 five-step process to our two largest frozen Approach: Our focus on reducing energy GOAL 500 food locations in North America, where 2.0 Billion kwh consumption in our operations continues 400 we make Totino’s pizza products and to yield improvements in the energy 1.5 frozen dough products for our foodservice 300 efficiency of our processes around the 1.0 business. In these facilities, freezers and 200 world. Through our energy audit program, refrigeration systems represent the most 0.5 we collect and share sustainability best 100 significant energy savings opportunities. practices across our locations, such 0.0 0 Energy engineers at these sites have 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2013** 2015 as optimization of dryers, ovens and identified US$1 million in potential Direct Indirect *Before Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions freezers; building heating and cooling **After Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 380,000 kwh energy efficiency – bringing in outside air or recirculating inside air based on external weather conditions. After a fouryear investment, the HVAC optimization In China, we have implemented a is now saving US$1.9 million annually series of energy initiatives at our at this facility while earning additional facility in Guangzhou. These utility rebates. We have standardized this initiatives include the upgrade process and are implementing pilot rollouts of lighting equipment, which is at our West Chicago, Illinois, and Joplin, saving 380,000 kilowatt hours Missouri, locations in 2014, with plans to per year, and replacing a diesel expand to all North American cereal and fuel boiler with a more energy frozen food facilities moving forward. EN3, EN4, EN5 efficient gas boiler, saving more than 1,300 tons of fuel annually. v Reducing heat loss: At our Seretram plant in France, we r Solar power in China: Our facility in Guangzhou uses solar power to heat water for hand added thermal coating to the washing systems. cookers we use to prepare Green Giant canned corn. This coating provides additional protection for energy savings over the next two years Optimization: To reduce energy use at workers, helps prevent heat loss (through fiscal 2015). By 2015, we will our facility in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, our and reduces energy use. have implemented the energy reduction engineers collaborated with a local process in 15 of our largest North American contractor to determine the best approach sites, which represent 80 percent of our for optimizing the site’s HVAC system. energy spend. We expect this initiative to New controls detect air temperature save about US$20 million in energy across and humidity and automatically adjust all divisions over the next several years. the air source accordingly for optimum Efficiency improvements deliver energy savings Our facility in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, began making changes using the five-step Big G energy reduction process in 2012 focusing on existing dryer systems. Engineers at the site installed cameras to facilitate more even spreading and efficient drying of cereal, pictured here, along with a dew-point sensor to control humidity, more efficient exhaust motors and other modifications saving nearly US$275,000 and reducing energy use by 2 percent (7 million kilowatt hours). Additional changes, including a lighting retrofit and HVAC optimization, reduced total energy usage at the site by 5.9 percent during 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1B Reducing GHG emissions and addressing climate change Managing the environmental impact of our operations and the world’s food supply. Our primary Greenhouse gas emissions, 2005 2013 Progress Metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product focus is reducing GHG emissions from 1,200,000 0.25 our operations through improved energy 1,000,000 GOAL: 20 percent reduction efficiency and the use of low-carbon 0.20 GOAL Metric tons CO2e in GHG emissions rate by energy sources (see page 102). 800,000 0.15 2015 (2005 baseline) Sources: The majority of our Scope 1 and 600,000 0.10 TOTAL EMISSIONS: 0.181 metric Scope 2 GHG emissions are from burning 400,000 tons CO2e per metric ton of fossil fuels at our facilities and purchased 0.05 200,000 product (12% less than 2012) electricity. Energy sources we use include natural gas, fuel oil, propane and electricity 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2013** 2015 REDUCTION: Emissions generated by various sources. We promote Scope 1 Scope 2 reduction due to energy energy efficiency throughout our value *Before Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions **After Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions conservation and significant chain and consider the climate impacts use of renewable fuels by Yoki of packaging design and raw materials. value chain occur). For example, General crops grown in North America through our EMISSIONS: 282,000 metric In 2013, General Mills improved our Carbon Mills is a member of the Sustainability ongoing collaboration with Field to Market. tons CO2e of Scope 1 emissions, Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change Council of the Innovation Center for Through our sourcing relationships, we 729,000 metric tons CO2e of disclosure score by 10 points compared U.S. Dairy, which has committed to the work to eliminate controversial sources for Scope 2 emissions, 44,000 to 2012 and our performance rating from voluntary goal of reducing GHG emissions ingredients (like fiber packaging or palm oil) renewable fuel CO2e emissions C to B. General Mills has participated in for fluid milk by 25 percent by the year that can contribute to deforestation, which the CDP since its inception in 2000. 2020 (using 2007-2008 as a baseline). affects climate change. Learn more about Our participation in this industry group General Mills’ commitment to sustainably Approach: At General Mills, we recognize Value chain: In addition to reducing GHG supports our own intention to sustainably source our 10 priority ingredients and help the role of responsible companies in emissions from our own operations, we source the fluid milk used in our products, manage GHG emissions across our supply helping mitigate the risk of climate also work to decrease emissions across such as Yoplait yogurt. Beyond dairy, we chain in the Sourcing section of this report. change – an issue that affects agriculture our value chain (especially in agriculture, help measure GHG emissions from row EN16, EN17, EN18 where most of the GHG emissions in our Reducing GHG emissions in the U.K. We work with our logistics service providers and our retail customers to reduce the environmental impact of storing and shipping our products. In the U.K., for example, our warehouse and shipping provider has installed solar panels to reduce GHG emissions at its facilities, including saving 780,000 kilowatt hours (464 metric tons of CO2e) since January 2012 at the distribution center housing our frozen foods near Manchester. This provider also has upgraded its fleet of trucks to include larger capacity trailers, which has reduced nitrous oxide by 31 percent and CO2e emissions by 14 percent since 2011. As part of a shared-user arrangement, our Häagen-Dazs super-premium ice cream and Jus Rol frozen products in the U.K. are stored in warehouses and distributed along with products from other food suppliers to our major customers. These consolidated deliveries ensure that vehicles are full each time they leave a warehouse or delivery center, further reducing mileage and CO2e emissions. HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Collaboration: At our yogurt facility in in the Sourcing section of this report). We process, we are saving 243,600 gallons of Conserving water while Reed City, Michigan, we are working with also collaborated with the MMPA to bring diesel fuel per year, reducing GHG emissions rehydrating beans the Michigan Milk Producers Association the processing of raw milk onsite at the by almost 2,500 metric tons of CO2e. While (MMPA) to pilot the Innovation Center for Reed City plant. Delivering milk directly from this change has increased energy and water At our facility in Vineland, New U.S. Dairy Sustainability Council Framework farms to our facility eliminates the step of use at our facility, it reduces the overall carbon Jersey, a new process for rehydrating beans (used in Progresso minestrone for measuring the carbon footprint of milk transporting milk to and from an offsite milk footprint and cost of producing yogurt. soup) is saving almost 15,000 production and processing (see more details processing location. By streamlining the EN18 cubic meters of water annually – a 60 percent reduction from the old 1C Reducing water usage 18 Water usage, 2006 2013 4.5 approach. The new process, which utilizes a combination of steam Lowering consumption and reusing water 16 4.0 and hot water, recirculates the Cubic meters/metric ton of product 3.5 water and condensed steam not the efficiency of water 14 Progress absorbed by the beans back through Million cubic meters usage in our processes 12 3.0 the system for continuous reuse. around the world. GOAL: 20 percent reduction 10 2.5 Reuse: Some of our in water usage rate by 8 GOAL 2.0 facilities around the 2015 (2006 baseline) world recirculate water 6 1.5 USAGE: 2.902 cubic meters whenever possible 4 1.0 per metric ton of product in for reuse rather than disposal. At our yogurt 2 0.5 2013 (36 percent increase from 2012 primarily due to impact site in Murfreesboro, 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2013** 2015 of Yoplait International) Tennessee, for example, we installed recirculation *Before Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions **After Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions WATER SOURCES: 52 percent valves in 2013 to reduce water loss, resulting in from municipal sources, 25 percent a savings of more than 375,000 cubic meters with fewer spray nozzles reduced cleaning r Steam and water recirculate inside to from groundwater, 23 percent per year. The water passes back through a times and cut the flow of water from 102 liters efficiently rehydrate beans. from surface water UV treatment system to ensure purity prior to per minute to 38 liters per minute. The new reuse. Our Häagen-Dazs location in Arras, France, system also improved wastewater handling We use water in multiple ways when also reduced its water use by replacing water and further increased employee safety. making food at our facilities: as an cooling with a new chilling system. Installed in Upstream impact: Looking at our broader ingredient; for cooling or heating; and 2013, the system is saving between 750 and environmental footprint, the majority of water for cleaning and sanitizing equipment. 1,500 cubic meters of water annually (1 to 2 required to bring our products to consumers percent of the facility’s annual water use). Approach: We track water usage in is used upstream of our direct operations, each of our locations to identify areas of high Efficiency: By increasing efficiency when primarily in agriculture. Across our value usage and target opportunities for conservation. cleaning equipment, our Big G cereal facility in chain, we are implementing our global water We work with vendors and partners to develop Cedar Rapids, Iowa, reduced water and energy stewardship strategy to improve the health water balance processes and help our facilities usage – saving 6,800 cubic meters annually of watersheds accessed by our operations. and 700,000 kilowatt hours from recovered Learn more in the Sourcing section. r Rehydrated beans – destined for identify opportunities to decrease water Progresso minestrone soup. use. We continue making improvements to steam energy. Use of a high-pressure pump EN8, EN9, EN10, EN26 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1D Reducing solid waste generation Minimizing our impact and creating value through reduction, reuse and recycling Approach: We continue improving box by reusing them rather than recycling recycling a minimum of 90 percent of all Progress efficiencies in our operations to further them and will replicate this best practice. waste (the remainder is incinerated with reduce our solid waste stream. We Worldwide, we now have six plants that energy recovery): Los Angeles, California, GOAL: 50 percent reduction in identify sources of waste, then work meet our zero-waste-to-landfill criteria by and Chanhassen, Minnesota, in the U.S.; solid waste generation rate by to decrease waste from our processes. Midland, Ontario, in Canada; Berwick in the 2015 (2005 baseline) We also reduce the amount of waste U.K.; and Landes and Seretram in France. Solid waste by disposition (% of sent to landfills by finding ways to use 2013 total for North American Composting: We compost food and SOLID WASTE: .034 metric tons per metric ton of product in 2013 it for other purposes or recycle it. operations) other organic waste at our facilities (1 percent decrease from 2012) around the world, reducing the Reuse, composting amount of waste sent to landfills. DIVERSION: 86 percent of and recycling n I n Mexico, our Old El Paso and Green solid waste diverted from landfills Reuse: We currently reuse or recycle Giant locations in Irapuato transform in North America in 2013 the majority of all our waste. This waste from tacos, tortillas, and fresh and continued focus on waste has moved frozen vegetables as well as cardboard disposal from a cost to a revenue generator, into compost. During 2013, 357 metric earning a record US$9.7 million net tons of organic waste were composted EN22 revenue in 2013 for our North American and used as fertilizer in our greenhouses. operations. For example, our North n R  ecycling 71% n I n Minnesota, our headquarters facility American plants reused neary 8,000 n L andfill 14% diverted 93 metric tons of organic metric tons of cardboard boxes and totes in n R euse 14% waste from landfills in 2013, reducing 2013, returning over US$900,000 back to n Incineration (Incl. energy recovery) <1% landfill use by this facility by 25 percent. our facilities. We double the value of each n C omposting <1% Peanut shells converted to biomass fuel in Brazil At our Yoki facility in Marilia, Brazil, we are using peanut shells compressed into logs to help fuel our operations. The site generates 4,000 metric tons of peanut shells per year; 100 percent of that waste is consumed as biofuel at the facility. The peanut shells contain approximately 68 percent more energy than eucalyptus wood and cost half as much to use. Ashes from the burned logs are used to fertilize trees and flowerbeds around the facility. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Solid waste generation, 2005 2013 Metric tons/metric ton of product 300,000 0.06 250,000 0.05 86% Metric tons 200,000 0.04 150,000 GOAL 0.03 100,000 0.02 We currently reuse or recycle 50,000 0.01 86 percent of all waste from our North American operations. 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2013** 2015 r Employees deposit organic waste at collection to improve our processes, donate surplus *Before Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions **After Yoki/Yoplait acquisitions stations to be converted into compost. food to charitable organizations and collaborate across our supply chain. Recycling: We also reduce the amount Reducing food waste Operations: We reduce food waste at our of waste going to landfills by recycling Food waste is a persistent problem facilities. At our Wellston, Ohio, location, production and packaging materials. In affecting the environment and food for example, changing the way we prepare West Chicago, Illinois, for example, we security. Food waste is five times more pizzas has saved nearly 4,000 metric tons reduced the amount of landfill-destined impactful in a landfill than packaging of toppings that were dislocated during waste from our facility by 21 percent in waste because it creates methane – a production. By slightly heating and melting 2013. Employees formed environmental GHG 20 times more potent than carbon the cheese, pizza toppings are secured in project teams and used Continuous dioxide. Around the world, one-third of all place, reducing food waste on the line. Improvement (CI) tools to reduce overall the calories of food produced every year waste and improve recycling procedures. v We reduced food are wasted – equaling 1.3 billion metric waste in our pizzaSince 2009, the site has reduced its waste tons of food waste – while nearly 1 billion making process. headed for landfills by 61 percent through people do not have enough to eat. General recycling and production improvements. r Food waste is collected for composting at our Mills reduces food waste by continuing headquarters facility. Conservation award for tomato composting In California, our Muir Glen organic tomato products business received a Muir award for outstanding leadership in conservation in April 2013 for converting tomato waste into compost. Together with our supplier, we invested in equipment to compost tomato waste, almond shells, rice straw and hulls. We expect US$200,000 in ongoing annual savings from the composting program from reduced landfill costs and revenue generated from the sale of compost to farmers. The compost is used on 3,500 acres of nearby tomato fields by Muir Glen growers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Donation: We capture surplus food Challenge, a collaborative effort of the for donation, such as overruns of U.S. Department of Agriculture and the products with seasonal packaging or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2013 food donation highlights surplus ingredients. Read more about This initiative encourages reduction of In 2013, we donated more than 14,500 metric tons of surplus food to U.S. charitable our work with food cooperatives and food waste, recovery of wholesome food organizations – feeding hundreds of thousands of people rather than recycling the food food shelves around the world in the for human consumption and recycling (such as using it for animal feed) or sending food waste to landfills. Examples include: Community section of this report. discarded foods for other uses, such n 6  40,800 cases of Yoplait® products n 2  50,400 cases of Big G Collaboration: We help address food as animal feed, compost, or energy n 5  92,800 cases of dry meals cereal products waste through industry collaboration. In generation. We also participate in the U.S. Food Waste Reduction Alliance. and frozen foods n I n total, more than US$40 million June 2013, General Mills was named a EN22, EN27 n 4  48,000 cases of snacks products worth of product donated to founding partner of the U.S. Food Waste Feeding America food banks 1E Reducing transportation fuel usage Improving transportation efficiency Approach: We work with our By using trucks with lighter-weight cabs, regionally sourcing products from General Progress suppliers, co-packers, transportation we were able to place additional pallets Mills’ facilities rather than shipping them providers and customers to reduce on each truckload. These changes, long distances. We also improved logistics U.S. GOAL: 35 percent the environmental impact of shipping combined with greater fuel efficiency, planning to fill trucks more completely and reduction in fuel usage rate our products around the world. helped us save US$27.2 million in squeezed out inefficiencies by using the by 2015 (2009 baseline) 2013 as part of this CI initiative. same carrier for inbound and outbound Transportation mode: In 2013, we continued to improve transportation Logistics planning: Working with supply freight, thereby reducing empty trucks REDUCTION: 8 percent decrease efficiency by shifting loads from trucks to planning teams in each of our divisions, on the road. For example, our facility in in fuel use per metric ton of rail and optimizing trailer space and weight. we reduced our total delivered costs by Irapuato, Mexico, reduced empty miles product for U.S. outbound product by shipping finished products using the transport from 2012 to 2013 (24 percent reduction from 2009) U.S. transportation fuel use reduction, 2009 – 2013 Fuel use per metric ton product, 2009 = 100% EFFICIENCY: Logistical 100% improvements primarily due Fuel efficiency 95% to increases in fuel efficiency strategies 90% and use of modal shift (shifting n O  ptimizing modes of 85% loads to transport modes 80% transportation with less impact, such as 75% n I mproving logistics planning 70% from truck to rail or ship) GOAL n C  ollaborating with suppliers 65% to streamline shipments 60% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Load consolidation boosts transport efficiency in Europe In Europe, we have consolidated our heavier canned Green Giant vegetables produced in France with our lighter Nature Valley bars and Old El Paso Mexican meal kits made in Spain. This change allows us to pack sea-going containers more efficiently for transport to the U.K. and Ireland, which saves 150,000 road miles of truck transport annually. r We use a combination of different transportation modes to deliver products most efficiently. same temperature-controlled vehicles v We improved the that bring ingredients to the facility. packaging used to Supplier collaboration: We collaborate ship Old El Paso taco spice mix to retailers with our suppliers to reduce transportation in Nordic markets. impact. For example, in Europe we reduced unnecessary truck transport by relying on our supplier to package step). As a result, deliveries of the spice We also improved our packaging, making our Old El Paso taco mix directly from our supplier in the it possible to increase the number of spice mix (eliminating Netherlands to our warehouses in Norway product cases per pallet from 144 to 180. a separate co-packing and Sweden – using more energy-efficient EN18, EN29 shipping vessels on waterways – reduced w Old El Paso taco spice mix the number of trucks by 50, taking 300 sold in Nordic markets kilometers of truck transport off the road. Innovation: Experimenting with trucks powered by compressed natural gas In June 2013, General Mills began a pilot program using 18 new semitrucks powered by compressed natural gas to transport products to some U.S. retail customers. The trucks are expected to travel 1 million miles per year and reduce diesel consumption by 600,000 liters annually. While these trucks represent less than 1 percent of our truck capacity, we are evaluating the potential scalability of this technology to reduce emissions for lighter loads by replacing diesel fuel with cleaner-burning natural gas. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1F Reducing packaging footprint Making progress toward our packaging improvement goal Progress Packaging weight to increase consumer awareness about packaging recyclability. In addition to REVISED GOAL: 60 percent Innovation is key to reducing the packaging-to-product ratio across our 8-count Yoplait® fridgepacks sold at Packaging Metric U.S. retailers, our Green Giant frozen portfolio. In Arras, France, for example, We use four key indicators to global packaging volume improved vegetables and Chex Mix packages also assess packaging improvement: by 2015 (initial 40 percent we reduced the weight of all of our 473 now contain How2Recycle labels. goal exceeded in 2012) milliliter (ml) and 500 ml Häagen-Dazs PACKAGING WEIGHT – reducing containers by 10 percent as of August the package-to-product ratio IMPROVEMENT: 59 percent 2013. By reducing carton thickness, we RECYCLED CONTENT – increasing improved through 2013 are removing more than 80 metric tons recycled content and recyclability (2009 baseline) from the packaging waste RENEWABLE CONTENT – increasing stream in Europe. renewable and compostable content VOLUME: 90+ percent packaging volume improved by cereal r We continue adding How2Recycle TRUCKLOAD EFFICIENCY – fitting v We reduced the thickness of businesses labeling to our U.S. product packaging. more product onto trucks for transport Häagen-Dazs packaging in Europe. LABELING: Expanded Recycled content Renewable content We work to reduce our impact across all indicators, ensuring that reductions in one How2Recycle labeling to additional brands and recyclability Innovation: We continue to identify viable replacements for nonrenewable area do not cause increases in another. Recycled content: Recycled content materials in our packaging. For example, Approach: Our internal Packaging Metric represents approximately half the our Cascadian Farm Cinnamon Crunch v Our Cascadian Farm organic weight of the packaging we use foods business partnered with indicators measure our progress as we cereal across the U.S. is now packaged in sustainable packaging suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of for our U.S. products. We continue an inner bag made from up to 57 percent develop a cereal box liner made from our packaging. The Packaging Metric pursuing opportunities to increase certified plant-based material. We renewable sources. The packaging indicators assess: packaging weight; our use of recycled materials while believe this innovative packaging is innovation was introduced across maintaining product quality and safety. the U.S. in September 2013 to recycled content and recyclability; the first of its kind in the cereal category. help reduce the environmental renewable and compostable Recyclability: We are adding How2Recycle We plan to expand use of this renewable impact of this product. content; and truckload efficiency. labels on more of our U.S. retail products packaging to other products in 2014. Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. “General Mills was one of the first companies to step up with support for the How2Recycle Label Program. That support has helped us grow participation and understanding of specific aspects of packaging and recyclability labeling. The Yoplait multipack label was the first package to use all three of the main label types (Widely Recycled, Check Locally – Limited Recycling, and Not Yet Recycled) clearly showing the value of transparent and clear communication with consumers.” – Anne Bedarf, Senior Manager, GreenBlue’s Sustainable Packaging Coalition GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY General Mills received the 2013 Supplier Leadership Award for Sustainability from Supermarket News. The award announcement highlighted the packaging, made partially from renewable materials, that was debuted with Cascadian Farm Cinnamon Crunch cereal. Learn more Truck loading efficiency one-time investment to change pallet configurations, we saved US$192,000 in We improve the efficiency of transporting r Redesigned pallets hold more cans of r Optimized containers ship refrigerated logistics annually through optimization Pillsbury biscuit dough. cookies more efficiently. our products by introducing packaging of truck transportation plus an additional innovations that enable us to fit more US$780,000 savings from reducing the optimizing the containers used to ship our Ready-to-Bake!, Ready-to-Bake! Simply… products into each container and shipment. amount of unsalable products damaged our Ready-to-Bake! and Ready-to-Bake! and Ready-to-Bake! Shape cookies, we are Pallet configuration: For example, we during shipping. Preventing damage during Simply… products in the U.S. and Canada. saving US$235,000 in logistics per year. redesigned our Pillsbury biscuit dough shipping also saves the resources and Reducing the case height by 7 percent and EN2 can pallets in 2013 to increase the materials used in making the product. board thickness by 15 percent generated number of cans per pallet. The redesigned Case dimensions: Our logistics, operations US$165,000 and more than 125 metric pallets also offer better protection and R&D teams worked cross-functionally tons in material savings annually. By during shipping, thereby reducing waste to reduce the environmental impact reconfiguring the shipping pallets and from damaged products. Through a of our Pillsbury refrigerated cookies by adding more cases to each cube containing 2 Increase sustainability of ingredients 2A Improving sustainability of raw materials and watersheds Promoting sustainable practices, purchasing sustainable ingredients and protecting natural resources Approach: Our efforts to reduce our Strategy: Our strategies include Progress: In 2013, we committed to environmental footprint extend beyond increasing the sustainability of the sourcing sustainably our 10 priority LEARN MORE in the Sourcing our own operations to the sourcing of ingredients we use in our products, ingredients by 2020, representing section of this report. our raw materials. Because agriculture is collaborating to improve global more than 50 percent of our annual resource intensive, we focus on improving water stewardship, and advancing raw material purchases. our sustainable sourcing practices. socially responsible supply chains. EN2 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 SOURCING OUR GOAL is to sustainably source the raw materials we use in our products. We are committed to sustainably sourcing 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020 – representing more than 50 percent of our annual raw material purchases. We partner with multi-stakeholder groups to advance sustainable sourcing frameworks, then pilot scalable solutions and share our findings so others can refine their efforts. At the same time, we are improving water stewardship and reinforcing socially responsible practices across our extended supply chain. Our sustainability mission is to Our strategies conserve and protect the natural Increase Collaborate Advance resources and communities upon sustainability to improve socially which our business depends. of ingredients global water responsible stewardship supply chains HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Overview As part of General Mills’ long-term sustainable sourcing strategy, we announced in September 2013 our commitment to sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020. These ingredients represent 50 percent of General Mills’ total raw material purchases. Through our focus on sustainable sourcing, we are tackling the areas of greatest environmental impact in our supply chain. Nearly two-thirds of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 99 percent of water use occurs outside General Mills’ operations, primarily in agriculture. Because our sustainable sourcing strategy focuses on creating economic, environmental and social value, we are working with smallholder farmers in developing economies and larger-scale growers in developed economies to address challenges and pursue opportunities unique to each growing region. We also are advancing responsible sourcing practices across our supply chains to respect human rights and protect animal welfare. Sustainable sourcing commitment These ingredients 100% sustainably sourced by 2020 (palm oil by 2015). See pages 51-61 for full details. Developing world Developed world Vanilla Cocoa Oats U.S. wheat U.S. sugar beets WATCH VIDEO r Watch this video to learn more about our 10x20 commitment to sustainably source our 10 priority ingredients by 2020. Palm oil Sugarcane Dry milled corn Dairy (fluid milk) Fiber packaging Performance dashboard PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Strategy Transformation Monitoring formation & evaluation SUGARCANE DAIRY VANILLA OATS FIBER PACKAGING CORN COCOA SUGAR WHEAT PALM OIL BEETS HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Our approach: plan & execute Improving the environmental, economic and social impacts of sustainable sourcing Our strategies and actions We partner with industry groups and growers to move the raw material supply chain toward more sustainable solutions using a range of approaches, including certification, verification, continuous Increase sustainability 1 improvement and origin-direct investment. Our approach is tailored for each ingredient and p. 51 geography, whether we are working with smallholder farmers in developing economies or commodity agriculture in developed economies. Our efforts include measuring and managing the use of of ingredients water and energy throughout our supply chain; helping improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and their communities through our creating shared value strategy; and advancing A P  romoting sustainable practices with smallholder responsible sourcing practices by respecting human rights and protecting animal welfare. farmers in developing economies We have been working with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) since 2010 to integrate sustainability B  ncouraging sustainable agricultural practices E in developed economies into General Mills’ supply chain, including conducting a supply risk analysis of our agricultural sourcing and water risk assessment. In addition to WWF, General Mills partners with a range C E  xtending sustainability efforts beyond of industry groups, including Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture and priority raw materials Bonsucro as well as nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) like The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and the international humanitarian organization CARE to improve sustainability. Collaborate to improve 2 p. 64 General Mills follows a four-step sustainable sourcing model – assessment, strategy formation, transformation and monitoring/evaluation – to improve the sustainability global water stewardship of the raw materials we use to make our products. We also apply this four-step process to manage the impact of water usage across our supply chain. A Fostering and engaging in watershed stewardship plans 1. Assessment: In 2011, General Mills worked with WWF to complete a comprehensive Advance socially 3 supply risk analysis of all the agricultural raw materials the company buys worldwide. p. 66 This assessment prioritized raw materials that were analyzed against dozens of potential risk categories such as human rights, deforestation, economic sustainability, responsible supply chains fertilizer (nitrogen) use, GHG emissions, soil loss, water quality and water use. In addition, we worked with the Rainforest Alliance to assess fiber sourcing. A Respecting human rights in our supply chains B Protecting animal welfare “By understanding their environmental risks, prioritizing where the company can have the greatest impact and committing to sustainable sourcing, General Mills can have a significant impact. The company has an opportunity to take a leading role in the move toward global sustainable agriculture, while addressing critical issues like ecosystem health and water scarcity.” – Dave McLaughlin, Vice President of Agriculture, World Wildlife Fund GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2. Strategy formation: We identified the President and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) and occurs through the annual sustainability update to the 10 priority raw materials where we can have the the Director of Sourcing Sustainability, who reports to Public Responsibility Committee. The General Mills greatest impact from a sourcing standpoint and are the CSO and the Vice President and Chief Purchasing Director of Sourcing Sustainability plays a leadership pursuing strategies for sustainably sourcing these Officer. The CSO reports into the Senior Vice President role in key industry initiatives, including serving on the materials: palm oil, fiber packaging, wheat, oats, sugar of Supply Chain and the Senior Vice President of External board of Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable beets, vanilla, cocoa, dairy, corn and sugarcane. Relations. In addition to the aforementioned leaders, Agriculture. Additionally, members of the General Mills our Sustainability Governance Committee includes: the sustainable sourcing team participate in other initiatives, Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Executive such as the Sustainability Council of the Innovation Center 3. Transformation: We achieve the greatest Vice President of Innovation, Technology and Quality; for U.S. Dairy, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil sustainability impact by working with industry Executive Vice President of U.S. Retail Operations; Senior (RSPO), Bonsucro and the Sustainability Consortium. partners and NGOs across the supply chain to Vice President, Sales and Channel Development; and devise and test new solutions. We pilot projects and Executive Vice President, International. Board oversight communicate the results so we – and others in the industry – can continue to refine our approach. “Water is the silent currency that drives our economy – from energy production, to urban 4. Monitoring and evaluation: Our efforts water supplies, to food production. Our management of this finite resource is critical to monitor and evaluate our progress are ongoing. to sustaining future growth and a healthy planet. General Mills’ strong leadership and When necessary, we involve third-party auditors to help measure and analyze our results. commitment to enhancing the sustainability of its supply chains is a model for corporate water stewardship and an essential ingredient to securing a sustainable future for our Leadership and governance: Within General Mills, farmers, communities, economy, and the ecosystems on which we all depend.” responsibility for sustainable sourcing lies with the Vice – Adam Freed, Director, Global Securing Water Program, The Nature Conservancy 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 1A Promoting sustainable practices with “Sahanala, a social enterprise working with local farmers, is thrilled to participate in the endeavor smallholder farmers in developing economies with General Mills and communities in Belambo, Increasing sustainability and improving livelihoods through origin-direct investment Madagascar. The project brings a sense of ownership at the local level and the gratification to contribute In developing economies, we work with smallholder the incomes of smallholder farmers and raising living farmers, NGOs and industry partners to pursue standards in their communities. We continually look for to the success of General Mills’ sustainable sustainable development through our creating shared opportunities to create economic, environmental and development mission.” value strategy. Using this model, we are helping ensure social value with external partners, including suppliers. – Serge Rajaobelina, Executive Secretary, NGO Fanamby sustainable sourcing of raw materials while boosting GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Vanilla earn enough from the crop to feed their families. Vanilla grows under the forest the primary source for high-quality vanilla used in Häagen-Dazs ice cream. In the The majority of the vanilla we purchase is grown and cured in Madagascar’s Sava region. canopy, so maintaining vanilla as a viable village of Belambo, located in Madagascar’s COMMITMENT: General Mills crop helps prevent deforestation. Sava region, we support Fanamby’s training will source 100 percent of our Strategy: In Madagascar, we are working of 325 farming families benefiting more vanilla by 2020 through originwith vanilla supplier Virginia Dare, the than 1,900 people. This farmer co-op direct investment, improving the international humanitarian organization represents approximately 10 percent incomes of smallholder farmers CARE and Madagascar-based NGO of General Mills’ vanilla purchases. and the quality of ingredients. 1 Fanamby to improve farmer incomes as Progress: Launched in February 2013, well as the quantity, quality and traceability the program includes training farmers Challenges: The primary risk to the world’s 1 Madagascar of vanilla. Madagascar is the world’s to expand their skills – and incomes – by long-term supply of vanilla is economic: leading producer of vanilla, responsible for learning to cure the vanilla they grow. The the ability of smallholder farmers to more than 80 percent of production, and farmers in Belambo village harvested 35 tons of vanilla in 2013, resulting in more than 5 tons of high-quality cured vanilla beans. Vanilla curing expertise helps farmers significantly increase their earnings. Farmers are paid for their crop using a mobile phone app, providing security and accessibility in a region without formal banking infrastructure. We are expanding our work in Belambo to create a vanilla “center of excellence” that can serve additional farmers in the northern section of r Vanilla grows in the shade of the forest r Malagasy farmers in Belambo village significantly increase their incomes by curing vanilla beans w High-quality vanilla is used canopy. This Malagasy farmer inspects green (rather than selling uncured green beans). in Häagen-Dazs ice cream. vanilla beans. Employee engagement: reaching out across the globe Schoolchildren in Belambo, Madagascar, gathered to celebrate the arrival of books and school supplies collected by employees from the Häagen-Dazs plant in Arras, France, who organized a book drive and obtained supplies from a local supplier. Three pallets of materials were delivered to the Belambo school in October 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY purchased 40 tons of rice delivered to the village in September 2013 so local families have access to rice during the lean season. Farmers use their premium payments from cured vanilla to purchase 10 years General Mills has been rice at lower prices throughout the year. working with smallholder Genome research: We also support corn farmers in northeastern research to improve the disease resistance China for 10 years to of vanilla crops. With funding from General sustainably source dryMills, researchers at the University of milled corn used to make California, Davis, are mapping the vanilla genome and are now analyzing the Bugles snacks. This effort is vanilla plant’s responses to environmental an example of our creating stress, such as heat and drought, shared value strategy, r Now that Belambo village has its own rice storage warehouse, farmers can purchase rice at lower defenses against pathogens, and traits which has improved farmer prices throughout the year, helping improve food security. The General Mills Foundation provided that determine fruit quality and aroma. incomes and raised living funding for the building and 40 tons of rice. Based on those insights, researchers are standards in the community. the 200-mile-long Sava region. We also economic impact to smallholder farmers using traditional plant breeding methods EC9, SO1, FP4 will be adding a second site to serve vanilla and the community, and improvements to develop disease-resistant, highergrowers in southern Sava. Combined, in the yield and quality of vanilla beans. yielding, premium-quality vanilla varieties these two sites will have the capacity General Mills funded this program in that can deliver a sustainable source to meet General Mills’ vanilla sourcing fiscal 2013; we anticipate continuing to of natural vanilla and help improve the needs, positioning us to meet our vanilla support the program going forward. livelihoods of smallholder farmers. sourcing commitment prior to 2020. We Food security: The General Mills EN14, HR6, SO1, FP1, FP4 are working with CARE and Fanamby to Foundation also supports a CARE-led establish a standardized scorecard for effort to improve food security in Belambo, measuring progress and use in replicating including building a rice storage warehouse the program. The scorecard includes the for the community. The Foundation “Through the Vanilla Sustainability Project with General Mills, we are mapping the vanilla genome and exploring how rising temperatures affect reproductive development of the vanilla plant and the spread of vanilla pests and fungal pathogens, such as Fusarium root rot disease. This knowledge is crucial for breeding a better, stronger, more diseaseresistant vanilla plant for farmers in Madagascar and worldwide.” – Sharman O’Neill, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Cocoa deforestation. Improving cocoa yields is key to improving farmer livelihoods and food More than 70 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. security. Educating families about keeping COMMITMENT: General Mills children in school rather than working on will source 100 percent of our cocoa farms also is essential to improving cocoa by 2020 through originlife in cocoa farming communities. direct investment, improving the 1 incomes of smallholder farmers Strategy: General Mills is partnering with and the quality of ingredients. the suppliers from whom we source our 2 chocolate ingredients to help improve r By improving harvest practices, farmers get the sustainability of cocoa production. more, better-quality cocoa that earns them a Challenges: As with vanilla, the primary 1 Côte d’Ivoire higher price. risk to the world’s long-term supply of Progress: In Ghana, West Africa, we 2 Ghana are working with cocoa supplier Cargill In November 2013, we began sourcing cocoa also is economic: the ability of and CARE to form village co-ops in 20 all of the cocoa for our Häagen-Dazs process. General Mills recognizes that smallholder farmers to earn enough from communities as part of a three-year operations in France from a sustainable there are systemic labor issues in the cocoa the crop to feed their families. Cocoa grows commitment. The goal is to help improve supply program managed by Barry supply chain, and we understand that it will under the forest canopy, so maintaining the lives of smallholder farmers as well Callebaut. The program strengthens farmer take industrywide collaboration to make cocoa as a viable crop also helps prevent as the quality and sustainability of the cooperatives and trains farmers to increase improvements. General Mills is a member cocoa they grow. Through the program, productivity, manage pests and diseases, of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), local agronomists work with farmers to and improve the quality of their cocoa. The which encourages socially, economically increase yields sustainably. The program program also educates farmers about the and environmentally responsible and also provides grants to improve education importance of biodiversity and sound labor sustainable cocoa farming reaching more and health in these communities. We practices, including child labor issues. In than 540,000 cocoa farmers in Africa, Asia are working with CARE to develop a addition, the program may help improve and the Americas. WCF builds partnerships scorecard for consistently measuring access to education, health care and clean with cocoa farmers, governments and the economic impact to smallholder water in cocoa farming communities. environmental organizations; supports farmers, improvements in the quality Collaboration: Cocoa and applies research that improves crop of cocoa and other outcomes. farming is an intensive yield and quality; and supports training r In October 2013, leaders from General Mills’ In Côte d’Ivoire, West Africa, we are and education for cocoa farming families. Baking Products Division and sustainable sourcing teams visited co-ops of smallholder w Cocoa from West Africa is EN14, HR6, HR7, SO1, FP1, FP4 partnering with cocoa supplier Barry cocoa farmers to learn about and develop used in Betty Crocker brownies Callebaut to help smallholder farmers grow and other General Mills ongoing support for cocoa sustainability work in West Africa. cocoa more sustainably, increase yields, products. and improve their incomes and livelihoods. “To ensure a sustainable supply of high-quality cocoa, you have to understand the lives of the farmers, their families and the practical challenges they face. We are investing in meaningful solutions to improve cocoa farmers’ livelihoods and productivity.” – Ann Simonds, General Mills Senior Vice President and President, Baking Products Division GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Palm oil Most of the palm oil we purchase comes from Malaysia and Brazil. COMMITMENT: General Mills will source 100 percent of our palm oil from responsible and sustainable sources by 2015. 1 2 2 Challenges: The world’s increasing demand for palm oil has led to the expansion of palm plantations. Palm oil expansion 1 Malaysia is contributing to deforestation of the 2 Brazil world’s rainforests. This deforestation is having a negative impact on biodiversity, Collaboration: Although General Mills endangered species and the broader is a relatively minor user of palm oil, we r Palm fruit, harvested in bunches from palm trees, is then processed to make palm oil. We continue environment. Deforestation is a major believe our purchasing practices can help converting our palm oil supply to sustainable sources. contributor to global climate change, move the industry forward on this issue. accounting for an estimated 15 percent potential to improve farmer livelihoods n G reater clarity about supplier General Mills supports RSPO principles of global greenhouse gas emissions. and encourage sustainable farming expectations for no palm development and efforts to certify sustainable palm oil practices while protecting biodiversity. on high conservation value landscapes, production, such as the RSPO scorecard. Despite being a highly productive crop high carbon stock forests, or peat We purchase palm oil from RSPO members – that can offer a path out of poverty, Strategy: General Mills is committed lands regardless of depth. with a preference for RSPO-certified unsustainable palm oil production to sourcing palm oil in a socially and sustainable palm oil. We are committed practices can also threaten the rights environmentally responsible manner. We n S uppliers to provide traceability to to sourcing palm oil in a socially and of indigenous peoples. Development continue converting our palm oil supply to the extraction mill and validate their environmentally responsible manner. approaches that include economic sustainable sources in order to reinforce the sources of fresh fruit bunches. EN12, EN26, FP1, FP2 opportunities for smallholder farmers development of certified sustainable palm Progress: We are on track to meet our around palm refineries have the oil production. Our initial commitment 2015 commitment and expect to have our in 2010 included compliance with our palm oil 75 percent sustainably sourced Supplier Code of Conduct as well as by the end of calendar 2014. In 2013, prevention and resolution of social and/or 46 percent of our palm oil was sourced land conflicts consistent with the principle through mass balance purchases. General of free, prior and informed consent. Mills is helping lead the industry toward We recognize and are very concerned greater sustainability by moving with our about the ongoing deforestation in palm supplier base toward a more traceable growing regions. To ensure our purchases supply. We are also driving demand do not contribute to deforestation of the for mass balance physical purchases world’s rainforests, we updated our initial of palm oil rather than relying primarily 2010 commitment in our palm oil policy on the use of green palm certificates. during 2014. Key changes include: GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Sugarcane More than 80 percent of the sugarcane we purchase comes from refineries in North America. COMMITMENT: General Mills will source 100 percent of our sugarcane by 2020 from responsible and 3 sustainable sources. 2 Challenges: Agricultural development 1 2 in Brazil during the last decade has significantly changed the landscape of sugarcane. Approximately two-thirds of 1 Brazil all global sugarcane exports now come 2 Mexico from Brazil. Large-scale operations with 3 United States r General Mills is converting our sugarcane supply to responsible and sustainable sources focused on increased mechanization are becoming improving the environmental, social and economic impacts of sugarcane production and processing. common. Sugarcane is also grown in many other parts of the world, mainly Progress: Now we are working with our on legal compliance; biodiversity and in tropical climates. Poor labor practices, suppliers to identify sugarcane origin ecosystem impacts; human rights; and the including the risk of child labor, persist. Strategy: In June 2013, we joined Bonsucro, locations in our supply chain and the risks and opportunities associated with those production and processing of sugarcane. 2/3 Collaboration: General Mills also continues an international organization focused on points of origin. We expect to continue this to evaluate opportunities for advancing improving the environmental, social and process throughout 2014. Then we will use industrywide initiatives for sustainable that information to determine strategies for economic sustainability of sugarcane sugarcane, including improving production Two-thirds of the world’s encouraging supplier use of the Bonsucro production and processing, including methods and conserving natural resources. sugarcane is grown in Brazil. certification using the Bonsucro standard. production standard. This standard focuses EN26, HR6, SO1 Raising artichoke farmer incomes in Peru We are applying our creating shared value strategy in Peru to help nearly 100 smallholder artichoke farmers increase yields and improve profitability. General Mills has committed US$1.1 million as part of a four-year collaboration with supplier AgroMantaro and CARE to provide farmers with training on crop management and post-harvest practices. The program also includes microloans to purchase artichoke shoots and seeds; guidance about forming farmer cooperatives; and financial planning education and information about formulating business plans. The farmers live in Peru’s central region typically known for cultivating crops such as potatoes and grains, which have lower income potential than artichokes. Depending on how much land the farmers devote to artichokes, families can increase their incomes by an average of 36 percent annually. General Mills sources highquality artichokes destined for Green Giant in France and throughout Europe from farmers in Peru’s Sierra region. SO1, FP4 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1B Encouraging sustainable agricultural practices in developed economies Working with growers to increase sustainability of North American row crops We are collaborating with industry groups, the Field to Market framework for our approach to include the entire crop partnering with progressive farmers our suppliers and North American growers gathering data about how their farming rotation in each growing area. This across our key growing regions. to increase the sustainability of row crops, practices influence natural resources approach enables measurement of the Networks: We are leveraging existing including these General Mills’ priority and outcomes on their farms, including same fields each year as farmers rotate networks of local farm advisors, ingredients: oats, wheat, sugar beets and efficient land use, soil conservation, water crops, such as from wheat to barley to such as Farmers Edge in Canada, to corn. We are increasing sustainability use, energy use and GHG emissions. sugar beets to potatoes. We are working help boost farmer participation. by reducing the environmental impact We are developing a similar partnership with farmers and other industry leaders of agriculture through continuous with Serecon in Canada. Based on to include rotational crops that are not Framework: We are using the Field improvement, demonstrated by our experience working with farmers part of our focus on priority ingredients to Market framework and similar measuring year-on-year improvements conducting Field to Market pilot studies for General Mills products, including approaches with the following priority raw compared to baseline data. In the U.S., we since 2010, we are refining our go-forward lentils, peas, canola and potatoes. materials: oats, wheat and sugar beets. are partnering with Field to Market: The approach using the following insights. Scale: To expand the sustainability Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture and Growing regions: Rather than focusing impact of this approach, we are our suppliers to help growers leverage on a single crop, we are now expanding focusing on scaling our activities by Calculating environmental impact Using Field to Market tools, farmers can similar growing conditions) and statewide evaluate their land use, soil conservation, results. This sample scorecard documenting Idaho Spring Wheat Program advantage over district & state average soil carbon, energy use, GHG emissions the Idaho Spring Wheat Program covers LAND SOIL SOIL ENERGY GHG IRRIGATION USE CONSERVATION CARBON USE EMISSIONS WATER USE and use of irrigated water. Field to Market a three-year period (2010-2012). acres/bu scorecards, like the example pictured here, tons/bu SCI BTU/bu lbs CO2eq/bu ac-in/bu capture metrics across six key growing COMPARED COMPARED dimensions. The scorecard enables +12% +1% +8% +9% -2% +49% benchmark comparisons with district and TO STATE TO DISTRICT state averages, so farmers can evaluate -46% -38% their results along with data from other +29% +22% +8% +25% Note: District benchmarks reflect irrigated wheat for southeast Idaho, whereas state benchmarks growers in the same district (who share represent the average of dryland and irrigated wheat for Idaho. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY The majority of the oats we purchase are Increasing crop grown in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Canada. sustainability 1 Oats 2 U.S. wheat 2 U.S. sugar beets 1 Manitoba, Canada r General Mills is partnering with industry groups, such as Field to Market, and farmers to increase sustainability in four key North American growing regions: 2 Saskatchewan, Canada the Snake River Valley in Idaho; the Red River Valley in North Dakota and Minnesota; the Northern Plains; and western Canada (Manitoba and Saskatchewan). investment, General Mills has convened have a fibrous root system that reduces soil Progress: This pilot is the result of Oats erosion, improves the soil’s organic matter collaboration with several partners, a public-private collaborative effort to advance innovation in oat genetics. We are and increases water absorption, allowing including Serecon, Pulse Canada, the working with the North American Millers’ COMMITMENT: General Mills will oat growers to rely primarily on rainfall. Canadian Canola Growers Association, Association (NAMA) to share knowledge source 100 percent of our oats Oats also are naturally disease resistant, CropLife and Ducks Unlimited. We also are from a collaborative oat genetics program by 2020 from growing regions reducing the need to apply fungicides. pursuing an agreement with a Canadian General Mills funded with the U.S. that demonstrate continuous software company to help expand the Strategy: In Canada’s Manitoba and Department of Agriculture (USDA) to improvement against industryamount of sustainability data coming into Saskatchewan growing regions, we help U.S. and Canadian public sector oat based environmental metrics. the project. General Mills is one of the have launched the Western Canada breeders be more competitive – and make Sustainability Pilot for oats and other largest North American buyers of oats. growing oats more attractive to farmers. Challenges: The supply of oats has steadily rotational crops, including wheat, Collaboration: This sustainable oats pilot Performance: We also are partnering with declined over the past decades because canola and pulses (peas and lentils). complements developments in oat genetics the North Carolina Research Campus farmers earn greater profits growing research. Through our leadership and (NCRC) to further expand knowledge other, more resource-intensive crops. We about oat genetics and improve the are working to improve the profitability nutritional qualities of oats. We are and sustainability of oat production. developing better performing non-GMO Sustainability benefits: Oats are an oat varieties with higher yields, improved environmentally friendly crop requiring disease resistance and higher levels less irrigation, fertilizer, chemicals and of soluble fiber. Our research includes other inputs to grow – making oats more many oat varieties in various stages of sustainable compared development. During 2013 and 2014, we with other row crops. Oats are working to demonstrate proof of seed performance and increasing the quantity of v Oats are packed with seed for the three most advanced varieties nutritional value, including beta glucan, a source of to ensure that enough seeds will be ready soluble fiber. r We are working with farmers to increase the sustainability of oats and supporting oat genetics for the 2015 growing season in Canada. research to improve nutrition and increase yields with additional non-GMO varieties. EN26 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Idaho wheat farmers in 2010 as part of a Wheat three-year pilot project. During that time, While the majority of the wheat we purchase comes from North America, approximately 20 local growers collected we also source wheat from Argentina, COMMITMENT: General Mills information to establish baseline data Brazil, France and Australia. will source 100 percent of our for 50,000 acres of wheat during the U.S. wheat by 2020 from growing 2010, 2011 and 2012 growing seasons. 4 regions that demonstrate 1 Progress: We expanded the base in 2013 continuous improvement using to include more farmers and all rotation the Field to Market framework or crops in the Snake River growing region, comparable environmental metrics. 3 2 including potatoes, barley and sugar beets, 5 r We work with farmers in key growing regions 2 through collaboration with other food and to improve the sustainability of U.S. wheat. Challenges: Sustainability challenges in beverage companies. Analysis of the 2013 1 North America the wheat supply chain include the need data compared to the baseline helped In addition to developing a framework 2 Argentina for third-party verification, we plan to 3 Brazil to reduce GHG emissions and water measure sustainability improvements so 4 France usage while increasing biodiversity. farmers can make decisions that will help expand this approach to other growing 5 Australia them further increase sustainability and areas across the northern U.S. plains and Strategy: General Mills is a large buyer of profitability for the coming year. Expanding begin to meet some customers’ requests U.S. wheat; the Snake River growing region from a single crop to the entire crop for sustainable wheat starting in 2014. in eastern Idaho represents 10 percent of rotation allows us to pursue sustainable EN18, EN26 General Mills’ total wheat purchases. We verification of the entire sourcing region. began partnering with Field to Market and Sugar beets Strategy: In the Red River Valley of Minnesota and North Dakota – the We source sugar beets in the U.S. primarily from Minnesota and North Dakota. largest sugar beet growing region in COMMITMENT: General Mills the U.S. – we are working with Field to will source 100 percent of our Market, Syngenta, American Crystal 1 U.S. beet sugar by 2020 from Sugar and local growers to implement a growing regions that demonstrate 2 sustainability pilot similar to the Idaho continuous improvement using wheat and Canadian oats pilot programs. the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. Progress: Launched in the summer of 2013, we are now building the base of participating sugar beet r Together with industry groups and farmers, 1 Minnesota Challenges: Sustainability challenges in the we are improving the sustainability of growing 2 North Dakota farmers and planning to replicate sugar beet supply chain are similar to those sugar beets. the program in other geographies. for growing wheat, including the need to EN18, EN26 reduce GHG emissions and soil loss. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Corn to reduce GHG emissions and nutrient utilization while increasing biodiversity. The majority of the dry-milled corn we purchase comes from the U.S. states Strategy: General Mills’ use of dry-milled of Illinois and Indiana. COMMITMENT: General Mills will source 100 percent of our corn is relatively small compared to dry-milled corn by 2020 from our use of other raw materials, such as 1 growing regions that demonstrate wheat and oats, and compared to the continuous improvement using amount of corn used by other food and 2 the Field to Market framework or beverage companies. For that reason, comparable environmental metrics. we support the Field to Market corn pilots led by other industry partners r General Mills supports efforts to increase to advance sustainable sourcing. sustainability of the dry-milled corn we use in Challenges: Sustainability challenges in 1 Illinois EN18, EN26 our products. the corn supply chain include the need 2 Indiana Dairy and continuing through to the General Mills yogurt facility in Reed City, Michigan. in-depth analysis, conducted by the Grignon Experimental Farm, of the GHG Progress: As part of the pilot, which emissions, energy consumption and gross COMMITMENT: General Mills launched in late 2013, milk producers are margins for three farms. This analysis will will purchase 100 percent using Farm Smart online software, and be used to identify actions for reducing of our directly sourced fluid General Mills is using the companion Plant emissions and energy while maintaining milk from producing regions Smart software to collect data and calculate or expanding the farmers’ gross that demonstrate continuous the sustainability impact from farm to margins. This project also was launched improvement as measured by the r We are working with milk producers and production plant. These tools measure collaborating with industry groups to improve the in November 2013 and is on track to Dairy Sustainability Framework the carbon footprint of milk production sustainability of the fluid milk used in General be completed during fiscal 2014, with in the U.S. and other comparable Mills products. and processing as well as animal care. We plans to expand to other farms in 2015. environmental metrics (globally). Häagen-Dazs business. The first project EN18, EN26, FP12 will continue collecting data throughout fiscal 2014, then meet with milk producers includes the French Breeding Institute Challenges: Dairy sustainability The majority of our directly sourced fluid milk to identify opportunities for continuous and a group of more than 30 farmers comes from Michigan, U.S., and from France. challenges include the need to reduce improvement. We are sharing details about who are conducting farm assessments GHG emissions while controlling water this pilot project across the U.S. and the using an online tool named CAP2ER. The usage and improving water quality. The European Union. This effort supports the tool’s quick calculations, based on 15 1 2 industry also is addressing issues of U.S. Dairy Innovation Center’s voluntary field indicators, measure GHG emissions animal well-being, such as dehorning. industrywide goal to reduce the dairy carbon and provide farmers with deeper insight Strategy: General Mills is collaborating footprint by lowering GHG emissions for about their farming practices. Launched 2 with the Michigan Milk Producers fluid milk production by 25 percent by 2020. in November 2013, this pilot is expected Association to pilot the Innovation Center to be completed during fiscal 2014, with In France, we are pursuing similar dairy for U.S. Dairy Sustainability Council plans to expand to other farms in fiscal 1 United States sustainability pilot projects working Framework starting at the producer level 2015. The second pilot project involves 2 France with Ingredia, a dairy supplier for our GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Fiber packaging production, we have conducted an analysis of our fiber packaging supply chain. sources and confirm sustainable sourcing practices. Now we are in the process of COMMITMENT: General Mills Progress: We have determined that investigating fiber sourced from China and Pulp, paper and will complete that assessment in 2014. will source 100 percent of our fiber 99 percent of our supply is considered at low EN26, EN27, FP1 packaging sourcing risk for contributing to global deforestation packaging by 2020 from recycled guidelines material or from virgin wood fiber because the packaging uses either recycled More than 70 percent of the fiber we use in our We are using guidelines developed regions that are known to not materials or virgin fiber that is sourced packaging comes from the United States and by the Consumer Goods Forum in be contributing to deforestation from regions where deforestation is not Canada – areas at low risk for deforestation. conjunction with the Rainforest Alliance (any high-risk regions will be occurring. The remaining 1 percent of our as the foundation of our commitment. independently verified). fiber packaging is sourced from countries 2 Approach considered at high risk for potentially 1 contributing to deforestation. One of those  n Avoid controversial sources Challenges: Deforestation is the of pulp, paper and packaging countries is India, where we primary supply chain risk posed contributing to deforestation. worked with the Rainforest 2 by sourcing fiber for packaging. Alliance to review our fiber  n Verify supply from high-priority Strategy: Using sustainable sourcing countries has low risk of controversial guidelines for fiber, pulp and paper w We use fiber in the 1 United States sources contributing to deforestation. packaging of our products. 2 Canada  n Disclose goals and progress to avoid controversial sources of pulp, paper and Extending sustainability efforts beyond packaging contributing to deforestation 1C in their individual supply chains. priority raw materials Virgin wood fiber sourcing  n Known and compliant sources: Collaborating with suppliers to increase sustainability Sources of virgin wood fiber will be known, free of corruption and compliant Strategy: Our efforts to encourage our suppliers’ GHG emissions, energy sources (learn more in the Environment with applicable legal requirements. supplier sustainability extend beyond our use, water use and waste generation. section of this report). We also recognize 10 priority ingredients. We collaborate sustainability achievements at our biennial  n Verification: Supply from suppliers Progress: We welcome supplier input and sources in high-priority countries with partners across all our supply chains supplier summit. In 2013, for example, to help improve sustainability. Our will be independently verified for to improve the manner in which the raw we awarded one of our suppliers for Cascadian Farm organic foods business, low risk of controversial sources materials we use are grown and produced. their renewable wind energy-powered for example, partnered with sustainable contributing to deforestation. We continue to evaluate emerging facility, which helps reduce General Mills’ packaging suppliers to develop a cereal models for transparently tracking extended environmental footprint. box liner made, in part, from renewable EN26, FP1 Supplier sustainability approach In fiscal 2012, we implemented a Supplier ingredients, packaging and external supply water footprint in our extended supply our 10 priority ingredients. We continue Sustainability Scorecard review, which chain) measured the environmental chain. Since then, we have shifted our to encourage sustainable and responsible included General Mills’ top 100 U.S. impact of these suppliers’ factories, which efforts to the supply chain segments sourcing practices by all our suppliers, as suppliers. That baseline review across represent approximately 7 percent of with the largest environmental and laid out in our Supplier Code of Conduct. four main categories (commodities, the carbon footprint and 8 percent of the social impacts upstream, with a focus on GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Increasing biodiversity and improving pollinator health Bees and other native pollinators The food we produce benefits from what the bees are eating play an essential role in agriculture – their pollination efforts. Honey is and how far they are 35 percent of crop production also an ingredient in some of our foraging, and monitor worldwide depends on pollinators products. We are funding pollinator their honey production. helping plants produce fruits and research to better understand colony One aspect of the research seeds. Each year, bees pollinate collapse disorder in honeybees, focuses on whether native more than 100 U.S. agricultural investing to conserve and expand plant species that produce high crops, valued at nearly US$15 billion. bee habitats, and working with our protein pollen content help improve Unfortunately, up to 60 percent of suppliers to improve the health and honeybee health. Researchers will honeybees disappear every year due effectiveness of bees as pollinators collect data at the site through 2015, to colony collapse disorder (caused for almonds and tomatoes. then share the results with others by fatigue, mites, pesticides and other in the scientific community to help Conducting research: At General Mills’ factors). Keeping reduce the collapse of bee colonies. agricultural research farm in LeSueur, bees healthy Minnesota, we created a pollinator plot Increasing pollinator habitats: Lack is a priority for in November 2011 and worked with of habitat diversity is another factor General Mills. University of Minnesota researchers contributing to declining pollinator in 2012 to place 10 honeybee colonies populations. General Mills has at the site to investigate colony invested US$50,000 to help expand collapse disorder – a major threat to and conserve bee-friendly habitats the honeybee population. We have in partnership with Conservation invested US$160,000 toward this Marketplace. In 2013, 20 acres four-year research effort to better of wildflowers and grasses were understand bee habitats. University planted at 10 sites in Minnesota to of Minnesota and General Mills provide adequate sources of food, r We support research efforts to researchers collect data from the site shelter, clean water and nesting improve the health of honeybees and to monitor bee health, determine sites for native pollinators. other pollinators. How bees contribute to General Mills products Products pollinated by bees Products containing honey Green Giant broccoli Muir Glen Almonds for LÄRABAR Fruit for Yoplait® Fruit for HäagenHoney Nut Nature Valley and cauliflower tomatoes bars and Nature yogurt* Dazs ice cream Cheerios cereal granola bars Valley granola bars *Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Improving bee health: In June native wildflower meadows in Muir Glen tomatoes along with among tomato growers, General to increase the sustainability 2013, we launched a project with areas without trees and planting researchers at the University Mills worked with Xerces to of tomato production. our almond supplier and The flowering groundcover around of California, Davis, and the plant a mile-long hedgerow of EN13, EN14, EN26 Xerces Society for Invertebrate trees. In addition to increasing Xerces Society to improve flowering plants at our Muir Glen Conservation to integrate native habitats, this collaborative pollinator habitat and increase facility in November 2012. We flowering habitats into almond effort includes monitoring tomato yields. Bumblebees are using this demonstration orchards in order to attract more bee abundance and diversity are the most effective native site to educate growers and wild, native pollinators and help while limiting pollinators’ pollinators – and the only type of collect data about the quantity improve the health of bee colonies exposure to pesticides and bees able to pollinate tomatoes. and variety of bumblebees and transported to almond orchards fungicides, resulting in more Unfortunately, bumblebee other pollinators. During the next for crop pollination. The project sustainably grown almonds. numbers are declining due to three years, we will continue to includes installation of flowering habitat loss, disease and pesticide expand our outreach efforts to r Plants pollinated by bumblebees Increasing tomato yields typically produce more tomatoes. General hedgerows as perimeters around use. To improve bumblebee additional growers of organic sustainably: In California, we Mills supports pollinator conservation the orchards, development of habitat and raise awareness and conventional tomatoes efforts to improve bee health. are working with our supplier for “The latest science clearly demonstrates how important flowering habitat on farms is for bees. General Mills has really embraced this concept and is working hard to ensure that pollinator conservation remains a priority for the farmers they work with. General Mills also is serving a pivotal role in helping us understand the factors behind declining bee numbers, and how we can address those factors. As we restore flowering hedgerows and wildflower meadows for bees in California and Minnesota, we see the company’s dedication to the long-term success of those projects.” – Eric Lee-Mader, Assistant Pollinator Program Director, The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation, and Assistant Professor of Extension, University of Minnesota Department of Entomology Utilizing integrated pest management At General Mills, our holistic we share our knowledge about application of pesticides) General Mills has a long history for reducing pesticide use approach to sustainable IPM with peer companies and and GHGs (embedded in the of working closely with farmers across all crops. We continue agriculture includes reducing work with our suppliers to manufacturing of pesticides). around the world to promote to collaborate, educate where environmental impacts minimize the use of pesticides Another example is the support responsible pesticide use. needed and encourage IPM and improving the overall on the crops and ingredients we we provide to farmers in central Our Green Giant brand, for wherever our business takes us. value chain. Integrated pest source. Our suppliers utilize their Mexico through interest-free example, was among the first EN14, EN26 management (IPM) is one own IPM programs. Through loans for drip irrigation, which to use best-in-class pesticide component of our broader focus our work with Field to Market, reduces the use of pesticides, management in the 1940s. on sustainable agriculture. we are helping growers capture improves yields and uses about Beginning in 1980, Green Giant information about pesticide use, 50 percent less water than agronomists implemented a As part of our long-term including energy use (farmer conventional furrow irrigation. series of measures and practices sustainable agriculture strategy, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2 Collaborate to improve global water stewardship 2A Fostering and engaging in watershed stewardship plans Understanding watershed issues and conserving water resources of the water consumed to create and regions, begun in 2012. Those assessments some of our Green Giant vegetables are Water distribute our products occurs outside build on our supply chain risk analysis work grown and packaged, we have completed our direct operations. The watersheds with World Wildlife Fund in 2010. We now our in-depth analysis and are now COMMITMENT: General Mills we access to meet the needs of our have a clear picture of the most at-risk developing strategies for improvement. is committed to improving the facilities also support demands from watersheds within our supply chain and In China, an important growth area for sustainability of water use agriculture, municipalities and other are proceeding with Phase 2: analysis. General Mills where we currently make throughout our supply chain. industries, so improving the health of Wanchai Ferry dumplings, we are assessing these watersheds requires significant PHASE 2 Analysis the Yangtze River watershed area. We Agriculture uses 70 percent of the collaboration. To begin addressing these Working with TNC hydrologists, we are will complete this analysis in 2014. In world’s fresh water. Conserving larger watershed issues, we are partnering conducting deep analyses of our key at-risk the wheat growing region of Idaho, we water resources is crucial for the with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) to growing areas. In Irapuato, Mexico, where are conducting an in-depth review of environment and for our business. formulate and implement our collaborative global water stewardship strategy. In addition to reducing the amount of water we use in our operations (see the Environment section of this report), we PHASE 1 Assessment continue to apply our four-phase approach In partnership with TNC, we have nearly to conserve water used throughout our completed our global water risk assessment supply chain. Approximately 99 percent of all General Mills plants and growing Path to watershed health Assessment Analysis Collaboration Transformation A STUDY OF KEY DEEP-DIVE ESTABLISH IMPLEMENT OPERATION AND ANALYSIS OF MULTI-STAKEHOLDER WATER GROWING REGION AT-RISK GROWING WATER STEWARDSHIP STEWARDSHIP WATERSHEDS AREAS PLAN PROGRAM r We conserve water throughout our supply chain and focus on improving the health of the watersheds we access. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY the Snake River watershed; this detailed analysis also will be completed in 2014. We to include a broader mix of private and public entities in each watershed area. PHASE 4 Transformation will continue to expand the focus of our Transformation efforts include developing deep-dive analyses to include other at-risk PHASE 3 Collaboration a global freshwater stewardship program watersheds over the next several years. with public commitments, public education Our goal is to find the right partners and Outcomes from these deep-dive analyses and advocacy, and funding. We also begin working with others to implement include: understanding the current and will work with others to pursue Alliance changes based on our Phase 2 analyses in projected future health of the watershed; for Water Stewardship certification. high-risk areas in 2014. We anticipate these understanding major uses and contributors EN9, EN26, SO1 collaborative actions to include: on-theto watershed degeneration and creating r We are collaborating to protect the watershed ground conservation initiatives; applying mitigation plans; and sharing findings and that supports our operations in Irapuato, Mexico. water stewardship best practices; and plans with others who use the watershed with other food and beverage companies setting companywide sustainability targets. through educational outreach and advocacy about improving watershed health. Next, activities. We are beginning collaboration we plan to expand those conversations General Mills facilities and growing regions: basin water depletion KEY WATERSHEDS Based on results from TNC’s global water risk assessment and a business materiality analysis, we are developing watershed health strategies in the areas listed below. Geographic location Location type Water risk* Albuquerque, New Mexico, Facility 5.0 United States Beijing, China Facility/Growing region 5.0 (includes Sanhe facility) Los Angeles, California, United States Facility 5.0 (includes Carson and Vernon facilities) Shanghai, China Facility 4.3 San Joaquin Valley, California, Facility/Growing region 4.1 United States (includes Lodi facility) El Bajio, Mexico Facility/Growing region 4.0 Facilities Growing regions (includes Irapuato facility) Central High Plains, United States Growing region 3.1 Snake River Valley, United States Growing region 2.5 r This Water map pinpoints depletion index the watersheds we access around the world for our own operations or through our supply chain, Facilities 1 including agricultural use. Areas of greatest water stress appear in red. * Score based on TNC analysis of water depletion risk (with 5.0 considered at highest 2 Growing regions 3 risk of water stress) 4 5 6 7 “Agriculture is by far the world’s largest consumer of fresh water. As a global food company, General Mills is providing Where 1 = lowest risk and 7 = highest risk leadership by identifying at-risk watersheds and working with farmers to implement the practices that can lead to a sustainable future.” – Rich Rosengren, Senior Advisor, Corporate Engagement, The Nature Conservancy GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3 Advance socially responsible supply chains 3A Respecting human rights in our supply chains Supporting ethical standards and guidelines best practices and promoting efficiency Human rights in the packaged goods supply chain. We also are signatories to the United COMMITMENT: General Mills Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and is committed to advancing are guided by the International Labour responsible sourcing practices Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on across our supply chains. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our Supplier Code of Conduct details our We believe that the protection of human expectations of our suppliers. Together, our rights through responsible sourcing is a Workplace Standards and Ethical Sourcing critical part of our Nourishing Lives mission. Policy and our Supplier Code of Conduct As part of our commitment to respecting set standards for our company, as well human rights in our supply chain, we are as for our suppliers, vendors and other leaders in the AIM-PROGRESS Responsible business partners, regarding the protection r We support safe working conditions throughout our supply chains, from smallholder farmers Sourcing Forum, whose mission is to of human rights. These standards are harvesting crops to employees helping to package finished products for consumers. promote responsible sourcing by sharing based in part on the ILO 1998 Declaration supplier audit program beyond finished audited suppliers in fiscal 2012 are either on Fundamental Principles and Rights at goods producers (including General resolved or are actively being addressed Work. In 2012, we completed our first audit Mills facilities and co-packers) to include in an agreed-upon corrective action plan. cycle of finished food producers, including raw material suppliers in fiscal 2015. our own facilities and co-packers. In Recent clarifications by the U.S. Securities 2013, we began conducting assessments Guided by the 1998 Declaration, General and Exchange Commission state that food of higher-risk categories and supplier Mills respects the principles of collective packaging is not included in the scope of locations. We expect to complete those bargaining and freedom of association, the Dodd-Frank Act (Section 1502) as assessments in fiscal 2014 and begin the and prohibition of discrimination, child it relates to reporting on the geographic process of working with our suppliers to labor and forced labor – including that source of certain “conflict minerals.” develop strategies for mitigating risks. associated with human trafficking. We HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9, FP1 r We promote responsible practices at all levels This approach is similar to our method use a third-party auditing firm to conduct across our supply chains, beginning with the for assessing our priority ingredients. independent audits of our suppliers. All sourcing of raw materials. We are making plans to expand our instances of noncompliance related to our GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3B Protecting animal welfare Raising and treating animals humanely laying and hen housing systems based and suppliers. In the U.S., General Mills Animal welfare on five sustainability factors: worker purchased 2 million eggs sourced from health and safety; environment; animal cage-free hens in 2013. COMMITMENT: General Mills health and well-being; food safety; and Pork production: General Mills supports 100% supports the humane treatment cost/affordability. The findings from this the development of pregnant sow housing of animals in agriculture and research will help inform industry practices alternatives. Though we recognize that will enforce the General Mills safeguarding people, animals and the animal welfare policy covering the development and implementation of In December 2013, environment. In Europe, General Mills pork, milk and egg production, alternative systems may be a long-term we began sourcing continues working with our suppliers to antibiotic use and animal testing. process that could take up to 10 years, we 100 percent freeincrease the volume of eggs available will favor suppliers who provide actionable range eggs for all from free-range hens. In December 2013, plans by 2017 to create traceability and to Häagen-Dazs products Egg production: General Mills is a we began sourcing 100 percent freeend their use of gestation crates within the produced in Europe. member of the Coalition for Sustainable range eggs for all Häagen-Dazs products U.S. pork supply chain. Egg Supply, a U.S.-based industry group produced in Europe. We continue to FP11, FP12 that is evaluating different types of egg source ingredients from local farmers r We support humane treatment of the hens who lay eggs used in our products. r We favor suppliers who use humane approaches to sow housing. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 WORKPLACE OUR GOAL is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees can thrive. We accomplish our mission by living our values: n Play to win n Grow and inspire n Act boldly, move quickly n Win as a team n Do the right thing, all the time Our strategies Every day around the world, our 41,000 employees work to carry out Build a strong Maintain Respect, workplace a safe develop and our mission of Nourishing Lives. culture workplace invest in employees HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Overview A great place to work – Investing in talent is a key ingredient to our success. Workplace culture and business performance go hand-in-hand, so we strive to develop our employees by giving them opportunities both inside and outside the company to stretch and grow. By doing so, we encourage employees to achieve their best while ensuring strong leadership for the future. Employees recognize our efforts to foster a positive and rewarding work environment by consistently identifying General Mills as “a great place to work.” We recruit, retain and develop talented employees and continue to improve workplace safety through our efforts to prevent injuries and illnesses. We support our employees in being active, eating healthy and staying well. Performance dashboard Strengthening our Increasing diversity Increasing Increasing employee workplace culture and inclusion workplace safety well-being 86 percent of employees Our Board of Directors includes We reduced our global total 51 percent of U.S. employees said General Mills is a great 31 percent female directors and injury rate to 1.62 injuries per participated in voluntary health place to work in 2013.* 15 percent who are people of color. 100 employees in fiscal 2013, down assessments in 2013, up from *2013 Great Place to Work Institute, Our U.S.-based workforce from 1.79 in 2012. Our ultimate 36 percent in 2012. We expanded representative sample of U.S. employees includes 40 percent women and goal is zero injuries/illnesses. health/well-being programming 20 percent people of color. to employees worldwide. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Our approach: inspire & win We work hard to earn our employees’ respect and trust At General Mills, we know that engaged true – and important – at General Mills, because Our strategies and actions employees drive innovation, shareholder value we hire people with the expectation that they and business performance. Our mission and will build a career with our company. We focus 1 culture, our brands and business practices, on attracting superior talent, helping our people and our commitment to a clear Code of continually develop their skills and creating Build a strong workplace culture p. 72 Conduct helps inspire our employees. an organization that collaborates effectively. We also promote safe, injury-free workplaces and encourage a healthy work/life balance. A Setting clear expectations for ethics and compliance Leadership: Our company leadership B Fostering diversity and inclusion maintains the highest ethical standards when conducting business, and they C Creating a culture of fairness, trust and openness honor and acknowledge employees’ contributions to the company’s success. 2 Maintain a safe workplace p. 78 Commitment: The best companies win committed employees who grow to achieve A Leading with safety their highest potential, making significant contributions to the business. This is especially Respect, develop and invest Percentage of employees 3 in employees p. 81 who would recommend 78% working for their A Empowering employee health manager (2013 Global B Investing in development and training Climate Survey) “We know that the best companies succeed with talented, committed employees who grow and develop to achieve their highest potential, making significant contributions to the business. This is especially true – and important – at General Mills, because many employees spend their careers with the company.” – Mike Davis, Executive Vice President of Global Human Resources, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Coaching: The way employees view their company business leaders at multiple levels. Reflecting Diversity and inclusion: The Vice President of Global managers is one of the most significant drivers of the importance of people to our business, General Mills Inclusion and Staffing is responsible for attracting engagement, success and satisfaction. Our Great has a vice president of Global Inclusion and Staffing; a vice competitively superior talent that reflects our markets Managers program prepares managers to become president of Global Health Services; a vice president of and consumers, retaining top talent and developing better leaders (see story below for details). Engineering, Global Safety and Environment; and a Chief all employees to reach their fullest potential, and Learning Officer. At the board level, the Compensation delivering a culture and environment that allows all and Public Responsibility Committees maintain employees to thrive and achieve their personal best. Leadership and governance: Responsibility for responsibility for issues related to labor and decent work. upholding our workplace commitments starts at the top The Executive Diversity Council includes 10 senior and extends across the organization. Our Chairman and Ethics and compliance: Our Ethics and Compliance group, leaders who oversee policies and regularly review Chief Executive Officer has ultimate accountability for led by our Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is committed programs and results related to diversity and inclusion. ensuring a healthy, productive and motivated workforce. to upholding General Mills’ long-standing culture of integrity However, our Chief Executive Officer personally reviews Governance for our labor practices lies primarily within our by ensuring that employees know what it means to behave our Diversity and Inclusion progress quarterly and sets Human Resources, Law and Supply Chain organizations. ethically and to act in compliance with our Code of Conduct. the tone for accountability throughout the company. At an operational level, the Human Resources organization Key business leaders throughout our global operations own leads key employee initiatives in partnership with responsibility for ethical market and brand development. Great Managers program: building a coaching culture Build manager skill: Great managers through a program called “Building by giving managers feedback about are key to retaining and energizing Great Leaders.” We then expanded how employees rate their skills. Our employees. We have been offering to conduct 1,000 Building Great Great Manager Mentoring Circles our “Managing People” course to Leader Sessions worldwide, reaching have helped managers broaden their new managers of people in the U.S. more than 600 General Mills top perspective through shared experience. for many years. Since 2008, we have leaders. We are evaluating timing for Impact: Since launching the Great trained approximately 2,000 managers offering this program again worldwide Managers program in fiscal 2008, worldwide (40 percent outside the U.S.) with updated, relevant topics. we have seen an improvement in to be good coaches for our employees. Reinforce behavior: We integrated the percentage of employees who In 2013, we rolled out a course called our coaching model into existing report they have a great manager. In “Advanced Managing People” in the performance management and individual the U.S., for instance, 70 percent of U.S. We will continue to explore the development plan processes. We provide salaried employees report that they potential of offering this course for managers with guidance for turning have good or great managers. experienced managers worldwide. a regular performance management Learn more about our coaching In 2011, we trained the top 200 meeting into a great coaching session. culture on page 86. leaders in our International division We also reinforce the value of coaching v We invest in developing great managers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1 Build a strong workplace culture 1A Setting clear expectations for ethics and compliance Do the right thing, all the time Commitment Annually, our company leaders – from managers upward, approximately Assessment 14 percent of our employees – must Program: We continue to strengthen Ethical culture Ethics: Doing the right thing is a attest to compliance with our Code of our anti-corruption program. Following Our 2013 Ethical Culture Survey fundamental part of our culture. Conduct and business conduct policies. our recent comprehensive corruption risk was sent to a random sample We have high expectations for ethical assessment across our businesses around Respect: We treat our employees of more than 3,500 employees conduct in every aspect of our business. the world, we enhanced our anti-corruption with respect and integrity. worldwide. Sixty-seven percent In 2013, we were ranked No. 1 on program, updated our anti-corruption policy of them responded with feedback, America’s Most Reputable Companies and internal controls, and communicated Communication: 90 percent of including these highlights: list (by the Reputation Institute). program requirements broadly to employees. salaried employees participated We continue to assess risks in this evolving n 9 5 percent say leaders in our 2013 Global Climate Survey providing feedback about Ethics area and review enhancements to our demonstrate a commitment program to adapt best practices, such as to ethical business company culture. The motto for our Ethics and Compliance in the areas of third-party risk. We also n 9  5 percent say ethical program is “Every Decision, Every Action, include corruption as a risk factor in the standards and procedures Every Day.” The program includes extensive Our comprehensive Code of Conduct annual risk assessment fielded by our are ethically communicated online resources and self-directed courses and ethics and compliance program Global Internal Audit function. This risk for employees along with our confidential n 9 4 percent say their promote ethical behavior in all assessment touches all of our business Ethics Line, which allows employees to manager acts consistent aspects of our employees’ work. units around the world. In addition, we ask raise questions or report questionable with our ethical standards detailed questions related to corruption risk Conduct conduct anonymously, where allowed by law, and an orientation video that during each routine, in-depth business unit Our Code of Conduct summarizes our audit by our Global Internal Audit team. worldwide who have enrolled in our new introduces new employees to General ethics guidelines and gives employees Training: We train employees extensively – anti-bribery online course, for example, Mills’ ethics philosophy. The program also practical information as well as answers both in person and through online training 77 percent have completed the training. features “Ethics Matters,” a collection to their questions. The code covers SO2, SO3 of stories published by the Ethics and modules – on corruption risks and our everything from maintaining corporate integrity, communicating appropriately, and Compliance group that puts policies standards. In October 2013, we launched an updated anti-corruption training course for Action into practice by providing real, concrete competing fairly and legally to personal employees outside the U.S. and U.S.-based All allegations of bribery and corruption examples of ethical lapses and choices safety, appropriate use of company employees who interact with other countries. relating to General Mills’ business that reflect a great deal of integrity. resources and ensuring consumer privacy. Of the more than 9,700 employees operations are promptly and thoroughly GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY investigated, in accordance with our ethics and Communication: General Mills regularly surveys “Throughout our history, we’ve always been compliance procedures and corporate policies. The our employees to gather feedback. Our biennial Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews Climate Survey is an in-depth review of a wide range guided by our values. And General Mills the investigation and resolution of these allegations. of topics. Our shorter Pulse Survey is conducted employees are proud to be part of a valuesUpon completion of the investigation, our Ethics and on alternate years. We use employee feedback to driven company that is Nourishing Lives Compliance group oversees appropriate disciplinary improve our processes and strengthen our culture. around the world. It motivates us every day.” actions (including termination of third-party relationships), – Ken Powell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, General Mills remediation steps and internal/external reporting. SO4 2013 awards, honors and accolades General Mills received numerous awards in 2013. In the U.S., Working Mother magazine included us on its list of best companies for the 10th year in a row, and we were named to Fortune magazine’s annual list of the “100 Best Companies to Work For” for the 11th time. The map below showcases some of our global recognitions. France n Best Workplaces in France, Sweden Great Place to Work Institute n Sweden Best Workplaces, n Top Employer, Top Employers Institute Great Place to Work Institute U.K. Germany n Institute of Grocery Distribution Awards Finalist (Enhancing Livelihoods category) n Eco Award certification n U.K. Best Companies – 1 star accreditation n Great Place to Work, Great Place to Work Institute n Berwick Network Local Business Support Award Greece n European Supply Chain Excellence – n Best Workplaces in Greece, Innovation in Supply Chain Practice Great Place to Work Institute Spain n Empresa Familiarmente Responsable Work Life-Balance award U.S. n 100 Best Places to Work, Fortune and Great Place to Work Institute n Best Companies for Working Mothers, Working Mother magazine n World's Most Reputable Companies, Reputation Institute n Best Places to Work in IT, Computerworld Mexico n Great Place to Work, Great Place to Work Institute n Inclusive Company, Mexico Australia Ministry of Federal Labor n Australian Business and Social Security Award for Recommended Employer in the Food Industry GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 73 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1B Fostering diversity and inclusion Taking action through hiring practices, employee development and measurement carefully considered in all succession Impact planning and leadership development. Recognition 20 percent of our U.S.-based Actions employees are people of color General Mills’ efforts to create an inclusive, supportive workplace Leadership: Our leaders reinforce diversity were recognized by a number of organizations in 2013, including: 40 percent of our U.S.-based and inclusion throughout the company and focus on personal objectives regarding n T op 10 of Best Companies n T  op Companies for Executive employees are women diversity and inclusion. Each of our plants for Multicultural Women, Women, National Association Recognition: named to the 2013 also creates and implements a diversity Working Mother magazine for Female Executives list of World’s Best Multinational and inclusion strategic plan. Women now n T op 50 Companies for n B  est of the Best 2013 “Top Workplaces by the Great Place to hold 44 percent of management positions Diversity, DiversityInc Supplier Diversity Programs,” Work Institute and comprise almost 50 percent of n 5 0 Best Companies for Latinas, Professional Woman’s magazine salaried positions in the U.S. Among the 13 members of the Board of Directors, four LATINA Style magazine At General Mills, we value diversity and are women and two are people of color. consider it core to our business strategy. Scorecard: Completed annually, our Goal: Our goal is to build an employee Diversity Scorecard defines meaningful color, and implementing strategies to v General Mills base that mirrors the consumers of DIVERSITY PROFILES IN ® diversity and gender objectives, including meet those needs. We engage in effective received an Award our products. Attracting, retaining and specific goals for the officer level. Each outreach efforts – including search JOURNAL of Excellence in the developing employees with a variety Diversity Journal 10th senior leader’s Diversity Scorecard includes firms, community groups, professional of backgrounds is a top priority. a personal commitment to building a organizations and employee referrals. 2013 Annual Innovations in Diversity Awards competition in June Culture culture of inclusion that contributes to corporate goals. Evaluations of Results: Over the past 10 years, the Award of Excellence 2013. The award number of minority and female officers was granted for our To cultivate an inclusive environment, diversity performance are factored into Law Department’s we respect all dimensions of diversity, including gender, race and sexual compensation decisions and incentives for leaders throughout the organization. at General Mills more than doubled from 5 percent to 14 percent and 12 percent INNOVATioNS In DIVERSITY AWARD Partners in Diversity program. to 37 percent, respectively. Similar orientation as well as cultural values, Recruiting: General Mills creates a diverse results are tracked and progress preferences and beliefs. Our Executive workforce by recruiting the best and seen at all levels in the organization: Diversity Council reinforces diversity brightest talent from all communities to officer, director, manager and below. and inclusion throughout the company drive innovation and consumer engagement LA13 by advising employee networks, around the world. We increase our ethnic recruiting and mentoring women and gender diversity by assessing our and employees of color, and ensuring hiring needs for women and people of that women and people of color are GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Employee networks Lives through job creation and strengthening the economic footprint and associations Recognition of communities across the U.S. Employee networks: Members of Commitment: We are committed to In the U.S., General Mills has our employee networks support each establishing and growing successful been consistently recognized other and help recruit new employees business relationships with an increasing for our support of military by increasing confidence in General number of qualified minority and veterans in our workplaces: Mills’ approach to diversity and inclusion. women-owned enterprises. Fulfilling Our employee networks include: Black 2013: G.I. Jobs Top 100 r To help post-9/11 military veterans make the this commitment is important to our Military-Friendly Employers transition to careers in business, more than Champions Network, American Indian shareholders, our increasingly diverse 60 General Mills employees are volunteering Council, Hispanic Network, Asian Heritage consumer base, the communities 2012: Yellow Ribbon as mentors. The mentoring program is run Network, South Asian Network, Middle by American Corporate Partners (ACP), an in which we operate and, ultimately, Company Designation East North African Network, Women organization General Mills began partnering the success of our company. 2011: U.S. Department of with around Veterans Day, 2011. ACP provides in Leadership, Veterans Network and free career counseling and mentoring to Objectives: Each division or department Betty’s Family for our LGBT employees. Defense Employer Support of recently returned veterans by professionals from establishes annual objectives and plans the Guard and Reserve award corporations and universities across the U.S. Associations: We also sustain relationships that lead to measurable improvement for commitment to employees with professional associations, including Veterans Network and Veterans Club as in diversifying our supplier base. The who serve in the military the National Black MBA Association well as specific recruiting, supplier diversity Supplier Diversity department at General and National Society of Hispanic MBAs. 2010: National Committee and human resources (HR) initiatives. Our Mills supports diverse supplier business We partner with organizations such as for Employer Support of Veterans Employee Guide helps managers development by creating networking The Consortium for Graduate Study in the Guard Patriot Award and HR professionals aid veterans with and training opportunities for minority Management and Management Leadership transitions, including preparing to depart and female-owned businesses. of Tomorrow, which offer graduate members or commissioned officers of for or returning from a military leave. Diversification: In 2013, we increased fellowships and career development the U.S. Armed Forces. Their training, EC1 spending with women-owned business opportunities to high potential Africanexperience and organizational skills are enterprises by 20 percent and with veteranAmericans, Hispanics and Native Americans. assets in the General Mills workplace. In Supplier diversity owned businesses by 8.5 percent. In 2014, the U.S., veterans represent 3 percent of our we are expanding support for lesbian, gay, Support for veterans workforce, including 72 percent who work Impact bisexual and transgender business owners. in our plant locations as hourly employees. Impact The remaining 18 percent are salaried US$500+ million spending with General Mills supplier diversity spending positions throughout our headquarters U.S. minority and female-owned (compound annual growth rate) Spending (US$ billion) 600+ U.S. veterans employed 0.9 and field locations. We support veterans businesses at General Mills through multiple initiatives, including the 8 percent increase in first-tier 0.6 GR 20+ million 3 percent of our total U.S. hires CA spending with U.S. minority and 8% are veterans $ female-owned businesses over past 0.3 In 2013, we spent US$20.3 10 years (compounded annually) General Mills recognizes the value of million with veteran-owned 0 2003 2013 employing the servicemen and women business enterprises, an Our supplier diversity efforts are a Fiscal year who have served their country as enlisted 8.5 percent increase over 2012 reflection of our dedication to Nourishing GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 75 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Recognition: During 2013, our supplier Development Council, an organization “Top Corporation for Women’s Business the United States and the nation’s leading diversity efforts were recognized by that helps connect minority-owned Enterprises” by the Women’s Business advocate of women-owned businesses multiple organizations across the U.S. businesses and corporations across Enterprise National Council, the largest as suppliers to America’s corporations. We received the “Corporation of the Year” Iowa, Minnesota and North and South third-party certifier of businesses owned, EC6 award from the Midwest Minority Supplier Dakota. We were also recognized as a controlled, and operated by women in Supporting businesses owned by women: Sweet Harvest Foods General Mills continues to increase our that time, General Mills’ spending with the farmers how to produce a valuable crop – support of women-owned business company has grown from US$250,000 to honey – as a supplemental source of income enterprises. In addition to providing US$20 million in fiscal 2013. Our relationship to help prevent additional deforestation. important ingredients and packaging also has expanded to include support for The SHF team hopes to train up to 20,000 materials for our products, women-owned SHF’s Africa Uplift Project in Sierra Leone. future beekeepers. Income from beekeeping businesses are successfully partnering The project helps smallholder farmers increases food security and helps families with us in areas such as consumer product develop sustainable beekeeping businesses pay school tuition for their children. research and testing, marketing and while protecting Sierra Leone rainforests. r SHF organizes apiary science workshops to v Darcy Riess, staffing support. Our relationship with introduce beekeeping business practices and Chief Executive Officer, In a region where up to develop strategies to help farmers make their Sweet Harvest Foods, a Sweet Harvest Foods is one example of our 90 percent of the rainforest businesses stable and sustainable. General Mills supplier partnership with women-owned businesses. for 15 years. has been harvested for logging, rainy seasons Sweet Harvest Foods (SHF), based in v We use Sweet Harvest have washed away the previously rich topsoil, Cannon Falls, Minnesota, has been supplying honey in Honey Nut Cheerios and Nature Valley granola bars. making farming difficult. SHF is teaching honey to General Mills since 1998. During 1C Creating a culture of fairness, trust and openness Taking action through hiring practices, employee development and measurement We believe every employee has the religion, sex, national origin, marital ability to do their jobs. Formal channels Impact right to be treated fairly and deserves status, disability, citizenship, sexual are available for employees who seek the opportunity to stretch and grow orientation, gender identity or expression, advice or a solution. Everyone has the 86 percent of salaried employees throughout their career at General Mills. military service, or other characteristic right to work without fear or intimidation. would recommend General Mills protected by law. This equal employment General Mills does not accept abusive as a great place to work Equal opportunity opportunity (EEO) policy applies to conduct or harassment – a policy made Policy: To provide a comfortable employment practices and procedures clear from an employee’s first day of 73 percent of salaried employees and safe working environment for all including compensation practices. orientation. Our policies strictly prohibit feel General Mills offers long-term employees, General Mills prohibits Practices: Employees are expected to retaliation against employees who express career opportunities discrimination based on age, race, color, report situations that compromise their concerns. We manage our business GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 76 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY operations so that employees feel they practices that include joint managementare being treated fairly. We value our employee health and safety teams and relationships with our employees and committees; participation of workers Testimony in support invest in them for the long term. and/or worker representatives in health and safety inspections, audits and of equality Benefits and accident investigations; as well as use of In 2013, Ken Charles, General compensation personal protective equipment, training Mills Vice President of Diversity and periodic inspections. We maintain and Inclusion, testified before We believe our compensation, benefits good relationships with our unions, and the U.S. Senate in support of and incentive plans are competitive our labor contracts are typically settled equality – a fundamental value in our industry. At General Mills, we on time and without work disruption. at General Mills. His testimony value our employees and reward them r We value our employees and reward them for their contributions to our company’s success. LA6, LA9 was related to the Employment accordingly with our Total Rewards Non-Discrimination Act of compensation/benefits package. We are a pay-for-performance culture, so Labor-management Measurement 2013, which sought to prohibit incentive payments and merit increases are relations General Mills has established key employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation directly linked to employee performance. metrics and measurement approaches to Globally, General Mills is committed to or gender identity. While We offer competitive pay, retirement understand our performance as it relates to providing both our union and non-union the proposed legislation was programs, and employee and education labor and decent work. Examples include production employees workplaces that are not enacted (it passed in assistance programs. Implemented in a refined performance management among the safest manufacturing facilities 2009, our annual performance and awards process, annual employee surveys and the U.S. Senate, but stalled in the world. In addition, we work to statement was developed and revised a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. awaiting a vote in the U.S. have total employee engagement as the in response to employee suggestions. House of Representatives), foundation of our mutual success, strive LA3 his testimony reinforces to create cultures that champion respect General Mills’ commitment and inclusion, and offer competitive to equality in the workplace. rewards. We have clear health and safety Expanding health care coverage to all Yoki employees and their families in Brazil When General Mills acquired With the new health care benefits for the spouses and dependents of all Yoki Alimentos S.A. in fiscal 2013, in place, 6,000 employees and their employees. Health care benefits are one employees from four of Yoki’s eight 7,000 family members can participate way General Mills nourishes the lives plants were not eligible for coverage by in the medical plan, an increase of of our employees and their families. WATCH VIDEO the company’s health plan. In August 2,100 employees and their 4,700 2013, General Mills announced the dependents. Even for those employees r Watch this video to learn how health expansion of health care benefits to who previously had coverage, the insurance benefits are making a difference all Yoki employees and their legal expanded benefits from General Mills in the lives of Yoki employees. dependents (spouses and children). are more generous, including coverage GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2 Maintain a safe workplace 2A Leading with safety Expanding safety culture and tracking progress food safety in the Health section of this Impact report). “Lead with Safety” continues to be the top priority across our supply chain, Goal: Provide injury-free followed by generating return on capital workplaces for our employees, and growing our business sustainably. contractors and visitors 10 percent reduction: Global total Culture injury rate of 1.62 injuries per Leadership support combined with our 100 employees in fiscal 2013, ongoing “What If” campaign (see related down from 1.79 in 2012 story in the Health section of this report) reinforces our culture of safety by raising awareness and helping prevent injuries Achieving our goal of zero injuries at our facilities around the world. and illnesses requires leadership Survey: In 2013, we partnered with engagement, continuous improvements DuPont, a globally recognized leader in our safety culture, and systems to in workplace safety, to conduct a track performance. In 2013, we made comprehensive global safety perception progress in each of those important areas. r We reinforce our culture of safety at our facilities around the world. survey. This assessment provided are being assessed with the goal of Leadership valuable insights into our employees’ developing a roadmap for the future. In 2013, we established a Corporate Safety perceptions about the importance of Council led by our Chairman and Chief human and food safety and identified Tracking and Executive Officer and a Global Safety opportunities for improvement at our managing progress Governance Board composed of regional facilities worldwide. More than 90 percent operating vice presidents. With this strong System: In June 2013, we completed the of our global production, engineering, leadership focus, we are establishing rollout of our Global Safety Tracking and and innovation, technology and quality globally consistent safety expectations for Environmental Management System, employees participated in the survey r “Lead with Safety” is the top priority across called G-STEMS, to track safety data our employees and the food we produce our supply chain. Our “What if” campaign raises from July through November 2013. (learn more about our commitment to at all production facilities worldwide awareness to help prevent safety incidents. At the writing of this report, results GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 78 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY (currently excluding our Yoki and Yoplait potential safety risks so they can be In-depth assessments: Argentina, Venezuela, International sites, which we are working addressed quickly to prevent future France, Australia to align). G-STEMS allows us to track all incidents. We also introduced a workplace incidents – even those nearstandardized global process for incident Why do we focus on building a misses that did not result in an injury – and investigation. By analyzing G-STEMS culture of safety? Production 3 document necessary actions to reduce trend data, we began targeted efforts employees who understand risks and future risks and communicate progress. to prevent specific types of injuries. work in a culture unaccepting of 2 risk-taking behavior are more likely to Rapid notification: In April 2013, we Clear safety targets remain safe. In an effort to strengthen our introduced a 24-hour requirement 4 History: Historically, General own employee practices, we benchmarked 1 for reporting of all injuries. This Mills has had a very strong safety in 2013 with companies recognized as rapid notification calls attention to 1 Argentina 3 France record when compared with our workplace safety leaders in their industries. 2 Venezuela 4 Australia HAND SAFETY BOOK peer food group companies. For example, as part of in-depth assessments at two of our facilities near Buenos Aires, Argentina, General Mills managers In this Hand Safety Book you will learn 10 principles for hand safety: 1 234 789 10 5 Remove all jewelry before performing work. Metrics: Our corporate policy for 5 6 6 Make sure safety guards are in place before you begin any job. workplace health and safety directs all toured another company’s facility to identify best practices they could apply to THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF HAND SAFETY 7 Never reach into machinery to repair, oil, or adjust without taking the proper steps to control hazardous energy. operations to implement management improve safety. This team has made significant safety improvements, reducing injuries by 56 percent since implementing their improvement plan in 2013. Keep hands away from pinch points and crushing hazards. 1 Inspect materials for slivers, jagged edges, burrs, and rough 8 Clean up with a rag or brush never use your fingers or hands. or slippery surfaces. 9 Know the Danger Zones. systems, programs and procedures that 2 Always consider ergonomics of the hands. Keep your hands clean. Don’t ignore hand injuries. Know the will lead the company to our goal of We conducted similar assessments at General Mills facilities in Seretram, 3 Use the correct hand tool for the job and use it properly. 10 signs of dermatitis and other skin disorders. Get prompt medical attention when required. Always wear suitable gloves unless noted on your JTA. WE L EAD WIT H4 SAFET Y Never wear gloves when working around rotating equipment. zero injuries and illnesses. We have set France; Rooty Hill and Mount Waverly, Australia; and Cagua, Venezuela. 4 5 interim improvement targets, which are the basis for our plant safety metrics. s At our facility in Seretram, France, we created an in-depth safety improvement plan r Many of our facilities are focusing on preventing General Mills has established clear involving seasonal workers hired to help pack newly harvested corn, resulting in 50 percent specific types of injuries. These materials increase fewer injuries during fiscal 2013. awareness about hand safety in the workplace. safety targets specific to each location General Mills injury history 1975 to date 14.00 12.00 North America – Total Injury Rate Rate per 100 employees North America – Lost-Time Injury Rate 10.00 Global Total Injury Rate 8.00 Global Lost-Time Injury Rate 6.00 4.00 2.00 0.00 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 r We reduced our total injury rate in 2013 to 1.62 injuries per 100 employees at our production facilities around the world. HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY and measures progress. In fiscal 2013, Training: Employees are trained in all we reduced our global total injury rate applicable health and safety subjects from 1.79 injuries per 100 employees relevant to their jobs. This training in 2012 to 1.62 in fiscal 2013 and our helps ensure that every employee lost workday injury rate decreased from knows how to perform his or her job 0.66 in fiscal 2012 to 0.59 in fiscal 2013. correctly and to comply with all local, Sadly, a temporary employee, hired and regional and country requirements. supervised by a vendor, died while working Committee: As part of the safety at our plant in Cedar Rapids, Iowa (this management system at General Mills, fatality is not reflected in our safety data, manufacturing locations are encouraged which only covers our employees and any to have safety committee meetings on contract workers under our supervision). a periodic basis (e.g., monthly). The LA7 committee is organized by the formal and/ or informal safety leaders and consists Responsibility, training of wage and management employees. r We monitor and audit our operations globally to help ensure workplace safety. and auditing LA6 Responsibility: Workplace health Auditing: General Mills has an active Governance: Senior-level responsibility and safety is the responsibility of line auditing program involving both internal for workplace safety lies with the Director management and each individual and external auditors to monitor our of Global Safety and Environment, who employee. All employees are operations to ensure compliance with reports to the Vice President of Engineering, expected to work safely by following all internal requirements and external Global Safety and Environment. all rules, procedures and training. regulations. Any deficiencies identified PR1 are tracked until completion. Improving ergonomics to prevent injuries In fiscal 2013, we conducted ergonomics and mitigate ergonomic risks when training for all safety managers in North designing new production systems America to help prevent injuries. We or projects. To reduce discomfort also trained all Minneapolis-based and injuries, employees worldwide engineers on the basics of ergonomics. can access instructions for setting up This knowledge, combined with risk ergonomically beneficial workspaces assessment software, will help identify via the company website. v Stretching programs help prevent injuries at our production facilities across North America. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 80 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees 3A Empowering employee health Supporting work/life balance, employee health and well-being savings plans, health care coverage, Impact and flexible work arrangements. U.S.: 51 percent of U.S. employees Balance and flexibility participated in voluntary health Resources: We dedicate resources to assessments in 2013, up from help employees balance the demands WATCH VIDEO 36 percent in 2012 of work and personal life. Our programs Global: Health and wellness extend from our headquarters to our r General Mills leaders discuss the value of locations worldwide, including plant good health and why it’s important to programs available to employees our company. worldwide employees and field sales employees. We offer special leave programs, an onsite health clinic at our headquarters, and Our employees – whether working in a fitness centers at several of our plants and r We support our employees in balancing production facility or at our headquarters, office locations, as well as partnerships their work and personal life. “People given flexibility feel union or non-union – are core in our with community-based programs. Our Flexibility: We offer multiple flexible appreciated, and that causes mission and the key to our success. education and referral programs provide information and resources on important work arrangements to accommodate them to do more, not less.” Benefits: We value our employees and subjects such as child care, adoption employees, including telecommuting, – Allison Pottinger, Senior provide benefits specific to the needs information, elder care and more. flextime and the innovative Flexible Consumer Insights Associate of each geography, including retirement “Providing healthy workplace environments and programs to support healthy lifestyles are key to our employees succeeding both at work and at home. Employee well-being activities work best at the local level, with champions to support one another in making sustainable, healthy lifestyle changes.” – Dr. Julia Halberg, General Mills Vice President of Global Health GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY User Shared Environment program, and weight management programs to which allows employees to create help employees take better care of their workspaces that best suit their bodies and their long-term health. personal and business needs. Physical activity: We provide employees Evaluation: We evaluate our work/life with opportunities to increase physical balance programs annually in an effort to activity as part of our core wellness meet employees’ changing needs. We’re offerings. Initiatives vary by region, proud of the progress we’ve made. including onsite fitness centers and exercise rooms, company sponsored or Health and wellness endorsed runs and walks, yoga classes, We support our employees in being r We provide opportunities for employees to r Fresh fruit is available free to General Mills soccer teams and volleyball tournaments. increase physical activity and wellness. employees in Hamburg, Germany. Employees active, eating healthy and staying well. in France are offered free organic fruit twice a General Mills provides resources that increase from 36 percent in 2012. The week to encourage balanced diets. help employees live healthy lifestyles. 2013 assessments showed improvement Nutrition and weight management: As a Health assessments and exams: We including a decrease over the last five food company, nutrition and eating right encourage our employees to take a years in six of the 11 health risk areas we are primary concerns for our consumers personalized health assessment that measure. We are also working toward our and for our employees (read more helps identify risks, motivate lifestyle goal of becoming a tobacco-free company. about how General Mills contributes changes, and provide information about We provide preventive health initiatives r In Canada, our Live Well program provides to consumer nutrition in the Health at many of our facilities around the world, employees with opportunities to participate in health and wellness resources. In 2013, section of this report). Our facilities offer fitness classes, recreational sports, ergonomic 51 percent of our U.S. employees took a including free onsite flu shots, ergonomic employees healthy dining choices. General workshops, individual assessments and cooking voluntary health risk assessment – an training and onsite physical exams. demonstrations. Mills sponsors a number of weight loss Well-being: Our LifeWorks Employee Assistance program provides confidential counseling, emotional support, and referrals to employees and their families in the United States. Counselors assist employees dealing with stressful situations through onsite face-to-face counseling, toll-free phone access, online resources, and educational materials. Through LifeWorks’ sponsorship, some locations also offer onsite support groups. Our worldwide employee assistance program is available to help global human resource professionals find resources and information to support employee issues. r In November 2013, we launched an initiative in Mexico encouraging employees to increase physical activity, improve nutrition, stop using tobacco and set LA8 goals for improving their health. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 82 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Organizational Responsibility: Overall responsibility for health and wellness lies with leadership the Vice President of Global Health Advisory council: In January 2013, we Services and Chief Medical Officer. Recognition launched a global health and wellness n S tart! Fit-Friendly n B est Employers for n A merica’s 100 Best advisory council to provide more support for wellness programs around the world. Council participants, who 30 years Company, American Heart Association, United Healthy Lifestyles, National Business Group on Health, Adoption-Friendly Workplaces, United States – General Mills has provided include representatives from all around States – General United States – The Dave Thomas workplace wellness the world, connect on a quarterly basis Mills has received General Mills has Foundation programs to employees to share best practices and resources. this award annually received this award for Adoption for nearly 30 years. since 2007 annually since (Platinum level) 2007 (Gold level) Empowering healthy living In 2013, our branding strategy team section of this report), this investment applied their skills to help promote in branding our global health program healthy lifestyles among their fellow for employees represented the first General Mills employees. While such internally focused effort. The team our marketing team has a history of incorporated input from employees supporting community organizations around the world to ensure that our health through our Good Works volunteer and well-being programs are meeting program (see story in the Community the needs of our global workforce. v We provide resources that help employees live healthy lifestyles, including being active and staying well. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 83 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Encouraging employee activity and well-being around the world We support the efforts of participation in training classes Venezuela: To promote physical Argentina: Employees our employees to lead active, or other defined regular wellactivity, employees competed participated in nutrition healthy lifestyles fueled by being activities. Physical activity in races. They also received workshops and health good nutrition and overall also is encouraged through healthy recipes and nutrition conferences. They also received well-being. Listed below is a organized and sponsored information, flu vaccines, and flu vaccines and ergonomics sampling of health and wellness employee activities, including ergonomic consultations to instruction at the workplace. programs around the world. indoor volleyball evenings avoid workplace injuries. and various outdoor races. South Korea: Employees participated in an outdoor Sports Day activity and a workshop at a nature center. Employees also receive annual medical checkups. Australia: Employees participated in workplace wellness initiatives promoting U.S. and Canada: In 2013, France: The office sponsors healthier lifestyles organized more than 1,500 General Mills U.K.: Employees participate in annual sports membership by Exercise and Sports Science employees participated in Health Promotion Days focused passes for employees and offers Australia as part of the Healthier the Great American Fitness on raising awareness of wellweekly onsite exercise classes. Australia Commitment. Adventure, a program that being, including information More than 60 employees from encourages participants to about height, weight, body mass General Mills France and Yoplait Germany: Employees organized exercise at least 30 minutes per index (BMI) and blood pressure International participated in bike-to-work days, participated day for six weeks. The challenge as well as pulse, cholesterol and “La Parisienne” race supporting in annual track and field got people out biking, walking, glucose testing. Employees also breast cancer research. events that raised money for running and gardening for a participated in a cricket match charity and received subsidies total of 3.9 million minutes as part of the annual summer toward gym memberships. (averaging more than 4 hours social team-building activity. Employee work areas undergo Greece: Employees participated per person per week). ergonomic assessment as part in the annual Race for the of health and safety reviews. Cure event, improving fitness Brazil: Employees received flu while raising money for vaccines, participated in health breast cancer research. China: Employees participate in LA8 conferences and received health seminars held at office discounts at sport clubs and and plant locations, access restaurants to promote physical Mexico: More than 50 online information about physical activity and healthy eating. Sweden/Nordic region: employees received vaccinations, exams and use a gym room General Mills offers physical exams and body for exercise. Employees and employees a yearly well-being composition testing to evaluate their families also participated contribution to encourage blood sugar (glucose), BMI, in yoga activities together. blood pressure and cholesterol. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 84 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3B Investing in development and training Reinforcing our culture of learning and excellence Impact 88 percent of General Mills Climate of officers have been promoted from innovation and within the company development 87 percent of our managers Feedback from our 2013 globally have been promoted from global Climate Survey of within the company employee opinions: n P  eople are open to trying US$22 million invested in training new ways to address and development for U.S.-based challenges – 78 percent employees in 2013 favorable r We provide employees with professional development opportunities to help them grow and advance. n G  eneral Mills offers longFocus: We respect, develop and invest term career opportunities for in our people to help them do and be salaried employees, managers and opportunity to create plans for their me – 73 percent favorable their best. We know that engaged executives alike – and work to have a professional development with the employees create value and drive business depth of leadership prepared to take on assistance of their supervisor. Managers performance. We are single-minded new responsibilities when necessary. and employees discuss career goals, when it comes to development – we Development plans: At General Mills, strengths and development needs, and plan for, invest in, track and evaluate development takes many forms and then use this information to identify it. In order to attract and retain includes performance appraisals and action items. We track completion rates competitively superior talent, we develop Individual Development Plans (IDP). of IDPs as a way to monitor employee all employees – production employees, General Mills employees have the involvement in career planning. “People are at the center of the equation. We hire the best people, we train our people everywhere around the world, we give them the tools they need to do their job, and we give them the experiences they need both inside and outside the company to really broaden their view of the world.” – Ken Powell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 85 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Coaching and training Training: We offer numerous courses at the General Mills Institute and online Coaching: Our internal analysis has learning classes that support professional shown that employees working for development. Training courses range “great managers” are twice as engaged, from “Core Business Essentials” and “Onmotivated and innovative as those Boarding Fast Start” for new employees working for “good managers.” We created to “Managing People” and “Advanced our Great Manager initiative in 2009 Managing People” to improve managers’ to train and increase the effectiveness skills. We leverage our robust offering of of our worldwide manager population. eLearning courses and other technology (Read more about our Great Manager solutions to meet the demands of initiative on page 71.) We include an an increasingly mobile and global index of manager quality in our annual workforce. We also provide funding employee Climate Survey. Our population for external training and education. of managers rated by employees as 20 years “great” has improved 15 percent since the Great Manager initiative began. n M y manager values me and my r We train managers to help them be more effective and expand our coaching culture. The General Mills Institute contributions – 87 percent favorable was established more than Leadership: Our senior leaders worldwide wherever they are. We regularly assess n M y manager communicates effectively 20 years ago to provide serve as teaching faculty for leadership learning needs at every level of the with me – 85 percent favorable learning and development and functional learning programs. organization. Our learning strategies n M y manager gives regular feedback on opportunities for employees. Through our Building Great Leaders link to key performance indicators for performance – 77 percent favorable program, for example, our senior each of the company’s business growth management and business presidents drivers. To measure effectiveness, we teach General Mills management use scorecards to assess learning teams around the world, serving as and behavior improvement and their role models for our commitment to connection to measurable business results. leadership development and increasing Feedback: Our Climate Survey provides cross-organization relationships annual data on employee satisfaction and best practice exchange. We related to items such as professional provide similar training programs in development. We have achieved sales, marketing and innovation. consistent improvement in employee engagement year after year. Employees Measuring also rate the effectiveness of managers effectiveness using the Great Manager Index. This Measurement: With a workforce spanning feedback has led to a range of actionable the globe, General Mills constantly items, including resources to improve innovates to provide learning and managers’ skills and communication and development support to our employees enhancements to the company’s global r We offer eLearning opportunities that meet the demands of our increasingly mobile workforce. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 86 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY internal collaboration network, which now includes 400 communities, 3,500 active users, 1,300 microblogs and more than 5,000 answered questions. 87% Continuity: More than 60 percent of company officers started their careers in entry-level positions at Globally, 87 percent of our General Mills, and 40 percent come managers are promoted from non-officer roles. This continuity from within the company. reflects the company’s broadbased commitment to leadership effectiveness. The CLO works with the development. Globally, 87 percent of Human Resources team to develop our managers are promoted from within training plans at the corporate, business the company. General Mills consistently and functional levels. Learning and receives external recognition for development are both top-down our performance in this area. driven for alignment and locally owned by training teams embedded Transition assistance: General in the business and functions. This Mills provides severance benefits matrix approach delivers relevant when employees are impacted by training that is responsive to business downsizing. The severance benefits and function requirements. may include compensation as well as LA10, LA11, LA12 professional development assistance from an external organization that provides outplacement services. Organizational leadership: In partnership with the General Mills senior management team, our Chief Learning Officer (CLO) facilitates an annual strategic review of the corporation’s strengths and opportunity areas. We use this process to identify a clear set of business imperatives, which we then translate into capability and learning priorities. The CLO is an active member of the Strategy and Business Development department and has overall responsibilities for talent management and organization GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 87 COMMUNITY OUR GOAL is to build strong communities. Our philanthropic work is an extension of the company’s Nourishing Lives mission and ties closely to our company’s core business. We work in innovative ways with partners locally and around the world to harness our collective impact in key target areas, while engaging employees through volunteerism. Our General Mills Foundation and Our strategies community engagement mission is Alleviate Improve Strengthen to nourish our communities globally hunger and education communities with remarkable philanthropy. advance nutrition wellness HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Overview Nourishing our communities – In fiscal 2013, General Mills donated more than US$153 million (nearly $3 million a week) to key initiatives $153+ million The amount we gave to charitable Foundation Grants that support our communities around the globe. General Mills and its Foundation have given more than US$1 billion to charitable causes causes in fiscal 2013 $26.9 million worldwide since 1954. Our giving and volunteerism focus is on alleviating Corporate Contributions/ hunger and advancing nutrition wellness; improving education; and Brand Partnerships strengthening communities. EC1, FP4 $80.8 million Food Donations $46.0 million Performance dashboard 2020 Goal Progress We alleviate hunger Provide 200 million n G  lobal food donations: 30+ million meals in 2013 meals globally n P  artners in Food Solutions: 137,000+ smallholder farmers and their 822,000 family members impacted since 2008 Nourishing We advance Empower 25 million youth with n P  residential Youth Fitness program: launched in 2013 with nutrition wellness skills and knowledge to achieve support from General Mills, available to all U.S. schools and maintain physical wellness n C  hampions for Healthy Kids: 1 million youth since 2002 125,000 U.S. schools gain access to Presidential Youth Fitness program We improve Provide over US$1 billion to schools n B  ox Tops for Education: US$75 million raised for U.S. education through Box Tops for Education schools in 2013; US$600 million since 1996 Educating We expand access Empower 1 million people in n J  oin My Village: 250,000+ people have received to education impoverished communities expanded access to education, health knowledge globally through education and economic empowerment since 2009 and improved livelihoods We volunteer in More than 80% of employees n 7  6% of employees volunteer worldwide the community volunteering worldwide Strengthening We invest in our Achieve US$2 billion n U  S$153 million in total giving in 2013 communities cumulative giving n U  S$1+ billion cumulative giving since 1954 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 89 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Our approach: connect & lead Bringing together resources, partners, innovative ideas and employee expertise to make an impact around the world Our strategies and actions General Mills’ philanthropy is an extension the many stakeholders within our communities of our Nourishing Lives mission and ties and leverage existing programs in new ways Alleviate hunger and advance 1 closely to our core business. Our commitment for maximum impact. One example of this p. 91 to building strong communities includes providing grants from the General Mills approach is our support of Generation Next, a Minneapolis-based partnership of leaders nutrition wellness Foundation, donating food from our businesses, from schools, government, community supporting brand/cause partnerships, and organizations and businesses focused on A  ddressing barriers to food A encouraging employee volunteerism around narrowing the achievement gap among security around the world the world. We strive to create positive change students in our headquarters’ community. B Promoting nutrition wellness through our strategies of alleviating hunger and advancing nutrition wellness; improving Skills-based volunteerism: Through 2 education; and strengthening communities. skills-based volunteerism, General Mills employees contribute their time and professional Improve education p. 96 Collective impact expertise to community organizations. Philanthropy: This year marks the 60th Knowledge transfer: We facilitate the A Building better futures through education anniversary of the General Mills Foundation. Since 1954, we have sharing of best practices through programs connected people and such as Partners in Food Solutions, which resources across communities both in the links the technical and business expertise of employees from General Mills and other companies to growing food processors 3 Strengthen communities p. 98 U.S. and increasingly, globally. We look for and millers in the developing world. A Increasing impact through employee volunteerism opportunities to connect B Innovating to empower communities worldwide “In partnership with General Mills, CARE is taking new and innovative approaches to strengthen communities around the world. Together, we are creating programs that expand access to education, enhance the livelihoods of smallholder famers by engaging them in the global supply chain, and involve General Mills suppliers and consumers in efforts to alleviate global poverty.” – Helene D. Gayle, MD, MPH, President & Chief Executive Officer of CARE USA GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 90 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Knowledge Creating shared value: In Leadership and employee councils located across our key global operating locations developing economies, we invest transfer in programs with our suppliers that governance around the world assist with Volunteerism promote sustainable agricultural Organizational responsibility for the grantmaking by helping to practices, boost incomes of the Foundation is held by the identify and select local nonprofit smallholder farmers and raise living Senior Vice President of External organizations eligible to receive COLLECTIVE Creating standards in their communities. Relations and President of the funds. The General Mills Foundation IMPACT shared General Mills Foundation. General is governed by a Board of Trustees value Brand partnerships: From Box Mills’ community engagement and that includes leaders from the Philanthropy Tops for Education to our Cheer On Foundation programs are led by the company’s finance, supply chain, Reading program, our brands connect Executive Director of the Foundation marketing, legal, human resources, with consumers to support schools with support from program officers sales and external relations functions. Brand partnerships and healthy lifestyle choices. at our headquarters. In addition, 1 Alleviate hunger and advance nutrition wellness 1A Addressing barriers to food security around the world Providing food and developing global solutions Our hunger-relief efforts span the to The Global FoodBanking Network, globe in support of our commitment Impact an organization dedicated to creating to feeding people in need. We focus and strengthening food banks around on alleviating hunger and uncovering US$46 million in food the world. We support The Global barriers to food security. donations globally in 2013 FoodBanking Network’s efforts in the United Kingdom, South Africa, Argentina 30+ million meals provided In Argentina, we provide food and Donating food to children and families and Australia and are playing an active support through The Global FoodBanking We provide food that helps nourish role in helping the organization expand around the world (through Network affiliate Fundación Banco people around the world. to alleviate hunger on a global scale. 2013 food donations) de Alimentos. Employees at our San Our food donations outside the The Global FoodBanking Network: Fernando plant also volunteer at this US$300 million donated in United States in 2013 increased In 2013, General Mills provided food bank where they help organize and food worldwide since 1999 155 percent from the previous year. US$4.6 million in food donations classify recently donated food items. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 91 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY In 2013, the General Mills Foundation disaster victims; and an opportunity for provided a US$20,000 grant to adults trying to achieve self-sufficiency. Fundación Banco de Alimentos for a new Europe: In France, our Yoplait® business barcode system that allows donation donates one pallet of yogurt products each inventory to be tracked and monitored week to a grocery store that sells food at in a streamlined, systematized way. deeply discounted prices. In 2013, General Mills provided a US$75,000 grant for freezers at the store, where our employees also volunteer. Our Häagen-Dazs business in Arras, France, also donates ice cream to a local food bank that serves 300 families. In Greece, our plant in Inofita donated more than 680 cases Feeding America: We donated of dough to a local food bank in 2013. US$41.4 million worth of food to Feeding EC1, FP4 America’s 200+ food banks across the United States in 2013. General Mills has partnered with Feeding America r Our Yoplait® business in France donates yogurt weekly to a “social grocery store” where consumers for more than 30 years. Through this can purchase food at deeply discounted prices and receive instruction about food preparation and good nutrition. partnership, we provide nourishment Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. to Americans struggling with hunger; safe and nurturing places for children to have a meal; emergency assistance for Connecting consumers to hunger-relief efforts Outnumber Hunger: In 2013, we helped Feeding America secure nearly 7 million meals through our Outnumber Hunger platform. We work nationally to expand consumer awareness and involvement in the fight against hunger through product packaging, websites, social media and events associated with some of our key brands, including Bisquick, Betty Crocker, Big G cereals and Green Giant. We Scare Hunger: Sponsored by Free the Children, We Scare Hunger is a service-driven youth engagement opportunity that mobilizes youth to address the issue of local hunger. With the support WATCH VIDEO of General Mills, youth in communities across the U.S. participated in the nation’s first We Scare Hunger campaign in 2013, collecting more than 440,000 pounds of food for local hunger relief r Ellen Goldberg Luger, Executive Director of agencies. Young people “trick or treated” on Halloween for nonperishable food items to support the General Mills Foundation, talks about our company’s support for programs that local food banks and raise awareness about hunger. In Minnesota, youth collected more than address hunger in our communities. 160,000 pounds of food to help feed hungry children and families in their communities. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 92 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Rescuing food Impact In 2013, General Mills rescued 14,500 metric tons of surplus WATCH VIDEO food and donated it to charitable organizations. r Ken Powell, General Mills Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, speaks during the Minnesota Hunger Impact Exchange event about the involvement of our employees in hunger initiatives. General Mills continuously improves our operations to prevent food waste We support programs that expand – sharing food with people in need people’s access to food. General Mills and diverting waste from landfills. is a founding partner of Hunger-Free Minnesota, an initiative focused on Expanding access adding 100 million meals for hungry to food children and adults in Minnesota by r In western China, we provide support for nutritious meals of milk and eggs served daily to 1,120 2015. In 2013, General Mills pledged students at four rural schools in Yunnan’s Xuanwei region (an area with high rates of malnutrition). Impact an additional US$1 million (building on 2,000 pounds the US$1 million we committed in 2011) 20 million meals by increasing enrollment 10 million meals added to support Hunger-Free Minnesota, a in and use of public nutrition programs through support to Hungermultiyear campaign focused on fighting for children and families. Hunger-Free hunger and closing the “missing meal In 2013, 2,000 pounds of Free Minnesota in 2013 Minnesota has added 49 million meals to gap.” The campaign is working to increase the state’s hunger-relief system since 2011. organic vegetables grown 350,000 breakfasts provided to the amount of food available through the In addition to charitable contributions, by employee volunteers at 2,000+ at-risk students through emergency food system by 50 million many of our employees volunteer their our headquarters-based Breakfast Clubs of Canada with meals; add 30 million meals through technical expertise to advance the Green Giant Giving Garden support from General Mills increased enrollment in the Supplemental mission of Hunger-Free Minnesota. were donated to food Nutrition Assistance Program; and add EC1, FP4 shelves in Minnesota. Surplus corn provides 1.5 million meals In 2013, General Mills supported the second annual Minnesota Sweet Corn Rescue effort, which captured more than 800,000 pounds of surplus sweet corn. The corn was delivered fresh to 18 Feeding America food shelves and meal programs in communities across the United States. A coalition of partners from the agriculture and food industry – organized by the Hunger-Free Minnesota campaign – worked together to harvest, cool, pack and ship the corn over a six-week period, providing 1.5 million meals. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 93 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) is a of fortified blended foods and flours, Royal DSM; USAID; nonprofit partner nonprofit organization working to improve bakeries, and pasta manufacturers. PFS TechnoServe; and strategic partners the capacity, efficiency and product quality will work with 20 medium and large Root Capital and Colle+McVoy. of food companies in sub-Saharan Africa. millers and processors over the next two EC1, FP4 General Mills founded PFS to raise living years to strengthen business acumen standards and to help address chronic food and improve operating capabilities. PFS Partners in Food Solutions supports small and supply issues and extreme hunger in the growing food processors and mills in Ethiopia, also will provide training to an additional Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania and Zambia. developing world. PFS links the technical 50 companies in the areas of improving and business expertise of volunteer r Partners in Food Solutions volunteers work standards, new product development employees (see results below) – including with food processors in Ethiopia. and micro-nutrient fortification. food scientists, nutritionists and engineers – improve access to markets for more than Focusing on wheat: In Ethiopia, PFS is from industry-leading food companies 1 million local smallholder farmers in focusing on a single commodity (wheat) 1 with more than 675 small and growing as many as 12 African nations, thereby in order to make a significant, measurable 2 food processors and millers in Africa. benefiting tens of millions of consumers. impact on the country’s food security 3 1 Ethiopia Expanding geographically: In 2013, PFS and nutrition. The consumption of wheat 2 Kenya 5 4 expanded its presence into Ethiopia. by Ethiopia’s growing urban population 3 Tanzania The goal is to improve products for has increased steadily. Most of the local 4 Malawi wheat is grown by smallholder farmers. 5 Zambia Ethiopian consumers and create markets Goal: By 2016, PFS plans to broaden its for smallholder farmers. Working with The government of Ethiopia plans to fortify work to include as many as 10 corporate USAID and TechnoServe, PFS provides wheat to increase the amount of essential partners, working with 1,000 Africatechnical assistance to medium and micro-nutrients in diets. By focusing on based food companies, which will help large commercial millers, producers the wheat value chain and connecting the expertise of PFS’ corporate partners Impact: PFS results since 2008 with millers and food processors, PFS hopes to make a measurable and lasting impact on the lives of Ethiopians. WATCH VIDEO 675 food companies and 50,000+ hours contributed by processors in five countries have these volunteers have supported Additional partners: In May 2013, r Learn more about how Partners in Food received training and support. 225+ individual projects. Bühler joined existing PFS corporate Solutions supports food companies in Africa. partners General Mills, Cargill and 137,000+ smallholder farmers Improved access to more locally – and their 822,000 family sourced, nutritious and safe members – benefit as they food at affordable prices for “With the foundational support of General Mills and more than 350 employee supply those processors. both food aid and local retail volunteers, Partners in Food Solutions is improving food security and nutrition markets in sub-Saharan Africa. throughout Africa. As the food companies we assist grow and improve, their 600+ skilled employees from product quality is enhanced, they hire more workers and buy more raw corporate partner organizations Recognized by the Clinton Global have participated, including 300+ Initiative and the U.S. Agency for materials from local smallholder farmers. With more income, those farmers can General Mills employees. International Development (USAID). build better lives for their families while enhancing food security in the region.” – Jeff Dykstra, Chief Executive Officer, Partners in Food Solutions GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 94 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 1B Promoting nutrition wellness Integrating food with healthy, active lifestyles We improve nutrition wellness by helping organizations that offer innovative youth 90 percent of U.S. schools – and more in child health, early care and education families make nutritious food choices nutrition and fitness programs. For 2014, than 50 million children – by 2020, helping with General Mills’ experience working with combined with healthy, active lifestyles. we doubled the size of the grants awarded students pursue personal fitness goals organizations across the U.S. to address the in partnership with the Academy of and promote lifelong physical activity. issue of childhood obesity. This partnership Impact Nutrition and Dietetics Foundation. Since will focus on obesity prevention efforts and launching Champions for Healthy Kids in the promotion of healthy lifestyles at early Nearly 1 million youth reached 2002, we have funded 510 programs childhood education centers. The General through Champions for Healthy and reached nearly 1 million kids through Mills Foundation’s support will help to Kids initiatives since 2002 grants totaling US$5.5 million. seed and spread innovation in more than 300 early care and education programs 12,000 new schools enrolled reaching more than 30,000 young children. in the Presidential Youth EC1, FP4 Playworks: In 2013, we provided Fitness Program in 2013 US$150,000 in funding to increase the 60+ years 7,000 more children participating number of U.S. schools with Playworks, in Playworks at school a program that brings trained, full-time coaches to schools in low-income 300 programs reaching more communities to create positive learning General Mills’ support of youth than 30,000 children planned Presidential Youth Fitness Program: experiences both on and off the playground. fitness programs continues our through early childhood Our support of the Presidential Youth The Playworks model of play and physical more than 60-year commitment partnership with Nemours Fitness Program helped enroll 12,000 new activity has substantially improved school to promote active lifestyles. schools in 2013, giving them access to climate in more than 300 schools in 23 Our Wheaties Sports Federation Champions for Healthy Kids: Across the school-based education assessment tools U.S. cities. The General Mills Foundation began encouraging youth fitness United States, our Champions for Healthy and fitness education program resources provided additional funding in 2013 to and education in the 1950s. Kids program supports community to help keep kids physically active. This bring Playworks to three more schools in comprehensive school fitness program north Minneapolis, Minnesota, creating cultivates lifelong skills and healthy habits opportunities for healthy recess and active in the fight against childhood obesity. play for more than 7,000 children every day. General Mills helped launch the program Nemours: General Mills has announced in 2012 with the President’s Council on a new partnership with pediatric health Fitness, Sports and Nutrition. The General leader Nemours to reduce the prevalence Mills Foundation’s commitment to the of childhood obesity and increase healthy program includes US$10 million over six eating and physical activity in young r Our Champions for Healthy Kids program years (2012 – 2018), including US$1 million improves the fitness behaviors and nutritional children. This partnership brings together a of in-kind marketing support. This support knowledge of America’s youth through shared commitment to childhood nutrition community organizations across the U.S. will enable the new program to reach and fitness, combining Nemours’ expertise GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 95 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2 Improve education 2A Building better futures through education Closing the achievement gap In our headquarters community, we are Increasing access to education, partnering to improve education collaborating to help close the educational Around the world, we support programs 240 of our products participate in Box achievement gap, so that all Minnesota youth that expand access to education and raise Tops for Education, including Cheerios, can gain a world-class education, regardless of achievement levels. Our contribution of Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Hamburger Helper, their ethnicity, zip code or household income. funds and expertise increases the impact Old El Paso, Progresso and Green Giant. Through funding and direct involvement with of innovative education programs. local organizations inspired by or connected with Promoting literacy broader education initiatives, General Mills is Impact We are helping put books in the helping bring together community, education, government and business stakeholders dedicated hands of children as part of our r Box Tops for Education provides funds for to accelerating educational achievement for all US$600 million raised for U.S. efforts to improve literacy. U.S. schools. children – from early childhood through early schools through Box Tops for Cheer On Reading: Through our Cheer career. These organizations include Generation Education since 1996, including US$75 million in 2013 Supporting schools On Reading program (formerly known as Next (modeled on the broader Strive Together Spoonfuls of Stories) in the United States, initiative), the Northside Achievement Zone Box Tops for 250,000 people in India and we have distributed 77 million children’s (modeled after the Harlem Children’s Zone and Education helps Africa have received expanded books since 2002 inside specially marked part of the U.S. federal government’s Promise schools across access to education, maternal boxes of Cheerios cereal and have donated Neighborhoods initiative), and AchieveMpls. the U.S. earn health knowledge, and economic US$4.4 million to First Book, a nonprofit General Mills also has a history of leadership cash for the things they need. Since the empowerment through Join children’s literacy organization. In 2012, in supporting early childhood education for program’s inception in 1996, over a halfMy Village since 2009 we expanded Cheer On Reading to our families in the Minneapolis, Minnesota, area. billion dollars has been dispersed to more Honey Nut Cheerios and other Cheerios For example, we helped establish and provide than 90,000 schools. In 2013, our Box funding for Parent Aware, a school readiness 77 million children’s books varieties to help distribute even more Tops for Education program and its affiliates program that empowers parents with ratings distributed through Cheer On books to kids and encourage parents raised more than US$75 million for K-8 and tools to help them select high-quality Reading (formerly Spoonfuls and children to read together. The books schools in the U.S., including US$63 million child care and early education programs. of Stories) since 2002 target children 3 to 12 years old and most from General Mills brands. More than are printed in both English and Spanish. “Our partnership with General Mills and the Cheer On Reading program has helped us put millions of brand-new, high-quality books into the hands of children from low-income families across the country.” – Kyle Zimmer, First Book President and Chief Executive Officer HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Little Free Library: In 2013, we donated 25,000 books to Little Free Library, an organization that champions free book exchanges in neighborhoods around the world. WATCH VIDEO Expanding access to education through r Learn more about Join My Village. Join My Village Now in its fifth year, Join My Village has positively impacted a quarter million General Mills in 2009, in partnership with people in Africa and India. The program the humanitarian aid organization CARE r With support from Join My Village, girls are able to pursue their educations. This young has granted thousands of educational USA to leverage the collective power woman in Malawi graduated from secondary school with support from Join My Village programs scholarships to girls in Malawi and and was accepted to university in the fall of 2013, where she is now studying agriculture. of individuals through social media to India, built dozens of homes to bring improve the lives of women and girls in those online actions trigger charitable teachers to remote villages, provided some of the poorest communities in the donations from General Mills and other textbooks and reference materials to world. When people follow the work of sponsors. Together, we are working to thousands of students, and established Join My Village through the program’s expand the program to more impoverished 125 village-based savings programs that website (joinmyvillage.org) or social communities around the globe. are improving livelihoods for 73,000 media (facebook.com/joinmyvillage), EC1, FP4 people. Join My Village was founded by Join My Village results since 2009 More than More than More than More than 150 Nearly 1,000 8,500 16,000 232,000 73,000 girls have participated girls in Malawi girls have been children have gained people have people have benefited in a Udaan school have gained supported at access to classroom benefited from from village savings for older girls scholarships to 54 residential reference materials maternal health programs to start or attending school attend secondary schools in India and learning supplies knowledge scale businesses for the first time school GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 97 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3 Strengthen communities 3A Increasing impact through employee volunteerism Sharing skills and best practices Our employees contribute their skills and volunteer their time to achieve results Skills-based across our marketing organization have completed more than 35 projects since in our communities around the world. volunteerism the program’s inception, including 45 Our employees have built a strong legacy of volunteers and seven projects in 2013. Impact volunteerism at General Mills by applying FP4 the skills they develop in their jobs to help 76 percent of General Mills organizations in our communities. The “Good Works is our way employees worldwide report 300 General Mills employees who have of giving back using our volunteering in their communities, used their technical and business expertise including 83 percent of to help growing food processors and r A General Mills Good Works volunteer intellectual capital and U.S.-based employees millers in the developing world through team analyzed First Book member data individual talents. It serves and conducted a marketing analysis to help Partners in Food Solutions exemplify this the organization expand awareness among organizations with a strong 2,500+ employees in 60+ skills-based approach to volunteerism. educators (both current and prospective locations participated in Think program users). First Book has delivered more need for marketing and Good Works: Our Good Works program Global, Volunteer Local activities also leverages employees’ on-thethan 100 million books since 1992. strategy assistance.” in 2013 – Gregg Dorazio, Program Lead job knowledge for the benefit of our organizations with General Mills marketing for Good Works communities. Founded in 2009, the professionals in our headquarters Good Works program links nonprofit community. Nearly 200 volunteers Market research provides insight into produce purchases In 2013, a team of marketing professionals from General Mills worked with Homegrown Minneapolis, a nonprofit organization that promotes locally sourced foods for low-income families, and conducted research about how to increase these families’ visits to farmers’ markets. The Good Works team interviewed consumers at farmers’ markets and held focus groups in neighborhoods with families in need. The research provided insights for increasing families’ use of nutrition assistance benefits to purchase fresh fruits and vegetables at farmers’ markets. v General Mills employee volunteers identified opportunities to boost low-income families’ visits to farmers’ markets. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 98 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Employees thinking globally, volunteering locally In 2013, more than 2,500 General Mills employees from more than 60 locations around the world volunteered in their communities as part of our Think Global, Volunteer Local (TGVL) event. This annual initiative is part of our broader strategy to connect our employees in meaningful ways with our communities so they can make a positive impact throughout the year. TGVL is strategically focused on hunger, nutrition and environmental/sustainable community projects. Listed below is a sampling of employee volunteerism during TGVL and throughout 2013. These efforts reinforce our core values. campaign and helped fill a bus cover more than 3,000 families. Ferry dumplings for their school. with items that were donated During the past three years, our Watch this video to learn more. to United Way charities. employees have volunteered more than 300 days providing support to education projects for students and empowerment programs for women to Argentina: Employees turned Greece: Employees in improve money management, an urban space near our facility Athens volunteered at health and hygiene. in San Fernando, Argentina, Theotokos, an organization Brazil: More than 400 employees into a park to be shared by the United States: Employees in that provides educational from our Yoki operations in community, collected 28,500 Cincinnati, Ohio, participated opportunities for children with Brazil participated in volunteer kilos of food to be donated in an event organized by developmental disabilities. activities in eight cities, including to a local food bank, and Prepare Affair, an organization working with students and volunteered with Fundación that pairs volunteers with donating books to schools. Nosotros, an organization local homeowners who that helps integrate mentally need assistance preparing U.K.: Employees participated disabled people into society. their homes for winter. in Earth Day projects, including weeding at an environmental center. India: Since 2008, the General Mills Foundation has provided support to the community Mexico: To support Fundación development program of Familiar Infantil, an organization Maharashtra Institute of that provides housing, food and Canada: Employees in France: Working together with Technology Transfer for Rural WATCH VIDEO education to children whose Mississauga, Ontario, raised Restos du Cœur, a French charity Areas (MITTRA), a program of mothers are in jail, General CA$636,945 and collected that distributes food to the needy, the BAIF Development Research China: In 2013, 200 employees Mills employees performed almost 60 bags filled with employees from our Häagen-Dazs Foundation that promotes in four locations – Shanghai, maintenance at the children’s clothing, more than 50 boxes of facilities participated in gardening, sustainable livelihoods in rural Nanjing, Sanhe and Guangzhou – house and raised funds to nonperishable food, 14 bags of cooking, baking and delivery of India. MITTRA is creating participated in community purchase new tennis shoes for winter coats, and 33 boxes of food packages and hot meals. self-employment opportunities events, including tree planting, all the children, water tanks for craft items and books during the Along with employee efforts, the for rural families in 13 tribal cleaning up a mountain road, the house and other items. company’s Stuff the Bus project General Mills Foundation also villages near our General Mills accompanying children of FP4 as part of their local United Way provided a US$75,000 grant plant at Nashik. With a grant migrant workers to a science campaign. Ninety-eight percent to support this organization. of US$175,000 in 2013, the museum and providing Wanchai of employees participated in the program has been expanded to GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 99 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 3B Innovating to empower communities worldwide Providing resources to nonprofits around the globe We strengthen communities by supporting remarkable nonprofit organizations that Improving livelihoods are making a difference around the world. in impoverished communities Impact Beyond its education work, Join My Village is also helping to economically US$153 million in total giving in empower thousands of women living 2013, including US$27 million in in impoverished communities, which grants provided to charities in increases family livelihoods. Join My nearly 50 communities worldwide Village helps communities establish village 3,000 families now benefit savings and loans associations (VSLAs), from access to clean, reliable which enable groups of women to pool a water in western China portion of their savings to help one another start and expand their small businesses. r General Mills is helping improve food security in the vanilla-growing region of Madagascar. In 2013, US$4.5+ million in support to Since 2009, more than 6,700 women our philanthropic contributions were used to purchase 40 tons of rice and construct this storage communities around the world and their families have benefited from warehouse in Belambo village so farmers have reliable access to rice at reduced cost during the lean affected by disaster, including the VSLA programs of Join My Village. season. Today, General Mills buys approximately 10 percent of our vanilla from this farmer co-op. US$2.1+ million during fiscal 2013 Creating shared value smallholder farmers, nongovernmental of smallholder farmers and helping organizations and industry partners to raise the living standards in their In developing economies where General to pursue sustainable development communities, such as our work with Mills or its suppliers may source raw and create shared value. Through this vanilla farmers in Madagascar. Read more ingredients related to production of approach, we are boosting the incomes in the Sourcing section of this report. the company’s products, we work with Providing access to water in China In the arid regions of western China, water shortages contribute to general poverty. Since 2008, General Mills has donated more than US$600,000 to the China Women’s Development Foundation to construct more than 1,000 water cellars and central water supply systems in Shaanxi and Gansu provinces, benefiting more than 3,000 families. The water cellars and supporting facilities have made tremendous changes in villagers’ lives. With a clean, reliable water supply, local villagers can now earn incomes growing vegetables and fruits and raising livestock, improving their standards of living. v Access to clean water also helps families improve their health and hygiene. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 100 HEALTH ENVIRONMENT SOURCING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Delivering disaster our employee volunteers. From fiscal 2011 through 2013, the General Mills China and fire relief in Australia. We also provided US$150,000 for typhoon relief relief to neighbors in Foundation provided more than in the Philippines in November 2013. our communities US$4.5 million in disaster relief grants EC1, FP4 worldwide. In 2013, that support included When our communities around the world U.S. hurricane relief, flood relief in Argentina are affected by disaster, General Mills and the United States, earthquake relief in responds with grants, food donations and General Mills has provided more than US$4.5 million in support to communities around the world affected by disaster since 2011, including the locations highlighted below. Pakistan n Pakistan flooding China U.S. n China earthquake n Southern Minnesota floods Southern U.S. tornados n Japan n North Minneapolis tornado n Japan earthquake & tsunami n Joplin tornado & rebuilding efforts n Duluth/Superior flooding n Hurricane Sandy Thailand n Thailand flooding Philippines n Philippines typhoon Indonesia n Indonesia volcanic eruption Brazil n Brazil flooding & mudslides Australia n Australia flooding & fires Argentina New Zealand n Argentina flooding n New Zealand earthquake GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 101 APPENDIX Environmental Data Summary*,**,*** 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Excl 2013 Incl In thousands, except rate data Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) 580 570 579 557 546 534 533 528 531 524 Energy usage (kWh) EN3, EN4 2,769,236 2,740,885 2,738,032 2,754,617 2,685,422 2,656,939 2,601,972 2,465,010 2,506,426 2,931,196 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,509,968 1,511,989 1,527,708 1,496,014 1,471,627 1,509,856 1,462,563 1,358,567 1,391,133 1,644,732 Fuel oil (kWh) 50,237 58,580 37,242 29,597 24,192 23,556 22,055 21,249 22,586 26,910 Natural gas (kWh) 1,414,573 1,370,316 1,405,408 1,379,694 1,377,570 1,382,944 1,350,699 1,267,482 1,284,875 1,386,492 LP gas (kWh) 4,484 5,846 4,787 2,989 14,458 17,085 4,171 2,747 2,013 29,042 Solar panels (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA NA 82 121 119 119 Cogeneration electric (kWh) 14,146 19,129 21,128 20,744 14,672 27,221 25,234 17,763 17,871 17,871 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 26,528 58,117 59,143 62,989 40,736 56,698 52,330 30,646 39,348 39,348 Biomass (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA 2,352 7,993 18,559 24,322 144,949 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (kWh) 1,259,268 1,228,897 1,210,325 1,258,603 1,213,794 1,147,082 1,139,408 1,106,444 1,115,293 1,286,465 International (kWh) 104,083 110,689 125,176 178,336 159,683 138,470 140,497 149,890 156,838 326,841 North America (kWh) 1,155,185 1,118,207 1,085,148 1,080,267 1,054,112 1,008,612 998,911 956,554 958,455 958,455 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 215,212 253,647 284,709 291,888 264,858 262,493 268,289 283,768 294,718 718,319 North America (kWh) 2,554,025 2,487,239 2,453,324 2,462,729 2,420,564 2,394,446 2,333,683 2,181,243 2,211,709 2,211,709 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/ metric tons of product) 0.225 0.221 0.224 0.215 0.210 0.204 0.205 0.205 0.205 0.181 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (metric tons CO2e) 1,073 1,065 1,059 1,064 1,033 1,014 1,002 958 968 1,011 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 280 283 285 282 273 285 273 251 255 282 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 12 14 8 7 5 5 5 4 5 6 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 267 268 275 274 265 277 267 246 250 270 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 1 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 0 6 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 793 782 774 782 760 728 730 707 713 729 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) NA NA NA NA NA 0 1 3 4 44 GHG Emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 64 76 86 85 84 87 91 95 100 143 North America (metric tons CO2e) 1,009 989 973 979 950 927 912 863 868 868 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.383 2.266 2.222 2.258 2.186 2.112 2.135 2.111 2.902 Water withdrawl (cubic meters) EN8 11,100 10,600 11,000 11,000 10,800 10,300 10,000 10,000 16,200 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 2,000 1,800 1,700 4,100 Municipal (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 8,300 8,200 8,300 8,400 Surface water (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 3,700 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/ metric tons of product) 0.057 0.052 0.047 0.051 0.040 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.033 0.034 Solid waste (metric tons) EN22 266 241 221 239 197 183 178 159 155 190 * All data are fiscal year. Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned production facilities globally, excluding the recently acquired Yoki Alimentos S.A. ** Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. *** Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodology. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 102 2013 Commitments/Goals/Progress FOCUS AREA HOW COMMITMENT/GOAL PROGRESS Health Goal: Provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help them live healthier lives. Improve product Reducing calories, fat, saturated 73% of U.S. retail sales volume nutritionally health profiles fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by improved since 2005; 20% in fiscal 2013. 10 percent or more per serving. 90+ products nutritionally improved internationally in fiscal 2013. Increasing beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent or more per serving. CPW announced targets in 2012 for CPW: 41% of global sales volume nutritionally improved since 2012. nutritionally improving about 5.3 billion portions of cereals in more than 140 countries. Reduce sugar In 2009, we pledged to reduce all of our 100% of Big G cereals marketed to children contain cereals advertised to children under 12 to 10 grams of sugar or less. single-digit grams of sugar per serving. CPW: Reduce sugar content of 20 Nestlé 63% of CPW’s volume of brands popular with children and breakfast cereal brands popular with teenagers has achieved committed sugar reduction target. children and teenagers to 9 grams or less per serving by the end of 2015. Yogurt: We have reduced sugar in our main kid yogurts by a line average of 24% since 2007. Reduce sodium U.S.: Reduce sodium by 20% across top On track 10 retail product categories by 2015. Australia: Reduce sodium in Reduced sodium by an average of 30-35% in products by 25% by 2015, as part of our Latina Fresh pasta. In selected Betty Crocker Healthier Australia Commitment cake mixes, reduced sodium by 10-30%. CPW: Reduce sodium content of CPW: Since 2003, CPW has removed more than 20 breakfast cereals popular with 900 metric tons of salt from its cereal recipes. 96% children and teenagers to 135 mg or of CPW’s recipes have achieved the committed less per serving by the end of 2015. sodium reduction target as of December 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 103 2013 Commitments/Goals/Progress FOCUS AREA HOW COMMITMENT/GOAL PROGRESS Health, continued Reduce calories Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation 50% of General Mills U.S. retail products have 150 calories or pledge with 15 other leading food and less per serving (800+ products). 33% of General Mills U.S. beverage companies: Reduce calories by retail products (500+) have 100 calories or less per serving. 1.5 trillion in the U.S. marketplace by 2015. General Mills and other food companies exceeded the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation pledge in 2013 (three years ahead of schedule) by collectively trimming 6.4 trillion calories from products. Environment Goal: Continually reduce our environmental footprint. Reduce energy usage Goal: 20% reduction rate by Reduced energy usage rate by 10% since 2005. 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduce GHG emissions Goal: 20% reduction rate by Reduced GHG emissions rate by 20% since 2005. 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduce water usage Goal: 20% reduction rate by 22% increase in water usage rate since 2006, 2015 (2006 baseline). primarily due to impact of Yoplait International. Reduce solid waste generation Goal: 50% reduction rate by Reduced solid waste generation rate by 40% since 2005. 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduce transportation Goal: 35% reduction rate by Reduced transportation fuel usage rate by 24% since 2009. fuel usage 2015 (2009 baseline). Reduce packaging footprint Goal: 60% global packaging volume 59% of packaging volume improved since 2009. improved by 2015 (2009 baseline). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 104 2013 Commitments/Goals/Progress FOCUS AREA HOW COMMITMENT/GOAL PROGRESS Sourcing Goal: Sustainably source the raw Commitment: Sustainably source materials we use in our products. 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, representing more than 50% of our annual raw material purchases. Increase sustainability of ingredients Vanilla Source 100% of our vanilla by 2020 Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. through origin-direct investment, improving the incomes of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients. Cocoa Source 100% of our cocoa by 2020 Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. through origin-direct investment, improving the incomes of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients. Palm oil Source 100% of our palm oil We are on track to meet our 2015 commitment and from responsible and sustainable expect to have our palm oil 75% sustainably sourced by sources by 2015. the end of calendar 2014. In 2013, 46 percent of our palm oil was sourced through mass balance purchases. Sugarcane Source 100% of our sugarcane by 2020 Phase 2: Strategy formation in fiscal 2013. from responsible and sustainable sources. Encourage sustainable agricultural practices Oats Source 100% of our oats by 2020 from Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. growing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement against industry-based environmental metrics. Wheat Source 100% of our U.S. wheat by Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement using the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 105 2013 Commitments/Goals/Progress FOCUS AREA HOW COMMITMENT/GOAL PROGRESS Sourcing, continued Sugar beets Source 100% of our U.S. beet sugar Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. by 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement using the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. Corn Source 100% of our dry-milled corn Phase 2: Strategy formation in fiscal 2013. by 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement using the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. Dairy Source 100% of our directly sourced Phase 3: Transformation in fiscal 2013. fluid milk from producing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement as measured by the Dairy Sustainability Framework in the U.S. and other comparable environmental metrics (globally). Fiber packaging Source 100% of our fiber packaging by 99% of our packaging supply uses either recycled 2020 from recycled material or from materials or virgin fiber that is sourced from regions virgin wood fiber regions that are known where deforestation is not occurring. to not be contributing to deforestation. Workplace Goal: Foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees can thrive. Increase workplace safety Goal: Zero injuries/illnesses. We reduced our global total injury rate by 10%, to 1.62 injuries per 100 employees in fiscal 2013 (down from 1.79 in 2012). Community Goal: Build strong communities. Alleviate hunger 2020 goal: Provide 200 30+ million meals provided globally through food million meals globally. donations in fiscal 2013. 137,000+ smallholder farmers and their 822,000 family members impacted by Partners in Food Solutions since 2008. Advance nutrition wellness 2020 goal: Empower 25 million youth Presidential Youth Fitness program available to all U.S. with skills and knowledge to achieve schools in fiscal 2013. Champions for Healthy Kids and maintain physical wellness. program affected 1 million youth since 2002. 125,000 U.S. schools gain access to Presidential Youth Fitness program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 106 2013 Commitments/Goals/Progress FOCUS AREA HOW COMMITMENT/GOAL PROGRESS Community, continued Improve education 2020 goal: Provide over $1 billion to $75 million raised for U.S. schools through Box Tops for schools through Box Tops for Education. Education in fiscal 2013; $600 million since 1996. Expand access to education 2020 goal: Empower 1 million 250,000+ people have received expanded access people in impoverished communities to education, health knowledge and economic globally through education empowerment since 2009 through Join My Village. and improved livelihoods. Volunteer in the community 2020 goal: More than 80% of 76% of employees volunteered worldwide in fiscal 2013. employees volunteering worldwide. Invest in our communities 2020 goal: Achieve $2 billion $153 million in giving in fiscal 2013. $1+ billion cumulative giving. cumulative giving since 1954. All dollars cited are U.S. dollars. Responsible Marketing Pledges n I nternational Food and Beverage Alliance (IFBA) n Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) n Canadian Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CAI) n EU Pledge GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 107 (LA13) Board of Directors Diversity (% of total) % Male 69.2% Female 30.8% Black 7.7% Asian 0.0% Hispanic 7.7% Native American/American Indian 0.0% Age 50+ 100% Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO Letter 2013 Annual Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2013 10K 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2013 10K 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Introduction 2013 10K 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2013 Annual Report 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 2013 10K 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2013 10K 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2013 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2013 Annual Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Workplace GeneralMills.com/Media/Awards Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 108 Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Introduction 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction 3.5 Process for defining report content. CEO Letter/Introduction 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Introduction 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Introduction 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly Introduction affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Health applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, Environment or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Workplace 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such Environment re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Appendix 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. None 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Introduction 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible GeneralMills.com/Investors for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. GeneralMills.com/Investors 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance GeneralMills.com/Investors body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 2013 Proxy Statement (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. GeneralMills.com/Investors Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 109 Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/Company and social performance and the status of their implementation. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Introduction internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Introduction organization subscribes or endorses. Sourcing 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Introduction to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Health Environment Sourcing Community Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 110 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Economic Disclosures on Management Approach ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Community and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Workplace 2013 Annual Report 2013 Proxy Statement EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Introduction Environment Sourcing Carbon Disclosure Project EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2013 10K EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Sourcing Workplace EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Sourcing Environment Disclosures on Management Approach MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Environment ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environment Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 111 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment ENERGY EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Environment Sourcing EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Environment BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Sourcing of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Sourcing EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Sourcing EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment Carbon Disclosure Project EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Environment Sourcing EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are most commonly used in small quantities for closed-loop refrigeration systems and occasional fumigation activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 112 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air emissions primarily include particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not discharge untreated sanitary wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environment EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention The quantity of hazardous waste Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste generated at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the No water bodies are significantly reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Environment Sourcing EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Environment Sourcing Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 113 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with General Mills received no significant environmental laws and regulations. fines or regulatory sanctions during the reporting period. TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Environment operations, and transporting members of the workforce. OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosures on Management Approach EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Workplace LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 45% of U.S production employees are covered by CBAs LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. General Mills maintains good notice practices as it relates to notice periods, whether they are required by law, by contract or outside of both. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Workplace help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Workplace LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Workplace or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Workplace Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 114 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Workplace LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist Workplace them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Workplace DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Workplace group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Appendix GeneralMills.com/Investors EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Compliance with our Supplier Code human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights Sourcing screening, and actions taken. GeneralMills.com/Sourcing HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Sourcing violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Sourcing to the effective abolition of child labor. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 115 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Human Rights FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Sourcing and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ASSESSMENT HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. REMEDIATION HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Disclosures on Management Approach LOCAL COMMUNITIES SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Sourcing SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Workplace SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Workplace We launched an updated Antibribery course in September 2013 and as of today, 19% of our global employees have completed that training. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Introduction GeneralMills.com/ Civic Involvement Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 116 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Society PUBLIC POLICY SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. GeneralMills.com/ Civic Involvement ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Health, Workplace and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts Health of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information In fiscal 2013, there were no incidents and labeling, by type of outcomes. of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2013, our U.S. consumer satisfaction rate was 97%. Globally, we invest in measurement and monitor satisfaction on an ongoing basis. MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, Health promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 117 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Product Responsibility COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Food Processing Sector Supplement FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Sourcing General Mills adheres to a strict supplier code of conduct and utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. GeneralMills.com/Sourcing FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized Sourcing responsible production standards, broken down by standard. FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country. FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge Health transfer, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; Workplace access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. Community Sourcing FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally Health recognized food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans Health fats, sodium and added sugars. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients Health like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Health WholeGrainNation.com GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Cereal GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Yogurt GeneralMills.com/Nutrition FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process animals in its production operations. Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 118 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Food Processing Sector Supplement FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. General Mills does not physically alter animals or use anaesthetics. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type. Sourcing General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, Sourcing by species and breed type. Animal welfare policy FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards General Mills does not transport, handle related to transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. or slaughter live or aquatic animals. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 119
