Device Services Company Limited Device Services Company Limited HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Device is committed to develop an organizational culture which supports internationally recognized human rights and avoid any involvement in the abuse of human rights. We provide an environment which supports and promotes equal opportunities, dignity and mutual respect. This is clearly stated in our Human Rights & Sustainability Policy. Implementation Device is committed to creating a culture in which employees respect the dignity and worth of individuals. Device strives to foster respect for human rights that we operate our business while providing an environment that encourages employees to understand and realize importance of human rights.  Equal Employment Opportunity and Respect for Human Rights Device strives to provide equal employment opportunities. Device is committed to treat our employees with no illegal discrimination based on race, religion, gender, social status, physical or mental disability, and sexual orientation.  Compliance with Employment Laws and Regulations Device adheres to the applicable laws and regulations which it operates in treating our employees. Device Services Company Limited Measurement of Outcomes We believe that as a result of these measures, there was no employees regarding any violation of Human Rights. We monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey. From this survey we measure the temperature of how the employees regard working in Device. We conduct yearly performance appraisals with every employee on a one to one basis to ensure that everyone is heard. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and the Human Resources Manager. We do not employ any form of forced labour because we consider that as fundamental violation of human rights. Also, we are totally against the practice of child labour. All job applications are subjected to detailed screening by our Human Resources personnel. All employees in Device are given equal opportunities; hiring and promotion of employees are based on criteria like academic qualifications, skills and track record. Device Services Company Limited Implementation Device has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about the working terms and conditions. Device employee’s policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights. So, all employees are aware of its existence and must agree upon it before signing. Device strives to achieve and maintain a healthy and safe work environment that motivates its employees. Measurement of Outcomes No complaints were reported during this reporting period. It treats all its employees with dignity and respect, and not uses corporal punishment or threats of violence or other physical or mental abuse. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are, however, motivated and highly committed to protecting and making a positive impact on the local environment, while conducting our daily business activities. By increasing the deployment of ICT throughout society, Device will expand our contributions to solving environmental challenges together with customers and society. We will continually strive to lower the Device Services Company Limited environmental burden of our business activities. By doing so, we will continue working together with our stakeholders in the global value chain including our customers, partners and suppliers to shape a sustainable and prosperous society. Implementation Device started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycle paper and avoid unnecessary expenses. Device encouraged the staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail in order to minimize paper usage. Measurement of Outcomes In our continuous effort to improve our environmental performance we are pleased to report that Device has accomplished the following over the past year:  Completed our transition to a paperless operating environment.  Distributed our new yearly newsletter to all employees detailing environmentally friendly practices they can incorporate into their work and personal lives. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Device managed its business with honesty, fairness, transparent and committed to responsibility to social and all stakeholders, in compliance with the accepted good corporate governance principles and business ethics. Device believes that the bribery and corruption issues must be tackled by all levels of society. Device’s role as a private company is to act responsibly in all aspects of how services of Device, as well as actively support relevant initiatives to combat corruption. Device Services Company Limited Implementation Device is against all forms of corruption and will work actively to ensure that this does not occur in the group's business activities. Over the past years, internal and external checks and balances system over transactions were audited by internal audits, external audits, finance, administration and HR department. Measurement of Outcomes Device has not experienced any cases of corruption within the past year. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest.
