for a Sustainable Future 2013 The future of Energy, Resources and Materials Contents Editorial Policy This report was compiled to fulfill JX Group s responsibility to explain its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities to all stakeholders̶including shareholders, investors, customers, employees and local communities̶and also to deepen its dialogue with and align its response to the expectations of its stakeholders. Editorial Policy 1 The framework of this report is based on the JX Group Mission Statement and the JX Group Values. JX Group Mission Statement 2 The Features section introduces initiatives for the future the JX Group as a whole is undertaking to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society̶ Management Message 3 a stable supply of energy, resources, and materials, the sustainable use of resources and a recycling-oriented JX Group Overview 6 society, and a low-carbon society ̶and also covers the Group s activities with its stakeholders. The JX Group Values section reports on several 2nd Medium-Term Management representative activities we are conducting in accordance Plan and Long-Term Vision 7 with the Group s five EARTH values. It also includes remarks from employees who carry out daily operations in line with the EARTH values. Features The JX Group companies, including JX Holdings and the three core operating subsidiaries, disclose information on For the Future of Society 9 various CSR activities on their respective websites. Please take time to visit these websites. (See page 40) 1 Ensuring a Stable Supply of Energy, ● Scope of Report Resources and Materials in the Future • JX Holdings, Inc. and its 11 main Group companies. 11 • JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation and its 23 main Group companies. 2 A iming for the Sustainable Use of • JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and its 30 main Resources and a Recycling-Oriented Group companies. • JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation and its 56 main Society in the Future 15 Group companies. 3 Realizing a Low-Carbon The scope of quantitative information is defined in notes on each page. Society in the Future 17 ● Reporting Period 4 Working with Stakeholders to Create In principle, the report covers the period from April 2012 to Energy, Resources and Materials for March 2013. However, some information from April 2013 onwards is also included, as necessary. the Future 21 ● Publication February 2014 (Previous issue December 2012. Next issue December 2014.) JX Group Values 23 ● Guidelines Used as Reference Ethics 24 • The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1 Advanced ideas 25 • The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Ministry of the Environment, Japan. Relationship with society 27 • The GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement ● Enhancing Reporting Reliability Trustworthy products/services 31 The environmental performance information data on pages 33–36 has been reviewed by an independent body to ensure Harmony with the environment 33 objective and reliable reporting. Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking JX Group Management 37 Statements This notice contains certain forward-looking statements, Guide to JX Group Websites 40 however, actual results may differ materially from those reflected in any forward-looking statement, due to various factors, including but not limited to the following: Third-Party Opinion 41 (1) macroeconomic conditions and changes in the competitive environment in the energy, resources, and I ndependent Prac titioner s materials industries; (2) changes in laws and regulations; and Review Report 42 (3) risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. 1 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 JX Group Mission Statement JX Group Slogan The Future of Energy, Resources and Materials JX Group Mission Statement The JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. JX Group Values Our actions will respect the EARTH. Ethics Advanced ideas Relationship with society Trustworthy products/services Harmony with the environment About JX The name JX is a brand that symbolizes the JX Group s existence and presence. The letter J represents our position as one of the world s largest integrated energy, resources and materials business groups from Japan, while the letter X represents our willingness to pioneer new frontiers, our future growth and development potential, and our pursuit of creativity and innovation. About the JX Corporate Brand Mark The JX corporate brand mark symbolizes the continuity of the global environment and the JX Group based on the JX Group s mission statement. The design, in which the JX logo overlaps with a sphere, represents the JX Group s commitment to a green earth̶i.e., our contribution to the development of a sustainable economy and society, through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. * The JX corporate brand mark is common to JX Holdings, Inc., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 2 Management Message Yasushi Kimura Isao Matsushita Representative Director, Chairman Representative Director, President We Find Ourselves in the Middle of As a result, the world will see continuing competition Global Structural Changes for resources moving forward. In addition, energy policy shifts are being debated around the world with Japan has seen structural declines in demand for the emergence of shale gas, while demand is rising for petroleum products in recent years owing to its a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society as a means declining birthrate and aging society, declining to solving environmental issues. Both of these have population, changes in industrial structure, and become important factors affecting the direction of the JX Group s businesses. promotion of energy efficiency. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, Japan has also been reviewing its energy mix and is taking steps to address its many The JX Group’ s Social Mission is to social challenges, including by diversifying its energy Contribute to the Development of a sources, making further progress in becoming a Sustainable Economy and Society society based on independent, distributed energy systems, and promoting energy system reform to Given this business environment, in March 2013 we meet these goals. drew up the 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan, Internationally, demand for energy resources, such as marking the start of growth, after completing the 1st oil and natural gas, and non-ferrous metal resources, Medium-Term Management Plan, which helped build such as copper and rare metals, is growing on the the foundation for this growth. At the same time, we back of infrastructure development and improving formulated a new Long-Term Vision for the JX Group living standards in fast growing emerging countries. in 2020. 3 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 This Long-Term Vision defines the JX Group in began developing the infrastructure for supplying 2020 as a highly competitive corporate group fully hydrogen fuel at our service station network to help compliant with international standards. Specifically, promote the spread of fuel cell vehicles. In addition, through the energy business we are aiming to we commenced operations at mega solar facilities in become an energy conversion company that converts Tagajo City, Miyagi Prefecture and Kudamatsu City, and supplies energy stably and efficiently; through Yamaguchi Prefecture and have worked on expanding the oil and natural gas development business the Dr. Ouchi-no Energy household energy we are aiming to become an upstream company consulting service. that achieves sustainable growth with a focus on Each of our group companies are implementing operatorship; and through the metals business we are their own social contribution activities tailored to their aiming to become a global resources and materials unique operations, such as ENEOS Forests. The entire company centered on copper. JX Group is striving to coexist in harmony with society The JX Group Mission Statement calls for as a good corporate citizen, which includes promoting contributions to the development of a sustainable culture through the JX-ENEOS Children s Story Award, economy and society through innovation in the supporting the next generation with the JX-ENEOS areas of energy, resources and materials. Under Children s Story Fund, and assisting the disaster this commitment and through our 2nd Mediumrecovery effort through ongoing JX Group volunteer Term Management Plan and Long-Term Vision, we activities supporting restoration and recovery at are moving forward with initiatives to become the the disaster areas affected by the Great East Japan world s leading integrated energy, resources, and Earthquake. materials corporate group. As for our environmental initiatives, we formulated the JX Group Medium-Term Environmental The JX Group is Collectively Focusing Management Plan (running from fiscal 2013 to fiscal on CSR Activities 2015) in May 2013 based on deliberations within the group on environmental management aspects of the The JX Group is committed to pursuing both its 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan. Under this plan, business activities and CSR activities in a collective we have established shared group-wide targets under fashion that incorporates corporate citizenship and the three underlying themes of promoting measures environmental protection. to prevent global warming and conserve biodiversity, Our business activities are defined by the slogan The reducing environmental impacts, and enhancing the Future of Energy, Resources and Materials. Under this, environmental management system. We are currently we are pursuing the stable supply of energy, resources making efforts collectively to achieve each of these and materials, achieving a recycling-oriented society targets. and the sustainable use of resources, and realizing In 2012, compliance deficiencies were found at a low-carbon society, through each of our business multiple refineries with regard to safety tests stipulated segments. by the High Pressure Gas Safety Act. Of these, In fiscal 2012, we decided to move into the Mizushima Refinery B-Plant had its license terminated development phase at the Mariner oil field off the by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry on coast of the United Kingdom in the North Sea to December 25, 2012 in accordance with the provisions create a facility that greatly contributes to our goal of this Act. The JX Group recognizes the seriousness of achieving a stable energy supply. Meanwhile, the of this incident and as such is taking steps collectively Caserones copper mine development project in Chile as a group to prevent future reoccurrences, raise has commenced production of electrolytic copper and awareness toward the critical nature of compliance plans call for the production of copper concentrate within our business activities, and regain the trust of to begin before the end of fiscal 2013. In addition, stakeholders as quickly as possible. we have established plans to open 100 earthquakeready service stations across Japan by fiscal 2015 that The JX Group is committed to listening carefully allow fuel to be pumped even after a power outage in to the opinions and needs of its shareholders and locations where large-scale natural disasters are likely investors as well as the many stakeholders directly to occur. involved in its business operations, and reflecting As part of our efforts to build a recycling-oriented these in the management process in order to ensure society, we completed construction of a new facility the soundness and transparency of its management in Tsuruga City, Fukui Prefecture to finalize the practices. commercialization plan for recovering rare metals We ask for your understanding and support of the JX from used lithium ion batteries. Group as we move forward. We are also making great strides with our measures for realizing a low-carbon society. We JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 4 Message from Senior Management of the JX Group＇s Core Operating Subsidiaries JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Satisfying Society’ s Diverse Needs as an Energy Conversion Company The JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group maintains products like residential-use fuel cells and the social mission of converting various more fuel efficient oils. Through these efforts, resources into the form of energy required by we are striving to reduce the environmental its customers, whether it is gasoline, kerosene, impacts of customers when they consume or electricity. To achieve this mission, we have energy. In addition, we are also working with established stable supply systems for various homebuilders and other companies to deliver forms of energy across the value chain, from homes that are more energy efficient with resource procurement to production, logistics the goal of realizing a low-carbon society and and sales. We are also taking steps to reinforce helping to contribute to a sustainable economy our service station distribution network and society. and establish energy infrastructure that can We are committed to compliance and safety, withstand disasters and other emergencies. and are seeking to become a corporate group Seiichi Isshiki Environmentally speaking, we are making that considers the safety and comfort of people Representative Director, President our refineries and other business sites more as well as the happiness of all stakeholders JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation energy efficient, while at the same time through energy conversion. also developing and selling eco-friendly JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation Pursuing Environmentally-friendly and Safety-conscious Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Business JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group is business approach; and establish competitive engaged in the environmentally-friendly advantages by focusing on core business and safety-conscious business of oil and gas areas and technologies. With this as our basic exploration and development in 14 countries strategy, we will aim to maximize our corporate around the world. In particular, we are value with the target of producing 200,000 operating an oil production project in Vietnam barrels per day in 2020. and a gas production project in Malaysia. At the same time, as a prerequisite to As international competition to acquire these, we will fulfill our social responsibilities resources intensifies, we have to explore by establishing and enriching a CSR and develop more challenging oil and promotion system based on the three pillars gas fields, including in deep sea and highof compliance, social contribution and HSE Shigeo Hirai temperature/high-p ressure conditions. In such (health, safety and environment). We are also Representative Director, a business , we will: increase reserves contributing to sustainable development, President and CEO and production volume mainly through through our regular business activities, in JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation exploration; accumulate expertise mainly countries and regions where we are running through operatorship and taking a proactive our business. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Contributing to Worldwide Sustainable Development by Stably Supplying and Effectively Utilizing Metal Resources The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is an refinery, we are advancing such new strategies integrated non-ferrous metals manufacturer, and as making forays into functional materials used has been active in businesses covering resources for automobiles and overseas procurement of development, smelting and refining, electronic recycled materials. At the same time, we are materials, and recycling and environmental expanding our businesses by differentiating services, with copper at its core. our products and services and streamlining our In the resources development business, business operations. the Group is going ahead with the Caserones We believe that our CSR activities are nothing Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Development more or less than our business activities, and Project in Chile, which is the first copper mining are carrying out our social mission of providing Yoshimasa Adachi development project carried out solely by Japanese companies. We have already begun a stable supply of resources and materials. By instilling the spirits of safety first and compliance Representative Director, President and CEO producing copper cathodes, and plan to start throughout the entire Group and developing JX Nippon Mining & Metals copper concentrates production by the end global human resources, the Group is engaged Corporation of fiscal 2013. In other business areas, fulfilling in its world-class CSR activities. our rol e as largest copper smelter and 5 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 JX Group Overview Financial Highlights ■ Holding Company Overview Net Sales (Billions of yen) JX Holdings, Inc. 12,000 10,000 Representatives: Yasushi Kimura, Representative Director, Chairman 8,000 Isao Matsushita, Representative Director, President 6,000 11,219.5 Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 9,634.4 10,723.9 4,000 100-8161, Japan 2,000 Established: April 1, 2010 Capital: ¥100 billion 0 2010 2011 2012 Principal Group Businesses: Energy Business, Oil and Natural Gas E&P Business, and Metals (Fiscal year) Business Operating Income (Billions of yen) ■ Overview of Core Operating Subsidiaries 400 JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation 300 Representative: Seiichi Isshiki, Representative Director, President 200 334.4 Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 327.8 251.5 100-8162, Japan 100 Capital: ¥139.4 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) 0 Principal Business: Refining and marketing of petroleum products (gasoline, kerosene, 2010 2011 2012 lubricants, etc.), manufacturing and marketing of petrochemical products, (Fiscal year) import and marketing of gas (LPG and LNG), import and marketing of coal, supplying electric power, and developing, manufacturing and Ordinary Income marketing residential-use fuel cells, photovoltaic cells, power storage (Billions of yen) 500 batteries and other products 400 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation 300 Representative: Shigeo Hirai, Representative Director, President and CEO 200 413.7 407.8 328.3 Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100 100-8163, Japan Capital: ¥9.8 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) 0 2010 2011 2012 Principal Business: Exploration for and development of oil, natural gas, and other mineral (Fiscal year) resources; extraction, processing, storage, sale, and shipment of petroleum, natural gas, and other mineral resources and their secondary Net Income products (Billions of yen) 400 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 300 Representative: Yoshimasa Adachi, Representative Director, President and CEO 200 Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 311.7 100-8164, Japan 100 170.6 Capital: ¥40 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) 159.5 Principal Business: Development and mining of non-ferrous metal resources, smelting and 0 2010 2011 2012 refining and marketing of non-ferrous metals (copper, gold, silver, etc.), (Fiscal year) manufacturing and marketing of electronic materials, recycling of nonferrous metal materials, and treatment of industrial waste for reuse Total Assets (Billions of yen) 8,000 ■ Overview of Listed Subsidiaries 6,000 4,000 ● Consolidated Subsidiaries: 2 6,260 6,690.4 7,274.9 NIPPO CORPORATION 2,000 Representative: Kazunori Mizushima, Representative Director, President 0 Head Office Location: 19-11 Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8380, Japan 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Capital: ¥15.3 billion (57.2% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Civil engineering works such as construction of roads and paving Net Assets work, building work, and the manufacturing and sale of asphalt (Billions of yen) mixture 2,500 Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. 2,000 Representative: Kiyonobu Sugiuchi, Representative Director, President 1,500 Head Office Location: 3-5 Chigasaki 3-chome, Chigasaki City, Kanagawa 253-8510, 2,327.4 1,000 2,044.8 Japan 1,886.2 Capital: ¥12 billion (50.4% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) 500 Principal Business: Refining, melting and sale of titanium metals 0 2010 2011 2012 ● Equity-method Affiliates: 5 (Fiscal year) JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 6 JX Group 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan and Long-Term Vision In March 2013, the JX Group drew up the 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan, which defines strategies and targets for the subsequent three years from fiscal 2013, and the Long-Term Vision, which offers a glimpse of the JX Group in fiscal 2020. 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan We have drawn up the 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan after looking back on the results of the 1st MediumTerm Management Plan and based on changes that have taken place in society and the business climate surrounding the JX Group. Through this plan, our goal is to become one of the world s leading integrated energy, resources and materials corporate groups by fully implementing key strategies and achieving quantitative targets. Basic Policy On the premise of establishing both proper governance backed by thorough compliance and, CSR implementation structure ● Securing stable profitability in existing business by realizing overwhelming competitiveness through continuous restructuring Profitability and stable operation ● Realizing return from invested projects Realizing high profit and high ROE continuously ● Allocating management resources to highly profitable and Growth developing operations on a priority basis ● Structuring a stronger balance sheet in line with business Flexibility environment change Strengthening risk tolerance Maximize group corporate value Become a world’s leading integrated energy, resources and materials business group Basic Strategies by Business We have drawn up basic business strategies for each ◆ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production core business of the JX Group in line with the business Business environment and based on the basic policy noted above. Business Environment ● Steady increase in demand for crude oil and natural gas, mainly ◆ Energy business in emerging economies, and high-and-volatile price levels for Petroleum Refining and Marketing resources and energy ● Intense competition to acquire resources and growing requirement Business Environment ● Continued structural decline in domestic demand for fuel oils and for sophisticated technologies for exploration and development ongoing competition with imports Basic strategy ● Increasing reserves and production volume mainly through Basic strategy ● Strengthening profitability in petroleum refining and marketing, exploration activities ● Establishing advantage by focusing on core business area and the core business of JX Nippon Oil & Energy technology Energy conversion operations ● Restructuring business portfolio responding to business Business Environment environmental change ● Government s re-examination of national energy policy taking shape ◆ Metals business Basic strategy ● Enhancing business as an Energy Conversion Company Resources development Business Environment Basic chemical products & lubricants ● The demand for copper, centering around Asia, will uphold high Business Environment level of copper price ● Continued growth in energy and materials markets, centered on ● Advancement of technologies and increase in funds required Asia for resources development will lead to capital intensification and Basic strategy oligopolies in the resources development industries ● Establishing a presence in overseas markets Basic strategy ● Establishing a business model to generate high profit by increasing Specialty & performance chemical products Business Environment concessions of copper mines ● Growth in demand for high-value-added products in emerging ● Acquiring concessions of copper mines by utilizing our uniquely countries developed technologies Basic strategy Copper smelting & refining ● Capturing demand for high-value-added products based on Business Environment original technologies that are based on proprietary technologies ● Ongoing mine development projects will not enable us to have much hope for significant improvement in TR/RC Basic strategy ● Establishing a copper smelting and refining business structure to achieve the world top-class cost-competitiveness 7 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Electronic materials Recycling and environmental services Business Environment Business Environment ● Demand for electronic materials and components used in business ● Requirement to establish eco-conscious society will result in fields of advanced IT, automobiles, medicine, and other industries expanding demand for products manufactured from recycled will further increase materials Basic strategy Basic strategy ● Securing top shares of our electronic materials in the world market ● Building a recycling-oriented business model to globally develop our environment-friendly zero emission system Target 2nd Medium-Term (Reference) 1st Medium-Term Management Plan Management Plan Assumptions (FY2015) Ordinary Income Over ￥400 billion (FY2015) Over ￥300 billion (FY2012) Exchange Rate ¥90 / US $ ＲＯＥ Over 10% (FY2015) Over 10% (FY2012) Crude Price (Dubai spot) US$110 / bbl. Copper Price (LME) 360 ¢ / lb. Net D/E Ratio Under 0.9 times (FY2015) Under 1.0 times (FY2012) CAPEX Over ￥1,300 + α* billion ￥960 billion * The designation α is used to denote additional (plan) (FY2013-2015 3-year total) (FY2010-2012 3-year total) strategic investment projects implemented based on changes in the business environment Long-Term Vision – The JX Group in Fiscal 2020 The Long-Term Vision defines the ideal vision for the JX Group s business portfolio structure in the year 2020, so that JX can become one of the world s leading integrated energy, resources, and materials corporate groups. This vision is being shared and followed across the entire JX Group. A corporate group holding competitive business evaluated by global standards Energy Oil and Gas E&P Metals Integrated Energy Conversion Develop into an E&P company with Global resources and materials Company for stable and efficient sustainable growth focusing mainly company centered on copper energy supply on operatorship ● Generate stable profitability in ● Achieve daily oil and gas production ● Expand equity-entitled copper refining & marketing volume of 200 thousand barrels mine production to 350 thousand Establishing a competitive ● Organic cooperation to share tons per year supply chain (Refining, logistics, human resources and know-how ● Establish world s top-class costmarketing) among global offices competitiveness in the copper ● Establish an integrated energy ● Maintain a reserve replacement ratio smelting and refining operations supply structure 100% and over ● Secure world s top share in the Electricity, Gas, Coal, Solar, Fuel Cell, markets of electronic materials we Hydrogen supply ● Enhance business in growing ● Establish a recycling-oriented market system in Japan and expand it Basic Chemicals, Lubricants, globally Specialty &Performance Chemicals Well-balanced business portfolio of petroleum and non-petroleum, upstream and mid & downstream business ■ Balance of ordinary income excl. FY2012 FY2015 FY2020 inventory valuation Others Others Others (Upstream Business) Energy: Coal 65% 55% 45% E&P: All Metals: Resources Development Metals Energy Energy Metals (Non-petroleum business) Energy Metals Energy: Electric Power Generation, Gas, Coal, Oil and Photovoltaic Power Generation, Fuel Cell, Oil and Natural Gas Oil and Specialty & Performance Chemicals Natural Gas E&P: LNG Project (Malaysia, Indonesia, Papua New E&P Natural Gas E&P E&P Guinea) Metals: All 40% 45% 50% ■ Petroleum business ■ Upstream business The Long-Term Vision leverages the strengths of To achieve this, we will need to promote creativity each business to establish competitive advantages and reform, while also stabilizing and strengthening internationally and to achieve a well-balanced the base of our existing businesses. The Long-Term business portfolio between petroleum and nonVision will also be achieved by fully implementing the petroleum, and upstream and mid & downstream fundamental strategies laid out for each business in businesses. the 2nd Medium-Term Management Plan. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 8 Features For the Future of Society Ensuring a Stable Supply of Energy, Aiming for the Sustainable Resources and Materials in the Future Recycling-Oriented Society Recognition of Current Conditions Recognition of Current Demand for natural resources, such as oil, gas and metals, is increasing In modern society, non-ferrous annually, mainly in emerging economies. Countries and companies are for leading wealthy and cultural consequently competing more intensely for these resources. Given this society to future generations, trend, our stakeholders have been expecting stable supply of energy, enable us to effectively reuse limited resources and materials, which are indispensable to industries, economies and people s everyday lives. Basic Approaches Basic Approaches The JX Group will leverage our comprehensive The JX Group will competencies to ensure a stable supply of energy, capability that we have resources and materials. create society where ● Expand the exploration and development of overseas oil and gas fields to effectively recycled and attain our goal of securing stable production of 200,000 barrels per day ● Ensure safe operation in oil and gas development and enhance business ● Maximize synergy between business which properly treats opportunities through the application of new technologies and our recycling business ● Enhance business as an Energy Conversion Company metals from recycled raw ● Fortify the oil and gas sales network and build a disaster-resistant stable ● Properly treat recycled supply system the burden that affects ● Strengthen the petrochemical and lubricant supply system, primarily in Asia aspects ● Promote exploration and development activities to expand equity-entitled ● Establish a global resource copper mine production to 350,000 tons per year ● Utilize next-generation ● Achieve full-fledged safe and stable copper smelting and refining resources development operations and establish world s top-class cost-competitiveness recover value-bearing metals ● Secure world s top share in the markets of electronic materials we supply 9 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Use of Resources and a Realizing a Low-Carbon Society in the Future in the Future Conditions Recognition of Current Conditions metals are an invaluable resource Reducing CO2 emissions on a worldwide scale has become an urgent lives. In order to pass sustainable issue. As a result, various actions are desired at all levels, including establishment of systems that changes in energy policy, greater innovation in the business world, and resources is encouraged. consumers making changes to their life-styles. Basic Approaches leverage technological The JX Group is committed to creating systems for long cultivated to help supplying energy and to developing the materials metal resources are of tomorrow that will lead to a low-carbon society. reused. ● Promote initiatives that focus on the use of renewable energy and our environmental services advanced use of fossil energy and detoxify industrial waste, ● Provide distributed power devices and services that make homes which recovers pure valuable materials more energy efficient and reduce environmental impacts, such as fuel cells, solar power generation systems and storage batteries raw materials to minimize ● Propose energy management systems that help reduce environmental and social environmental impacts ● Develop hydrogen supply infrastructure using service stations in recycling network order to further promote the spread of fuel cell vehicles smelting technologies in ● Supply high performance electronic materials to growth sectors that business field to effectively contribute to a low-carbon society, such as electric vehicles, etc. from low-grade ore JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 10 Features Ensuring a Stable Supply of Energy, Resources and Materials in the Future As a corporate group that supports people’ s lives and plays an integral role in economic infrastructure, the JX Group is focusing its strengths on the development of a stable supply system that encompasses resource development, production and sales in the respective fields of energy, resources and materials. We aim to contribute to economic and social development through these businesses. Expand Oil and Gas Exploration and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is engaging in measures Production to expand reserves and production, mainly through exploration activities, to attain its daily production goal Competition for resource interests has been intensifying for 2020 of 200,000 barrels. Specifically, we will capitalize due to the global expansion in demand for oil and on the knowledge we have obtained thus far and on our natural gas. Moreover, in recent years, with the increasing favorable relationships with state-owned oil companies percentage of oil and gas discoveries in severe conditions as well as oil-producing countries and regions, while of natural environment, such as remote area or deep water, prioritizing the allocation of management resources by sophisticated technologies and considerable financial focusing on core regions and technologies, and establish strength are imperative. Amid this harsh business climate, advantage by accumulating technologies, primarily through our activities as an operator. ■ Exploration and Development Schedule for Principal Oil and Gas Fields Oil/gas field 2012 New concession agreement takes effect Mubarras oil field (Abu Dhabi, UAE) 1973 Commencement of production 2011 Signed new concession agreement Helang gas field (Malaysia Block SK10) 1990 Discovery Jintan gas field (Block SK8, Malaysia) 1992 Discovery Tangguh LNG project (Indonesia) 1997 Discovery Kutubu oil field (Papua New Guinea) 1990 Asset acquired Magnus oil field (U.K. North Sea) 1996 Asset acquired Rang Dong oil field (Block 15-2,Vietnam) 1994 Discovery 2014 Scheduled start-up of production LNG Project 2009 Final investment decision (Papua New Guinea) 2017 Scheduled start-up of production Mariner oil field 2012 Asset acquired (U.K. North Sea) 2013 Final investment decision 2008 Discovery Culzean gas field (U.K. North Sea) 2011 Confirmed extent of reserves with appraisal wells Block 05-1b/c Exploration phase (Vietnam) 2010 Discovery Development phase Production phase 1990 2000 2010 11 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Rang Dong oil field in Vietnam Caserones copper mine in Chile We drive forward the following projects to achieve our Expand Copper Mine Concessions production goal of 200,000 barrels per day in 2020. As is the case with oil and natural gas, ensuring the stable (1) Projects under development supply of metal resources is also a crucial issue. Papua New Guinea LNG JX Nippon Mining & Metals has actively developed copper Mariner oil field in the UK North Sea resources, and possesses concessions at high quality copper (2) Projects before final investment decision mines around the world, including the Escondida Mine in Culzean gas field in the UK North Sea Chile, which is the world s largest. 3rd train of the Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia At the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit in (3) Promoting large exploration operation project Chile, we launched the production of refined copper in March Block SK-333 and Deep Water Block R offshore Sabah 2013 and plan to begin production of copper concentrate in Malaysia in fiscal 2013. Our plans for average annual output in the Block A in Qatar first 10 years is 150,000 tons of copper concentrate (copper content), 30,000 tons of refined copper and 3,000 tons of molybdenum concentrate. Once in full operation, the ratio of equity entitlement copper-mine production* is expected to significantly improve from under 20% to roughly 50%, and further out we target equity-entitled copper production of 350,000 tons per year. ■ Production Forcast (Crude oil equivalent) * The ratio of equity entitlement copper-mine production: the ratio of (Thousands of BD) copper concentrate obtained from sources where a company owns mining concessions to its total copper concentrate required for its smelting and 225 Major oil and gas fields before ■Promoting exploration refining operations final investment decision (FID) projects, others ● Malaysia (Layang gas field) ■ Before FID 200 ● UK North Sea (Culzean gas field) ■ In development ■ Equity-Entitled Copper Mine Production ● Indonesia Tangguh LNG Project 3rd Train ● Papua New Guinea LNG Project 3rd Train ■ In production (Thousands of tons per year) 175 350 Period of 2nd Midium-Term Increase by adding Quechua, 150 Management Plan Frontera, etc. 300 136 Period of 2nd 125 Midium-Term 117 250 Management Plan 100 200 75 Caserones 150 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 100 May 2013 Production 2014 Production 2017 Production Three existing mines in Chile commenced scheduled to commence scheduled to commence 50 (Los Pelambres, Escondida, ● Australia (Finucane South ● Papua New Guinea LNG ● UK North Sea oil field) ● UK North Sea (Mariner oil field) Collahuasi) (Kinnoull oil field) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 12 Features Ensuring a Stable Supply of Energy, Resources and Materials in the Future Initiatives as an Energy Conversion natural gas, coal and solar, into the best energy source for Company customers, and to deliver stable supplies of this energy. We are looking to expand our business based on the evolution JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation is taking initiatives of Japan s future energy policy trends following the Great as an energy conversion company to efficiently convert East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011. naturally occurring primary energy, such as crude oil, ■ Initiatives as an Energy Conversion Company Primary energy Solar, wind power, Crude oil LP gas Coal Natural gas and biomass Energy conversion company Conversion Utilized energy Gasoline Kerosene LP gas Hydrogen➡Electricity; Electricity City gas hot-water supply Customers During the 1st Medium-Term Management Plan that continue to reduce manufacturing costs and build an spanned from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012, we expanded the optimized production system. We will expand the Dr. Mizushima LNG Terminal and finalized plans to construct Ouchi-no Energy*2 household energy consulting service LNG terminals at Hachinohe and Kushiro*1 (operations through partnerships with other companies. In addition, slated to begin in 2015). In addition, we acquired mining we will proactively utilize JX Group land that is idle to grow concessions from Xstrata Coal of Australia for a coking coal the mega solar generation business*3. block in Canada. As an energy conversion company, going forward we Hydrogen Business: In April and May 2013 we successively will take steps to enhance our core business of petroleum opened service stations that provide both gasoline and refining and marketing as well as expand the following hydrogen*4. Based on the results of verification testing businesses. for these hydrogen stations, we will begin to develop a hydrogen supply infrastructure using our nationwide Electricity Business: We will expand our business through network of service stations and build an appropriate modifications to electricity systems. business model. JX Nippon Oil & Energy s annual domestic sales of fuel oil Gas Business: We will capture new demand and expand stand at about 72 million kiloliters*5, or a 37% market share. our supply base with the Hachinohe and Kushiro LNG There are some 11,000 ENEOS service stations in operation terminal construction projects slated for completion and across Japan, representing a 32% market share of service full-scale operations in 2015. stations. The company also enjoys a dominant market share in the oil refining and marketing segment, which form the Coal Business: We will expand coal sales by acquiring new foundation for Japan s industrial and economic activities. demand domestically and move forward with the coking Our greatest mission is to provide a stable supply of energy coal development project in Canada. essential to our daily business activities and people s lives. Renewable Energy: In the fuel cell business, we will *1: See page 20 for more details. *2: See page 18 for more details. *3/*4: See page 19 for more details. *5: Data as of March 31, 2013. 13 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 ◆Expanding Overseas Lubricants Business Delivering a Stable Supply of Demand for all types of lubricants, including those used Petroleum Products in automobiles and for industrial applications, is on the rise, making a stable, high-quality supply of lubricant Worldwide demand is growing for energy, resources and products essential mainly for emerging countries. Highpetroleum products. As a result, one of the JX Group s most quality lubricants will also play a critical role in generating important roles in society is to continually provide a stable greater energy savings, especially given the motorization supply of energy, resources and materials, while carefully advancements taking place in emerging countries. monitoring market needs with forward-looking insight. We established a lubricants manufacturing and marketing We are fulfilling this responsibility as Japan s largest oil company in Vietnam that will enable us to build an integrated refiner and supplier and we are also responding to robust manufacturing and marketing system in the country. We demand from Asian markets by supplying lubricants and have also commenced local production of lubricant products petrochemical products. for motorcycles and automobiles in Indonesia as well. Going forward, we will take steps to reinforce our Supplying Products to Asian Markets where manufacturing and marketing systems mainly in the high Demand Remains Rampant growth markets of the Asia region. JX Nippon Oil & Energy recognizes that it can leverage its integrated strengths in petroleum product research and Service Stations That Can Pump Fuel Even development, manufacturing and marketing to make during an Earthquake Disaster contributions to the development of business and industry JX Nippon Oil & Energy has opened service stations that overseas. Emerging countries have robust demand for can continue to pump fuels even during a power outage petroleum and petrochemical products, but at the same following an earthquake. The Great East Japan Earthquake, time many of these counties lack supply capacity. We are however, brought about a new problem, as a giant tsunami aggressively expanding our business mainly in Asia for destroyed the electricity system, rendering service station paraxylene, which is used as a basic chemical for the raw fill-ups impossible. materials of many products and lubricants, which are used As a result, we have been conducting trial demonstrations widely as a basic material. at a new earthquake-ready service station, which has rooftop space for a water tank and evacuation site to assist the local ◆Paraxylene Project in South Korea community during an emergency. As part of this project, we Paraxylene is a basic chemical used to make polyester and have also taken measures to ensure that the service station PET bottles, and demand is expected to rise significantly can withstand not only a power outage, but major flooding going forward mainly from China. JX Nippon Oil & Energy, as well, in order to accommodate risks associated with a which is currently Asia s largest seller of paraxylene, major disaster that affects a wide area. The service station concluded a joint venture agreement with SK Global also has a fuel cell, solar power generation system, and LED Chemicals Co., Ltd. of South Korea in the summer of 2011 lighting to help reduce energy use during normal operations. and established Ulsan Aromatics Co., Ltd. in June 2012. The We are currently examining whether to open earthquakeplanned annual production capacity of this joint venture will ready service stations in a total of 12 cities and wards along be one million tons (JX Nippon Oil & Energy s portion will the Pacific Coast of Japan from Tohoku in the north to Kyushu be 500,000 tons), which will make it the largest in the world. in the south to help improve the functions of local social After this project is launched, we will seek to capture greater infrastructure. As of August 31, 2013, we had opened four demand from this growing market and further establish earthquake-ready service stations, one each in Ishinomaki City, ourselves as one of the world s producer of paraxylene. Miyagi Prefecture, Wakabayashi Ward, Sendai City, Yaizu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, and Onomichi City, Hiroshima Prefecture. ■ Overview of the New Earthquake-ready Service Station ENEOS’New Earthquake-ready Service Station Waterproof fuel pump meters Solar power Rooftop space Earthquake Flooding (motor can be easily accessed and replaced) Emergency generators and fuel cells located resilient on second floor Power outage Emergency generator (independent, distributed energy system) Solar power Solar power generation system generation system (uses renewable natural energy) Solar power generation Rooftop space viable during Energy efficient with a system showing CO2 reduction at a glance flooding up to 7 meters in height operations LED lighting LED canopy lights and indoor lighting (changed over to energy efficient lighting equipment) LED canopy lamps Waterproof fuel Various equipment (LED lighting) pump meters High efficiency power generation and hotFuel cells water system (JX Nippon Oil & Energy’ s ENEFARM solid-oxide fuel cell system) Power source for Power source provided by emergency Community charging mobile phones generators contributions Drinking water Approximately 2,000 PET bottles of drinking water stored onsite Using LED canopy lamps to ENE-FARM save energy Emergency Located on second floor rooftop Generator evacuation site (temporary evacuation during flooding) The new earthquake-ready service station (Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture) 2F Hypothesized 1F flooding of first floor JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 14 Features Aiming for the Sustainable Use of Resources and a Recycling-Oriented Society in the Future As an integrated non-ferrous metals company, JX Nippon Mining & Metals engages in a wide range of operations, covering upstream (resources development), midstream (metal refining), and downstream (electronic materials, and recycling and environmental services) operations. We are aiming to build a recycling-oriented society through our recycling and environmental services business, to effectively use of precious metal resources that will support our future. ■ Recycling and Environmental Services Business of the Features of the Recycling and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Environmental Services Business Recycled materials The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group engages in integrated operations consisting of resources development, smelting and refining, recycling and environmental Precious metals Gold and Used mobile Copper scrap scrap Copper dregs services and electronic materials processing in the area of (e-scrap, etc.) silver dregs phones non-ferrous metals̶centering around copper, but also titanium, precious and rare metals. One of the key features Industrial waste and strengths of the recycling and environmental services business is that we possess a full spectrum of technologies, ranging from rendering industrial waste harmless to those for recycling resources into high pure materials, which are Waste oil Waste acid Waste alkali based on comprehensive processes and know-how. Our recycling and environmental services consists of the environmental services business to render industrial Waste plastic waste harmless through proper treatment methods and Sludge (shredder dust) e-waste the recycling business to convert recyclable materials containing valuable metals into highly pure materials. For example, the recycling business at the company s Features and Strengths of the JX Nippon Mining & Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, which is one of the world s Metals Group largest and most efficient copper refineries, uses surplus Proprietary technology heat from smelting and refining process to recycle scrap 1 The group owns proprietary process technologies combining pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical technologies, based on containing conventional and precious metals. In this smelting, electrolysis and analysis technologies developed over many years in the non-ferrous metal smelting and refining business. manner, the refinery is helping not only to maximize the use of resources, but also contributing to reduce the High-quality facilities 2 The group utilizes the facilities of Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, which Group s impact by effectively utilizing energy. has one of the world s largest, high-efficiency copper smelting and At the same time, in our environmental services business refining processes. carried out in four operating sites in Japan, valuable metals Location 3 The group carries out non-ferrous metal recycling at the Hitachi Works are condensed from the proper treatment process and in close proximity to the Tokyo metropolitan area, an urban mine where used as raw materials for the recycling business. large amounts of recycled materials are available. Collection network We leverage the technologies cultivated in resources 4 The group has a nationwide network of collection sites for recycled development and smelting and refining to employ proper materials in Japan, as well as a collection site in Taiwan. treatment methods to bring the environmental impact Treatment network from these businesses as close to zero as possible. 5 The group has enhanced pretreatment capabilities utilizing the four core environmental services companies (capable of addressing difficult-toConsequently, we aim to establish a recycling-oriented treat materials). society by enhancing the synergistic benefits from various Group-wide capabilities of JX Nippon Mining & Metals processes, and achieving both economic efficiency 6 The group harnesses synergies with the copper smelting and refining and electronic materials businesses, and utilizes its group-wide network of and environmental conservation through our recycling affiliated companies. business, which recovers a diverse range of metals by using diverse processing technologies to process diverse Products raw materials. Refined copper Gold Silver Slag 15 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 ■ Structure of a Recycling-Oriented Society Recycling Center of the company, which is collecting the Pro Products ctss raw materials there. Recyclable materials are collected and the pretreatment processes, such as crushing, are carried End products Used products (Urban Mines) Consumers manufactures out, after which the waste material is sent to Japan. A wide (Home electric appliances, automobiles, machinery, etc.) variety of non-ferrous metals are recovered. Products We are looking into expanding our operations overseas, including fortifying our collection activities in North Recovery system America, to ensure that resources are recycled globally Parts manufacturers using proper treatment methods. In addition to those, to handle an increase in the Recycled materials Rec amount of incoming materials, we have expanded our pretreatment, sampling and analyzing capacity at the Electronic materials Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery. Recycling & JX Nippon Mining & Environmental Services Group Metals HMC* Dept., Hitach Works Electronic materials Tsuruga Works Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, business Developing New Smelting and Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Four environmental-related Refining Technologies companies Non-ferrous metals Demand for refined copper, as a raw material to produce electrical wires or electronic components, is expected Environmental Recycling business The business field of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group to increase, mainly in emerging economies. Meanwhile, services increasing number of copper mines, which require to be * Hitachi Metal-recycling Complex dug to deeper levels, deteriorating grade of copper ore containing more impurities, and other issues are intensifying Rare Metal Recycling competition to acquire concessions of copper mines. In order to efficiently recycle rare metals contained in Under this circumstances, the JX Nippon Mining & wasted electronic equipment, automotive and home Metals Group is pouring its energy into development electronic appliances, etc., the JX Nippon Mining & Metals and commercialization of new smelting and refining Group has established a nationwide collection network. We technologies, in order to efficiently recover value-bearing are carrying out a rare metal metal recycling business at metals from low-grade copper ore. We are pursuing the Hitachi Works, which is in close proximity to the Tokyo possibility to create new resources development methods metropolitan area, a so-called urban mine with a large by leveraging the new smelting and refining technologies. volume of used products. These include the N-Chlo process which we are uniquely developing in Australia, and the bioleaching technology ◆Automotive Lithium Ion Battery Recycling which we are jointly developing with Codelco, the Chilean Demand for electric cars is expected to expand rapidly. state-owned copper mining company. A major issue from the perspective of stably securing Technologies for efficiently recovering valuable metals raw materials and reducing environmental burden is the from low-grade copper ore is obviously beneficial to recycling of lithium-ion batteries, which is a core component extend lives of existing mines. At the same time, they of electric cars. To formulate the final commercialization can make low-grade copper deposits, which could not plans, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group constructed generate a return enough to be approached, possible to new facilities at the Tsuruga Plant in April 2012 after a period be developed. Consequently, the technologies allow us to of demonstration trials on recycling technologies. be competitive in not only securing mine concessions, but also conserving the global environment and ensuring the ◆ Titanium Recycling stable supply of metal resources. Titanium, which possesses superior qualities as a material, is used in a wide range of industries including airplanes and medical equipment. Asphalt Recycling Initiative Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. installed a cutting-edge, largeThe JX Group is also implementing initiatives outside of its scale EB furnace (electron beam furnace) to produce metals business aimed at achieving a recycling-oriented titanium ingots from material scrap and is actively engaging society. NIPPO Corporation has been recycling waste asphalt in the recycling of titanium, a metal for which demand is pavement materials since the beginning of the 1950s and expected to increase in the future. today its receives asphalt and concrete debris (construction by-products) at its asphalt mixing plants across Japan where it actively uses these materials to manufacture* and sell Expanding the Recycling Business Overseas asphalt mixture and materials for base course. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is also aggressively The company began researching ways to utilize molten slag collecting spent materials overseas owing to a decline generated from the incinerator ash of household garbage as in the amount of recyclable materials in Japan and in part of asphalt pavement materials in 1981 and since then it response to growing recycling needs worldwide. has established this technology for commercial use. Based on In Taiwan, one of the world s production center of this success, today the company is exploring ways to recycle electronic equipment, we have established the Taichung construction by-products and the by-products of other Sales Office of Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd., which deals industries in order to effectively utilize resources. with sales of recycled raw materials and the Chiongpin *Ratio of recycled asphalt mixture is over 70% . JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 16 Features Realizing a Low-Carbon Society in the Future As a comprehensive energy company underpinning Japan, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is working to deliver stable supplies of energy, while driving further expansion in the new and renewable energy business, which will contribute to reducing environmental impact. Through these measures, JX Nippon Oil & Energy aims to help realize a low-carbon society. Electric vehicle charging station (Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture) renewable energy); and (3) independence (energy selfENEOS SOENE Business sufficiency even during disasters). In recent years, there has been growing interest in As part of the ENEOS SOENE business, JX Nippon Oil environmentally-friendly and safe energy, sustainable & Energy provides the ENE-FARM residential-use fuel and natural disaster-resilient energy, and next-generation cell and solar power generation systems and ENEOSrenewable energy solutions aimed at achieving a lowSOENE Renovations service for introducing residentialcarbon society. use independent, distributed energy systems. In fiscal Given this, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is pursuing the ENEOS 2012 the company also commenced its mega solar power SOENE business. This business consists of three important generation business. In addition, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is themes: (1) energy efficiency (enhance energy efficiency); also expanding its presence in the industrial segment, such (2) renewable energy (accelerate the introduction of as by selling equipment to mega solar project operators. ■ Conceptual Diagram of ENEOS SOENE Business (1) Energy Efficiency (2) Renewable Energy (3) Independence Achieve advanced use of resources Accelerate the introduction of Ensure the ability to generate electricity by enhancing energy efficiency renewable energy independently of the power grid ENEOS SOENE Business Develop residential uses Develop industrial use Supply residential energy systems mainly through the three fuel cell businesses Propose energy solutions in the industrial field ENE-FARM Solar power Storage battery generation system Mega solar, solar power ＋ systems for condominiums, Gas co-generation industrial solar power systems Promote household energy consulting service Realize a low-carbon society Realize a society based on independent, distributed energy systems 17 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 The company sold about 2,000 units in fiscal 2011 and another 4,000 units in fiscal 2012, and forecasts indicate that cumulative sales will surpass 10,000 units sometime in fiscal 2013. Going forward, JX Nippon Oil & Energy will pursue further cost reductions and promote the popularization of these solutions by marketing them as an independent energy source when combined with a solar power generation system. ENE-FARM residential-use fuel cell Dr. Ouchi-no Energy Household Energy Consulting Service The Dr. Ouchi-no Energy household energy consulting service offered by JX Nippon Oil & Energy proposes ways to optimize energy usage for each home based on a free diagnostic assessment performed by a household ENE-FARM Residential-use Fuel Cell energy consultant. This service proposes improvements JX Nippon Oil & Energy is focused on more widely through an assessment of a home s energy devices, home popularizing the ENE-FARM residential-use fuel cell as a electronics, and energy efficiency performance using 60 major part of its ENEOS SOENE business. Fuel cells form items via diagnostics and interviews part of a high-efficiency gas cogeneration system that uses Given that energy consumption is increasing in the the heat generated from a chemical reaction between private sector, curtailing energy usage from households hydrogen from LP gas or city gas and oxygen in the air has become an urgent priority. As a result, the Dr. Ouchito heat water. These highly energy efficient systems no Energy household energy consulting service is being can generate residential-use electricity and hot water promoted as a core initiative of the ENEOS SOENE business. compared to conventional energy systems that burn fuel. First launched in June 2012, the service has 506 household This means that the greater use of fuel cells will help to energy consultants stationed in 43 prefectures as of the significantly reduce energy consumed by the home. end of fiscal 2012. Going forward, JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Energy commercialized the ENE-FARM plans on deploying a nationwide force of 1,000 energy residential-use fuel cell in fiscal 2009 and became the consultants. first company in the world to launch sales of a solid oxide This service was again recognized by Japan s Ministry of fuel cell (SOFC) system called the ENE-FARM Type S in the Environment when the company was selected to be October 2011. The superior environmental performance a dealership and gas supplier for the Uchi-Eco Shindan of the ENE-FARM Type S earned it the 2012 Environment Project 2013. In fiscal 2013, JX Nippon Oil & Energy will Minister s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity also provide this service through a partnership with the (Technological Development and Commercialization) Ministry of the Environment as it takes further steps toward and an Award of Excellence at the 2012 Nikkei Global realizing a low-carbon society. Environmental Technology Awards organized by Nikkei Inc. ■ Enhancing Energy Efficiency through ENE-FARM Conventional system (large-scale centralized power generation) Power plant Household Only electricity is supplied to households Electricity Electrical energy: 35–40% Energy efficiency Energy input 100% Exhaust heat Wasted energy: Wasted energy: 35 ～ 40% exhaust heat loss 55%–60% transmission loss 5% Residential-use fuel cell ENE-FARM (distributed power generation) ENE-FARM Household Through use of electricity + exhaust heat Energy input Electricity Electrical energy: 45%* More than twice the energy efficiency 100% Exhaust heat Exhaust heat energy: 42%* Wasted energy: 87% * * At rated output exhaust heat loss 13% JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 18 Features Realizing a Low-Carbon Society in the Future Start of Mega Solar Power Generation Business JX Nippon Oil & Energy launched its mega solar power former site of the Onahama Depot (Iwaki City, Fukushima generation business in January 2013 with the goal of Prefecture), and Okinawa CTS Corporation (Uruma City, expanding renewable energy. The company decided to Okinawa Prefecture). The solar power generation facility enter the mega solar business following the start of Japan s at the Okinawa CTS Corporation will be the largest in the feed-in tariff system for renewable energy in July 2012. prefecture* at about 12 megawatts. Once the new facilities Utilizing idle company-owned lands, JX Nippon Oil & are on line, JX Nippon Oil & Energy s mega solar power Energy has constructed solar power generation facilities generation business will have a total of six sites producing with a total output of 4.8 megawatts. These facilities are some 22 megawatts of electricity. located at the company s Sendai Refinery West Area (Tagajo City, Miyagi Prefecture), Kudamatsu Terminal (Kudamatsu City, Yamaguchi Prefecture), and the former site of the Tsuchiura Depot (Kasumigaura City, Ibaraki Prefecture). The Sendai and Kudamatsu solar power generation facilties began selling electricity in February and March of 2013, respectively, while Kasumigaura plans on doing the same in November 2013. JX Nippon Oil & Energy plans on aggressively expanding its mega solar power generation business in the future beyond the three sites above. Similar solar power generation facilities are slated to come on line at the former site of the Akita Refinery (Akita City, Akita Prefecture), *According to research performed by JX Nippon Oil & Energy as of September 2013 Kudamatsu Mega Solar Power Plant Launched Demonstration Trials of As part of its plans to quickly establish its hydrogen Hydrogen Filling Pumps at Service Stations supply business, between April and May 2013 JX Nippon Fuel cell vehicles are currently being developed as the Oil & Energy commenced* demonstration trials at Japan s clean energy vehicle of tomorrow. Powered by hydrogen, first-ever hybrid service stations with both gasoline and these vehicles produce zero CO2 when in operation and hydrogen filling equipments built in Kanagawa and Aichi are more than two times as energy efficient as gasolineprefectures. powered vehicles. The hydrogen supply facilities at these hybrid stations Major automakers have announced that they will feature a newly developed pump package that is smaller, bring fuel cell vehicles to market sometime after 2015, uses less space and costs less to operate, which is expected creating the need for hydrogen supply infrastructure to be to reduce hydrogen station construction costs in the future. developed prior to this roll out. In addition, high pressure hydrogen allows for the fuel Thirteen private sector companies from the auto and to be filled at almost the same speed as gasoline, which energy sectors, including JX Nippon Oil & Energy, issued improves user convenience. Going forward, the next phase a joint statement in January 2011 to develop around 100 of testing will center on actual service station operations hydrogen stations based on the launch of fuel cell vehicles aimed at final commercialization. in 2015 and unit sales outlook. *JX Nippon Oil & Energy is responsible for building and operating these hydrogen stations as part of a joint project led by the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) and the Research Association of Hydrogen Supply/Utilization Technology (HySUT). ■ Overview of the Hybrid Service Stations Name Ebina Chuo Hydrogen Kaminokura Hydrogen Station Station Ebina City, Nagoya City, Kanagawa Prefecture Aichi Prefecture Location Located at Located at ENEOS Service Station ENEOS Service Station Dr. Drive Ebina Chuo Dr. Drive Kaminokura Start April 19, 2013 May 27, 2013 Hydrogen Manufacturing/ Off-site method*1 On-site method*2 Transport Supply 300 Nm3/h 100 Nm3/h Capacity *1: Hydrogen is transported by dedicated trailer and stored at the station in an accumulator (tank). *2: Hydrogen is produced onsite at the service station from LP gas using hydrogen manufacturing equipment and then stored in an accumulator (tank). Ebina Chuo-Hydrogen Station 19 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 ■ JX Group’ s LNG Supply System Expanding the LNG Business Hachinohe and Kushiro LNG Terminals Hachinohe Compared to crude oil, there is a wealth of natural gas Current (Secondary Terminal) reserves located around the world. Japan is using more and Start of more natural gas because it is a form of clean energy that Operations March 2007 can be supplied safely and produces less CO2. Tank To respond to rising demand, the JX Group is striving 4,500 KL × 1 Terminal Capacity to build a stable supply system across the entire supply chain, from exploration to sales, including overseas gas field development, shipments from group-owned LNG 2015 Hachinohe Kushiro Onward (Import Terminal) (Secondary Terminal) terminals at Mizushima and Hachinohe, as well as domestic shipments via sea, tank truck and pipeline. Start of April 2015 Operations In 2007, JX Nippon Oil & Energy began operations at the Tank Hachinohe LNG Terminal in the northern Tohoku region, Capacity 140,000 KL × 2 Terminals 10,000 KL × 1 Terminal which until then did not have a large-scale natural gas terminal. With an eye to growing supply, the Hachinohe Mizushima LNG Terminal (Import Terminal) LNG Terminal will be used to receive large amounts First Terminal Second Terminal of imports, and JX Nippon LNG Service Co., Ltd. was Start of established as a subsidiary to operate the facility. JX Nippon Operations April 2006 April 2011 Oil & Energy is currently moving forward with construction Tank of the Hachinohe LNG Import Terminal and Kushiro LNG Capacity 160,000 KL 160,000 KL Terminal with operations slated to begin in 2015. Investing JX Nippon Oil & Energy 50% Companies Chugoku Electric Power 50％ Procurement Development Large scale LNG carrieres (60,000 ton class) The JX Group’ s Natural Gas/LNG Supply Chain Coastal tankers (1,000 ton class) Secondary Primary Terminal Customers Terminal (Receiving terminal (Import Terminal) Specified gas appliances Compact circulating boilers for coastal Satellite Terminal tankers) Supply via LNG tank truck Cogeneration Direct supply through pipeline Augmenting Production of Cathode Materials Used in In-Vehicle Lithium-Ion Batteries The JX Group is implementing initiatives beyond its energy safety. business aimed at realizing a low-carbon society. JX Nippon Mining & Metals has also conducted a Automotive lithium ion batteries are used in electric commercial feasibility trial at our Tsuruga Plant on processes vehicles, plug-in hybids and other next-generation ecofor efficient recovery from spent lithium-ion batteries of the friendly vehicles. With demand growing rapidly for these metals used as raw materials in making cathode materials. batteries following the popularization of eco-friendly vehicles, The company now is drawing up plans aimed at the final JX Nippon Mining & Metals is working to expand production commercialization of this system. Successful realization of this of cathode materials used as a component. The company resource recycling system should help assure a stable supply commenced production of these materials at its Isohara Works of raw materials for our cathode materials manufacturing at in September 2012 and established a production capacity of the new facility. 50 million tons per year. JX Nippon Mining & Metals original Providing a stable supply of high-quality cathode materials integrated process ensures reduced impurities and improved will contribute to further popularize eco-friendly vehicles and homogeneity, which helps extend service life and secure achieve a low-carbon society. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 20 Features Working with Stakeholders to Create Energy, Resources and Materials for the Future There are a number of challenges that must be overcome to attain a sustainable society. They will require the development of social systems and technologies. The JX Group aims to utilize its own technological capabilities and work in alliance with stakeholders, such as industrial organizations, academia and specialists, to bring about these innovations. Symposium on Energy in the 21st Century Mr. Ono extended his support to the project, saying that Japan, which depends on imports for the majority of its he looks forward to seeing the project develop innovative fossil energy needs, is promoting energy conservation but recycling technologies for the recycling industry. it is also confronted with the major issue of securing stable procurement. Activities through the ICMM In November 2012, JX Nippon Oil & Energy held its JX Nippon Mining & Metals is a member of the 17th Symposium on Energy in the 21st Century to discuss International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) to energy solutions for the future with a wide variety of conduct responsible business activities. We formulated our stakeholders. The symposium theme was Energy Solutions Code of Conduct based on the principles of the ICMM and in 20 years̶the Vital Role of Fossil Energy. Specialists in are promoting the sustainable development in the metals energy from industry, academia and the government, were and mining industry by sharing best practices. invited to examine this issue. In addition to introducing a case study regarding water Yasushi Kimura, the chairman of JX Nippon Oil & Energy, treatment at the Toyoha Mine, we are actively participating and Yukio Uchida, executive vice president, took the in activities, such as the 4th Materials Stewardship Round podium to discuss the company s objective to respond to Table meeting held by the ICMM, to exchange information the needs of customers as an energy conversion company with stakeholders on conflict minerals. that provides a diverse menu of efficient and convenient energy products and services, given growing expectations Participated in the First Global LNG Producerfor new energy resources, such as methane hydrates. Consumer Conference In September 2012, at the initiative of Japan, the world s Participated in the Kick-off Symposium for largest consumer of LNG, 30 natural gas producing and the Tohoku Innovative Materials Technology consuming nations and regions rallied together for the Initiatives for Reconstruction project world s first LNG Producer-Consumer Conference held The Tohoku Innovative Materials Technology Initiatives for in Tokyo, Japan. The JX Group, a leading company in the Reconstruction project is a collaboration between industry, energy industry, cooperated in hosting this conference. academia and the government. The goal is to contribute to There were around 600 people in attendance at the restoration efforts in areas affected by the Great East Japan conference, including ministers from many nations and top Earthquake by promoting the development of the materials executives from energy-related companies. The discussions industry in the Tohoku region by making use of the were lively, focusing on topics such as long-term forecasts strengths possessed by universities in the region and the for LNG supply and demand, market trends and export nanotechnolo gy and materials fields in the manufacturing plans for US shale gas. The chairman and president from JX sector. Nippon Oil & Energy and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, About 170 people from universities and private-sector respectively, also participated. Shigeo Hirai, president of JX companies participated in the October 2012 symposium. Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, made a presentation about Hiroshi Ono, general manager of the Technology LNG project finance at the conference. Development Group at JX Nippon Mining & Metals, For Japan, which has seen a rise in LNG demand since the introduced the high efficiency rare elements extraction Great East Japan Earthquake, the conference was especially technology being used in the company s recycling business. significant for the stable supply of energy in the future. 21 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Symposium on Energy in the 21st century Members contributed to the establishment of the Endowed Research Unit Human Resources Development through the Public trust ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Fund Industry-academia Collaboration Program Hydrogen is gaining attention as a new energy source. JX Nippon Mining & Metals, in 2012, established the Major technological innovations are required in the field Endowed Research Unit for Non-ferrous Metals Resource of hydrogen manufacturing, transport, storage and CO2 Recovery Engineering (Endowed Research Unit) jointly solidification to promote the use of hydrogen as an energy with the University of Tokyo s Institute of Industrial Science. system. Efficient, low-cost recovery technologies and collection In March 2006, JX Nippon Oil & Energy established the capabilities are the main challenges to the metal recycling public trust, ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Fund, with the goal business. Outstanding human resources are required to of contributing to the rapid development of a hydrogen solve these issues, therefore research is being carried out in energy community. This fund grants a total of 50 million partnership with the university. We aim to develop human yen annually for creative and pioneering basic research resources and set up industry-academia collaboration in the field of hydrogen energy supply. The fund aims to programs to engage in activities, such as research related to provide subsidies for up to 30 years for cutting-edge basic recycling engineering for metal materials, with the ultimate research. goal of achieving a recycling-oriented society. In fiscal 2012, grants were provided to five research In November 2012, as a part of the Metal Manufacturing projects associated with the manufacturing and storage of Process Study Group of the Endowed Research Unit, a total hydrogen and CO2 solidification. of 35, most of whom are studying metal smelting and refining at the University of Tokyo, visited our Hitachi Works. The students toured our worksite that are recovering valuebearing metals, and listened intently to an explanation of our undertakings at the Technology Development Center. Initiatives of the Endowed Research Unit arouse the great hope that the development of human resources will energize Japan s non-ferrous metal industry. Eventually, the human resources cultivated in the Endowed Research Unit are also expected to contribute to the sustainable development of society. Grant presentation ceremony JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 22 JX Group Values Report The JX Group continues to conduct activities based on the JX Group values the EARTH. What does the EARTH mean to me? E thics JX Nippon Procurement has established its own Basic Procurement Policy based on EARTH, which we also publish on our website to make it more visible for our suppliers. I feel that the supplier selection process is one of the most important aspects of procurement. Rather than focus solely Procurement Department, on quality, cost and delivery, however, I strive to objectively determine a Capital Equipment supplier s compliance with environmental policies and legislation as well. Hiroshi Morishita Capital Equipment Group II JX Nippon Procurement Corporation A dvanced ideas The world s major automakers are all planning to sell electric vehicles(EV) in 2013, with 2013 poised to be the first year of the EV era. I m hoping to contribute to higher battery performance by developing new materials based on concepts that are not contingent on past results and which leverage proprietary technologies. As a result, I will be happy if our initiatives lead to the Surface Treatment Department Thin Film Materials Division prevalence of these batteries used in EVs and housedhold power supplies. Yoshio Kajiya Electronic Materials Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation R elationship with society I decided to take part in the ENEOS Environmental Classes as a teacher and also volunteer for an earthquake recovery assistance program because I wanted to do my part. During the volunteer work I was with colleagues from the JX Group, which made it a very encouraging and valuable experience. If the opportunity presents itself, I would like to take part in our CSR activities again to help Systems Integration Group contribute to society and the local community. Yuko Kan-no Tohoku Branch Office JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation T rustworthy products/services I am in charge of sales of our lubricants developed with Japanese advanced technology to the customers in Central and South America. I am doing my part jointly with my colleagues not only in Brazil but also in Japan and overseas countries to provide the customers with the best quality, best price and best service in order to enhance customer satisfaction. I am also very proud of our Business Development & Marketing lubricants, which have beneficial effects on environmental protection. Simone Kanzaki Hashizume JX Nippon Oil & Energy do Brasil Comércio de Lubrifi cantes Ltda H armony with the environment The monotonous sound coming from a drilling rig disrupts the quiet of the surrounding habitat. This is the frontline of exploration activities. The Baram River, which winds through the jungle, is the border between the jungles of Borneo and modern civilization. The challenge is how to conduct our business operations while maintaining harmony with nature. Nature, the best legacy we have to pass on to our children. Passing on Senior General Manager, Development, this legacy to the next generation is our responsibility. Manabu Nakajima Miri Office JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation 23 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 JX Group Values The JX Group has formed a highly ethical Ethics stance based on thoroughness of compliance, strengthening of risk management and respect for human rights, and has set its sights on becoming a true leading company in the field. Compliance Human Rights Basic Approach Basic Approach The JX Group has declared a policy of regulations and The JX Group recognizes that achieving corporate other rules to ensure that thoroughness of compliance behavior firmly rooted in highly ethical values ultimately will be established by each Group company, and laws, rests on the actions of its individual executives and the Articles of Incorporation and regulations shall be employees. Accordingly, the JX Group strives for observed in every aspect of work performance. labor, personnel management, and human resource The JX Group has established the JX Group development underpinned by respect for human rights. Compliance Committee as a subcommittee under the The JX Group strives to cultivate strong ethical values JX Group CSR Council. The committee has selected an among its executives and employees by respecting action policy for the JX Group and reviews the outcome international rules such as the Universal Declaration of these activities. Furthermore, all principal group Human Rights and the ILO Conventions, and providing companies have an internal whistle-blowing system them with supportive environments for performing in place for the early discovery and correction of any meaningful work. The individual policies and specific behavior that has or could result in violation of the law measures are decided based on group company and other regulations. business characteristics and scale. Also, JX Holdings is fostering a management class with highly ethical standards through specific training for executives at each group company and joint training for Policy Prohibiting Connection to managers across the group. Anti-social Forces The JX Group formulated a basic policy to prevent any connection whatsoever to anti-social forces and a set of basic rules for tackling anti-social forces, and promotes Supporting the UN Global Compact’ s measures in this regard. 10 Principles JX Holdings and its three core operating subsidiaries Operational Shutdown at are also participants in the United Nations Global Refineries and Future Initiatives Compact, implementing and promoting the compact s 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the Compliance violations under the High Pressure Gas Safety environment and anti-corruption. Act were discovered at the Mizushima Refinery B-Plant of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, causing the refinery Please refer to page 40 for the UN Global Compact’ s Ten to shut down for a long period of time. At the same time, Principles. a number of equipment troubles at the company s other refineries have also resulted in a spate of shutdowns. The Initiatives to Eliminate Child Labor and JX Group deeply regrets these problems at its refineries, Forced Labor which are supposed to focus first and foremost on safe and stable operations, and will make collective, groupThe JX Group strives to comply with local laws, including wide efforts to reinforce compliance and to strengthen age restrictions placed on hiring, and properly administer initiatives aimed at ensuring safe and stable operations. its personnel at all of its business sites in Japan and overseas. What does“ethics”mean to me? Our company values the connections between individuals and trust. I have heard it said that mutual trust and close relationship are barriers to preventing misconduct. Mayu Noda However, I think what is needed is to maintain the connections among people and Legal Affairs Section, Administration Department. the warm relations, while at the same time building the necessary checks into the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation systems. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 24 JX Group Values Advanced Dedicated to meeting the challenges of cutting-edge research and technology development with advanced ideas, the JX ideas Group will contribute to society as a whole by creating technologies, products and services that help to answer social concerns. Technology and R&D tend to have better sunlight conditions than detached homes. The main reason for this is the danger posed when multiple power conditioners are installed in a Basic Approach single location such as a condominium building in which interference is caused between the power condition With advanced nations leading the move to structure units that makes it impossible for the power system to low-carbon, recycling-oriented societies amid detect a power outage, causing electricity to continually growing awareness of the urgent need to address be supplied from the building. JX Nippon Oil & Energy, global environmental problems, the role of the which has been working on this issue since it was first energy, resources and materials industry has become discovered, came up with a function to interrupt the more important than ever before. supply of electricity from the building in the event of a Guided by its Group mission statement to power outage. contribute to the development of a sustainable This system also offers the most compact sized (A4) economy and society through innovation in the areas power conditioners for individual condominium units of energy, resources and materials, the JX Group is in Japan, making it easier than ever to install. New aggressively pursuing technology development in condominium buildings have already begun to use this each of its business domains. At the same time, we are system, which is helping each household in the building advancing joint research and demonstration tests in collaboration with public institutions, universities and to cut back on electricity usage and reduce their CO2. other entities. JX Holdings also generates synergies by The ene SOLAR Koko Eco system was awarded the New combining technologies within the JX Group as well Energy Foundation Chairman s Prize at the 2011 New as planning and coordinating technologies across the Energy Awards organized by the New Energy Foundation. entire JX Group. Photovoltaic Power Generation System for Individual Condominium Units JX Nippon Oil & Energy was the first in the industry to develop and successfully manufacture a photovoltaic The photovoltaic power generation system for individual power generation system for individual condominium condominium units installed at Leben Heim Hikarigaoka Koen (Takara Leben Co., Ltd.) units called ene SOLAR Koko Eco, which was launched nationwide in Japan in 2010. Ene SOLAR Koko Eco uses a proprietarily developed power conditioner (a device Utilizing Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) that converts direct current electricity generated by the Technology photovoltaic module into alternating current electricity used in the home) that makes it possible for solar power At JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, we have worked on to be generated by each individual condominium unit. field application of CO2-EOR technology which enhances This system also enables condominium owners to take oil recovery while reducing CO2 emissions into the advantage of Japan s program for selling back surplus atmosphere. photovoltaic electricity through a direct contract with a In general, oil is accumulated in the pore of the power company in much the same way as homeowners underground reservoir rock. The primary oil recovery with a similar system are able to do. factor by natural depletion is 5%-30% while the secondary Although the use of photovoltaic power generation recovery factor using water injection is at most 30%-40%. systems by detached homes has steadily risen in recent Focus is being placed on enhanced oil recovery (EOR) years, the same cannot be said for condominiums, which technology, whereby gas or chemicals are injected to What do“advanced ideas”mean to me? I’ m involved in the development of high performance polymers. Every day I listen Yuka Egashira carefully to our customers’needs and find ways to respond to their ever-changing Advanced Polymers Technology Development Group Advanced Materials needs. I always keep an open, creative mind when working with customers and I am Department Specialty Chemicals & Materials Division giving it my all to develop materials that are truly beneficial to society. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation 25 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 further improve the recovery factor. Development of the Hazard-Reducing Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology is Bed (HRB) Method also gaining attention as a method for reducing CO2 emissions. With this technology, CO2 is injected and Major earthquakes can cause gaps in road surfaces due captured underground for storage, such as in depleted oil to ground settlement, making the roads impassable reservoir or aquifer, to reduce CO2 emissions, which is one for vehicles. NIPPO Corporation together with Chuo form of greenhouse gas. University and Maeda Kosen Co., Ltd. developed the The CO2-EOR technology is a combination of CCS hazard-reducing bed (HRB) method of construction that and EOR, in which CO2 is injected into the reservoir makes it possible for vehicles to travel on these roads that for additional oil recovery and JX Nippon Oil & Gas would otherwise be impassable. Exploration has implemented the field application of the Once a major earthquake affects the ground, impacts technology. on roadways are unavoidable. However, if the road surface In 2011, we successfully conducted a pilot test for the can be changed into a smoother shape that reduces CO2-EOR technology, jointly with Japan Oil, Gas and the destruction of pavement or uneven road surfaces Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) and the stateduring an earthquake, emergency vehicles and transport run Vietnam Oil and Gas Group (PETROVIETNAM) in Rang vehicles could operate, making it possible to evacuate Dong oil field offshore Vietnam, where the operator is local residents before a possible tsunami strike. The HRB our subsidiary Japan Vietnam Petroleum Co., Ltd. In this method of construction paves on top of rigid surfaces pilot test, CO2 was injected into a well and then crude oil a surface that uses reinforcing materials in the form of a was produced from the same well. It was confirmed this sheet called the Geogrid. This allows the road to move method was effective and contributory to improving the as the ground changes, which ensures this material can oil recovery factor. withstand ground settlement of up to 60cm. Many expect This is the global first case where a pilot test employing this method to be widely used to build disaster-resilient this method of CO2-EOR technology was implemented cities. offshore, and this is also the first case where a CO2-EOR technology was employed offshore in South East Asia. Moreover, owing to the results of the CO2-EOR pilot test, both we and JOGMEC won the Distinguished Contribution Award of the Japanese Association for Petroleum Technology (JAPT) in June 2013. HRB technique Conventional A supply vessel provides CO2 for injection into the reservoir technique What do“advanced ideas”mean to me? Atsushi Hatakeyama CO2-EOR is a proven technology which has been employed since the 1970s. In Group Manager addition to the benefit of increasing oil production at depleted oil fields, recently Reservoir Engineering Group Exploration & focus has turned to the combined potential with the underground storage of CO2. Production Technology Department I hope to utilize the experience obtained in Vietnam to globally introduce new ideas JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation that are friendly to the environment into the E&P business. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 26 JX Group Values Relationship We strive to earn society’s trust by faithfully meeting the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Through sports, culture, programs for positive youth development and support, and with society environmental protection activities, we hope to deepen our relationships with communities and the public, and to coexist with society as a corporate citizen. Relationship with Stakeholders ensure fair and honest trading opportunities. JX Nippon Procurement builds mutually beneficial partnerships through supplier surveys and promotes purchases of Basic Approach materials and equipment with reduced environmental impacts. The JX Group conducts business activities while maintaining relationships with a variety of For more information, please refer to page 32. stakeholders, among them shareholders, investors, customers, business partners and employees. By accurately assessing the demands of these many stakeholders, and sincerely responding to them, we NPOs/NGOs seek to earn society s trust. For the Click Donation Campaign for the Enegorikun Forest, JX Nippon Oil & Energy donates one yen to the Japan Wildlife Conservation Society (JWCS) for every time the donation button on its website is clicked. The JWCS Shareholders and Investors uses these funds to help protect gorillas as part of its habitat assistance project. JX Holdings is committed to the swift, proper and fair JX Nippon Oil & Energy also sponsors a charity book disclosure of information to shareholders and investors drive every year where it collects secondhand books in accordance with its disclosure policy. Furthermore, from employees and sells them back to other employees. the company conducts highly transparent investor The proceeds of these sales are in turn donated to Peace relations (IR) activities in line with regulations to prevent Winds Japan, a specified non-profit organization, which insider trading, including in-house training to promote uses them to help support environmental activities in East awareness. In Fiscal 2012, we received commendations Timor and fund recovery efforts for the Great East Japan from multiple external evaluation institutions for our IR Earthquake. activities. Local Communities / Global Society Customers Preparing for Disasters Together with the Local The JX Group is committed to developing and delivering Community at Oil Stockpiling Terminals products and services that fulfill customer needs, JX Nippon Oil & Energy Staging Terminal Corporation s expectations, trust and satisfaction. Kiire Terminal works together with surrounding For more information, please refer to page 31. communities to reinforce its crisis management practices in order to prepare for unforeseen disasters. Kiire Terminal is one of the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group s leading transshipment stations connecting oil producing Business Partners countries with refineries. Each year the facility handles about 500 crude oil tankers and also holds more than 300 JX Nippon Procurement Corporation oversees purchasing disaster training drills, part of which are conducted jointly operations for JX Group companies. While making with local government bodies and local community purchasing information available to business partners members. In this manner, Kiire Terminal has established a on its website and actively providing opportunities to solid framework for ensuring safety and security both on business partners, JX Nippon Procurement strives to land and at sea. What does“relationship with society”mean to me? I make it a point to proactively disseminate information on our business activities and financial situation, and hold dialogue with the markets through presentations Etsuko Hanashima and one-on-one meetings to ensure we receive the most pertinent corporate Investor Relations Group valuation from the markets. I will continue to enhance our investor relations Finance and Investor Relations Department activities in order to deepen understanding and trust of the JX Group among our JX Holdings, Inc. shareholders and investors. 27 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Relationship with Employees Basic Approach It is crucial for companies to incorporate the opinions of a diverse array of personnel in business activities in order to respond to societal changes and achieve sustainable development. The JX Group actively hires senior citizens and people with disabilities in an effort to promote diversity in the workforce. Furthermore, in addition to a good workplace, employees need to lead fulfilling lives the workplace, including at home, and in leisure and other activities, if they are to demonstrate their respective abilities to the fullest and work energetically. Accordingly, JX Group companies have developed a range of employee support programs and also conduct awareness-raising activities designed to encourage employees to take advantage of these programs. [Workforce Composition] JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Mining Opening the JX Safety Energy Gas Exploration & Metals Education Center Total headcount 93 5,765 347 1,354 Headcount 75 5,213 314 1,247 In January 2013, the JX Group Male opened the JX Safety Education employees Average age 45.0 42.3 41.8 41.0 Average years of service 21.3 20.7 16.6 17.0 Center to enhance risk sensitivities Headcount 18 552 33 107 among employees through Female simulations of impending employees Average age 41.7 40.9 35.7 38.5 Average years of service 19.3 19.0 10.0 12.0 dangers that exist regularly in the workplace. It serves as a hands-on [Number of Recent Graduate Recruits] safety education facility aimed at preventing occupational injuries JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Mining before they happen by sharpening Energy Gas Exploration & Metals Total headcount ― 173 7 53 risk sensitivities among both workers Male university graduates ― 39 5 24 and managers. The JX Group Female university graduates ― 10 0 1 recognizes that safety along with Junior college/vocational school graduates ― 8 0 5 compliance is absolutely essential ― to the continuity of business. We are Senior high school and other graduates 116 2 23 implementing safety education at [Employment Rate of Persons with a Disability, Number of Employees Re-hired after our group companies to eradicate occupational injuries. We plan to Retirement, Usage Rate for Annual Paid Leave, and Number of Employees Taking Leave] further enhance the Group s overall JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Mining safety management system through Energy Gas Exploration & Metals the active use of this center. Employment rate of persons with a disability ― *1 2.01 ％ 1.67 ％ 1.84 ％ Number of employees re-hired after retirement ― *1 176 6 30 Number of annual paid leave days granted 20.0 19.6 19.2 20.8 Number of annual paid leave days taken 11.7 14.6 10.6 13.5 Usage rate for annual paid leave 58.5 % 74.4 % 55.2 % 64.9 % Number of employees taking nursing care leave 0 0 0 0 Number of employees taking childcare leave 2 46 1 5 (incl. male employees) 0 17 0 0 *1 Employees refer to those seconded from operating companies, and are accounted for at their companies of origin. [Frequency of Industrial Accidents and Accident Severity Rate] Learning about dangers in high places JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Mining during the center’ s opening ceremony Energy Gas Exploration & Metals Frequency of industrial accidents*2 0.00 0.36 ― *4 0.53 Accident severity rate*3 0.00 0.01 ― *4 0.00 *2 Number of deaths and injuries due to industrial accidents per 1 million working hours *3 Number of lost work days per 1,000 working hours *4 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has not adopted these indicators What does“relationship with society”mean to me? In restorning of the Oya and Takatama mines damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake, we decided to take permanent measures that exceed the requirements stipulated by law in terms of size and quality. Accounting work is often conducted Aki Tsukahara away from the site of business operations, but for me, promoting understanding Accounting & Finance Department. through discussions with onsite personnel and carrying out the mission as JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation accounting personnel is an act of fulfilling CSR. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 28 JX Group Values Relationship with society Corporate Citizenship Advancement of Culture / Next Generation Development and Support Basic Approach The JX Group calls for submissions every year of original The JX Group views CSR activities that contribute to children s literature on the theme of heart-to-heart society as an important issue, and takes proactive contact. The best works are awarded and published steps in this area. The JX Group Corporate Citizenship in a collection called The Bouquet of Children s Stories . Committee, with members drawn from across the JX Sponsored by the Japan Federation of Primary School Group, deliberates and reports on the group s social Principals Association, the Japan Junior High School contribution efforts, while sharing information on Principals Association and the National Council of such contributions with group companies. Under Prefectural Boards of Education Association, the JX the Basic Policy for JX Group Social Contribution Children s Story Award has a more than 40-year history Activities, the JX Group collectively implements and to date more than 300,000 works have been initiatives in the priority fields of (1) advancement of submitted. sports and culture, (2) next generation development The JX Group donates copies of The Bouquet of and support, and (3) environmental protection. Children s Stories to single-mother families, foster homes and welfare facilities across Japan through the Tokyo Zen-i Bank and other social welfare organizations. Copies are also given out to children and senior citizens living in the disaster areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake Advancement of Sports as part of the JX Group s activities to support emotional care. The JX-ENEOS Baseball Team, which has won Japan s The Bouquet of Children s Stories is purchased by Intercity Baseball Tournament a leading 11 times, hosts dealerships, which operate service stations, and LPG little league baseball clinics and provides support for dealerships, with all proceeds going to the JX Children s the NPB12 Team Junior Tournament ENEOS Cup and the Story Fund. This fund makes donations every year to the national invitational tournament for disabled baseball Japan National Council of Social Welfare. The donations teams. are used by the JX Scholarship Program established by The JX-ENEOS Sunflowers women s basketball team the council to support children from foster-care facilities, is also highly decorated, having won Japan s W League single-mother support facilities and foster homes as they championship 16 times and the All Japan Basketball enter university and undertake other education. In fiscal Tournament 17 times, the most of any team. The JX2012, 368 high school students received scholarships. ENEOS Sunflowers also hold the JX-ENEOS Basketball Donations are also being used for a three-year period Clinics for youth players across Japan every year. spanning from fiscal 2011 to assist children affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The Bouquet of Children s Stories is bound in paper made from raw materials derived from wood produced as a by-product of forest thinning in areas where the JX Group is working on forestation. This initiative therefore helps to increase the absorption of carbon dioxide emissions by forests in Japan. Through The Bouquet of Children s Stories , the JX Group is supporting Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement), a domestic forest preservation program promoted by Japan s Forestry The JX-ENEOS Baseball Team The JX-ENEOS Sunflowers Agency. winning the Intercity Baseball winning the W League Tournament championship What does“relationship with society”mean to me? We are working on making our facilities safer and more convenient for our customers Shinya Ishida and the local community through our involvement in local cleanup activities and Manager, making our service stations earthquake ready. We continue to donate a portion of Dr. Drive Self Izumi Intercity Station Sendai Branch office, our sales to benefit the disaster-hit areas and I always find it rewarding to know that ENEOS Frontier Co., Ltd. the harder we work, the greater positive impacts we have on these areas in need. 29 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 participate as volunteers. Meanwhile, in fiscal 2012, Environmental Conservation JX Nippon Mining & Metals conducted reforestation activities at six sites of closed mines in Japan, to promote In a partnership with local governments or the National the conservation of the natural environment there. The Land Afforestation Promotion Organization, the JX Nippon Company also carried out a similar activity in Taiwan. Oil & Energy Group is involved in forest stewardship activities at eight ENEOS Forests across Japan. Employees and their families volunteer to take part in tree planting, thinning and bush clearing that helps to ensure the forests are maintained in a responsible manner. Since 1998, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has also been implementing pine forest preservation activities on the site of Nakajo Field Office (Niigata Prefecture) and Forest stewardship activities at the in the surrounding area. Employees and their families ENEOS Forest in Nagano Prefecture Social Contribution Activities in Vietnam In Vietnam, one of our core business countries, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has been conducting activities in an effort to socially benefit to the local community. We have thus far made donations for the construction of five schools with a view to helping to educate children for the future. Moreover, we have also contributed funds to build two rehabilitation facilities for people disabled by defoliants (dioxin) sprayed during the Vietnam War. High school in Hai Phong Rehabilitation facilities JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Restoration and Recovery In an effort spearheaded by the JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee, JX Group executives and employees have been broadly recruited to take part in volunteer activities to support recovery in the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Bookmark making activity Festival held at a temporary From its launch in July 2011 to the 27th round of volunteer held in Iwaki City, Fukushima housing site in Ishinomaki activities conducted in August 2013, this effort has grown to Prefecture with senior citizens City, Miyagi Prefecture see participation from more than 900 people. These volunteer activities have mainly been organized in Iwate and Miyagi prefectures to help remove rubble and shovel mud away from street gutters. Given the new needs of the disaster-stricken areas, in fiscal 2012 volunteer activities focused on the emotional care of local residents in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures and included youth baseball clinics, festivals at temporary housing sites, and opportunities for people to interact with senior citizens. The JX Group will continue to organize similar activities that Youth baseball clinic held in Seashore cleanup activity Minamisanriku Town, Miyagi in Otsuchi Town, Iwate benefit the emotional care of local residents in fiscal 2013 as well. Prefecture Prefecture Please see the following link for more information about the JX Group s volunteer activities supporting restoration and recovery. http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/csr/volunteer/ What does“relationship with society”mean to me? Developing and maintaining a good relationship with society is as important as Nguyen Thi Thu conducting safe and sound operations. It helps maintain the company’ s image and Senior Business Liaison Manager contributes to the company’ s success. Our relationship has well developed with the Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, society including the Governmental Authorities, the host party, partners and the Limited community. We are proud of it and will continue to do our best to maintain it. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 30 JX Group Values Trustworthy products/ To satisfy customers, the JX Group aims to provide even more trustworthy products and services by working diligently to services improve product and service quality from the customer’ product safety. s perspective, and to ensure Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Launched Sales of Highly Conductive, Customer Satisfaction High-strength Copper Alloys Copper alloys are employed for connectors carried in Basic Approach eco-friendly vehicles, batteries, and such gizmos as Because the JX Group is involved in a broad range of smartphones and tablets. Growing desires for thinner and operations, each group company practices quality smaller electronic gadgets and further increases in battery control, and each company and business site has capacity requires copper alloys with higher conductivity obtained ISO 9001 certification, the internationally and improved strength to be developed. In order to recognized standard for quality management systems, heighten conductivity of a copper alloy, it is necessary to as part of efforts to ensure quality. reduce substances added into copper in copper alloys, JX Holdings has extensive knowledge of the quality but this reversely results in impairment of strength of control and product safety policies and annual targets the alloys. JX Nippon Mining & Metals succeeded in of each company. If a product-related accident developing copper alloys designed for electronic gadgets, does arise, JX Holdings works together with the which have 1.5-2 times conductivities of conventional group company involved to minimize damages and copper alloys while maintaining the same high strengths, formulate steps to prevent recurrence, in line with by leveraging its precision process control technologies crisis management rules. cultivated over the years. Please visit the following websites for information about the quality initiatives of JX Nippon Oil & Energy and JX Nippon Mining & Metals. JX Nippon Oil & Energy http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/csr/social/customer/quality.html (Available only in Japanese) The newly launched highly conductive, high-strength copper alloy for electronic parts JX Nippon Mining & Metals http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/industry/ind07_08.html ENEOS Diagnostic Services Trustworthy Products / Services ENEOS s Dr. Drive is a comprehensive service station that offers refueling as well as other vehicle maintenance services, such as safety checks, vehicle inspections, oil Basic Approach changes, and car washes, to ensure customers get the With customer s demands toward products and most out of their cars and trucks. services growing more diverse, the JX Group is In addition, the Dr. Ouchi-no Energy household striving to provide new products and services energy consulting service is provided to consumers free of that are trustworthy and that fulfill the needs of charge and involves a visit by ENEOS-certified household customers. energy consultants who diagnose the way energy is being used in a household. This service evaluates all aspects of home energy efficiency, from energy devices and home electronics to the building itself, and proposes energy saving advice customized for each home. What do“trustworthy products/services”mean to me? From our customers’side, our efforts to address quality issues are what we are supposed to be doing. To enhance our prerequisite ability to address these quality Noriko Tsuchiya issues, I want to improve my English skills and deepen my understanding of the Quality Assurance Officer Company’ s technology. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. As our customers’important partner, I intend to continue efforts to can tribute operations to our customers in the aspect of quality assurance. 31 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Purchasing Supplier Survey Basic Approach JX Nippon Oil & Energy and JX Nippon Mining & Metals also Procurement sources are growing increasingly diverse in conduct a supplier survey to complement their procurement step with economic globalization. Numerous examples of environmentally friendly products, materials and services exist of cases in which supplier-side problems concerning in accordance with the Basic Policy on Procurement. compliance practices, the environment and human JX Nippon Oil & Energy conducts a supplier survey rights have ultimately impacted consumable goods. that includes questions about green purchasing. ThirtyResponsible supply chain management has become one percent of the company s suppliers that had not yet an important element in garnering trust in products and adopted green procurement practices in fiscal 2011 did services. While the JX Group promotes transparent and so in fiscal 2012. fair transactions, and environmentally friendly purchasing JX Nippon Mining & Metals surveys suppliers in terms of activities, the group will pursue stronger communication their green purchasing as well as their approach to human with business partners, aiming for mutually beneficial rights and other social issues, including conflict minerals. outcomes by building partnerships based on mutual Starting last fiscal year, the company also began checking trust. for changes in supplied products, manufacturing processes or raw materials. Suppliers for which such changes were found will be asked to retake the survey. Basic Policy on Procurement Our approach to the Conflict Minerals Problem The JX Group implements procurement operations in Companies listed on the stock exchanges in the US that accordance with the JX Group Values. use tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are required to file a report the use of conflict minerals* to the U.S. Securities ■ Basic Policy on Procurement and Exchange Commission (SEC) indicating whether the ● We will abide by relevant laws and social norms as well as minerals they use were exported from the Democratic respect and operate in accordance to the spirit of both. Republic of the Congo or surrounding nations. Then ● The selection of suppliers will be performed based on a fair in August 2012, the SEC adopted specific procedures assessment of their compliance with laws and social norms, for reporting to the commission. In February 2013, JX consideration for the environment, quality, price, delivery Nippon Mining & Metals revised its Basic Procurement and performance. ● We will maintain an appropriate and highly ethical Policy s Article 4, the provisions stipulating its principles relationship with suppliers. on conflict minerals, putting the information into the ● We will always create and innovate using new ideas and Company s web-site to attend to customer enquiries. strive to employ new products and services. In June 2013, Group company Pan Pacific Copper ● We will pursue stronger communication with suppliers and Co., Ltd., which produced gold, was audited to assess strive to make contributions to society based on relationships whether it is in compliance with the London Bullion of mutual trust. Market Association (LBMA) Responsible Gold Guidance, ● Each JX Group company will provide trust and satisfaction and received an assurance report. Based on this audit, JX based on activities that are highly accurate, prompt and Nippon Mining & Metals received LBMA certification and transparent. was put on the Conflict Free Smelter list. ● We will strive to create a sustainable society by encouraging Regularly conducting in-house training and internal the procurement of materials, equipment and services that have lower environmental impacts. audits, the company will supply reliable materials that customers can safely use. JX Nippon Procurement Corporation is in charge of * Conflict minerals: Resources mined in region where conflicts are occurring procurement operations for materials. such as Africa. For example, tantalum, gold, tin and tungsten mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries and their http://www.pr.jx-group.co.jp/ derivatives are considered sources of funds for conflicts. (Available only in Japanese) What do“trustworthy products/services”mean to me? Takako Yamaguchi I am a tank truck driver and deliver petroleum products to our customers. My loads Keihin Truck Terminal, are hazardous materials, so I make it a point to drive safely and work carefully under Keihin Branch pressure, but also have a smile, to gain the trust of our customers. Maruwn Transport Eastern Japan Co., Ltd. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 32 JX Group Values Harmony with The JX Group collectively develops technologies and services for creating a better global environment, and is involved the environment in ongoing and vigorous efforts to use energy, resources and materials effectively, and to preserve the environment. Environment Compliance with Environmental Laws Basic Approach The JX Group believes compliance with environmental Harmony with the environment is one component of laws forms the basis of and is critical to its business the JX Group Values. Accordingly, the environment is a activities, and conducts extensive compliance checks vital theme in the Group s CSR activities. and environmental education to this end. In fiscal 2012, compliance checks performed at JX Holdings and core ● JX Group Environmental Policy operating subsidiaries turned up no major violations. The JX Group will 1. Develop the technologies, products and services JX Group Medium-Term Environmental that help to create a better global environment. Management Plan 2. Work diligently to prevent global warming and be JX Group companies strived to implement the Mediummindful of preserving biodiversity. Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010-2012), 3. Constantly strive to reduce environmental impact in but factors such as the changing business environment all business activities. meant that unfortunately we were unable to achieve part 4. Strive for strict compliance with environmental laws of the target laid out in the plan. and ordinances, based on the highest ethical values. The main targets for reducing specific energy consumption and CO2 emissions in fiscal 2012 were not achieved at our core operating subsidiaries because of Through environmental actions enabled by operation either operational troubles or the changing business of an Environmental Management System (EMS), environment. However, all other targets were met. coupled with deliberation and reporting on the Group environmental safety by the JX Group Environment & Safety Committee, the JX Group manages progress on the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan by the Group. Formulating New Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2013-2015) The JX Group has formulated a new three-year Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan for the period from fiscal 2013 to Shared Targets for the New JX fiscal 2015, based closely on the results of the First Medium-Term Group Medium-Term Environmental Environmental Management Plan implemented collectively from Management Plan fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012 as well as reviews and deliberations made within the JX Group on recent environmental and societal trends. (1) Global warming prevention and biodiversity preservation measures The three most important items under the JX Group Environmental Policy have been set as shared targets for the new plan. (2) Environmental load mitigation Although specific matters and targets differ based on the unique characteristics of each operating company, the entire JX Group will (3) Enchancement of environment collectively work together to achieve these targets. management system What does“harmony with the environment”mean to me? I pursue my daily work while constantly thinking about my responsibility as a Takuya Kashimura creator of new things that need to be environmentally-friendly, waste-free, rationally Project Department II designed and reduce industrial waste in each phase of Engineering, Procurement Project Division and Construction (EPC) and maintenance. JX Engineering Corporation 33 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 [Results and Evaluation of the JX Group Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010–FY2012)] Energy Business (JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group) Activities Specific energy consumption reduction Soil contamination countermeasures Waste reduction Reduce 3% over 3 years compared with FY2009 Operating properties: Prevent external leakage Maintain the waste-to-landfill Targets Reduce 1% in FY2010 (compared with FY2009) Decommissioned properties: Conduct deliberate ratio and Reduce 2% in FY2011 (compared with FY2009) surveys and treatment measures Zero Emission Plus goals Reduce 3% in FY2012 (compared with FY2009) Maintain at 0.5% FY2010 results and Reduced 1.6% compared with FY2009 Soil surveys implemented: 352 sites 0.33% evaluation Target achieved (refining division) Treatment measures: 103 sites Target achieved Target achieved FY2011 results and Reduced 1.1% compared with FY2009 Soil surveys implemented: 406 sites 0.41% evaluation Target not achieved (refining division) Treatment measures: 87 sites Target achieved Target achieved FY2012 results and Reduced 0.3% compared with FY2009 Soil surveys implemented: 245 sites 0.19% evaluation Target not achieved (refining division) Treatment measures: 107 sites Target achieved Target achieved * CO2 emissions are calculated from Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business (JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group) energy consumption. Activities Management of final waste disposal volume and oil content Maintenance and management of Reduction of CO2 emissions* in produced water disposed to the sea environmental management systems Reduce 3% in three years (compared with FY2009) Appropriately manage the HSE Reduce 1% in FY2010 (compared with FY2009) to Committee, and maintain the no more than 323 thousand tons Monitor volumes, including at overseas sites environmental management Targets Reduce 2% in FY2011 (compared with FY2009) to (Vietnam, Malaysia) system throughout the JX no more than 319 thousand tons Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Reduce 3% in FY2012 (compared with FY2009) to Group no more than 316 thousand tons FY2010 results and 294 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee evaluation Target achieved Target achieved meetings, etc. Target achieved FY2011 results and 303 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee evaluation Target achieved Target achieved meetings, etc. Target achieved FY2012 results and 335 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee evaluation Target not achieved Target achieved meetings, etc. Target achieved Metals Business (JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Activities Reduction of CO2 emission intensity Specific energy consumption improvement Waste reduction FY2010: 7.5% reduction FY2010: 5% reduction FY2010: 70% reduction in (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) waste-to-landfill ratio Targets FY2011: 1.0% reduction FY2011: 1% reduction (Compared with FY2003–2005 (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) average) FY2012: 2.0% reduction FY2012: 2% reduction FY2011 and FY2012: Under 1% (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) (non-application waste ratio) Reduced 78% FY2010 results and Reduced 8.1% Reduced 5.4% in waste-to-landfill ratio evaluation compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with Target achieved Target achieved FY2003–2005 average Target achieved FY2011 results and Increased 5.9% Increased 5.3% Non-application waste ratio evaluation compared with FY2008–2010 average compared with FY2008–2010 average 0.8% Target not achieved Target not achieved Target achieved FY2012 results and Increased 0.2% 0.0% (no change) Non-application waste ratio evaluation compared with FY2008–2010 average compared with FY2008–2010 average 0.4% Target not achieved Target not achieved Target achieved Other Businesses (Listed Subsidiaries and Other Companies) Activities NIPPO CORPORATION Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Other Group Companies CO2 emissions intensity (sales amount) reduction targets CO2 emissions intensity (Titanium volume) Implement the JX Group EMS FY2010: 3% (Compared with FY2007) at each company, establish FY2010: 3% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) environmental Targets FY2011: 2% (Compared with FY2009) targets according FY2011: 4% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) to business characteristics, FY2012: 3% (Compared with FY2009) FY2012: 5% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) and implement PDCA cycle Reduced 5.1% Reviewed target achievement FY2010 results and Reduced 6.3% compared with FY2007 compared with average for FY2005–2007 at each company via the evaluation Target achieved Target achieved JX Group Environmental Committee Reduced 4.0% Reviewed target achievement FY2011 results and Reduced 6.2% compared with FY2009 compared with average for FY2005–2007 at each company via the evaluation Target achieved Target achieved JX Group Environmental Committee Increased 3.5% Reviewed target achievement FY2012 results and Reduced 5.2% compared with FY2009 compared with average for FY2005–2007 at each company via the evaluation Target achieved Target not achieved JX Group Environmental Committee What does“harmony with the environment”mean to me? Three years ago the Chita Plant began to set up its vast in-plant green space Seiji Kaijima including green belts and biotopes to provide better habitats for surrounding flora General Administration Group and fauna. In this manner, we are working hard to enhance biodiversity on the Chita Plant Chita Peninsula together with Aichi Prefecture, local NPOs, students, neighboring JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation companies and local people. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 34 JX Group Values Harmony with the environment Environmental Performance (Million tons) CO2 Emissions 25 20.54 19.33 19.73 20 0.49 0.54 0.62 Basic Approach 15 0.93 0.42 0.94 0.38 1.00 100 0.39 10 The environmental performance data on pages 35 to 18.70 17.47 17.72 5 36 covers a total of 57 business sites at 31 companies 0 engaged in the Energy Business, the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, the Metals 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Business, and Other Businesses. * CO2 emissions include emissions from energy consumption (electricity, fuel, etc.) as well as greenhouse gases emitted mainly in oil and gas production converted to CO2. ■ Energy Business: 20 sites at 11 companies ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business: 3 Use of Renewable Energy sites at 1 company ■ Metals Business: 25 sites at 16 companies Since the early 20th century the JX Nippon Mining & ■ Other Businesses: 9 sites at 3 companies Metals Group has used small hydroelectric generation from the Ishioka No.1 Power Station to supply energy For the Energy Business, we have recorded data on for the operation of its refining facilities in the Hitachi business sites involved in petroleum product refining Area. In 1955, the company commenced operations and production only (data for fiscal 2012 includes at its Kakinosawa Power Plant in Iwaki City, Fukushima depots). For the Metals Business and other businesses, Prefecture, with today generates from around 2,300kW we have retroactively restated the figures from fiscal up to 4,800kW of a maximum generating capacity. 2010. Consequently, the figures differ from the data for previous fiscal years in JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012. Initiatives to Prevent Air Pollution In line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming standards to prevent air pollution, the JX Group closely monitors gases emitted into the atmosphere by its facilities. The JX Group reduced its total SOx (sulfur oxide) Energy consumption in fiscal 2012 (crude oil equivalent) emissions in fiscal 2012 by 414 tons, but NOx (nitrogen for the entire JX Group was 8.01 million kL, marking a 0.33 oxide) emissions increased by 678 tons. million kL increase. CO2 emissions for the JX Group in fiscal 2012 totaled 19.73million tons, a year-on-year increase of 0.4 million Energy Business Metals Business Other Businesses tons. (Tons) SOx 20,000 15,238 14,125 13,711 15,000 125 92 104 Energy Business Oil and Gas Exploration Metals Business Other Businesses and Production Business 10,000 3,913 4,399 4,780 Energy Consumption 5,000 11,200 9,634 8,827 (Million kL) (Crude Oil Equivalent) 0 10 8.01 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 7.82 7.68 0.24 0.29 7.5 0.27 0.43 0.45 0.43 (Tons) NOx 0.15 0.15 0.17 20,000 5.0 15,000 12,081 10,878 11,556 99 116 6.98 6.83 7.12 118 2.5 10,000 1,078 1,062 1,024 5,000 10,904 10,378 9,736 0 0 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) * Not applicable for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. * Figures for NIPPO CORPORATION in Other Businesses were estimated by its 50 main plants. What does“harmony with the environment”mean to me? One of our most important jobs is to properly treat associated water when we produce oil and gas. We have been working together with external organizations to Naoto Araki study new treatment facilities as we aim for the eventual adoption of such facilities in Production Section, Nakajo Field Office JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation the future. I am also involved in a variety of activities together with local community members to help protect the rich natural environment around. 35 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Energy Business Oil and Gas Exploration and Metals Business Other Businesses Initiatives for Protecting Water Production Business (Tons) Release and Transfer of Specified Resources 3,000 Chemical Substances 2,641 318 As one of its resource conservation measures, the JX 2,000 1,799 2,103 336 Group firmly manages its use of water resources and 446 1,476 1,000 monitors wastewater produced by its facilities in line with 488 173 1,083 141 laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards, in an 0 692 506 178 706 effort to reduce its environmental impact. 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) In fiscal 2012 the JX Group consumed a total of 126.27 * Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not applicable in the figure for the million tons of water resources (freshwater resources), Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. marking an increase of 14.00 million tons compared to fiscal 2011. The JX Group s use of seawater decreased 10 million tons to 1.03 billion tons. Initiatives to Reduce Waste The JX Group s chemical oxygen demand (COD) load volume in fiscal 2012, an indicator of water pollution levels, In fiscal 2012, the JX Group s final waste disposal volume increased 98 tons year-on-year to 1,050 tons. totaled 6,324 tons, which was 3,924 tons less than fiscal Energy Business Oil and Gas Exploration and Metals Business Other Businesses 2011. Production Business Energy Business Oil and Gas Exploration and Metals Business Other Businesses (Million tons) Freshwater Production Business 150 136.28 120 2.14 112.27 126.27 (Tons) Volume of Landfill Waste 20.61 0.62 2.35 20.86 2.44 12,000 90 21.50 0.52 10,248 0.71 60 9,000 112.91 30 87.71 102.45 7,121 0 6,324 6,000 7,430 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 5,279 3,000 4,952 (Billion tons) Seawater 1,441 19 1,712 168 1.2 1.07 0 382 945 161 749 455 1.04 1.03 0.00 0.9 0.13 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.12 0.00 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 0.00 0.00 0.6 0.94 0.92 0.91 0.3 0 Initiatives for Conserving Biodiversity 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) The JX Group is taking steps to conserve biodiversity as (Tons) Chemical Oxygen Demand Load Volume one of the three shared targets laid out in its Medium1,200 1,050 900 982 0 952 0 126 1 Term Environmental Management Plan and each group 135 600 120 151 103 79 company is implementing measures to this end. 300 844 727 698 0 Creation of Guidelines on Biodiversity 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) * Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not applicable in the figure The JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group has established an action for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. policy on biodiversity known as the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group Guidelines on Biodiversity based on a fundamental Initiatives for Management of Chemical policy that states, We will take measures considerate of Substances biodiversity in every aspect of our business activities under the recognition that our business activities are deeply related The JX Group conducts proper management of specified to the Earth s biodiversity. The company is now striving chemical substances stipulated under the Pollutant to ascertain and analyze the impacts its business activities Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law and also strives have on biodiversity, to make improvements, as well as to to reduce chemical emission levels. In fiscal 2012, the take part in corporate citizenship activities that contribute JX Group s release and transfer of specified chemical to biodiversity conservation, such as nature protection and substances totaled 2,641 tons, marking an increase of 538 environmental education. tons over fiscal 2011. What does“harmony with the environment”mean to me? I am currently working on making the company more energy efficient with a new air conditioning management system. This system has enabled us to achieve the Steve Kohut optimal conditions for manufacturing and also conserve energy because we can Director of Operation Department now control the air conditioning for parts of the plant not in use on an hourly or JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc. daily basis. Moving forward, I will make further efforts to achieve a comfortable work environment and greater energy savings. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 36 JX Group Management 3. In addition to full-time directors and outside directors, the presidents and certain other key personnel of the Corporate Governance core operating subsidiaries are elected as directors of JX Holdings to deliberate and decide on cohesive groupThe basic approach to corporate governance within the wide business strategies at meetings of the Board of JX Group is to make decisions and execute operational Directors of JX Holdings. activities quickly and flexibly to implement growth strategies for the JX Group as a whole and make appropriate 4. The majority of corporate auditors consist of independent responses to changes in the business environment. In outside corporate auditors appointed on the basis of addition, the company endeavors to secure the soundness management insight and extensive experience. This and transparency of its management to respond to the trust structure ensures the effectiveness of audits of directors and confidence of all its stakeholders. performance of management duties by the Board of Guided by this basic policy, JX Holdings, as the ultimate Corporate Auditors. holding company of the JX Group, focuses especially on 5. A Compensation Advisory Committee comprising formulating mediumto long-term strategies for the JX two outside directors and two representative directors Group and strategically allocating management resources has been formed as an advisory body to the Board and conducting risk management to implement these of Directors, in order to ensure the transparency and strategies. Under JX Holdings, its three core operating objectivity of the decision-making processes related to subsidiaries wholly owned by it have been positioned compensation of directors and executive officers as well to be responsible for each of the group s three core as related matters. businesses, namely the Energy Business, the Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production Business, and the Metals 6. The Executive Council has been formed as a body to Business. discuss matters that require the approval of the president In addition, JX Holdings corporate governance structure is and other important issues with respect to the execution characterized by the following features: of the president s duties based on authority handed 1. Directors are elected for a term of one year and must from the Board of Directors. This council is composed of stand for re-election each year at the General Meeting of full-time directors, the presidents and certain other key Shareholders. personnel of the core operating subsidiaries. The Executive Council helps to ensure appropriate and efficient decision 2. Independent outside directors with management insight making by the president. and extensive experience, are appointed to strengthen the supervisory function over the management from an 7. The Internal Control Council has been established as an objective perspective. advisory body to the president to ensure appropriate execution of operation. This council, which consists of the same members as the Executive Council, monitors, confirms and reviews the appropriateness of business [JX Group Corporate Governance Framework] operation status as an autonomous self-control system. General Meeting of Shareholders Election and removal of directors Election and removal of auditors Election and removal of the independent auditor (audit firm) [JX Holdings] Collaboration Board of Directors (Chaired by the Representative Director, Chairman) Audits Board of Corporate Auditors Independent 6 corporate auditors, including 14 directors, including 4 outside directors 4 outside corporate auditors auditors Consultation Recommendation Decision on agenda items Remuneration Executive Council Internal Control Council Election and Advisory Committee (Chaired by the Representative (Chaired by the Representative removal of (Chaired by outside director) Director, President) Director, President) executive officers Full-time directors, Full-time directors, The JX Group’s presidents of core operating presidents of core operating Collaboration Financial highest decision-making subsidiaries and others subsidiaries and others Monitoring and audits body regarding CSR supervision JX Group CSR Council Approval Monitoring Approval (Chaired by the Representative Director, President) Audits Executive Council members, [Business Operation] presidents of direct subsidiaries and others Internal Audit Department Executive Officers Internal (Internal Audit Division) JX Group audits Collaboration Compliance Committee JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee JX Group Environment & Safety Committee Business Management + Internal control of corporate group [Core Operating Subsidiaries] [Group Companies] JX Nippon JX Nippon JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation Mining & Metals Corporation Other group companies 37 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Development of Internal Control System Risk Management Based on the JX Group Mission Statement and the JX Group In the JX Group, each company has prepared risk Values, JX Holdings has established and implements its management systems appropriate for their respective lines internal control system to ensure appropriate execution of of business and implements measures in consideration of operation in line with the following Basic Policy: such individual risk related to compliance and occupational safety, environment, and other. [Basic Policy for the Establishment and Operation of Internal Control System] Crisis Management 1. System to ensure that the execution of the duties by the directors and When crises or emergency situations arise that may the employees complies with laws and regulations, and the Articles of Incorporation significantly affect the management of the JX Group, JX (1) Develop and implement various rules and ensure compliance with laws Holdings exercises overall control and has prepared its Rules and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and various other rules. for Responding to Crises and Emergency Situations, which (2)Establish and operate the JX Group Compliance Committee, implement the compliance status checks, and address the results. specifies measures to be taken to minimize the damage that (3)Develop and implement an internal whistle-blowing system. may occur. (4)Hold Board of Directors’meetings on a monthly basis and conduct The General Administration Department of JX Holdings adequate discussion and reporting, based on the Rules for the Board of Directors. functions as the standing organizational unit in charge of (5)Ensure objectivity and improve appropriateness through the crisis response and management. The general manager of appointment of outside directors and outside corporate auditors. (6)Establish an Internal Audit Department independent of other divisions this department acts as head of this crisis response unit, and, and conduct internal audits. when such situations arise, operating procedures require (7)Develop and implement an internal control system for the Financial that the situation and measures to be taken be reported Instruments and Exchange Act. (8)Develop and implement rules to prevent relationships with anti-social immediately to the head of the crisis response unit. forces and ensure thorough compliance with such rules. Also, depending on the magnitude of the crisis, at 2. System for the storage and management of information to execution its discretion, JX Holdings may form a crisis response of duties by the directors and the employees headquarters or a joint crisis response headquarters with JX (1)Develop and implement rules concerning documents. (2)Develop rules for preparing minutes of Board of Directors’meetings Group companies to respond quickly and appropriately to and other documents related to decision-making, and ensure their the crisis. appropriate implementation. (3)Develop and implement rules regarding information security, and ensure thorough compliance with such rules through training and other programs. Information Security Management (4)Provide proper external disclosure of information, including timely disclosure. Based on its Basic Rules for Information Security, the JX 3. Rules and other systems for management of risk of loss Group works to prevent the improper usage or disclosure, (1) Analyze risks and clarify policy for handling them in the Board of including leakage, of company information, which is a Directors’meetings and Executive Committee. corporate asset. The JX Group also strives to maintain the (2)Develop and implement a system and rules for handling large fluctuations in economic conditions, resource prices and foreign currency exchange accuracy and reliability of its corporate information as well rates, along with natural disasters and other risks. as prevent falsification or erroneous handling while making (3)Develop and implement a system and rules for handling crises and it possible for authorized users of information to have emergency situations. 4. System to ensure efficient execution of duties by directors and the constant access to information when they need it. employees (1) Establish and implement“Rules on Organization and Authority”, and efficiently execute duties. (2)Ensure appropriate and efficient approval by the president through discussions in the Executive Council before making decisions in Board of Directors’meetings. (3)Formulate the medium-term management plan, and develop and Information Disclosure implement a management system. 5. System to ensure appropriateness of business within the corporate group Disclosure Policy (1)Ensure penetration and thoroughness of“the JX Group Mission Statement”and“the JX Group Values”. JX Holdings is fully aware that the timely and proper (2)Ensure presidents of core operating subsidiaries and others attend disclosure of corporate information is a core issue of meetings of the Board of Directors and Executive Council. healthy capital markets and, to promote transparency in (3)Discuss group companies’business execution projects to a certain extent in the Board of Directors’meetings and the Executive Council of JX management, works to provide prompt, appropriate, and Holdings. fair disclosure of information to shareholders and investors. (4)Formulate and implement“Rules on operation of the JX group”and ensure thorough compliance with the rules. Systems have been prepared to obtain, manage, and (5)Establish and implement a compliance system and extend to group disclose information on JX Holdings as well as information companies. on JX Group companies quickly and accurately. Information 6. System to ensure effective auditing by the corporate auditors that is subject to Timely Disclosure Rules is made public (1) Ensure respect for audit standards and audit plans, along with through the timely disclosure system (TDnet) provided cooperation with the efficient execution of audits and the development of an audit environment. by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and others, and the same (2)Ensure corporate auditors attend meetings of the Executive Council and information is made available on JX Holdings website. other meetings, and establish and implement a reporting system for requested items. (3)Establish and implement a system for promptly reporting to corporate auditors regarding the discovery of material breaches of laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, as well as any discovery of misconduct. (4)Ensure corporate auditors and management personnel exchange opinions regarding the group’ s management issues and other matters. (5)Ensure close collaboration between the corporate auditors and the Internal Audit Department. (6)Establish an Auditors Affairs Office independent of divisions responsible for business execution. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 38 JX Group Management CSR Management Implementation Structure, Priority Fields and Results of Activities Basic Approach We established the JX Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the president of JX Holdings, to formulate and promote As a group of companies involved in the energy, the JX Group s basic policy on CSR and to manage and resources and materials fields, which are vital for coordinate CSR activities across the JX Group. We have people s lives and economic activity, we believe that specified three priority areas for CSR: 1) compliance the embodiment of CSR is to ensure a stable and (including information security and human rights), 2) social efficient supply of energy, resources and materials, contribution, and 3) environment and safety. JX Group CSR and the implementation of the Mission Statement by committees have been established for each field, and these every employee in the course of executing business committees act as advisory bodies to the chairman of the operations. This is the JX Group s social responsibility. JX Group CSR Council. Each committee deliberates and makes recommendations on actual business operations Based on this belief, we aim to establish a corporate and shares information. Furthermore, group CSR promotion group worthy of the trust of stakeholders, including managers have been assigned to each workplace in the shareholders and other investors, customers and JX Group. The group CSR promotion managers cooperate employees. with the department responsible for CSR in each company, working at the frontline of CSR promotion to manage CSR in the workplace. In addition, group CSR promotion managers gather once a year for a conference at which they attend training events and share opinions. The results of activities undertaken for each of the three priority fields are presented below. Initiatives for priority fields of each fiscal year are reported at the JX Group CSR Council, while priority fields for subsequent fiscal years are selected based on reports made at each subcommittee meeting. In this manner, the entire JX Group uses the PDCA cycle to implement CSR activities. [JX Group CSR Implementation Structure] JX Holdings JX Group CSR Council General Administration Department CSR promotion managers in each department Chaired by CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company President of JX Holdings Administration Office JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Holdings General Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department Administration Department Department JX Group’s Three CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company CSR Committees JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Group Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department Compliance Committee JX Four-Company Corporate Department JX Group Social Responsibility Contact Meeting CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company Corporate Citizenship Committee JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Group Public Relations and Corporate CSR promotion managers in each department Environment & Safety Committee Social Responsibility Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company [Key Themes for JX Group’ s Three CSR Committees] Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 ● Conduct compliance status checks and follow-up inspections. ● Globally systemize and standardize current. JX Group ● Raise awareness of the compliance hotline compliance activities by referencing the corporate Compliance program (an internal whistleblowing system) and compliance system designated by the U.S. Committee enhance usability. Department of Justice. ● Establish an anti-bribery program overseas. JX Group ● Promote continuous support activities for regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. ● Continuous support for regions affected by the Corporate Citizenship ● Expand measures to enhance public awareness of Great East Japan Earthquake. Committee the JX Children’ s Story Award. ● Operate JX Group Environmental Management System (EMS). ● Operate JX Group EMS. JX Group ● Follow up on the 2010-2012 JX Group Medium● Follow up on the 2013-2015 JX Group MediumEnvironment & Safety Term Environmental Management Plan. Term Environmental Management Plan. Committee ● Formulate the 2013-2015 JX Group Medium-Term ● Promote safety-related activities. Environmental Management Plan. ● Promote safety-related activities. 39 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Guide to JX Group Websites JX Group companies, including JX Holdings, Inc. and the three core operating subsidiaries, disclose a variety of CSR-related information on their websites. Please feel free to have a look at the information on these websites. JX Holdings JX Holdings ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/csr/index.html Other Related Information about JX Holdings ▶ JX-ENEOS Children’ s > About JX Group > Corporate Profile > Investor Relations Story Award ● Establishment of ● JX Group Mission ● IR News ▶ JX Group Volunteer JX Group Statement ● Management Policies Activities ● JX Group Mission ● Group Companies ● Financial Highlights Supporting Statement ● Management Strategy ● IR Library Restoration and ● Objectives and Basic ● Corporate Data ● Shareholder & Stock Recovery Concept ● Executives Information ● Business Integration ▶ JX Group CSR ● Organization Reports Disclosure Materials ● Corporate History JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/english/index.html JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration ▶ Safety, Environment and Community http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/environment/index.html ▶ Corporate Profile ▶ HSE Policy ▶ CSR Report ▶ HSE Management System ▶ Products ▶ Operation Safety ▶ Environment ▶ Community and Compliance ▶ Our Measures to Support Raising Children of The Next-Generation JX Nippon Mining & Metals NIPPO CORPORATION JX Nippon Mining & Metals ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.nippo-c.co.jp/english/index.html http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/sustainability/index.html ▶ Message from the President ▶ CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group TOHO TITANIUM CO., LTD. ▶ Sustainability Report ▶ JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ TOHO TITANIUM CO., LTD. ▶ About Us Corporate DNA and CSR ▶ Quality and Environmental Management System ▶ Material Issues of the JX Nippon ▶ CSR Activities Mining & Metals Group ▶ Economic Activities Report http://www.toho-titanium.co.jp/en/about/quality_en.html ▶ Environmental Activities Report ▶ Social Activities Report The UN Global Compact’ s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P24 Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P24 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to P24 collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P24 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and P24 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P24、P28 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P25～26, P33～36 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P25～26, P30, P33～36 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P25～26, P31 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P24, P32 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 40 Third-Party Opinion Masaatsu Doi to shut down crude oil refining at its Muroran Refinery at the Associate Professor end of March 2014 and to create a new action plan for the Faculty of Regional Policy refinery (November 2, 2012). The other was the excavator Takasaki City University of Economics accident at Mizushima Refinery s undersea tunnel that Associate Professor Doi earned his undergraduate degree at the Hitotsubashi University Faculty of occurred in February 2012, which was reported on closely Economics, and completed his doctoral degree at the Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Commerce by the media as a serious accident until the completion and Management. He began his current job as an associate professor in 2009. of salvaging the shield machine from the tunnel (August He is the co-author of CSR Management: Corporate Social Responsibility and Stakeholders , and The 24, 2013). The problem with the former is not related to Creation and Diffusion of Social Innovation , published the fact that support and understanding were obtained by CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, Inc and NTT Publishing Co., Ltd., respectively. from employees and the local community, but rather to the decision-making process with regard to Sophisticated This year s JX Report for a sustainable future adds messages Methods of Energy Supply Structures, which is a serious from the leadership of the Group s core operating issue directly related to Japan s post-quake crude oil supply. subsidiaries, which conveys a sense that the entire JX Group The problem with the latter was related to the mention of is tackling CSR collectively and not just the holding company. the accident in the contract with the contractor and the It is essential for a major corporate group like the JX Group fact that the cause of the accident has yet to be uncovered. to ensure the leadership of its core operating subsidiaries While it is difficult to cover this topic in this report, the JX articulates their commitment and vision for CSR. Although Group needs to disclose this type of information demanded this was not mentioned in the report, the JX Group held a from local community members and consumers to prevent training workshop for all of its 140 CSR promotion managers misunderstandings. The role of a CSR report should be to from across Japan to ensure thorough understanding and disclose this type of information and I would like to point out implementation of the JX Group Mission Statement. I hear that not proactively disclosing such information could very that plans are moving forward for these employees to serve well lead to future risks. as change agents that help to penetrate CSR and the JX Meanwhile, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) released Group Mission Statement throughout the entire JX Group the G4 updated guidelines for international sustainability and its 26,000-strong workforce. I believe that through these reporting in May 2013. The key point of these changes was ongoing collective efforts involving the top, middle and related to material aspects, which if pursued further question bottom of the workforce will ensure that the entire JX Group the way material issues are identified. Rather than stop at recognizes the importance of CSR management. the basic stance of establishing both of proper governance One issue I noticed with this year s report was the backed with thorough compliance and CSR implement connection between the JX Group s newly drawn up Second structure noted on page 7, the JX Group should take a step Medium-Term Management Plan and CSR. I believe the further to identify the material challenges facing its CSR Medium-Term Management Plan should include a specific activities and how these challenges were brought to light action plan and check system, in addition to a total CSR through data analysis and discussions. Only after this work management plan that includes both environmental (page has been performed will value be achieved through the 33) and social aspects, such as the supply chain, human rights implementation of the PDCA cycle using key performance and employment. The other questions that arise involve the indicators (KPI) and through an established monitoring type of challenges that have been faced over the past three process. years of CSR initiatives and how these are being addressed. Today the methods for disclosing non-financial data have As I pointed out in last year s third-party opinion, the JX been seriously called into question internationally. As a Group needs to identify its current management challenges result, I would like to emphasize once again the importance and draw upon new perspectives through stakeholder of building sustainable and responsible competitiveness engagement. At the same time, it needs to convey its stance through a steady PDCA cycle that sheds light on future to stakeholders in an easy-to-understand manner. challenges based on progress monitoring as well as One of the biggest news events surrounding the JX Group positioning CSR as an importance aspect of management in recent years was the decision by JX Nippon Oil & Energy activities (Medium-Term Management Plan). provided constructive criticism about our approach Response to Third-Party Opinion to disclosing information to stakeholders and how we identify material issues facing JX Group CSR activities. We take this criticism very seriously and plan on further We are very grateful for Associate Professor Doi s evolving the JX Group s CSR activities. We will encourage valuable opinions and suggestions on how the JX Group proactive information disclosure and identification of can make improvements to its CSR activities. issues through stakeholder engagement. In turn, we will The JX Group undertakes its business activities use the PDCA cycle to steadily build sustainable and with the social mission of delivering a stable supply responsible competitiveness. of energy, resources and materials. The basis for these As a good corporate citizen, the JX Group is dedicated activities can also be found in proper governance and to working together with stakeholders to contribute to the establishment of a CSR implementation structure. the development of both a sustainable economy and a Given this, I am very honored that Associate Professor sustainable society. Doi has commended our collective Group-wide efforts to address CSR and disseminate this in our mission statement, and the fact that the three CEOs of our core Ichiro Yamamoto operating subsidiaries have clarified their CSR vision in Executive Officer and this report. General Manager of General Administration Department At the same time, Asssociate Professor Doi also JX Holdings, Inc. 41 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 Independent Practitioner’ s Review Report (TRANSLATION) Independent Practitioner’s Review Report September 30, 2013 Mr. Isao Matsushita, Representative Director, President, JX Holdings, Inc. Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. Chief Executive Officer, Hiroshi Inanaga 1.Scope of Review We have reviewed the report titled “JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013” (the “Report”) prepared by JX Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”). The purpose of our review was to provide limited assurance from an independent practitioner about whether the material quantitative environmental information for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in pp.33-36 of the Report was accurately measured and calculated in accordance with the Company’s calculation methods which refer to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines Year 2012 version (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment), the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. 2.Responsibility of Management and Responsibility of the Independent Practitioner The Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to provide our limited assurance with respect to our review performed on the Report as an independent practitioner. 3.Summary of Review To obtain an adequate and valid basis for providing limited assurance with respect to our conclusions, we performed our review in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (issued by the International Federation of Accountants in December 2003) and the Proposed Environmental Report Review Standard (issued by the Japanese Ministry of Environment in March 2004). The review procedures performed for the material quantitative environmental information for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in pp.33-36 of the Report consisted of: 1) agreeing information to summary tables and supporting documents on a sample basis; 2) interviewing the responsible Company personnel and the persons in charge; 3) reviewing and agreeing information to the relevant Company minutes, the Company’s regulations, and related documents, etc.; 4) site visits; and 5) comparing information with other available supporting internal and external materials. 4.Conclusion On the basis of the review procedures described in the preceding paragraph, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the material quantitative environmental information for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in pp.33-36 of the Report was not accurately measured or calculated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s calculation methods which refer to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines Year 2012 version (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment), the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Review Report issued in the Japanese language. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013 42 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ General Administration Department Inquiries (e-mail): csr@hd.jx-group.co.jp After you have read the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2013, feel free to submit any opinions or comments you may have. Please send an email. As of September 30, 2013, JX Holdings was a constituent of the following major SRI Indexes: DJSI Asia Pacific: A global index of 152 companies selected for their outstanding sustainability from among the 600 largest companies in the Asia-Pacific region. MS-SRI: This index comprises 150 stocks selected from among listed companies in Japan on the basis of noteworthy social responsibility efforts. This is Japan’s first socially responsible investment index. This report was printed using an environmentally friendly waterless printing process and vegetable oil ink. In support of the Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement) promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency, JX Holdings has printed this report on “3.9 paper,” made from wood produced through forest thinning in areas where the JX Group is engaged in forest maintenance. This contributes to increased absorption of CO2 by Japanese forests. Original Japanese Version Published in October 2013
