www.creditagricole.rs Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA (CAS) HUMAN RESOURCES RELATIONS WITH CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS CORPORATE AGRO RETAIL SBE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IN CSR OUR FRENCH ORIGINS 2 www.creditagricole.rs Message from the CEO Message from the President of the Executive Board & CEO As a member of a strong Crédit Agricole Group, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) at Crédit Agricole Srbija is to contribute to building a sustainable society. This is not only our responsibility, but our choice as we are proud to have been committed to the core principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Crédit Agricole Srbija (CAS) provides integrated loan services to resolve the issues its clients face in these challenging financial times and continues to support the ongoing growth of society from a financial perspective. Therefore, corporate social responsibility at CAS involves not only contributing to society through loan and other businesses, but also seriously taking into account societal needs and living up to responsibilities as a member of society. This means that first and foremost our executives and then all the employees conduct their daily activities with heightened awareness of our environment. Our main focus in 2013 was employee engagement and we are proud that motivation by values of commitment was visible in all aspects of our work: our economic, social, civic and environmental areas. We are aware that CSR is a process but we acknowledge and celebrate every step in the right direction and we are proud to be a responsible bank driven by responsible employees. Our main philanthropic projects are also employee driven and remain aimed at children with developmental problems and socially vulnerable children. This report sets out our approach to CSR and the main initiatives we undertook in 2013 in favour of a more sustainable development. Bruno CHARRIER President of the Executive Board 3 www.creditagricole.rs CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP Crédit Agricole Group FACTS 6.9 million members form the bedrock of Crédit Agricole’s co-operative structure. They own the members’ shares comprising the capital of the 2,512 Local Banks and appoint their representatives each year: 29,000 directors who act as their voice within the Group. The Local Banks own most of the capital of the 39 Regional Banks. The Regional Banks are regional cooperative banks that provide their customers with a comprehensive range of products and services. Fédération Nationale du Crédit Agricole is the central body through which the Regional Banks discuss the Group’s broad policies. Through SAS Rue La Boétie, the Regional Banks own 56.3% of Crédit Agricole S.A., the Group’s central bank and central body. Crédit Agricole S.A. owns 25% of the Regional Banks’ capital (except the Corsican bank) and is the holding company for the Crédit Agricole Group’s subsidiaries in France and abroad. 5 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Group PROFILE A BANK THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP IS THE SERVING 51 FRENCH LEADER IN CUSTOMER-CENTRIC UNIVERSAL BANKING AND ONE OF THE MILLION * LARGEST BANKS IN EUROPE. CUSTOMERS AS LEADING FINANCIAL PARTNER TO THE FRENCH ECONOMY, THE CRÉDIT 11,277 BRANCHES IN * AGRICOLE GROUP SUPPORTS ITS CUSTOMERS 11 COUNTRIES (INCLUDING 9,090 IN FRANCE AND 942 IN ITALY) IN THEIR PLANS AND PROJECTS IN FRANCE, EUROPE AND AROUND THE WORLD. LEADER IN RETAIL BANKING, IT OPERATES OPERATIONS IN ALL SEGMENTS OF THE MARKET: IN 60 COUNTRIES INSURANCE, ASSET MANAGEMENT, LEASING & FACTORING, CONSUMER FINANCE AND WORLDWIDE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANKING. BUILT ON ITS STRONG COOPERATIVE AND MUTUAL ROOTS, ITS 150,000 EMPLOYEES AND A BANK THE 29,000 DIRECTORS OF ITS REGIONAL AND SERVING LOCAL BANKS, THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP THE ECONOMY IS A RESPONSIBLE, HELPFUL BANK SERVING 2003 Signature of the United Nations 51 MILLION CUSTOMERS, 6.9 MILLION Global Compact and Climate Principles MEMBERS AND 1.2 MILLION SHAREHOLDERS. 2003 Endorsement of the Equator Principles by Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment CRÉDIT AGRICOLE STANDS OUT FOR ITS Bank DYNAMIC, INNOVATIVE CORPORATE SOCIAL 2006 Signature of the Principles for RESPONSIBILITY POLICY. IT FEATURES AMONG Responsible Investment by Amundi and THE TOP 3 OF EUROPE’S 31 LARGEST BANKS Crédit Agricole Assurances AND INSURANCE COMPANIES IN NOVETHIC’S 2010 Signature of the Charter for Responsible RESPONSIBLE REPORTING RANKINGS. Purchasing between major buyers and SMEs * Including the Regional Banks www.credit-agricole.com 6 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Group CUSTOMERS AND LOCAL REGIONS LIE AT THE HEART OF THE GROUP’S COOPERATIVE MODEL CRÉDIT AGRICOLE IS A DECENTRALISED BANKING GROUP WITH STRONG LOCAL ROOTS. IT IS FOUNDED ON THE MUTUAL VALUES OF ITS REGIONAL COOPERATIVE BANKS. CUSTOMER-CENTRIC GOVERNANCE In a mutual governance structure, the decision-making power creates close links between the Board of Directors, which represents the member customers, and General Management. With their founding principle of “dual review”, the mutual banks were well ahead of banking laws such as the NRE law in France or the “second pair of eyes” rule requiring dual supervision of banking activities. Functions are segregated: the Board of Directors and its Chairman are responsible for defining strategic orientations and overseeing their implementation, whilst executive responsibility lies with General Management. In each Regional Bank, the Board of Directors meets at least once a month to deter-mine strategic orientations and make sure they are applied. Consequently, the member customers who contribute to the bank’s capital also take part in its democratic life. They have a right to vote based on a “one member, one vote” principle and their elected representatives take part in the bank’s major decisions. They have the opportunity to meet the people who run the bank once a year. They also enjoy a range of products and services available only to them (e.g. member’s card, member’s passbook account, etc.). They have ac-cess to specific information about the bank’s management, results and stra-tegic orientations. As a general rule, a large proportion of the bank’s earnings is not redistributed but held in reserves to support its robustness and finance its longterm investments. The Group has a trademark decentralised organisation structure, with decision-making shared between the local and regional entities at grassroots level and the national bodies. Representatives of the regional entities are involved in the governance of the national bodies. The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s central bank also controls the specialised subsidiaries, which make their skills avail-able to the Group’s networks. Crédit Agricole S.A. is a listed company. 56% of its share capital is held by the Regional Banks. It also has 1.2 million individual shareholders. 7 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Group EMPOWERING THE COOPERATIVE MODEL Crédit Agricole takes many initiatives to instil this cooperative, regional model into each and every one of its practices to build a customer relationship that is more human and at the same time more technological, and more supportive at all important times of a customer’s life. During the Fédération Nationale du Crédit Agricole congress in Brussels in October 2012, the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks reaffirmed their goal of broadening their cooperative dimension by 2015. We have therefore drawn up a Cooperative Regional Pact whose mis-sions are to be a strong voice of cooperative values worldwide and to monitor and measure the effectiveness of our action in the local regions where we operate. The commitments made in the Pact involve: — excellence in customer relations, — economic development of local regions and the environment, — cooperative, mutual governance, — exemplary human resources practices, — forceful statement of Crédit Agricole’s social responsibility in the local regions to serve the collective interest. Launched in early 2013, the Pact gives structure to and consolidates the Regional Banks’ CSR commitments. 8 Crédit Agricole Group PROVIDING ANSWERS TO ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ISSUES Engaging at grassroots level means working on the major challenges facing today’s society. Crédit Agricole has chosen four areas of excellence in which it intends to become an exemplar by 2015: • agriculture and food processing, • housing, • energy efficiency and the environment, • health and ageing. Historical involvement with agriculture Crédit Agricole is the leading French bank and one of the biggest insurers in the agriculture and food processing sec-tor. We intend to strengthen this position. Homes for everyone Leading mortgage bank in France, Crédit Agricole is also a provider of solutions across the entire property value chain. The Group has strengthened its position in this business through its subsidiary Crédit Agricole Immobilier. A sustainable economy Confronted with today’s energy and cli-mate challenges, the Group wants to think about growth differently and be-come an exemplar in the area of energy efficiency and the environment. Dealing with the problem of ageing To meet the challenges posed by an ageing population, the Group provides protection, health, retirement and long-term care solutions through its bancassurance expertise. We are also strengthening our partnership with organisations that specialise in health and ageing issues. THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR The Group’s approach to CSR AN ORIGINAL CSR APPROACH Acting together as a committed and responsible Group At the heart of the strategy of Crédit Agricole SA, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is now embodied in a process of participatory and evolutionary progress, called FReD. FReD is an overarching initiative for continually promoting and improving the Group’s CSR activities. It aims to disseminate CSR practices throughout the Group by committing all entities to it, while leaving them free to choose their own priorities. The objective is to involve the entities, stimulate initiatives, and build up the Group’s sustainable development policies in collaboration with each business line. FRED has two interlocking aims: · Provide the entities with a common framework that allows them to determine and formalise their own CSR policies · Assess the Group’s social performance During 2011 ten Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities (Amundi, Crédit Agricole Assurances, CACEIS, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, CACIB, Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring, Crédit Agricole Private Banking, Cariparma, Crédit Agricole S.A., and LCL) committed to the initiative. The other entities will join in gradually. Since 2011 participating entities have launched some 200 FReD projects. In 2013, three new Group entities have joined FReD: Crédit Agricole immobilier, Pôle Paiement Groupe and UNI-Editions. The average assessment of the progress made by each entity will be used to construct a FReD Index, which measures the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s social performance. The index will have an impact on senior management compensation throughout the Group, in the same way as operating income, thus demonstrating the strategic importance of CSR policy. 11 www.creditagricole. The Group’s approach to CSR Understanding how FReD works FReD is based on the three sets of standards established by the business lines (i.e. the three CSR pillars: economic, social and environmental) to create a framework for their entities’ actions: FIDES for the economic segment: respect for customers, with the programme launched in 2005 to promote awareness and train people in compliance matters; RESPECT for the social segment: respect for employees, with the charter signed by the Group at end-2009; DEMETER for the environmental segment: respect for the planet, with the working group on environmental issues set up in 2009. Each of these themes is associated with 20 progress areas. Entities must choose five areas for each set of standards and organise at least 15 projects. Action plans are drawn up once the priorities have been set. To be operational, they must have five characteristics: a governance structure, a deadline, a budget, an indicator, and quantified targets. FReD is more than just a support tool; it is also a yardstick designed to assess and monitor the progress of each project. Action plans are divided into five stages to simplify progress assessment. 12 www.creditagricole.rs The Group’s approach to CSR 13 www.creditagricole.rs CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR CSR VISION We live in a challenging global environment. At Crédit Agricole Srbija (CAS) we are very much aware that meeting our major corporate social responsibility goals will be a challenge. All CSR activities should be incorporated into our core business and in a way represent an extension of it. That task however, is a challenge if we want to do it responsibly, take it seriously and stay committed to achieving our aims without excuses. We have our major responsibilities: ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL and by acknowledging them, we have our tasks to fulfill within each of these broad groups. By committing to Global Compact we transparently acknowledge, support and promote the United Nations values and policies of all 10 principles. CAS goes a step further in promoting and supporting Children’s rights as part of the sustainable development policy of Crédit Agricole Bank Srbija for the fifth year now and we are very proud of it. All our responsibilities and commitments are enhanced by our corporate values: client in focus, responsibility and ethics. 15 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES Our economic responsibilities are placed within the realm of our business lines: Retail SBE Corporate Agro Each business line is aware of the following: • Long-term financing for the economy is crucial • Listening to our clients is a prerequisite for designing responsible products that really suit their needs • Ethics in our everyday business is the driver towards strengthened confidence in our products and services Each business line accomplishes this through their specific range of products and services but behind each product or service there is a committed employee who is motivated and engaged to fulfill this task in a responsible and ethical manner. 16 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Our social responsibilities are placed within the realms of: Human Resources Corporate Social Responsibility HR main tasks within this particular responsibility are the following: • Recruitment and training are the two focal points within which diversity is embraced • Promoting well-being in the workplace CSR main tasks within this particular responsibility are the following: • Corporate philanthropy projects in line with our SD Policy focused on solidarity, culture and education, with a special emphasis on children’s rights • Compliance with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Human Rights • Employee engagement in CSR actions with a targeted increase in number each year HR and CSR responsibilities are not taken lightly. Each year a few steps further are taken in the desired direction. As of 2013 the targets regarding employee engagement are incorporated into the managers’ annual performance appraisals. 17 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES Our environmental responsibilities are in the realm of the whole Bank and its employees, but the Operations Division is the leader in overall projects aimed at cutting paper consumption, fuel consumption etc. Our responsibilities in this area are very clear: • Controlling our direct and indirect environmental impacts through controlling the costs in the relevant areas • Cutting paper consumption per employee as well as energy costs • Using recycled materials whenever possible and making sure that everything that can be recycled is properly sorted Our Environmental policy statement is a public document, while there is an Annual Environmental and Social Report for Financial Institutions that the Bank sends to EBRD. Every big client of the Bank has to fill in the form based on the standards found in EBRD reporting and submit it as part of the required documentation, during approval process. The form designed for environmental purposes to check our clients’ alignment with our principles is ‘Environmental and Social Due Diligence Checklist’. 18 www.creditagricole.rs HUMAN RESOURCES Human Resources STRUCTURE Crédit Agricole Serbia Human Resource Division provides strong values like focus on internal clients, responsibility and ethics through the Compensations & Benefits, Administration, People Development and Recruitment. The main activities are: 20 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Employees are the key of the CAS success therefore careful consideration is required during Recruitment and Selection process, Training, Career Development, Performance Management, Administration and Compensations & Benefits. Main goal is to create long term satisfied and motivated employees with required knowledge and skills. These employees should be able to focus on clients as well as to represent the Bank in the best possible way. Total number of employees in 2013 was 917, with approximately 1.79 more female employees. Speaking in percentages 64% of employees are females and 36% are males on 31/12/2013. 21 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Employee’s gender ratio in comparison with the type of Labour Contract is given in the following table on 31/12/2013: LABOR CONTRACT/ GENDER Male Female Total 31/12/2013 Temporary 17 53 70 Permanent 312 535 847 Total 31/12/2013 329 588 917 Average work experience in Bank for 2013 was 12.1 years. For women average work experience was 12.5 years and for men 11.4 years. Majority of employees are the ones with 6 to 10 years of work experience, and there is also a large group: employees at the beginning of their careers (<10 years of experience). So we can say that our Bank is open for fresh ideas of young people that are willing to grow with us. 22 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources 381 employees are classified in the group of 6 -10 years of service, that is shown below: Next chart shows years of service according to gender on 31/12/2013: 23 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources In 2013 average age of employees was 38 years, and it was the same for both genders. In 2012 average age of employees was 37 years for both genders. Age makeup of personnel Age in Years 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 Female Male Total Female Male Total age < 29 82 37 119 58 22 80 30 < A < 39 347 220 567 350 210 560 40 < A < 49 102 54 156 108 70 178 50 < A < 59 60 26 86 68 22 90 60 < A 3 1 4 4 5 9 Total 594 338 932 588 329 917 Average 37 37 37 38 38 38 Employees the majority in the Bank is between 30 and 39 years old, with 350 women and 210 men in this category. It is important to point out that the reason for the large number of maternity leaves is the fact that in 2013 there were 408 women under 40 years old. Women who went on maternity leaves were replaced with employees hired through temporary based contracts, until return from maternity leaves. Next chart shows the make-up of employees and their age according to gender on 31/12/2013: 24 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources 66% of all employees are located in Front Office (Branch Network, Treasury, Corporate & Agriculture, Retail-Head Office without Marketing) and 34% in Back Office (Management, Risk & Permanent Control, Finance, Operations, HR, General Secretary, Compliance, Marketing and Internal Audit) Educational structure breakdown The level of education of our employees is high, with 54% of population with University degree. The rest of educational breakdown structure on 31/12/2013 is shown in the chart below: Voluntary outgoing flow of permanent staff according to gender: Voluntary outgoing flow of 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 permanent staff Male Female Total Male Female Total Resignations 14 10 24 10 11 21 Retirement and early retirement 0 1 1 0 2 2 Other reasons 0 1 1 0 0 0 Total 14 12 26 10 13 23 Voluntary turnover in 2013 was 2.70% and in 2012 was 2.79%. 25 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Training Programmes Staff development for each business line is carefully planned and guided through different training programmes. The benefit of internal trainings is that they are designed to be focused on specific needs and represent a combination of interactive and theoretical approach. 90% of internal trainings have follow-up tests to ensure that the level of clarity and understanding is achieved through this process. This kind of approach provides a good return on investment in the training area. The CAS Training Centre in Stara Pazova which can accommodate around 50 participants at a time is a perfect venue for both internal and external tailor-made trainings. The ratio of Internal vs. external trainings is 69% vs. 31% in 2013, and it will continue to follow similar trend in 2014 as well. Health Care Crédit Agricole Serbia Bank health policy provides responsible health care through the prevention of health risks. Therefore, Bank has provided in 2013, at its own expense, free medical examination for all employees. Also, for unspecific medical check-ups and for family members, CAS provided 20% discount. Partnership Program HR business partnership is a process whereby HR professionals work closely with their business population and help them to achieve shared organizational objectives by designing and implementing HR strategies, systems and processes that support strategic business objectives. The Purpose and Key Roles of HR Business Partnership are: • To develop the “same language” between Business and HR by having HR partners who understand the business needs and are able to align HR and business strategy • To act as a single point of contact for the targeted business population in process of managing the HR related issues and provide proactive support (employee relations, workforce planning, organizational design and change, compensation review, performance management appraisal, talent management, succession planning, recruitment, internal mobility) • To build a solid relationship with the targeted business population, provide coaching, constructive feedback and facilitate the management team to bring the best solutions for their employees which are directly aligned with organizational objectives and values 26 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Graduate Program Graduate Program goals are to employ and develop young and talented employees, with no experience in banking sector, and to give them chance for further development. Graduate program is a part of Recruitment Strategy and is designed to provide: Pool of candidates Support for lower level positions Career development In-house designed and organized development programs Branding Employer of the choice Program included following Educational Institutions: Faculty of Economics from Novi Sad and Belgrade Faculty of Agriculture from Novi Sad and Belgrade PMF – Financial mathematics from Novi Sad FON – Faculty of Organizational Sciences from Belgrade In the first month apprentices are on probation period, which includes: Induction training, Job specific training, Placements of new hires upon needs and Mentoring. After first month, best apprentices are engaged, according to Business needs for six months through Contract on vocational training and professional improvement. After that period, apprentices could be hired in case there is a business need for that particular job. 27 www.creditagricole.rs RELATIONS WITH CLIENTS & SUPPLIERS Relations with Clients and Suppliers Corporate Crédit Agricole Srbija provides strong financial support to top corporate clients both domestic and international.  Well organized network consisting of 82 branches, 3 specialized corporate centers, in all major Serbian cities is specially designed to satisfy all of our corporate clients' needs and demands. Corporate operations within Crédit Agricole Srbija are divided into two segments, namely  Operations with SME’s– annual revenue ranging from 2 to 10 million EUR  Operations with large corporates– annual revenue over 10 million EUR Crédit Agricole Srbija facilitates various financing options like short-term and long-term ones to its clients both in domestic and foreign currency, as well as full cash management support with sophisticated ebanking solution. 29 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers  ISO 9001 Certificate in the field of banking services  Strong and realistic ambitions to provide the highest level of service possible to our corporate clients  Dynamic and proactive development  Highly modernized and efficient approach  Principal membership in VISA International, DinaCard association, MasterCard International  Cooperation with EIB, EBRD, IFC as means of providing the best possible financial support under the most convenient conditions for our corporate clients  Cross-selling with retail division  Special campaigns with very competitive conditions  Offering a full, top quality range of services to our clients – POS terminals, ATMs, Electronic banking, Business cards-credit and debit, Collective order, M-payments 30 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CORPORATE AND AGRICULTURE DIVISION Head of Corporate and Agriculture Assistant of Head of Corporate and Agriculture Head of Commercial Head of Special Head of SME Head of MLCI and Products Head of Agriculture Accounts Management Relationship Manager Head Of Commercial Relationship ManagerCorporate Sales Manager for Agro in Special Accounts Department-SME MLCI Manager SME Unit Account Officer-SME Account Officer – Trade Finance Account Officer for Business Centre MLCI Manager Agro SME Belgrade Relationship ManagerRelationship ManagerSME Business Centre SME Business Centre Relationship Manager Corporate Operational Senior Credit Analyst Belgrade 2 Belgrade 1 – International Marketing Specialist for Agriculture SME Credit Analyst Business Centre Belgrade Account Officer – Agilor Manager International Account Officer-SME Business Centre Novi Sad Relationship ManagerSenior Credit Analyst Commercial Group SME Business Centre – MLCI Leader – Supervisor Novi Sad SME Credit Analyst Business Centre Novi Sad Credit Analyst-MLCI Agricultural Relationship Manager Relationship ManagerManager for Servicing SME Credit Analyst SME Business Centre of Corporate Clients Business Centre Niš Niš Officer for Servicing of Corporate Clients Division Sector Department Unit Position 31 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers  SME  3 Business centers positioned in Belgrade, Novi Sad & Niš + cash management services in our Branches  7 SME Relationship Managers + professional supporting teams  focus on constant upgrading of level of service provided to top SMEs around the country  High penetration rates  MLCI  Central teams with dedicated International Desk  Full support of the Group – CA CIB  1 centralized team positioned in Belgrade  Subsegments: Middle Market, Large Corporate, International & Institutional  3 LCI Relationship Managers + professional supporting team  Joint approach to the Clients with Senior Bankers  Corporate Centers  Providing full-time quality support to all of the Corporate clients’ day-to-day business activities  1 center in Novi Sad and 1 center in Belgrade  3 professionals  Commercial and Product Management  Commercial and Product Management provides professional support to Corporate and Agriculture division sales teams in order to satisfy all corporate clients' needs and demands related to :  Products management (Cash management, Trade finance, Credit products)  Commercial (Sales management, Operational marketing) 32 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers  Special Accounts Unit (SAU)  Special Accounts Unit (SAU) has a mandate to negotiate the recovery with problematic corporate clients  SAU goal is better risk management of non performing portfolio in Corporate segmented as WATCH and DOUBTFUL depending of the Bank strategy per each client  Experienced and skilled professionals with legal and economic background 33 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Corporate goals 2014 Selective development • Focus on development of multinationals, Large corporate and mid cap • More balanced growth, over-performing market focus on RSD, factoring, EIB • Maintain level of deposits mainly in RSD • Club deals with CACIB, IFC, EBRD and other financial institutions • Leveraging brand and CA network through development of synergies with • the other CA Group members (CACIB, Caisses Regionales, BPI subsidiaries) • Improving equipment rate through cross selling with Retail and Leasing. Accelerate acquisition and equipment rate • Based on proximity and capability to answer the market needs • Capacity to build long-term relationship and increase client satisfaction To continue improvement of risk management • Selective development in upper segment of SME, MM and Large and • International portfolio • Tighter management with regular client reviews (quarterly) • Keep diversified portfolio per sector and per client, and in line with limits • Proactive management on watch and doubtful portfolio • Implement Concentration/ Portfolio analysis and early risk indicators Growth and strengthening of the Group synergies Business parts of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are BPI, CA CIB & Caisse Regional. In 2013 we were able to further leverage the CA brand, maintain strong group support and an exceptional level of organization within the CAS network in order to raise the quality of the service offered to our corporate clients. Listening to the clients, providing what they need and reacting swiftly to the market’s constantly changing and competitive environment is our priority in 2014. as well. Partnerships Creating new partnerships and upgrading existing ones with renowned organizations that provide overall benefits to all of the stakeholders is a long-term goal in Crédit Agricole Serbia. This year, we renew Tripartite agreement with DDOR to speed up growth as well as TeTo Senta sugar factory. We have also continued a tradition of more than successful partnership with top financial organizations (EIB, EBRD, IFC, KfW), Ministry of Agriculture, sponsoring the Agriculture fair in Novi Sad, as well as successful cooperation via various campaigns and Agilor long channel with top dealers of agro mechanization – Agropanonka, Res Trade, Almex, VAIT, Agrovojvodina and Interagrar. 34 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Crédit Agricole Srbija in a competitive environment Research objectives: • To determine overall satisfaction level as well as satisfaction with different service sectors and products amongst the clients of Crédit Agricole bank; • To benchmark key indicators from this wave against results recorded in previous years in order to capture trends; • Identify advantages and areas that should be improved; • Record usage of different financial products at Crédit Agricole and other banks; • Record basic loyalty measures (likelihood of recommendation, future usage of the bank's services and products); • Assess bank's image and recent changes in image; Sample: • Quantitative survey, 15 min. questionnaire, CATI (computer aided telephone interviewing); • Sample N=50 clients of Crédit Agricole bank from Corporate segment; Key points of the Customer Satisfaction Survey Relationship with the bank • In this wave, there are more clients that have been using Crédit Agricole for 5 years or longer compared to the previous wave. There are about 6% of newcomers this year. The most important reasons for choosing Crédit Agricole Bank were firstly suitable offer of products and services (72%) and secondly, personal recommendation (28%). We recorded good loyalty measures. As much as 94% of clients claim that they will continue using Bank's services in the future. Almost half of the clients plan to increase business volume with Crédit Agricole in the next 12 months. Clients are now more ready to recommend Crédit Agricole we recorded an increase in comparison to the previous wave. Overall satisfaction with the bank • Recorded overall Bank satisfaction has increased marginally compared to the previous wave (it takes value of 83 now) and more or less stays in line with the results from the previous waves. Just like in other segments, the most problematic touch point of the bank-client relationship seems to be the prices. There is a significant increase in satisfaction with the Bank's communication and, to a smaller extent, in satisfaction that concerns functioning of the Bank's branches. 35 Relations with Clients and Suppliers Satisfaction and usage of products • The most widely used products and services in general are: account (100% of total), loans (72%), ebanking (72%), paying cards (46%) and guarantees and letters of credit (total of 36%). Accordingly, most of these products (loans, account, e-banking, but also guarantees and letters of credit) have the greatest significance for the clients. • Overall satisfaction with products used in Crédit Agricole Bank has risen only marginally compared to the results recorded in the previous wave. Despite the relatively small sample size of those who use loans, it seems that there is an increase in satisfaction with this product. In addition, clients are very satisfied with the Bank's readiness to inform and advise on the loan choice. Future usage As much as 94% of clients believe that they will continue using Bank's services in the future. 36 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Agro The year 2013 was so far the most successful in Agro sector. Unofficial data suggests that CAS was the second Bank on the market regarding new production, with market share growth of 11.6%. New, modernized and functional approach towards the organization of Agro Sector is designed to fully and efficiently service all of the existing as well as new clients. Head of Department Agro SBE (small business and entrepreneurs) team Agro SME (small and medium enterprises) team Commercial group leaderSupervisor/Relationship Credit Analyst Manager Agro SME Relationship 7 Agro SBE Manager Relationship Managers Account officer/share with 1 Agilor Relationship SME Manager Strong foundation in Crédit Agricole S.A. which finances more than 70 % of the French farming market and more than 40 % of the food production industry. The Group attains a principal economic role not just in French, but also Europe’s farming industry, automatically presenting a competitive advantage for all of its subsidiaries. Experience on the Group level, solid organization and high level of professionalism enable us to efficiently monitor market trends, flexibly respond to our clients’ diverse needs and demands, as well as offer highly competitive conditions for our products and services. 37 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Srednja Bačka, Filijale Bečej, Ada Severna Bačka, Filijale Subotica, Sombor,Vrbas Juzna Bačka, Filijale Bačka Palanka, Novi Sad, Temerin) Severni Banat, Filijale Zrenjanin, Novi Bečej , Kikinda Juzni Banat i centralna Srbija, Filijale Pančevo, Vršac Srem, Filijale Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, Šid, Inđija i Stara Pazova) Client in focus: Products and services as a result of clients needs in 2013 Unique market approach AGILOR, revolutionary concept in the Serbian market, represents a longchannel in financing of agricultural mechanization. Its basic concepts are already used at a very high success rate within the CA group. Thanks to the successful implementation of Agilor, our agro clients have no need at all to come to the bank in order to obtain credit support for purchasing of agricultural mechanization. Very conveniently priced loans for tractors, harvesters and other equipment are now available to our clients at the dealers’ business premises. We have signed deals on cooperation with the top dealers of agricultural mechanization in the country, enabling our new and existing clients to finish the complete loan-granting procedure at the above mentioned dealers’ business premises, and eliminating a need for going to the bank. The clients submit the necessary documentation to the specially trained dealers’ employee, and receive a final decision on loan approval within a very short time period. CA Srbija is the unique provider of such service in the Serbian market, proving once again that customer satisfaction comes first. In this moment, CAS has signed Agilor agreements with main dealers covering more than 90% of the market. 38 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers • Tripartite agreements – Different approach to the market is agreement on financing suppliers with favorable conditions, Crédit Agricole Bank and processing company together promote financing model. Developing an original and selective approach of the market, Bank is financing producers, based on the signed tripartite agreements under the exclusive financing conditions. • Special campaigns for corporate and agro clients, during which the clients are presented with a unique opportunity to finance their working capital/investments/fixed assests at the most competitive conditions on the market. • Special agro loans for land purchase, presenting our clients with an opportunity to obtain financial support for agricultural land and thus permanently upgrade their agro business, by expanding the maximum loan maturity to 12 years. In this way, we have further added to the flexibiliy of our client’s loan repayment, once again keeping up with the market demand. • Successful continuation of cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, being one of the top banks on the market in terms of amout of disbursed loans with part of the interest rate subsidised by the Ministry. • Welcome package for young farmers is a package of banking services for the development and improvement of agricultural household.The main problem that the majority of young farmers face today is how to remain on family farms, with enough funds for further development and investment in agricultural production and the improvement of living standards in rural areas. That is why Crédit Agricole Bank has prepared a package of services intended only for young farmers who see their future in development of agriculture. Users of the package can be farmers under 35, those who have years of family tradition and adequate professional training in agriculture and those who have decided to go into agricultural production. • Agro comfort account package – another unique product in the market, containing all of the products and services that our clients – agro individual households, might need in their day-today operations. In addition to increasing the quality of our service to agro clients we have also provided opportunities to manage their funds using several services. Besides the standard package, now our agro clients will have approach to the accounts related to their agro business. • Visa debit New debit card for special purpose account has been developed. The purpose of debit card is to allow individual households easier management of their assets on current account. i.e. in the areas where CAS doesn’t have branch they’d be able to withdraw money via ATM and POS, and pay for goods and services. Once again, we have showed our flexibility, by providing our clients with an opportunity to purchase this card as a products for itself, or as part of Agro confort package. • Business cooperation with DDOR Novi Sad ADO Novi Sad is a short term model of insurance policy. Professional approach of skilled and experienced teams from CAS and DDOR, guarantee the appropriate structure of financing to Agro clients, in order to secure their production. 39 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Crédit Agricole Srbija Agricultural division Customer Satisfaction Study • Methodology: • Customer Satisfaction Study (CSS); • Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing (CATI); • Quantitative survey, 15 min. questionnaire, CATI (computer aided telephone interviewing); • Sample N=50 clients of Crédit Agricole bank from AGRO segment; • • Research objectives • To determine overall satisfaction level as well as satisfaction with different service sectors and products amongst the clients of Crédit Agricole bank ; • To benchmark key indicators from this wave against results recorded in previous years in order to capture trends; • Identify advantages and areas that should be improved; • Record usage of different financial products at Crédit Agricole and other banks; • Record basic loyalty measures (likelihood of recommendation, future usage of the bank's services and products); • Assess bank's image and recent changes in image; Relationship with the bank In general, clients are loyal to the Bank. As much as 90% of them believe that they will continue using Bank's services in the future. Actually, it seems that there is a marginal increase of this parameter. In this respect, there are more clients who express definite decision to use Bank’s products and services (top box percent), comapred to the previous waves. However, results concerning business volume increase call for caution. Scores show that fewer clients are definitely prepared to increase their business volume in the next 12 months in comparison to the previous wave. Likelihood of recommendation shows a marginal increase compared to the values recorded in the previous waves. The most important reasons for choosing Crédit Agricole Bank were sutable products and services that the Bank has to offer (72%) and personal recommendation (48%). Results show that there is an increasing impact of these two factors in 2013. Bank’s good reputation and location of the branch also have influence on clients’ choice. Overall satisfaction with the bank Overall satisfaction index has grown in comparison to the results from 2012. As in the previous waves, the most problematic aspect of the bank-client relationship seem to be the prices. Clients are very satisfied with the branch they visit (employees, organization, location). We record an increase in communication satisfaction compared to the previous waves. This is especially true for satisfaction with the bank's ads. Good reputation (26%) and location of the branch (14%) also had an influence on their choice. 40 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Satisfaction with products There is congruence between importance of products and their usage. The most important products are long term loans, short term loans and current account, which are also widely used. In general, satisfaction with banking products is in line with previous results. Most satisfying aspects of product satisfaction are debit cards and life insurance. Significantly higher values were also recorded for current account and subsized loans compared to the previous wave. Lowest results were recorded for savings, and show significant decrease compared to the last wave. Clients are more satisfied with efficiency of transfer orders and availability of balance sheets than with the fees that bank charges for account maintenance and the allowed overdraft amount. When loans are concerned, while the highest scores were obtained for bank's advice on the loan choice and bank’s readiness to inform about terms and conditions, interest rates are the main reason for dissatisfaction. Reasons for choosing Crédit Agricole Bank Clients started using Crédit Agricole primarily because bank had an offer of products and services that suited their needs (72%) or because bank was recommended to them (48%). Good reputation (26%) and location of the branch (14%) also had an influence on their choice. The bank had an offer of products and 72 40 services that really suited my needs 74 47 The bank's branch is located near the 14 36 place where I live 14 4 48 This bank was recommended to me 26 44 Dec 2013 26 Dec 2012 This bank has good reputation 26 24 12 Nov 2011 Bank is a member of a strong and stable 8 Jun 2010 16 banking group 1 I was attracted by this bank's 4 11 advertisements 6 3 DK/Refuse 6 9 41 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Agro goals 2014 Improving processes • Improving approval rate for ST and LT scoring • CRM tool, better management of portfolio and better management of commercial actions • New incentive scheme can be applied with focus on some KPI’s • Improving equipment rate, to follow number of accounts in CAS registered in Treasury department Main challenges in 2014 • To continue with unique campaigns for agriculture clients, offering possibilities to finance both short and long term deals • To increase limit for agribusiness loans, enabling us to respond to growing demands for financing from our top agro clients • Renewal and new tripartite agreements, continuing a highly successful cooperation with the top processing companies in the market • Further development of new and unique product on the Serbian market Agilor! • Continue and nurture a successful cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture • Increase brand recognition • Continue relying on the strong foundation provided by the Crédit Agricole Group 42 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Retail Credit Agricole Srbija has taken numerous initiatives to better support its retail clients in 2013. There has been a new organization of the network, new branch offices were opened, major projects were advancing at a favourable pace. An interview taken for the new internal e-magazine Pauza best depicts the organizational changes: 43 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Opening of new branches was also discussed in Pauza: 44 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Developing meaningful relationships with the clients Customer Recomendation Index In 2013 Crédit Agricole Serbia has started to track Customer Recommendation Index regularly and universally through the same methodology adopted for all Groups’ entities, through a recommendation score from 0 to 10. The Crédit Agricole Group wishes to reposition customers at the heart of its strategy with a real commitment to listening to their needs and expectations and to improve if necessary the quality of service delivered. • The CRI is a measurement of customer satisfaction (score, rate etc.) and forms part of a positive and operational process of continually improving client satisfaction. • The CRI system is:  simple: “one” question asked to the customer  easy to understand: Using clear and visual reporting processes and formats  operational: with the implementation of actions to improve processes and raise the awareness of local management (management, improvement, mobilization). The results of the CRI may be communicated externally at any time, taking account of market practices and in particular competitors’ habits. Survey is done for each segment of the Bank: Corporate, SBE, Agro and PI. The “Customer Recommendation Index” (CRI) is a key tool for improving “customer satisfaction”. It shows the level of customer loyalty as well as the field that customer feels as a key point of cooperation with Bank. Also, it indicates weak points seen by customers that represent areas that Bank has to improve. Customer oriented activity Modern banking concept in creation of long term relationship with the client has two aspects: need anticipation before the competition, and creation of personalised offer according to identified needs. In 2013 Bank continued with the centric client approach: CRM department is continually working on client need recognising Commercial activity and pre-recognised offers are prepared in accordance to identified needs Based on the experience in cooperation with clients and client status in a Bank, future activities are planned in advance. 45 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Small Business Enterprises Entrepreneurs and small businesses have consistently proven to be drivers of jobs and innovation and the backbone of most local economies. Small businesses are presumed to be more flexible and therefore better able to adapt to changing market conditions. The basic characteristics of small and medium enterprises and entrepreneurs which are among others: flexibility, propensity for innovative and risky ventures and greater opportunity for specialization. Today's small business sector creates many of the new ideas and innovations future generations will take for granted e.g. ingenious website designs, clockwork radios, etc. To support these critical sources of economic growth, Crédit Agricole Srbija has a specialized business line that is continuously adapting to the needs of the clients in this segment. The primary aim: Client in focus: satisfying client needs for products and services of the bank, while providing the necessary support. In SBE business line we strive to achieve the highest possible level of customer satisfaction by identifying and fulfilling client's needs. We consistently build partnerships with our clients that are based on respect, trust, flexibility, commitment and dedication. Within our business line, in order to find efficient and effective solutions for our clients' business, we rely on teamwork. Special attention is paid to the organizational structure within the SBE business line since dealing with clients in the segment can be demanding. 46 Relations with Clients and Suppliers There are four departments within the SBE business line: SBE Credit Department – provides support to the branch network, analyses the credit requests of the clients. • 7 Credit Analysts, together with the SBE Credit Group Leader, Head of SBE CD and 4 SBE Credit Processing Officers provide support • Efficient organisation where each analyst covers a number of branches, enabling the creation of a client portfolio with the main benefit of knowing the client history, the client’s business and the best way to provide support • Decision making ability regarding loan requests up to a certain level • Focus: to provide clients sustainability and business development through lending and consulting. SBE Commercial Department SBE Business Line consists of the following segments: 1 Micro enterprises and entrepreneurs with income up to € 500,000 2 Small companies and entrepreneurs with an income range from €500,000 to €2,000,000 3 Institutions Micro Within SBE BL is the Micro segment that consists of companies with revenues of up to € 500,000 per annual balance sheet. Bearing in mind that these customers account for almost 95% of all businesses, there is a Relationship Manager or Branch Manager in charge of working with this segment in each Branch office. Covering the entire territory of Serbia, our aim is provide our clients with the full support for the development of their business. Small Small segment consists of companies with revenue range from € 500,000 to € 2,000,000 per annual balance sheet. As the volume of work and transactions carried out by the clients in this segment is significant, a specially trained team of 15 experts within the SBE Commercial Department provide all the necessary services for these clients and raise their satisfaction level by predicting their future needs. Key roles:  Taking care of customers on a daily basis providing services and advice  Maintaining and developing relationships with SBE small companies  Centralized team able to create tailor -made offers when needed  Negotiating with clients  Structuring credit arrangements 47editag Relations with Clients and Suppliers Institutions Institutions are a segment within the SBE Business Line as of 2012. In this segment we take care of the public enterprises with the revenue up to 2 M RSD like municipalities, sporting and cultural organizations as well as non-profit organizations. Keeping in mind the needs of the institutions and the diversity of their operations compared to small businesses and entrepreneurs, we have created special offers and special approach to these clients. SBE Business Support Department the aim within this department is to increase efficiency and cut the time needed to provide services to our clients and also to monitor the business and its development within SBE Business Line. The main tasks within this department are:  improvement of SBE commercial activities  participating in the development of SBE business  actively participating in projects related to SBE BL  monitoring and analyzing client portfolio  constant communication with employees from other departments and sales network  reporting and monitoring activities, results and effects of the overall work within SBE BL  active participation in the planning and budgeting process SBE Special Accounts Unit negotiations with problematic SBE clients, in order to improve the overall position of the Bank. The tasks of this Unit are the following:  proposing rescheduling and restructuring  regular client monitoring  proposing activation of collection measures  participation in the Watch and doubtful committees Products and Services We offer our clients products and services tailored to their needs, with a continuous aim to increase efficiency in our day to day business. In order to do that even more efficiently, we introduced the SBE Entry program with the aim to familiarize our new clients with the Bank upon which we hand them a complimentary Visa Business Electron debit card. 48 Relations with Clients and Suppliers SBE Customer Satisfaction Survey In a sample of 200 clients from SBE segment the results were as follows:  the relationship with the Bank: a high level of customer loyalty 90% of customers plan to continue cooperation with the Bank, while 40 % plan to increase the volume of cooperation in the next 12 months.  overall satisfaction with the Bank: Global Satisfaction Index has increased in the previous year and so far these were the best result in this business line since customer satisfaction survey was introduced, especially in the area of communication with customers.  satisfaction with the branch offices: very high. Customers are satisfied with the employees in the branch offices, especially with SBE Relationship Managers. The level of satisfaction was significantly increased compared to last year.  satisfaction with communication with clients: clients are satisfied with the readiness of the Bank to inform them about the new products and services, changes related to existing products and services, with the conclusion that the Bank provides a very clear message to customers.  image of the Bank: almost 80% of the clients perceived CAS as the member of the global financial group; clients perceived the Bank as a stable and reliable financial institution and long-term partner. In addition, the customers see the Bank as the initiator of innovative products and services. A review of the strategic objectives in 2014:  Improve portfolio management and strategic orientation client in focus  A proactive approach to managing relationships with customers  Improving the characteristics of existing products and services, as well as the development of new ones  Establish clear segmentation strategies according to these segments and customers  Creation of high quality lasting relationships with clients based on improved skills of the teams and individuals in the SBE BL  Further development of advisory role for our customers in order to build long-term and stable relationships based on mutual trust 49 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IN CSR Employee Engagement in CSR Corporate philanthropy Our commitment to solidarity, children’s rights, health, education and culture is not new at CAS. However, nothing would be as successful and enjoyable without our colleagues who are the driving force behind all our projects. Our initiatives are based on the following: We are part of the society and our commitment is to contribute to the development of solidarity based economy. There are no small steps because every step in the right direction encourages further local initiatives. We try to combat social vulnerability by recognizing the challenges and providing support. We are committed to recording all our actions in our internal e-magazine and adding and building our CSR employee engagement portfolio as proud employees of Credit Agricole Srbija. Our key projects in 2013  Magic Breakfast  Adopt a School  Christmas Shoebox Smaller, but still significant contributions were made in these projects  Children’s Room  Dorćolijada  Košnica Beehive  Bank Employee  Belhospice Charity Football Tournament We are all Good Fairy Dobrila’s Team because this little Fairy with a big heart represents all of us when we engage in actions and projects that are socially responsible. 51 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 52 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 53 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 54 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 55 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 56 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 57 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 58 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 59 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 61 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 62 www.creditagricole.rs Our French Origins Being part of a big, strong, French banking Group Crédit Agricole, is our reality and our privilege. Therefore our wish is to share the rich French cultural heritage and nurture the vibrant spirit of France in the heart of Belgrade and in all the regions of Serbia where we have our branches. That is why we support cultural initiatives and closely cooperate with the French Institute and FrenchSerbian Chamber of Commerce. Also, we value our French colleagues and the way they conduct business and we find that we can learn a lot from a French business heritage within a Group that exists for more than 120 years. Employee engagement, enthusiasm and motivation were the key ingredients for the Danube Project which aimed to strengthen the links between Serbia and France, share our corporate values, educate and motivate. We welcome every opportunity for cooperation and knowledge sharing because we know that each contact between cultures broadens horizons and sheds slightly different light on how we perceive everyday things. 63 www.creditagricole.rs Our French Origins 64 Our French Origins 65 www.creditagricole.rs Our French Origins 66 Our French Origins 67 www.creditagricole.rs CSR 2013 68 www.creditagricole.rs
