SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 business. sustainability. development. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 business. sustainability. development. TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the Partners 3 About this Report 4 Our approach to sustainability reporting 4 Key stakeholders 5 Key issues 6 Period and scope 7 Guidelines and assurance 7 CHAPTER 1 PROFILE AND PURPOSE 8 Founding story 10 Business meets development 11 A global network with local capacities 12 Our 15 year journey 14 Our personality 16 An evolving platform of innovative solutions 17 CHAPTER 2 IMPACT AND INFLUENCE 22 Our approach 24 Merging strategy, systems and sustainability 25 Bringing stakeholder perspectives to the table 28 Building new frameworks and supporting the work of agenda-setters 32 Advancing sustainable livelihoods for marginalized producers and workers 35 Developing capacities for sustainable development 38 CHAPTER 3 ETHICAL BEHAVIOR 40 CHAPTER 4 TALENT AT THE CENTER 44 Team profile 46 Employee satisfaction & motivation 49 Life-work balance 51 Team development 53 Employment practices 57 CHAPTER 5 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 60 GRI Content Index 64 UN Global Compact Content Index 69 Acronyms & Glossary 70 business. sustainability. development. We are a global network of consultancy firms providing knowledge and solutions for sustainable development. FOUR CONTINENTS ELEVEN COUNTRIES SEVENTY NINE CONSULTANTS FIFTEEN YEARS TWELVE LANGUAGES ONE PURPOSE 1 pur·pose noun \'pər-pəs\ : the reason why something is done or used : the aim or intention of something : the feeling of being determined to do or achieve something 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-1, UNGC Statement of continued support Peter Teuscher, Felipe Arango and Beat Grüninger LETTER FROM THE PARTNERS This report reflects upon consultants. All our consultants may be no definite answers to our journey in sustainability are enthusiasts for sustainability this question, but our attempts consulting. After more than 15 and try to create positive to answer it left us motivated to years, BSD is now entering an impact through their daily work. continue the search. We believe important stage for development, Impact has undoubtedly been that our work has effected yet we are still a young company effected by our capacity building change in the currency with in spirit and energy. After a phase activities, be it in customized which our clients measure their of internal development and client workshops or through own success, moving from a growth, we are ready to deliver our official trainings, such as focus on financial results only our solutions and support to the certified Global Reporting to that of economic, social and companies and organizations, Initiative (GRI) training. BSD environmental practices. across a wide range of sectors Consulting is a key training and countries, in tackling the partner of the GRI, having been However this report is not only challenges of sustainability. responsible for the development focused on the impact our of local content for various work achieves, but also on the This report is a special report countries and regions and having sustainability of our operations. in that it not only reflects our trained hundreds of participants As signatories of the UN Global performance in 2013, but looks in the art of disclosing the Compact, all BSD offices adhere back on how it all began 15 years sustainability performance of to the 10 principles and try earlier. In 1998, the first BSD their organizations. to demonstrate progress in offices were founded in Brazil implementing best practices on and Switzerland with the aim We can indeed affirm that each of our ends: at both the of building a bridge between reporting is not an easy exercise, global Group and the local office the emerging ethical consumer and we know that our own report levels. With this report, we have market in Europe and the will be exposed to many critical also accounted for how we are sustainable production sites in readers. After a first unpublished implementing the principles. Latin America. The integration of internal C-level report for the And in the 'Looking Ahead' these two worlds at the crossroad reporting period 2011, the BSD sections we share how we want to of business and sustainable Group released this report respond in the coming two years development created a new field publicly in order to put the (2014/2015) to our major gaps of action and, after having begun spotlight on ourselves, not only and challenges. operations in Colombia, the BSD to measure what we have done, Group was officially founded in but also to commemorate and Creating impact is our driving 2007 as a common clearing house define clear objectives for further force and we know that it for knowledge, methodologies improvements. demands not only enthusiasm, but and a unique approach to innovative solutions, capacities sustainability consulting. In this report, we endeavour to and experience. These make up highlight our impact, trying to the backbone of BSD Consulting Since then, more offices have answer the question “in the end, as we continue our journey and joined the Group and today we what is our work in sustainability look forward to the next 15 years work with 11 offices and over 70 all about?” We know that there of exciting development. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING We believe the sustainability reporting process poses a great OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING opportunity for us to advance our internal planning, alignment and management, and to ensure that our performance and priorities are in line with stakeholder expectations. STRATEGY ENGAGEMENT The issues identified as material in this report respond to what we have learned through our engagement with key stakeholders in the past, and are deeply embedded in our REPORTING MANAGEMENT strategic plan and management SYSTEMS systems moving forward. The ‘Looking Ahead’ sections included throughout this report MATERIALITY shed light on our commitments for 2014 and beyond. 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-8, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 KEY STAKEHOLDERS Defining our material issues society, but also those that which were then reviewed by the means understanding our influence our stakeholders’ Sustainability Reporting Working stakeholders’ views. Material decisions. From this standpoint, Group and validated by the BSD issues are not only those that a process was initiated to map Group Partners. create significant impact for our main stakeholder groups, OUR STAKEHOLDERS TALENT SUPPLIERS • EMPLOYEES • EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES • CONTRACTORS • SERVICES • CANDIDATES • TRAVEL • EVENTS CLIENTS • CORPORATIONS • SMEs • SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS • GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES FUNDERS • DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES • INVESTORS • NGOs • BANKS • ACADEMIA PARTNERS • SERVICE PROVIDERS • ASSOCIATIONS • NETWORKS • NGOs SOCIETY • THOUGHT-LEADERS • FUTURE GENERATIONS • CHANGE-MAKERS • SUSTAINABILITY PRACTITIONERS • MEDIA • COMMUNITIES Following this, we made use of our various existing stakeholder METHODS OF ENGAGEMENT WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS engagement channels to listen to these key stakeholders and to STAKEHOLDER METHODS OF ENGAGEMENT discuss their views. No external TALENT Employee Engagement Survey engagement was undertaken Ethics program specifically as part of the report Internal collaborative platform preparation process. Ongoing communication We have various methods of engagement with our key Materiality survey stakeholders that help us to CLIENTS Client Feedback Survey identify issues relevant to them, Ongoing communications build trust, spark collaboration SOCIETY Social media and ultimately, drive innovation. Associations / Networks For 2014, we have plans Events to implement a systematic SUPPLIERS Ongoing communications engagement platform that consolidates the results of the engagement methods across our network. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 G4-18, G4-19, G4-27 KEY ISSUES From the outset, it was clear our strategy, management The first diagram identifies inputs, that our most relevant impact and reporting. Examples from defined material issues and where revolved around our central our peers, feedback to our in this report the disclosures purpose: to provide knowledge previous reports, expert surveys on management approach and solutions for sustainable conducted in 2011 and a revision and performance per issue are development. Throughout of the GRI Guidelines and the located. It also highlights some the last couple of years, we UN Global Compact Principles of the issues that we explore for also engaged our staff and were also used for our analysis. potential materiality in 2014. The management directors worldwide The following two diagrams show second diagram positions these to identify additional material the results of our materiality issues across our value chain, issues on which we should focus determination process, which was highlighting where they are more validated by BSD Group Partners relevant. and managing directors. MATERIALITY PROCESS MATERIAL ISSUES CHAPTER IMPACT IMPACT OF OUR SERVICES AND INFLUENCE P. 22 ETHICAL ETHICS PROGRAM BEHAVIOR MATERIALITY DETERMINATION PROCESS P. 42 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT CUSTOMER PRIVACY EXPERTS ENGAGEMENT TEAM DIVERSITY TEAM SATISFACTION AND MOTIVATION INPUTS MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT TALENT LIFE-WORK BALANCE AT THE CENTER BOARD ENGAGEMENT TEAM DEVELOPMENT P. 44 TRAINING EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES G4 ASPECTS REMUNERATION UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES REPORTS OF PEERS ENVIRONMENTAL TRAVEL EMISSIONS STEWARDSHIP P. 60 PROFILE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND PURPOSE GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS P. 12 GLOBAL EVENT ENVIRONMENTAL COLLABORATION SUSTAINABILITY BEHAVIOR ISSUES BEING TEAM HEALTH GREEN IT MATERIAL USE ANALYZED & SAFETY AND RECYCLING EMPLOYEE FOOD & BEVERAGE PAPER REPRESENTATION SOURCE SOURCE 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-12, G4-20, G4-21, G4-28, G4-32, G4-33 As a consulting company, BSD most material issues are related sustainable performance. The is a typical service provider to our talent. BSD also works with diverse nature of our clients characterized by a straightforward partners (on IT, design, editing, means that our impact affects upstream supply chain related to etc) as well as with external a broad range of stakeholders, office operations (e.g. minimal freelancers for project-specific such as clients’ employees, use of paper, energy, water). support. In our downstream suppliers and customers as well Human capital, BSD’s talent, supply chain, we aim to positively as society and financial partners. is the key resource for the impact our clients’ business company’s operations. Therefore activities through improved WHAT IS MATERIAL AND WHERE? OPERATIONS SUPPLIERS PARTNERS SOCIETY TRAVEL EMISSIONS GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS ETHICS PROGRAM TALENT TEAM DIVERSITY TEAM SATISFACTION AND MOTIVATION Event sustainability LIFE-WORK BALANCE Green IT TEAM DEVELOPMENT Food & beverage source TRAINING Paper source Material use and recycling EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES Environmental behavior REMUNERATION CLIENTS FINANCIAL IMPACT PARTNERS SOCIETY IMPACT OF OUR SERVICES Global collaboration FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Team health and safety Employee representation CUSTOMER PRIVACY PERIOD AND SCOPE GUIDELINES AND ASSURANCE This publication covers the This sustainability report was The Group decided not to have period of 1 January 2013 to 31 prepared in accordance with the this report externally assured. December 2013. The disclosed Core (G4) requirements of the An internal control process data is a consolidation of all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It has been realized in order to the data of local offices in our also serves as our Communication ensure compliance with GRI’s network. Specific data for each of Progress (COP) to the UN G4 Core reporting requirements local BSD operation is only Global Compact, of which we are and the AA1000 Accountability presented for selected indicators. signatories. Principles. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 7 CHAPTER 1 PROFILE AND PURPOSE 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 “Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It contains within it two key concepts: n the concept of ‘needs’, in particular the essential needs of the world’s poor, to which overriding priority should be given; and n the idea of limitations imposed by the state of technology and social organization on the environment’s ability to meet present and future needs.” Our Common Future, published by the Brundtland Commission in 1987 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 9 FOUNDING STORY In the early 70s, a group of expressed disappointment, “after Member of gebana. “Peter and I visionary women got together so many years of struggle, the began discussing possibilities of in Frauenfeld, Switzerland, to working conditions of workers how to advance socio-economic debate why a banana, which and producers had not improved development and fair trade, does not grow in Switzerland, substantially.” and the concept of BSD evolved was cheaper than an apple, which around starting an ethical trade does. Little did they know that As gebana began to achieve its organization,” said Beat. “The their conversation would inspire, vision of adding further social, Banana Women’s civil society 25 years later, the launch of what economic and environmental movement influenced our idea of is today a leading sustainability value to existing commodity creating a business that they had management consulting firm, supply chains, another awakening initially dreamed of,” he added. BSD Consulting Business. was taking place thousands of Sustainability. Development. miles away, in the boondocks of In May 1998, in Switzerland, Brazil. BSD Business meets Social These women, known as the Development was officially Banana Women, created the During a visit to rural launched as an incubator for gebana association in 1988 communities in Brazil, a UNICEF sustainable enterprises. Together, with the goal of improving the local officer suggested that it Peter and Beat spearheaded working conditions of the banana would be productive to direct the transformation process workers and their families, and to investments for development of the NGO gebana into a spark a fair trade movement for into rural communities in order to company that would be able to the banana sector. prevent the migration of families produce, trade and distribute with children to poor urban areas. ethically sourced goods to Nearly a decade later, while “I thought, yes, this makes total conscious consumers. While visiting banana producers in sense,” said Beat Grüninger, at Peter structured the management Nicaragua and Costa Rica, Peter the time, working as the Press systems of gebana in Switzerland, Teuscher, working at the time as Officer for the Swiss Committee Beat’s focus in Brazil was to the Secretary-General of gebana, for UNICEF and also as a Board establish GMO-free supply chains of soybeans with small farmers. As tools and services were developed and adapted, BSD gradually evolved in its early years to become a platform for solutions to address social issues in the supply chains of retailers, food and textile producers. In 2006, with Felipe Arango joining the team as partner, BSD expanded to Colombia and the BSD Group AG was founded. After launching the BSD Group and a well-structured licensing model, BSD began to expand its activities worldwide, aggregating another eight offices across four continents. 1 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 Meeting with banana producer cooperative in Paraná state “BSD set out to build a bridge between society’s growing concerns, development organizations and business operations. Traditional consultancies were not yet working in this field. Our value proposition focused on supporting companies to understand the new playing field, and to align their business models accordingly.” Peter Teuscher, Co-Founder BSD Consulting BUSINESS MEETS DEVELOPMENT When BSD was launched in models, social norms, and the Today, the need to consolidate Switzerland in 1998, society need for transparency in supply this symbiotic relationship is demanded answers to the rising chains became more prominent. as relevant as ever. Concepts environmental risks and social BSD was among the pioneers such as triple bottom line, inequalities in an increasingly in offering solutions to merge inclusive business, business and globalized economic system. The business and development. human rights, public-private growing disconnect between partnerships, sustainable supply the approach of development “This original vision has been chains and shared value have agencies and the private sector maintained throughout our become mainstream, and urgently required new solutions. journey. Almost a decade after our practice has consistently Society challenged existing BSD was founded, we started evolved to integrate these new business models and prominent searching for a new logo for frameworks. NGOs highlighted these our brand. The figure you see concerns worldwide. The debate in our logo would appear to be about the role of businesses, the an ‘impossible figure’, but it is effectiveness of development there, it is possible. A dynamic interrelation and coexistence amongst business, sustainability and development” says Felipe Arango. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 1 1 G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-EC1 A GLOBAL NETWORK WITH LOCAL CAPACITIES The graph below illustrates BSD’s worldwide presence, with offices in four continents and eleven countries. Many of the challenges we “I would say that when Felipe Today, BSD Group has a physical face are global in nature, but Arango joined us in Brazil and presence in 11 countries and 4 require solutions that are in later launched a very successful continents, providing local global line with local realities and operation in Colombia, it marked expertise. In 2013, the BSD Group capacities. BSD was conceived a key moment for the evolution generated a total net turnover of from the start as a collaborative of BSD and we decided the time 5.1 million Swiss Francs. A good network of international firms had come to launch the BSD economic performance is what and professionals committed Group.” says Peter. allows us to continue to follow to advancing sustainable The brand also went through our central purpose: to provide development. an important transformation knowledge and solutions for shortly thereafter, changing sustainable development. Shortly after its foundation in its name from Business meets Zurich in 1998, BSD expanded to Social Development to Business. Brazil. In 2006, we also expanded Sustainability. Development. In thousand CHF 2013 to Colombia and the BSD Group Revenue 5,100 was founded, establishing a Beat explains that “By the time Operating costs 2,100 shared services structure focused we established the BSD Group, Employee wages and benefits 2,900 on catalyzing the expansion of the concept of sustainability had Payments to providers the network and adding value to become mainstream, taking us 60 of capital local BSD offices (for example, beyond the social realm and into Payments to governments 120 through branding, knowledge the environmental and economic Economic value retained 80 management, tools, portfolios, arenas.” partnerships, collaboration platforms and a shared strategic approach). 1 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-6, G4-17, G4-34 “The BSD network is increasingly becoming an international team of local experts with the shared mission to contribute to sustainable business development by promoting ethics, transparency and social responsibility while applying innovative practices in all consulting activities.” Annelies Poolman, Operations Manager, BSD Group The BSD Group is managed by who supports the Partners and by the Group. As a result the a Managing Director, elected by handles all the daily activities. Group's Quality Manual is the Group Partners on an annual Each local office is run by a updated. This manual guides basis. Since its inauguration in Managing Director, who, in all the local offices on their 2007, the BSD Group has been certain cases, is also the majority (financial) planning, consulting managed by Peter Teuscher, owner. BSD’s Managing Directors practices, communications, who is dividing his responsibility meet on an annual basis to internal knowledge sharing, data with Beat Grüninger and Felipe define the company’s strategic management, and states the Arango. The BSD Group hires a direction as well as the degree (financial) reporting requirements full-time Operations Manager of support and control exercised to the BSD Group. OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE BSD SWITZERLAND BSD BSD BRAZIL COLOMBIA BSD BSD GERMANY USA BSD BSD CHINA SPAIN Group BSD BSD ECUADOR PORTUGAL BSD CHILE BSD MEXICO LOOKING AHEAD We will explore possibilities for network expansion in Africa, India and other strategic locations. We will implement initiatives to increase international collaboration on project implementation and business development. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 1 3 2004 BSD Brazil structures a methodology to apply the Ethos Indicators at Petrobras engineering units. BSD Brazil conducts the first SA8000 course for auditors. BSD Switzerland ends incubation of gebana. 2003 Peter Teuscher acts as director of the board of gebana. BSD Brazil implements a clean water project for rural communities in Parana, financed by the Swiss company Georg Fischer. Launch of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). First edition of the AA1000 Assurance Standard is published. 2002 BSD Switzerland starts research cooperation with Zurich University of Applied Sciences ZHAW on Social Management Systems. BSD Brazil implements its first SA8000 (SESI-PR). BSD translates AA1000 into Portuguese. UN World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Foundation of the ISEAL Alliance. Second version of the GRI Guidelines issued. BSD Brazil conducts the first scoping study for AA1000 (SESI-SC). 2001 BSD Brazil gives its first corporate responsibility course (UNIRIO). 2000 BSD Switzerland and BSD Brazil get organic certification for the soybean chain of gebana and include The Body Shop as a partner and client. Adoption of the Millennium Development Goals. UN Global Compact is established. First version of the GRI Guidelines issued. First version of the Ethos indicators launched. 1999 BSD Brazil conducts the Fairtrade Labelling Organizations’ (FLO) first social audit in orange production. BSD Switzerland implements its first social monitoring project. Dow Jones Sustainability Index launched. The Institute for Social and Ethical Accountability (ISEA also known as AccountAbility) launches the AA1000. 1998 B&SD Business and Social Development Ltd. was founded in Switzerland and in Brazil. BSD Switzerland starts incubating fair trade company gebana ag. Ethos Institute for Businesses and Social Responsibility is founded in Brazil. 1997 BSD founding partners launch idea of creating the company based on first project for setting up a sustainable soybeans value chain between Brazil and Switzerland. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) founded. Establishment of the Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International (FLO). Social Accountability International (SAI) launches the standard SA8000. 1 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 OUR 15 YEAR JOURNEY G4-3 , G4-15, G4-16 KEY MOMENTS BSD CONSULTING / GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES Launch of the Reporting 3.0 2013 platform in Germany. Participant of the UN Global Compact. Launch of Trippplus business unit. BSD Colombia becomes a B Corp. Launch in Amsterdam of the fourth version of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4), in the presence of 10 BSD delegates. Launch of BSD USA by Felipe Arango and BSD 2012 Germany by Sebastian Straube and Peter Teuscher. Launch of the website www.bsdconsulting.com. BSD is the biggest single licensed GRI Training Partner worldwide. Internal publication BSD Sustainability Report 2011. Conference on Sustainable Development Rio+20 in Rio de Janeiro. Launch of BSD Mexico by Hugo Vergara 2011 and Felipe Arango. BSD starts cooperation with Level Works for social 2010 auditing in Latin America. Summit on the Millennium Development Goals. Launch of ISO 26000 guidance standard on social responsibility. Launch of BSD Portugal by Francisco Neves. 2009 BSD starts representing BSCI in China. Launch of SAI in Brazil, having BSD as the official representative. 2008 BSD Switzerland partners GIZ for Social Compliance work in China. Launch of BSD Ecuador and BSD Chile by Hugo Vergara, and BSD China by Peter Teuscher. BSD Brazil is the first office to become a GRI Certified Training Partner. 2007 Launch of BSD Group AG by Peter Teuscher, Beat Grüninger and Felipe Arango. Launch of BSD Spain by Niels Ferdinand. BSD rebranding. 2006 Launch of BSD Colombia by Felipe Arango. BSD Switzerland launches platform on Sustainable Procurement, funded by SECO. Launch of third version of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3). 2005 The 2005 World Summit. Launch of ISE – Bovespa Business Sustainability Index. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 1 5 OUR PERSONALITY Committed Wide Capable Wholeheartedly dedicated Ability to engage and work Experienced, resourced, to, and passionate about with a diverse range and knowledgeable. sustainable development. of stakeholders. We engage in design Driven by impact. Focused and implementation. on results, systems, effective management, collective Innovative action and standards. Pioneering, creative, Trusted and aware. Ethical, coherent, and transparent. Friendly Easy to relate to, approachable, open, empathic, humane, fun. Engaged Active, informed, and part of a global collaborative network. “The most enjoyable thing for me working at BSD Consulting is the amazing working atmosphere: people respect each other, take care of each other; we work as a team through every target with passion and full support, and to share the joy of success of each task.” Maggie Wu, Senior Consultant, BSD China 1 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-4 AN EVOLVING PLATFORM OF INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS BSD SOLUTIONS STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT COMMUNICATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Understanding stakeholder Robust sustainability reporting The sustainability agenda expectations and effectively processes are fundamental presents organizations with engaging them is key to to advancing transparency, complex challenges, as well generating trust, knowledge, accountability and sustainable as opportunities to enhance innovation and collaboration. We management. Effective competitiveness. We work with design stakeholder engagement communication strategies our clients and their stakeholders plans, catalyze engagement and play a key role in reframing to identify, anticipate and provide insights and analysis for organizational cultures, understand key issues, and roadmaps and alliances. establishing trust and enhancing support the development collaboration. We create of strategies, business sustainability communication models, systems, cultures and strategies within and among roadmaps towards sustainable organizations and society and management. support sustainability reporting processes. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 1 7 G4-4 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECTS FOR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT The rapidly changing landscape Companies are increasingly for corporate activities requires We design, implement and expected to take responsibility new individual, organizational evaluate projects for sustainable for social and environmental and societal capacities. Our development. Some of our issues in their supply chains. expert facilitators design main fields of action include We analyze supply chains of workshops, events and trainings sustainable value chain private and public organizations tailored to each client's situation, development, human rights, rural to identify how they manage which is also guided by leading livelihood, sustainable urbanism sustainability. The development international sustainability and social entrepreneurship. of capacities, reliable standards. relationships and systems is key for the establishment of ASSURANCE sustainable supply chains. We SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS work with suppliers towards With the aim of increasing the innovation, fair labor conditions We advise clients to create credibility of what a company and environmental stewardship and improve social investment wants to tell to its audience, and help our clients to establish a strategies. We offer due diligence external verification can risk-based procurement practice. and impact assessment services contribute substantial value. for ethical and impact-oriented We provide stakeholderinvestors. based assurance services for sustainability reports based on the Accountability´s Assurance Standard principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. 1 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 BSD Solutions do not stem from and expands it to the different Our solution portfolio has one central brain. This is one of offices. We are constantly expanded significantly the advantages of our network creating and iterating to adapt throughout the years as approach: innovation takes place our services to the changing knowledge is generated, diverse in nodes across the world and, in societal and business landscapes. talent joins our team and new turn, the BSD Group systematizes paths are explored. ASSURANCE IN BRAZIL works hand-in-hand with SWITZERLAND AND CHINA these entities designing and ON SUPPLY CHAINS The Brazilian market implementing projects for matured more rapidly than local economic development, As a result of increased other markets in regards to improved governance, and consumer awareness for sustainability reporting and gender equality, among others. decent labor conditions at because of that, Brazilian supplier level, business and companies were early pioneers multi-stakeholder initiatives in exploring stakeholder-based IMPACT INVESTMENT have been founded. Together assurance. BSD´s long track IN THE USA with GIZ, and on behalf of record with Accountability a German retailer, the BSD and assurance standards has The impact investment agenda Switzerland team set up a positioned BSD as a leading has gained significant traction social compliance and supplier voice within the sustainability in the USA over the last several development program in China assurance community. Today, years. As a result, the BSD which led to the creation of the BSD Brazil team conducts USA team has been a pioneer BSD China in 2008. assurance processes for within our network in the top companies such as Itaú development of solutions to Unibanco, Klabin, KPMG Brazil align capital with social and and Unilever. environmental value creation. PROJECTS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN COLOMBIA As a conflict-stricken country, development organizations and UN agencies have a strong presence in Colombia. The BSD Colombia team LOOKING AHEAD We will make advances in designing solutions focused on business model transformation, platform development and software tools for engagement, sustainability reporting and management. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 1 9 HIGHLIGHTS REPORTING 3.0 Using a wide range of offline and online formats, the international multi-stakeholder Reporting 3.0 platform (www.reporting3.org) aims to support nations, cities and companies to manifest their contribution towards a sustainable future with tangible lasting results. The platform is an initiative of the BSD Germany team and brings together topics, ideas, organizations and participants, examines these from new perspectives and combines them to jointly enhance their impact. The “Reporting 3.0: The Future of Sustainability Reporting” conference held in September 2013 in Berlin was a comprehensive stock-taking of this topic and also provided an outlook on what lies ahead. In 2014, the BSD Germany team will continue hosting events devoted to the further development of this important international topic. All Reporting 3.0 activities seek to highlight relevant developments, identify potential paths for development, and point out specific implications for companies and decision makers. The platform also aims to proactively accompany international discourse on this topic in the years to come and provide valuable inputs for its further development. In this sense, in 2014 there will also be held local Reporting 3.0 kick-off events in Brazil, the USA and China which focus on local challenges in an international context. TRIPPPLUS trippplus is BSD’s first venture, created and founded by Felipe Arango in 2013. Its aim is to scale disruptive innovation, meaning endeavoring to create ‘triple value’ for investors and society, as the ‘status quo’ is no longer acceptable. trippplus views capital and markets as a force for making a difference, that investments should deliver ‘positive externalities’, and yield social, environmental and financial returns. Those at trippplus believe that, in order to achieve this and to address the challenges we face, disruptive thinking and scalable solutions are required. The trippplus team seeks to identify and support innovative enterprises that can generate financial returns as a means to scale and sustain systemic change. COMPASS The Sustainability Compass is an internet platform (www.sustainability-compass.com)* whose objective is to support buyers in public institutions and companies, in particular SMEs, to integrate sustainability into their procurement practices. Supported by the Swiss Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and in partnership with various international actors such as the International Trade Centre (ITC), BSD has developed and implemented the Sustainability Compass. The Compass is a country specific tool reflecting the sustainable procurement environment of a particular country, providing instruments, tools and practical examples to facilitate its implementation while contextualizing in depth information on eco-labels and sustainability standards. 2 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 In 2013, the Sustainability Compass focused on clearly identifying the needs of procurers on the ground in order to be able to offer practical and useful tools for their use. As a result, the new “tools” section of the platform provides information per product group, specifically for public procurers to make it easier for them to integrate sustainability criteria into their buying procedures. Besides giving an overview of existing tools on the Swiss market, the Sustainability Compass develops its own factsheets whose objective is to be both informative and practical. The first factsheet was on textiles and the goal is to continue developing content for other product groups. Through our constant discussions with buyers both in public institutions and companies, the Sustainability Compass gathered tremendous amount of information on the State of Sustainable Procurement in Switzerland which will be compiled into a report in 2014. This information also helps the team to precisely pinpoint the needs and continue to further develop the tools for procurers. The Sustainability Compass is currently available in Switzerland and in Germany but it is our ambition for 2014 to further expand it and share our expertise with other interested countries around the world. *Please note that the English version is a generic version as the Compass is a country-based tool. For a fully operational version, please visit the Swiss version only available in German at www.kompass-nachhaltigkeit. ch and French at www.boussole-durabilite.ch. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 2 1 CHAPTER 2 IMPACT AND INFLUENCE 2 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 “Value is created in the symbiotic relationship between business and sustainability: business is essential to the advancement of sustainable development, and sustainability, in turn, creates value for businesses.” Felipe Arango, Partner, BSD Consulting S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 2 3 G4-PR5 OUR APPROACH Assessing the impact and Quantitative measures around the Since the introduction of the influence we have had impact of consulting projects we Client Feedback Survey in 2013 in advancing sustainable have been engaged with are not we have systematically received development over the last 15 always attainable, and it is complex responses from more than 30 years through the services we to define causality or methods to clients who unanimously state provide to our clients is no easy aggregate data. We have selected great satisfaction with the work task, but is definitely at the core specific projects or lines of work for BSD’s consultants have provided of our purpose. It is also, from our which quantitative impact data is and that they would with great perspective, the most relevant available, and plan to strengthen probability recommend BSD issue when reporting about our impact assessment at the project Consulting to other companies performance. It is the reason level moving forward. Most and organizations. why we are in business and the importantly, we have prioritized five driving force behind the work of lines of work where we expect to our team. have impact and influence. PRIORITIZED LINES OF WORK WHERE WE EXPECT TO HAVE POSITIVE IMPACT AND INFLUENCE j Merging strategy, systems and sustainability j Bringing stakeholder perspectives to the table j Building new frameworks and supporting the work of agenda-setters j Advancing sustainable livelihoods for marginalized producers and workers j Developing capacities for sustainable development LOOKING AHEAD We will improve the rollout of the client feedback survey across the network. 2 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 MERGING STRATEGY, SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITY For us, it is clear: sustainable ‘coopetitors’ and thought leaders, capital or markets, strengthening development requires our focus at BSD has been to reputation, achieving efficiencies, organizations, and corporations create impact by supporting and long-term competitiveness. in particular, to integrate organizations on their journey Short-term investor mindsets, sustainability into their strategies towards sustainability. This is an vested interests and resistance and management systems. This endless journey that requires to change can present systemic sparks enormous transformational constant reflection and innovation. barriers to transformation. power, which in turn generates large-scale social, economic Driving change in organizational Through continuous learning and environmental impacts. priorities, plans and behavior is and adaptation, we evolve our Additionally, alignment with however a complex challenge. thinking to overcome such greater societal pressure towards Clients of different sizes, barriers and we try to identify the adoption of sustainable operating in diverse contexts the best way of designing and practices has become a and sectors, with varied implementing strategies for competitive imperative for organizational structures, and sustainable development – organizations, as well as at different stages within the strategies that take into account a powerful inspiration for sustainability journey, approach the interests of stakeholders differentiation and innovation. BSD. We also see a broad and adopt an understanding spectrum of drivers that initiate of value that includes social, For the past 15 years, and or advance the journey, for economic and environmental constantly building on the example, compliance, managing issues – strategies that can also accumulated knowledge risks, responding to crises, 'peer be implemented, monitored and and experience of our team, pressure’, improving access to continuously improved. Value creation opportunities, risks and responsibilities are rapidly and fundamentally changing. Sustainable organizations understand their societal landscape, integrate ‘the long term’ into their thinking and align themselves towards clear priorities and goals. BSD Consulting, www.bsdconsulting.com/solutions S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 2 5 WHAT WHERE HAS WORKED? CAN WE IMPROVE? n Effectively framing and communicating n Integrating long-term thinking and scenario the ‘business case’ for sustainability to key planning into strategy design. decision-makers. n Providing tools for internal sustainability n Designing clear roadmaps and performance champions or social intrapreneurs to advocate objectives around material issues. ‘the business case’, gain license to experiment and establish effective partnerships beyond n Integrating sustainability roadmaps with the organization’s boundaries. strategic planning processes, balancescorecards and incentive schemes. n Transforming business models. n Designing robust management approaches n Going beyond the C-suite and executive and systems to align and monitor teams, and engaging boards and implementation. shareholders. n Engaging stakeholders in the design of n Building organizational cultures strategic initiatives and the roll-out of and engaging employees. partnerships for collective action. n Identifying client’s commitment to strategic n Using the sustainability reporting process transformation early on, and implementing as a tool to advance strategic planning, check-posts along the way. communication and monitoring. “While it's great news that 93% of CEOs say they understand sustainability's importance to their businesses and significant numbers say they have already embedded the agenda in their organisations you have to wonder whether most of them have any idea of the profound, transformative change that true sustainability will require of virtually every part of our global economy.” John Elkington for the Guardian Professional Network, December 2010 LOOKING AHEAD We plan to integrate the practice of Business Model Innovation through cooperation with specialized partner companies. 2 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS One major attribute of our work is the capacity to help transnational companies to bring their sustainability approach down to the local context. BSD works, for example, with global companies in the cement sector on local stakeholder engagement, translating a global approach into defined local steps. In turn, local stakeholder engagement is used as an input for the global company's materiality process, aggregating local stakeholder views to their strategy definition process. Again, BSD relies on the AA1000 Principles Inclusiveness, Materiality and Responsiveness. SMES AND SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS In Brazil, we have a long term partnership with Sebrae (Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service), in which BSD provides support by defining market access links for small coffee producer cooperatives to the Fairtrade market. In several instances, BSD has supported visits by producers to their main market exhibitions in the United States. In 2013, a new project was initiated with the objective of including the producer cooperatives in a web-based market access tool which was developed by young entrepreneurs. NGOS AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES Since our foundation, we have been working with NGOs and international agencies to foster sustainable development. This experience gives us valuable insights into the challenges faced by developing countries and practical knowledge on the most effective methods to create sustainable impacts. We are well positioned to connect development initiatives with the business world, as we have done in Spain, for oil and gas company Repsol. Repsol requested assistance from the BSD Spain team in identifying the most suitable NGOs and development agencies with whom they should create strategic alliances for the implementation of their global Corporate Responsibility Plan. GOVERNMENTS For several years the BSD Switzerland team has been working with governmental initiatives relating to sustainable public procurement, taking advantage of knowledge gained during development of the Sustainability Compass. In Colombia, BSD worked alongside other organizations as well as governmental and private sector entities on the ‘Reconciliación Colombia’ initiative, which aims to provide a network for the integration of victims of regional conflicts (such as displaced people). S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 2 7 BRINGING STAKEHOLDER PERSPECTIVES TO THE TABLE From the outset, we at BSD have Our team has acquired in-depth we have strived to leverage when been guided by the belief that, and extensive experience through advising organizations as they not only should people affected working side-by-side with a broad design strategies, programs by an organization’s activities range of stakeholders, including and partnerships, and as they have the right to be heard, but community leaders, worker union prioritize which material issues to that it is indeed in the interest of representatives, rural producers, address. an organization to understand activists, consumer advocates, its stakeholders’ expectations journalists, social entrepreneurs, We have created a systematic in order to help drive strategy, C-suite executives, suppliers approach to stakeholder innovation and accountability. (SMEs), regulators, investors, engagement, which invites non-governmental organizations organizations to strategize and sustainability experts, among around the purpose of others. It is precisely this capacity engagement and to build on to understand stakeholder realities and expectations that “Today’s organizational challenges and the need to achieve sustainable development make it more important to engage both with previously ignored stakeholders, including the voiceless, and with more familiar stakeholders on new topics and in new ways.” AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard 2 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 stakeholder knowledge to align THE AA1000 PRINCIPLES their operations with societal expectations. We have seen over the years many cases where the results of ad hoc engagement initiatives fail to Inclusivity be taken into account when key decisions are made, resulting For an organization that accepts its accountability to those on in low levels of responsiveness whom it has an impact and who have an impact on it, inclusivity to stakeholders. The links is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving between effective stakeholder an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. engagement systems, strategy, operational excellence, collective impact, trust and innovation Materiality continue to drive our efforts as we move forward in supporting Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of corporations, public agencies and an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material civil society organizations in their issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions and sustainability endeavors. performance of an organization or its stakeholders. BSD has also played an important role in challenging organizations Responsiveness through our assurance process for sustainability reports, which Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder aligns with the principles laid issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized out in the AA1000AS and APS through decisions, actions and performance, as well as standards. This process involves communication with stakeholders. evaluating the integration of stakeholder engagement, Source: AA1000APS Accountability Principles Standard, 2008 management systems and the reporting process. LOOKING AHEAD We plan to consolidate our service offering with new tools (e.g. software, social media) and methods for engagement. We will explore approaches for organizations to assess the value generated for their stakeholders as a result of their activities. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 2 9 HIGHLIGHTS BMW GROUP MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 2013 On request by the BMW Group, the BSD Spain team conducted an international stakeholder consultation process, involving six BSD offices worldwide. This stakeholder consultation laid the basis for the development of the BMW Group’s Materiality Matrix according to the GRI G4 Guidelines which require organizations to focus their sustainability reports and strategies on issues that are material to their business and key stakeholders. BSD then supported the BMW Group in carrying out their 2013 Materiality Assessment. This project included the following tasks: n Validation of the BMW Group´s list of potentially relevant sustainability issues, definitions and boundaries. n Review of the BMW Group´s list of key stakeholders and advice on additional international stakeholders to be included. n Identification of stakeholder expectations and perceptions with regard to the potentially relevant sustainability issues. n Definition of boundaries and coverage of material aspects in future sustainability reports. To identify sustainability issues and relevant stakeholders, BSD worked with an international project team, including consultants of the BSD offices in Brazil, China, Germany, Spain, Switzerland and the USA. VOTORANTIM INSTITUTE The Votorantim Institute developed a Stakeholder Engagement Manual based on AA1000 Assurance Standards to guide its business units on the stakeholder engagement process. Based on Votorantim’s Stakeholder Engagement Manual, the BSD Brazil team implemented capacity building, such as holding workshops and developing tools, inside the units´ internal groups in order to assist them in mapping and prioritizing their stakeholders, classifying and identifying material issues, and developing an engagement plan to build Votorantim’s relationship with stakeholders. The plan focuses mainly on local community development, social and environmental impacts, supply chain, image, and reputational issues and internal processes. Some of the local initiatives became process at Votorantim group level due to the results achieved, and served as inputs on similar issues for other units. The Votorantim Institute has launched case studies showing quantitative and qualitative results of this work. 3 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 SEA@ STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT APPLICATION SEA@ is an online Stakeholder Engagement Application. This online tool seeks to strategically engage a company’s stakeholders by consolidating information and activities relating to stakeholders according to each area of the company. The tool is developed by the BSD Chile team in collaboration with Santiago-based IT company Ucorp. The tool was developed in 2013 and adapted to the needs of various organizations that started to work with it. The BSD Chile team provides training and supports their clients that are using the platform, to achieve the most valuable results. Based on the experience gained, BSD plans to introduce SEA@ to more prospective users in Chile and abroad as well as to further develop the platform, including improvement of the platform’s management reporting function. SECTOR ENGAGEMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE INSURANCE The BSD Brazil team supported the National Council of Assurance Companies in Brazil to define its strategy for the adoption of the Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI). After a survey on the status of implementation of Sustainability Practices, a workshop involving relevant stakeholders was held which helped to define how the different aspects of the PSI could be approached and what would be a realistic agenda to set in order for the sector to advance its practices. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 1 BUILDING NEW FRAMEWORKS AND SUPPORTING THE WORK OF AGENDA-SETTERS Reframing the economy is an Over the last 15 years, BSD change as they pave the way imperative for a sustainable has played an active role in for the formation of new global society. Old frameworks are advancing the work and impact multi-stakeholder governance failing us and many are broken. of organizations that build arrangements. A globalized interdependent these emergent frameworks, economy with unprecedented with a focus on agenda-setters Their work has also served as a rates of change and pressing that are defining social norms reference for the development of risks requires new institutions and voluntary standards for our consulting solutions and the and governance models that sustainable development. alignment of our global team. can shape agendas towards social justice, environmental We are driven by their OUR WORK WITH AGENDA stewardship and sustainable purpose and the possibilities SETTERS economic livelihoods. of accelerating and inspiring n Designing strategies and systems (i.e. certification, impact assessment, support, information). n Creating and upgrading standards. n Engaging stakeholders to drive innovation, legitimacy and continuous improvement. n Providing local operational and outreach capabilities. n Developing capacities of employees and practitioners. n Enhancing collaboration across sectors and initiatives. “Business has to take account of its The range of agenda-setters we responsibilities to society in coming have engaged with throughout our journey is wide, as are to decisions, but society has to accept its their purposes. The impact responsibilities for setting the standards we have witnessed them against which those decisions are made.” achieve disrupting sectors, shaping mindsets and policies, raising awareness, building Sir Adrian Cadbury, “Ethical Managers Make Their Own rules”, consensus, transforming regions, Harvard Business Review, 1987 building markets and providing knowledge will continue to guide our work as we strengthen existing partnerships and continue to create new ones. LOOKING AHEAD We will actively participate in standards revision processes and technical working groups. We will explore possibilities to consolidate our knowledge and training offerings within the framework of the 'BSD Academy'. 3 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-16 HIGHLIGHTS BSD Consulting has engaged with various standards and independent certification systems in various ways including: GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) We at BSD regard GRI as one of the most important organizations working to advance corporate transparency and sustainability today. GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a crucial element to our core work with companies. GRI has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. In order to advance this strategy, GRI certifies organizations as official training partners. BSD and GRI embarked on our journey together over a decade ago as very young organizations. We have used the GRI Guidelines to support organizations with their sustainability reporting since our doors opened to our first clients in 2001. At BSD, we hold the view that the Guidelines should be omnipresent in all companies' sustainability strategies, as soon enough, society and businesses will no longer be able to make key decisions on where to invest, who to partner with and what products to consume, without a sustainability report. Some of the highlights of BSD’s journey with GRI include: n Conducted the first certified training with UniEthos and FGV in Brazil, in 2008. n Contributed to the G3 Guidelines with translations and consultations on a local level. n Spearheaded various GRI Reporting processes for organizations across a diverse range of sectors. n BSD is a GRI Certified Training Partner in Latin America, USA, China, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, and Germany. n BSD Consulting is GRI’s official Data Partner for Spain, Austria, Germany, and Switzerland. SAI SAI is a non-governmental, multi-stakeholder organization whose mission it is to advance the human rights of workers around the world by promoting ethical working conditions, labor rights, corporate social responsibility and social dialogue. BSD Consulting is the authorized representative of SAI in Brazil. BSD’s Founding Partners, Beat and Peter, have been partners in the training and the promotion of the SA8000 from the outset. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) BSD is fully engaged with the new agenda driven by the UNGC, which highlights the need for leadership and innovation from the private sector to establish partnerships that can advance some of the main items in the sustainability agenda such as biodiversity, women's empowerment, carbon disclosure, water management and human rights. Our relationship with the UNGC takes place on several fronts: n As of 17 July 2013 BSD Consulting, including all local offices, is participating in the UNGC and is therefore committed to the 10 UNGC Principles. n In 2013 BSD Germany launched the Reporting 3.0 platform with the German UNGC Network. n Together with the German UNGC Network, BSD Switzerland revised the website kmu.kompass-nachhaltigkeit.de and offers training on sustainable supplier management. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 3 G4-16 HIGHLIGHTS ACCOUNTABILITY AccountAbility is a leading global membership organization providing innovative solutions to the most critical challenges in corporate responsibility and sustainable development. One of AccountAbility’s most significant achievements has been the launch of the standard framework AA1000, which is guiding companies that take up assurance and stakeholder engagement processes. BSD in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland are AA1000AS (2008) Licensed Providers. Beat Grüninger (BSD Brazil), Francisco Neves (BSD Portugal), and Irène Perrin (BSD Switzerland) are Associate Sustainability Assurance Practitioners. Highlights of BSD’s work with AA1000 and Stakeholder Engagement: n BSD was a partner for the AA1000 standard revisions and launches. n Beat Grüninger is a member of the AA1000 Standards Board. n BSD designed stakeholder engagement systems for leading companies: Alpina, Votorantim, Holcim and Gas Natural, to name a few. FAIRTRADE INTERNATIONAL Since its inception, BSD has shown a strong, long term commitment to the development of fair trade, not only through its consulting work in this area but also as a facilitator of the movement over its 14 years of existence. The concept of fair trade was indeed the starting point of BSD’s consulting services in both emerging nations and in Europe. BSD consultants conducted over 100 small producer and trader inspections for Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International Certification (FLOCERT) in Bolivia, Colombia, Peru, Brazil, Winward Islands, Paraguay and Mozambique. The products concerned included coffee, mango, bananas, cocoa, Brazil nuts, orange juice, cotton, honey, seeds, fresh and processed fruit and sugar. BSD has also evaluated producer organizations and companies for the fair trade companies gebana, claro, Altereco and Veja Fairtrade. Mandated by the Fairtrade-certification body, BSD: n developed the new certification system for FLOCERT, including compliance criteria n was involved in the development of Fairtrade “Small Producer and Trader Standards” n participated in the strategic review process for the Fairtrade Movement in 2008 n helped to develop the basis for the oilseed certification standard 3 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS FOR MARGINALIZED PRODUCERS AND WORKERS Our global economic system Since inception, we have BSD’s team has also focused has not been successful so far in prioritized engaging with projects on working with specific issues offering sustainable livelihoods and clients working on: that affect rural and urban for millions of rural producers n Designing and managing communities alike. Among them: and workers worldwide. Value supply chains that take n Women's empowerment chains, markets and empowered into account fair labor n Youth leadership communities offer great potential conditions, poverty alleviation, n Access to finance to change this reality. capacity development and n Protecting the rights of environmental sustainability; indigenous and afro-descendant all the while increasing communities competitiveness and generating n Peacebuilding and social tissue long-term value. strengthening n Strengthening the capacities of cooperatives, associations, SMEs, networks and leaders to advance sustainable livelihoods. n Scaling-up new ventures and social enterprises that advance wellbeing in rural and marginalized urban communities. n Designing financial solutions for sustainable value chains and communities. n Leveraging new technologies for social and environmental development. “We engage with farmer cooperatives, worker unions, NGOs, development agencies and high-level executives in corporations. We understand the realities, perspectives and expectations of a wide range of stakeholders. Our consultants know the field and the boardroom. This really sets us apart.” Marcela Romero, Director, BSD Colombia S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 5 HIGHLIGHTS We work directly with rural organizations to advance their capacities, establish partnerships, strengthen management systems and improve their access to markets. Working in alliance with development agencies, foundations, corporations and public institutions, we have supported producer organizations from a diverse range of sectors and geographies. GENERATING EMPLOYMENT IN QUIBDÓ The project is part of the program “African descent and indigenous people” of the non-profit organization ACDI/VOCA, that was planned in late 2012 with implementation commencing in early 2013. Its main objective is stated in its name: “Generating employment and increasing income for local enterprises in Quibdo from strengthening producer organizations”. The project aims to increase income for local enterprises through strengthened internal capabilities made possible by development of and adherence to a sustainable management system. The BSD Colombia team began the project with the identification of productive activities and local enterprises in the vulnerable areas, followed by measurement of the enterprise according to four different aspects, including market, leadership, performance and social impact. After filtering the potential of the identified enterprises, we generated an action plan tailored to each organization to start the strengthening of their capacities and to assist them to follow an ideal path to develop, and adhere to, a sustainable management system. The project resulted in 80 enterprises identified as relevant, 14 organizations with action plans, 7 allied local institutions and more than 80 people of African descent involved. 3 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 BRAZILIAN COFFEE PRODUCERS The BSD Brazil team was an implementing partner of a project led by USAID, Fairtrade USA, WalMart and Sebrae Minas Gerais called “Responsible Sourcing Partnership”. The project helped to increase the Fairtrade sales from 16 coffee cooperatives in Brazil representing over 5000 small producers. The project targeted market access, quality improvement, governance and administration. In the third year of the project, the average income increase per producer was more than USD 3221 per annum and the Democracy ranking of the groups raised from 7 to 9.6 on a scale of 10. Following termination of the project, the groups continued to show sustained growth and quality improvement. Today, BSD is supporting the Fairtrade producers with a customized client management tool and other activities which facilitate their access to the buyer market. DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS PLAN FOR A BASE OF THE PYRAMID PROJECT ACC1Ò is a Catalan public agency, which supports the competitiveness of companies by promoting innovation, internationalization, and attraction of investors. On request by ACC1Ò, the BSD Spain team developed a business plan for a Base of the Pyramid (BoP) project. This project aimed to define a sustainable business model that generates income and promotes development in poor regions of developing countries. The end result of this business plan is the AEROFEEDER, a device developed by the Catalan organizations FEMAC, MaqCentre, and IRTA. It improves the profitability of farmers that produce shrimp with basic methods. The plan is supplemented with representation and support services that encourage the development of value chains and good aquaculture practices. EMPOWERING WOMEN IN COLOMBIA COFFEE SECTOR In Colombia, the National Public Equity for Women Policy has recently incorporated the principles of equality and non-discrimination, gender analysis, differential rights approach and the recognition of differences and diversity, including ethnic and cultural relevance. Thus, the principle of equality and human dignity according to which all people are born free and equal is now a formally recognized principle but is yet to be achieved universally for women in Colombia. Women do however actively participate and promote these principles at local community level to generate better way of living and thinking in a collective sense. In terms of improving rural livelihoods in this respect, the BSD Colombia team developed a unique project in 2008 to empower women working in coffee production. The project aimed to achieve five different targets including greater inclusion of women in the coffee production industry, increased capacity empowerment and equal access to opportunities; taking into account the specific needs of women and to promote improved perceptions on gender within the coffee sector. These targets were developed to give focus to participatory councils that were established for coffee women. This rural development project was designed to align with local and national public policies in regards to gender equity, and to enhance and promote better working conditions for women. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 7 G4-9 DEVELOPING CAPACITIES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The magnitude of the cultural HIGHLIGHTS IN CAPACITY transformation required for BUILDING a sustainable society and the Since 2008, more accelerated rhythm at which than 50’000 people BSD Consulting is a certified change is taking place calls for training partner of the Global a new critical mass of change have participated in Reporting Initiative (GRI) in agents equipped with knowledge our training programs several territories, offering both and platforms. Our team has and courses in-house and open courses for developed training programs, company delegates. At the start workshops, ‘labs’ and events of 2014, BSD trainers are certified focused on a diverse range of to conduct GRI Trainings in: topics that include: All BSD offices are GRI certified n Brazil n Sustainable development and training partners. BSD also n China sustainability management provides SA8000 Basic and n Germany (i.e. ISO 26000, SA8000, BSCI, Advanced Auditor courses in n Hispanic Americas Fairtrade) Brazil, Global Compact Trainings n Portugal n Sustainability reporting (i.e. in Colombia and Germany, and n Spain Global Reporting Initiative BSCI workshops in Germany, n Switzerland GRI, UN Global Compact COP, Brazil, Chile, and China. n USA Reporting 3.0) We also deliver ‘tailor-made’ n Sustainable supply chains internal training programs n Stakeholder engagement for our clients, to ensure that (i.e. AA1000) organizational and leadership n Social entrepreneurship and capacities are in place to social intrapreneurship implement and improve the n Impact investing solutions we design together. GRI TRAINING GRADUATES SINCE 2008 TRAINING GRADUATES SINCE 2009 TOTAL: 2.317 600 250 525 500 508 200 420 400 150 300 303 280 281 100 200 50 100 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 SA8000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT AA1000 ISO26000 GENERAL CSR 3 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 HIGHLIGHTS SAI BRAZIL WORKER ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM In Brazil, BSD worked on behalf of SAI with factory workers and managers to implement 100-day Social Fingerprint Rapid Results projects to improve health and safety. This program was implemented in partnership with Rapid Results Institute (RRI), a leading non-profit organization that works with communities and organizations around the world to make meaningful change happen in 100 days. Social Fingerprint Rapid Results (SFRR), an integrated methodology developed by SAI and RRI, builds and coaches teams of peerselected workers and managers to develop and implement 100-day projects to achieve ambitious goals together. The 100-day projects follow three key principles “Team, Goal, Process” and focused on effective improvements of Health and Safety conditions for workers. During the project, 20 teams from Brazilian factories, composed equally of workers and managers, participated in the program. The goals set by the teams ranged from reducing workplace accidents and fire hazards, to creating effective grievance mechanisms that workers can utilize. Most teams have met or even exceeded their goals. The results of such collaborative problem solving mean both workers and management maintain a vested interest throughout the process, with participants developing an understanding of the needs and concerns of the other. “When we talk about collective responsibilities and benefits, people really engage with purpose of the project,” said one participant. In total, 18 companies participated with a total of 180 managers and workers trained, and more than 18.000 workers to benefit from the improvements. WORKING CONDITIONS AND CLEANER PRODUCTION IN CHINESE FACTORIES This project in China has been running since 2008 and is being implemented by BSD Switzerland and China on behalf of a major German retailer and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). The focus is on the qualification of suppliers in China (ongoing) and Bangladesh (first phases) regarding working conditions and cleaner production. By the end of 2013, this ongoing project had provided management and worker training, capacity building activities and workshops, on-site visits and off-site support. Waste (energy, material, water, steam, etc) reduction has been achieved and continuous improvement is still being observed. The management team and over 45’000 workers making up of 2/3 of all factory workers are being trained on labor rights, CSR and Cleaner Production. Some benefits observed to date include: improved productivity, reduced working hours, increased salaries, reduced Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) risks, increased coverage of social insurance for factory workers, saved energy consumption up to 10% per producer, reduced water consumption, reduced material usage, reduced steam waste, implemented quality management tools like 5S and lean management, enabled organizational change, implemented environmental management systems (EMS), improved management systems and capacity. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 3 9 CHAPTER 3 ETHICAL BEHAVIOR 4 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 We believe that economic success, the fundamental purpose of business, can be achieved with full commitment to sustainable development, corporate social responsibility and ethics. Our own practices reflect this long-term commitment and we expect the same from our stakeholders. BSD Business Principles S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 4 1 G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-PR8, G4-SO4, UNGC Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 10 Our understanding of ethical supply chain our contribution for training activities and the behavior requires that our talent to progress on human rights, maintenance of the Ethics and directors do the right thing including forced and child labor, Complaint Channel that has been at all times. Ethical behavior is a can be regarded as relevant. made available to all staff and core principle for BSD Consulting The Code of Practice is available stakeholders. as an organization, and it makes publicly in all BSD working no sense to try to advance languages and our clients are As an assurance provider and our mission of sustainable made familiar with it. The Code auditor, BSD abides by its own development if we ourselves of Practice is also part of our terms to guarantee independency are not an example of ethical new employee orientation. Our of both its professionals and the behavior. offices regularly discuss ethical company. Besides working on issues during staff meetings and specific assignments, BSD does Ethics is manifested throughout incorporate the Code’s items into not permit itself to have any our values and brand attributes. their daily work. other commercial relationships Two of BSD’s core institutional or interests with a company it is documents are the BSD Business A major milestone in 2013 was assuring or auditing. This does not Principles and the BSD Code the creation of the BSD Ethics rule out the possibility that in the of Practice, which embody our Committee which started its near future, an assurance client commitment to sustainable work in early 2014. Members of may become a consultancy client, development. The Code of the Committee are Linda Karrer, but clear boundaries are drawn Practice outlines BSD’s values as Giulia Cricenti, Marcela Romero, between the two different tasks. a set of general guidelines and Beat Grüninger and Annelies requirements applicable to all Poolman. With the support of the We at BSD have also maintained employees and subcontractors Committee, the Code of Practice high standards of ethical behavior in all activities. Our respect was revised and two new tools, in relation to customers’ privacy, for people’s rights starts with the Client Integrity Management taking great pride that we have our own employees, but we manual and the Ethics Decision not received any substantiated know that through our clients Tree were developed and have complaints regarding breaches especially through those with a been tested. Further tasks of of customer privacy or losses of more complex and challenging the Committee are support customer data. 4 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-8, G4-14, G4-56, UNGC Principle 7 A CLOSER LOOK AT ETHICS We at BSD work with clients to promote responsible, ethical and sustainable practices in business. We hold ourselves to the highest values of ethical behavior and integrity in our relationships with stakeholders, and choose to work with consultants, clients and stakeholders who are equally aligned to ethics and integrity. Ethics plays a decisive role when it comes to choosing our clients and vice-versa. BSD’s approach to ethics includes: n Ensuring transparency. n Working with critical sectors and complex clients while carefully distinguishing greenwashing/makebelieve from genuine sustainability management and accountability. n Taking a precautionary approach towards possible significant social and environmental impacts of our clients. n Implementation of client feedback. n Preserving our clients and the market, especially when it involves social auditing, evaluation and certifications. n Employing caution when communicating information about its business sector clients. At this point BSD Consulting does not exclude particular sectors from its suite of clients. Indeed, we are challenging ourselves by supporting some of the most high-impact sectors on the road to sustainable development, such as the extractive or chemicals industries. When deciding upon a professional engagement, we apply a decision making process supported by our Client Integrity Management manual. The application of the tools helps to make the right decision when critical factors need to be taken into account. BSD reserves its right to not work with clients who ultimately cannot demonstrate that they are committed to achieving sustainability goals. The BSD Business Principles and Code of Practice can be downloaded at: www.bsdconsulting.com/about LOOKING AHEAD We will carry out training sessions and workshops on our Ethics Program in all BSD offices. We will integrate our Ethics Program into our project management procedures. We will analyze possibilities of expanding B Corp certification beyond the Colombia office. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 4 3 CHAPTER 4 TALENT AT THE CENTER 4 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 Diversity in country of origin, gender, ethnicity, age, language, and fields of study is important because we believe that it makes our teams and our work more innovative and creative. Sebastian Straube, Director, BSD Germany S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 4 5 G4-9, G4-10, UNGC Principle 6 TEAM PROFILE Having well trained and and guaranteeing a good hiring, and currently employ a knowledgeable staff is key life-work balance. We at BSD greater number of female talent for our work. Our talent is an consider diversity as a source of than male on the consultant level, important asset and therefore innovation and are proud of how yet are still seeking to achieve an staff management is one of our this is reflected in our current improved gender balance on a main challenges. BSD aims to be composition. It is very international leadership level. Being a rather recognized as a good and fair with a total of 79 staff members young company, the turnover employer by encouraging diversity comprised of 12 nationalities rate of around 33% is high and among its staff, supporting located across 11 countries, and a concern that is going to be and promoting professional speaking 12 languages. We also addressed through a more solid development of its employees, consider gender diversity when staff management approach. TOTAL TALENT BY OFFICE 2013 20 TOTAL 2013: 79 15 10 5 0 GROUP BRAZIL SWITZERLAND COLOMBIA CHILE CHINA SPAIN PORTUGAL ECUADOR MEXICO USA GERMANY TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY GENDER TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY AGE GROUP < 30 FEMALE MALE 29% 59% 41% 30-50 67% > 50 4% 4 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-10, UNGC Principle 6 TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY NUMBER OF YEARS TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY CONTRACT TYPE WITH BSD CONSULTING > 5 YEARS < 1 YEAR PERMANENT TEMPORARY 25% 19% 76% 24% 3-4 YEARS 1-2 YEARS 19% 37% You can find a supportive culture everywhere at BSD Consulting, and it hardly feels hierarchical. I am proud to have been working as a consultant since 2009 on the high quality supply chain development projects happening in China. I am very appreciative of BSD for giving me many career development opportunities over the years. Daniel Chen, Project Manager, BSD China TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY LEVEL AND GENDER TOTAL TALENT 2013 LANGUAGES EXPERTISE LEADERSHIP MALE 18% CONSULTANTS FEMALE LEADERSHIP 40% FEMALE 9% SUPPORTERS 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% FEMALE 10% EMPLOYEES FLUENT IN: RUSSIAN SWEDISH DUTCH ITALIAN POLISH CONSULTANTS MALE KANTONESE MANDARIN FRENCH GERMAN 23% PORTUGUESE SPANISH ENGLISH S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 4 7 G4-LA1 TOTAL TALENT 2013 BY NATIONALITIES VENEZUELAN 1% BRAZILIAN SWISS 22% 19% SPANISH 6% CHILEAN 8% PORTUGUESE 6% CHINESE POLISH 6% 3% GERMAN COLOMBIAN 8% 19% FRENCH 1% DUTCH 1% TALENT IN & OUT 2013, BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% <30 30-50 MALE FEMALE TOTAL TALENT OUT TALENT IN 4 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION & MOTIVATION Motivated and talented We have and promote an open to address the outcomes of professionals are key assets working culture. We organize the survey and are committed for us and guarantee that the work in a way that fits the needs to making the necessary organization can fulfill its mission. of both the clients and our improvements at a local level. The consultants are agents local talent. We believe in trust of change for companies and and empowerment. We are Almost all (90-95%) of employees organizations. Our talented entrepreneurs and committed to that responded to the survey professionals share common a common mission. are content with their work values, and our mission is shared and feel a sense of both local by all engaged in our work across Our annual employee feedback identity as well as a connection the different offices. survey was started in 2013. to BSD Consulting as a whole. The survey was sent to all They find that their work levels Purpose, well being, and employees and permanent are manageable and that there life-work balance are central freelancers in November 2013 are sufficient possibilities for for all of us. We are and will and 41 employees responded. further development. They are remain a network of small Respondents were both men and happy with the culture of the firms. We have small teams but women in all age categories and organization and appreciate big challenges. Project-based from all offices. More than half their local leadership and peaks can demand much of of the respondents have been management. each employee. We face these working at BSD since 2010, as challenges as they arise but well as a few respondents who Many (75-90%) are also happy continue to respect a healthy have been with the company for with the collaboration and balance of work and private life. 7 or 8 years. We are now working teamwork as well as with the “We try to change the world by supporting organizations to improve and enjoy doing it.” Sebastián Pérez Peláez, Consultant, BSD Colombia I AM PROUD TO WORK FOR BSD CONSULTING I FEEL CONNECTED TO BSD CONSULTING GLOBALLY TOTALLY TOTALLY AGREE AGREE AGREE AGREE 73% 27% 32% 51% DON’T KNOW 7% DISAGREE 10% S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 4 9 “Working at BSD has proven to be a very rewarding experience in human terms, both because of the team, as well as the clients. Working specifically in Stakeholder Engagement, I often get to see and reach the best of people, which will hopefully contribute to a more sustainable future.” Susana Valente, Freelance consultant, BSD Portugal internal communications and within the organization. fundamental in moving forward. information-sharing. The physical infrastructure of The management teams at the workplace does not always BSD's local offices will review Fewer (60-70%) appreciate their meeting employees' needs. The their own results and develop an level of remuneration and their responsiveness of BSD leadership improvement plan accordingly. career-advancement prospects to the survey feedback is I FEEL CONNECTED TO BSD CONSULTING I AM HAPPY WITH THE CULTURE LOCALLY WITHIN MY LOCAL TEAM TOTALLY AGREE AGREE TOTALLY AGREE AGREE 59% 41% 61% 39% WHAT MAKES YOU EXCITED ABOUT BSD? GOOD RELATIONSHIP WITH COLLEAGUES • WORKING IN DIFFERENT SECTORS • SUSTAINABILITY IS CORE BUSINESS BSD’S VALUES AND BELIEFS • DIVERSITY OF PROJECTS • LOTS OF EXPERIENCE AND CREATIVITY IN THE TEAM DELIVER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES • BSD’S GROWTH • FUTURE ORIENTATION • INTERACTION WITH DIVERSE GROUPS ALWAYS LEARNING • MAKING AN IMPACT • FLEXIBILITY • INTERESTING ALLIANCES • CONSTANTLY CHALLENGING GLOBAL NETWORK • RECOGNITION • LONG-TERM CLIENT RELATIONS • GOING TO THE CORE • PERSONAL ENGAGEMENTS INDIVIDUAL SOLUTIONS • VALUABLE AND MEANINGFUL WORK • GOOD TEAM SPIRIT • GLOBALLY CONNECTED GOOD WORK ATMOSPHERE • LOTS OF FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY LOOKING AHEAD We will follow up on the results of the employee feedback survey and the development of action plans at the local level. We will design initiatives to increase employees’ sense of identification with BSD as a global network. 5 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 LIFE-WORK BALANCE A good life-work balance is can best schedule their working Local teams also engage in material at BSD as we hire people time in relation to their personal activities together. Most teams of great value and want to ensure needs. This is helpful for many have a joint dinner at least once a sound balance between work BSD employees who have young a year, to which spouses are also and free time. At the same time, children, requiring them to carry invited. In addition, team outings we are results-focused and out daycare/school drop offs with social and outdoor activities want to guarantee that staff can and pick ups as well as bedtime are organized on an ad hoc basis perform their jobs to the best of routines in the evenings. Another in some offices. their ability. agreement seen in many offices is that business trips can be Half of the offices allow flexible scheduled in a manner that working hours, so that employees avoids employee travel in the evening or on Sundays, which is also in accordance with many client policies. Living and working in such a big and busy city as São Paulo can be hectic, so we are lucky our employer gives us flexibility so that we can plan our own time, as long as we do our work, of course. Marco Perez, Consultant, BSD Brazil I AM SATISFIED WITH MY LIFE-WORK BALANCE I AM SATISFIED WITH HOW I CAN ORGANIZE MY WORK TOTALLY AGREE TOTALLY AGREE AGREE 57% TOTALLY 34% 63% DISAGREE 3% DISAGREE 8% AGREE 32% DISAGREE 3% Working under the BSD umbrella makes me believe my daily contributions will make some difference to someone's life, somewhere. I'm proud of this. Dolores He, Administration Manager, BSD China S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 1 We are proud that some 90% holidays and find that the number We are analyzing at a local level of the employees are satisfied of hours of overtime work is the existing gaps revealed by the with their life-work balance. They acceptable. survey and will develop solutions say they can flexibly plan their wherever possible. I CAN FLEXIBLY PLAN MY HOLIDAYS MY HOURS OF OVERTIME ARE ACCEPTABLE AND DAYS OFF TOTALLY TOTALLY AGREE AGREE AGREE AGREE 56% 37% 51% 41% DISAGREE DISAGREE 5% 5% TOTALLY DISAGREE TOTALLY DISAGREE 2% 3% “Working at BSD is very good for me, because I can always take care of my responsibilities as mother and employee without compromising any duty.” Kátia Prates, Office Manager, BSD Brazil LOOKING AHEAD We will collect examples of best practices of life-work balance from within our network. 5 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 TEAM DEVELOPMENT The development of our talent is key to the organization. OUR VIEW ON TALENT DEVELOPMENT We see performance reviews and capacity building for the consultants as integral elements of talent development. It is our strong, well-trained and DEVELOPMENT knowledgeable staff that attracts PLAN ENGAGEMENT our clients. We understand that SURVEY we would not have this impact if we do not continue to attract, develop and retain the best talent. In order to do this, we make sure that knowledge flows PERFORMANCE KNOWLEDGE/ around the organization and that REVIEW TRAINING/ we continue to provide personal MENTORING and development opportunities to our staff. REMUNERATION TRAINING We try to leverage as much as possible our GRI Certified TOTAL NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BY LEVEL AND GENDER Training Partner capacities to give trainings to our own consultants. Indeed, it is common practice that our new consultants are 144 registered and trained in our SUPPORTERS own certified GRI courses as 16 part of their introduction to the organization. 504 BSD's employees are also CONSULTANTS offered training to learn about 250 the standards and other specific topics that our consultancy work is focused on. We also try 404 LEADERSHIP to ensure that our employees 338 are up to date with the latest developments in relevant fields, providing access to academic 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 literature, sector-specific studies, publications from agendaFEMALE MALE setters, as well as invitations to attend relevant gatherings and congresses. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 3 G4-LA9 “The work environment at BSD Consulting is very inspiring. Not only do we gain new knowledge in the context of our projects, but we also learn a lot from each other, through informal discussions during coffee breaks or through more institutionalized forms for knowledge sharing such as our bi-weekly lunch presentations.” Maria Stoll, Consultant, BSD Switzerland High number of training hours for leadership is based on the AVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BROKEN DOWN participation of leadership in the PER LEVEL AND GENDER 2013 GRI conference. LEADERSHIP CONSULTANTS SUPPORTERS 24 14 16 58 16 18 This graph shows the number of consultants that passed specific TOTAL TALENT 2013 QUALIFICATIONS courses relating to standards, auditing or management practices. 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 QUALIFICATION: SCORE TRAINER CONFLICT MGMT COURSE HACCP COURSE ACSAP FLO CERT AUDITOR AA1000 COURSE SA8000 AUDITOR GRI TRAINER GRI COURSE LOOKING AHEAD We will improve systems for managing and reporting on local training activities. We will develop a systematic approach to sharing knowledge and developing the capacities of our team. 5 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 KNOWLEDGE SHARING Since 2010, BSD has circulated an internal newsletter that allows its talent to share news with both local and overseas colleagues. This newsletter ensures that any news that is published externally on our website and through social media is shared internally first. In 2013 BSD also launched an online platform called 'The River', which functions both as a discussion and Q&A platform. It is an informal and easy tool for asking questions to the entire organization. The questions asked are diverse, reflecting the diversity of our projects and our consultants' needs. Colleagues can quickly respond to a question and share their expertise to help out one another. “Due to its international projection, its contacts with the most important sustainability frameworks and its specialization in sustainability issues, I have found in BSD Consulting Spain the best place to develop my skills and contribute to the common good.” Juan Villamayor, Freelance consultant, BSD Spain S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 5 G4-LA11 CAREER PATH We understand that clarity in consolidating positions at BSD performance reviews nor have career development is a huge Group as well as at local levels. had the chance to create a source for motivation, especially personal career development for our young consultants. We Some offices have a structured plan with their superiors. It is one acknowledge that we need career development review of BSD's priorities to guarantee to improve on this aspect of process in place, however a clear development path to all talent-management and are not all staff have had formal employees. THE WAY THE LATEST PERFORMANCE I HAVE SUFFICIENT INTERNAL CAREER AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW TOOK PLACE DEVELOPMENT POSSIBILITIES WAS GOOD TOTALLY TOTALLY AGREE AGREE AGREE AGREE 10% 55% 32% 37% NOT APPLICABLE 3% TOTALLY DISAGREE 5% DISAGREE 2% NOT DISAGREE APPLICABLE TOTALLY DISAGREE 27% 27% 2% “I was happy that BSD Colombia gave me the opportunity to do a course in Finance and Accounting in 2013.” Adiela Fajardo, Financial Coordinator, BSD Colombia LOOKING AHEAD We will encourage all offices to implement a career development review process. 5 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-LA2 EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES BENEFITS We provide benefits to our and market customs with regard benefit plan in place, however employees that are at a minimum to extra-remuneration employee local offices are encouraged to aligned with local regulations benefits. The larger offices are go beyond the law in this respect. but when possible try to offer more advanced and have more The following table illustrates the social conditions that are better financial leeway to provide benefits provided to employees than average. All local BSD benefits for their employees. in many of our offices that go offices follow local legislation There is no global employeebeyond legal requirements. BENEFITS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES (ABOVE LAW REQUIREMENTS), PER OFFICE BENEFITS / COMMUTING LIFE HEALTH CARE PARENTAL OTHER FINANCIAL EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION INSURANCE AND/OR DENTAL LEAVE INCENTIVES CONTRACT TYPE* INSURANCE PERMANENT EMPLOYEES WITH FULL-TIME CONTRACT PERMANENT EMPLOYEES WITH PART-TIME CONTRACT FREELANCERS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACT TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES WITH FULL-TIME CONTRACT TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES WITH PART-TIME CONTRACT BRAZIL CHILE CHINA COLOMBIA SPAIN SWITZERLAND USA * BSD works with four different employment contracts, distinguishing between permanent and temporary as well as full-time and part-time contracts. In addition, freelance experts are hired to work on a permanent project-basis in a specific area of expertise but do not have a full-fledged employment contract. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 7 “Sustainability, as a movement, will require capacities to be developed at the individual, organizational and societal levels. Over the last decade we have established partnerships with networks, industry associations, development agencies and international standard-setters to strengthen the capacities of practitioners, managers, ‘intrapreneurs’, students and entrepreneurs around sustainable development.” Martin Stäheli, Head Sustainable Supply Chain Management, BSD Switzerland 5 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 G4-11, G4-LA3, UNGC Principle 3 The following table illustrates the return rates of BSD employees after parental leave. RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE, BY GENDER GENDER # % MALE 3 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ENTITLED TO PARENTAL LEAVE IN 2013 FEMALE 6 MALE 2 67% NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES THAT TOOK PARENTAL LEAVE IN 2013 FEMALE 6 100% NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES THAT RETURN(ED) TO WORK MALE 2 100% AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE ENDED FEMALE 4 67% REMUNERATION Salaries for BSD employees fall due to the nature of being a decent life-work balance and within normal market range, but smaller company. BSD tries to flexible work culture. However, are not of outstanding values compensate by offering a very it is indeed working to improve salary levels whenever possible, based on a solid professional development path and I AM SATISFIED WITH MY WAGE remuneration system. We are strong believers of the TOTALLY AGREE freedom of association, as well as AGREE 45% the right to collective bargaining. 17% Regardless of that, the only employees at BSD covered under a bargaining agreement are working in Brazil, as trade union TOTALLY affiliation is mandatory here. DISAGREE 3% DISAGREE 35% LOOKING AHEAD We will collect examples of best practice revenue sharing and employee participation from within our network. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 5 9 CHAPTER 5 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 6 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 The environmental dimension of sustainability concerns the organization's impact on living and non-living natural systems, including land, air, water and ecosystems. Specific Standard Disclosures, G4, Global Reporting Initiative S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 6 1 G4-EN17, G4-EN30, UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9 As a consultancy, BSD does BUSINESS TRAVEL The total mileage is calculated not have a large environmental over total global revenue, and impact. There is no environmental Despite the emissions caused per employee. The volume of policy in place at the global level, by our travels it should be said our travel is not significant in nor at most of the local offices. that the emissions could have absolute terms, but we think this However the Code of Practice been much higher. BSD works is material to set an example and defines BSD's commitment with local people. We do not follow best practice. to work in an environmentally fly consultants from one place friendly manner, and through to another for a project. For BSD’s total emissions for dialogue, BSD staff in all example, if we have a project 2013 resulting from air travel offices promote environmental in multiple locations we work correspond to the emissions awareness through their activities. together with the local teams to that an international congress implement the project. with several dozen participants BSD mainly provides its services would cause. Given the fact that at a local level utilizing local This is the first year that we have China and Brazil have continental staff, however some business calculated our emissions. We extensions, the travel activity is travel is required of certain staff. have only reviewed our air travel. intense, but not exaggerated. This business travel is regarded as the only material negative environmental impact generated by the organization. MILEAGE, EMISSIONS, PER EMPLOYEE AND PER REVENUE We are continuously exploring tools like video conferencing as well as online collaborative platforms with clients to limit travel but still personal presence can sometimes be irreplaceable. BSD consultants are encouraged TOTAL TOTAL EMISSIONS EMISSIONS PER to travel by train when it is a DISTANCE EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE CHF REVENUE viable option, such as in Europe. 760.000 Km 200.000 Kg CO2 2.500 Kg CO2 0.039 Kg CO2 LOOKING AHEAD We will improve our systems for travel data collection and reporting. We will explore the best options for emissions compensation. 6 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 6 3 GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE EXTERNAL GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES NUMBER ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the G4-1 organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and 3 No the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 15 No G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 17, 18 No G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 72 No Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-6 12, 13 No or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 70 No Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors G4-8 5, 12, 43 No served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). Report the scale of the organization, including: • Total number of employees • Total number of operations G4-9 12, 38, 46 No • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-10 46, 47 No d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 59 No agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 7 No Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the There organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: were no • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility significant openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 changes No • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, during the maintenance, and alteration operations reporting • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or period. in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4-14 43 No addressed by the organization. 6 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 PAGE EXTERNAL GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES NUMBER ASSURANCE List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which 15 No it endorses. List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 15, 33, 34 No • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated 13 No financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 6 No b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report G4-19 6 No content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-20 7 No – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, G4-21 groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In 7 No addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization This is BSD’s first Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 published No reports, and the reasons for such restatements. sustainability report This is BSD’s first Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope G4-23 published No and Aspect Boundaries. sustainability report S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 6 5 PAGE EXTERNAL GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES NUMBER ASSURANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5 No Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom G4-25 5 No to engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 5 No indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics G4-27 6 No and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 7 No This is BSD’s first G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. published No sustainability report G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual cycle No G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 72 No a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has 7, 64-68 No been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 7 No c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees G4-34 of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for 13 No decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 42, 43 No behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical G4-57 and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as 42 No helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-58 42 No integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 6 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES REASON(S) EXPLANATION PAGE IDENTIFIED EXTERNAL DMA AND INDICATORS FOR FOR NUMBER OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic DMA 12, 13 No Direct economic G4-EC1 value generated 12 No and distributed. ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic DMA 62 No Other indirect greenhouse gas G4-EN17 62 No (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Generic DMA 62 No Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and G4-EN30 62 No materials for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic DMA 46, 57 No We believe Total number that the level of and rates of new Total numbers detail provided employee hires and a is adequate G4-LA1 and employee 48 geographical and allows our No turnover by age breakdown are stakeholders group, gender and not disclosed. to make their region. assessements and decisions. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to G4-LA2 temporary or part57 No time employees, by significant locations of operation. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 6 7 REASON(S) EXPLANATION PAGE IDENTIFIED EXTERNAL DMA AND INDICATORS FOR FOR NUMBER OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) Return to work and retention G4-LA3 59 No rates after parental leave, by gender. MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic DMA 53, 56 No Average hours of training per year per employee G4-LA9 54 No by gender, and by employee category. Percentage We are still of employees implementing receiving regular The career performance percentage development G4-LA11 and career 56 of total Not available review processes No development employees is in several of our reviews, by gender not reported. offices. Information and by employee will be reported category. in two years. SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic DMA 42 No The number We are and percentage implementing of people ethics trainings to which the and workshops at Communication BSD Code local level, in the and training on of Practice follow-up of the G4-SO4 anti-corruption 42 Not available No has been establishment of policies and communicated the BSD Ethics procedures. or that have Committee. received Information will training is not be reported next reported. year. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic DMA 24 No Results of surveys measuring G4-PR5 24 No customer satisfaction. MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic DMA 42 No Total number of substantiated complaints G4-PR8 regarding breaches 42 No of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 6 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENT INDEX PAGE NUMBER STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CEO Letter from the Partners 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 42 human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 42 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Principle 3 59 of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4 42 labour. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 42 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 46, 47 employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 43, 62 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 62 responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 62 friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 42 bribery. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 6 9 G4-7 ACRONYMS & GLOSSARY AA1000 Greenwashing ISEAL Alliance AccountAbility’s standard Greenwashing is a form of ISEAL is a non-governmental framework providing guidance communication that is deceptively organisation whose mission to companies requesting used to promote the perception is to strengthen sustainability assurance or exploring that an organization’s aims and standards systems for the benefit stakeholder engagement policies are environmentally of people and the environment. processes. friendly. Its membership is open to all Source: www.accountability.org multi-stakeholder sustainability G4 standards and accreditation Assurance The GRI G4 Sustainability bodies that demonstrate their External verification of data and Reporting Guidelines ability to meet the ISEAL Codes of management processes. offer Reporting Principles, Good Practice and accompanying Standard Disclosures and an requirements, and commit to BSCI Implementation Manual for the learning and improving. The Business Social Compliance preparation of sustainability Source: www.isealalliance.org Initiative (BSCI) is the leading reports by organizations, business-driven initiative for regardless of their size, sector or ISO 26000 companies committed to location. The Guidelines also offer A standard of the International improving working conditions in an international reference for all Organization for Standardization the global supply chain. those interested in the disclosure (ISO) that provides guidance Source: www.bsci-intl.org of governance approach and of on how businesses and the environmental, social and organizations can operate in a BSD Group economic performance and socially responsible way. BSD Group AG (the legal impacts of organizations. form in Switzerland is Source: www.globalreporting.org Material issues Aktiengesellschaft (AG), which Issues that reflect the is a limited company) is the GRI Certified Training Partner organization’s significant holding company of all the local GRI Certified Training Partners economic, environmental, and BSD offices. It is responsible are organizations all over the social impacts, or that would for all functions, processes, world that are certified by the substantively influence the and infrastructure that is not Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) assessment and decisions of proprietary to one of these to provide training courses stakeholders. offices. and modules on sustainability Source: www.globalreporting.org reporting. CSR Source: www.globalreporting.org NGO Corporate Social Responsibility Non-Governmental Organization Impact investing C-suite Impact investing is defined as Procurement The highest-level executives in the placement of capital with the Procurement is the act of buying for-profit corporations are usually intent to create benefits beyond goods or services from an external called C-level or part of the financial return. source. C-suite , referring to the “C” Source: “A Framework for Action: with which their corporate titles Social Enterprise & Impact SA8000 start. Investing”, UN Global Compact, The international SA8000 June 2012 norm is an auditable social FGV certification standard for The Fundação Getulio Vargas Intrapreneurs decent workplaces based (FGV) is an institution in Brazil People that are of the forefront of on international workplace offering higher education and social change and build a better norms of International conducting academic research. business from the inside out of the Labour Organisation (ILO) Source: www.fgv.br leading company they work for. conventions, the Universal Source: www.changemakers.com/ intrapreneurs 7 0 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 Declaration of Human Rights UN Global Compact and the UN Convention on The UN Global Compact is a the Rights of the Child. This strategic policy initiative for standard is the benchmark businesses that are committed against which companies and to aligning their operations and factories measure their social strategies with ten universally performance. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour,environment SAI and anti-corruption. SAI is a non-governmental, multiSource: www.unglobalcompact. stakeholder organization whose org mission it is to advance the human rights of workers around the world UNICEF by eliminating sweatshops and The United Nations Children’s by promoting ethical working Fund (UNICEF) is the driving force conditions, labor rights, corporate that helps build a world where the social responsibility and social rights of every child are realized dialogue. and is active in more than 190 Source: www.sa-intl.org countries and territories. Source: www.unicef.org SECO The State Secretariat for UniEthos Economic Affairs (SECO) is UniEthos is a nonprofit the Swiss Confederation’s organization in Brazil that competence centre for all core provides advisory and executive issues relating to economic policy. educational services to companies Source: www.seco.admin.ch in order to develop sustainability in their business. SMEs Source: www.siteuniethos.org.br Small and medium enterprises Stakeholders Stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the organization’s activities, products, and services; and whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives. This includes entities or individuals whose rights under law or international conventions provide them with legitimate claims vis-à-vis the organization. Source: https://g4.globalreporting.org/ introduction/glossary S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 | 7 1 G4-5 , G4-31 IMPRESSUM This report is elaborated by Authors Graphic Design BSD Consulting, under the Beat Grüninger Luís Covas Design for HIGH coordination of the BSD Group Felipe Arango Concept & Touch and published Myrna Domit in August 2014. Contact Data coordination For inquiries or feedback We would like to thank everyone Francisco Neves please contact: at BSD Consulting for providing Annelies Poolman Annelies Poolman input and for sharing suggestions Operations Manager for improvement. Local data collection BSD Group Agata Kirylczuk E a.poolman@bsdconsulting.com Maria Carolina Vivanco T +41 (0)44 266 58 57 Francisco Neves Marco Perez Copyright notice Niels Ferdinand BSD Group AG Philippa Yang Hufgasse 17 P.O. Box 826 Rocio Sanz Cortes 8024 Zurich Sebastián Pérez Peláez Switzerland Valeria Garbin E group@bsdconsulting.com T +41 (0)44 260 60 65 7 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 3 www.bsdconsulting.com Printed with FSC and Ecolabel certifications on 100% recycled paper, with certified inks, by an environmentally certified company
