AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Contents 01 About the Report 02 Message from the CEO and Chairman 04 Company Profile 12 Approach to Sustainability 18 Environment 30 Employees 44 Occupational Health and Safety 52 Supply Chain Responsibility 56 Contribution to Society 60 GRI Index AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT THE REPORT About The Report Companies Included Number of Area of Locations Included in in the Report Employees Operation the Report* Aksa*** 778 Chemicals/ Energy Factory in Yalova and Office at Akhan Building Ak-Kim 451 Chemicals Factories in Yalova and Çerkezköy, Headquarters in Maçka Akenerji 296 Energy 8 hydroelectric, 1 wind and 3 natural gas power plants across Turkey and Office at Akhan Building Ak-Tops 258 Textile Factory in Yalova Akiş GYO 28 Real Estate Office at Akhan Building Akkök Holding** 40 Management Office at Akhan Building * Occupational Health and Safety and environmental data monitored and given in the Report cover the locations stated above. Performance data regarding the use of vehicles at these locations are also included in the Report. ** Throughout the Report, “Akkök Holding” implies Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. *** For Aksa, number of employees include board of directors. The perspective of sustainable growth and social for all or most of the Group companies. In addition to this responsibility is a key determinant in the roadmap of joint approach and practices for the Group, we also included Akkök Group of Companies. Within the framework of this Company-based special and distinctive approaches and perspective, in 2007 the Group became a signatory to the practices in the Report. We also considered the expectations United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles that play of primary stakeholder groups of each Company. In addition a pioneering role in extending the universal principles of the to this Report, some of the Group Companies issue their own private sector for sustainable development, thus took the sustainability reports with a wider content and scope. first step in aligning its approach to corporate responsibility The Report contains information and data on our with universal norms. environmental, social, ethical, and economic practices and This is the 5th Communication of Progress issued by performance in the period between January 1st, 2012 and Akkök Group of Companies as well as the first extensive December 31st, 2012. With the aim of presenting the trend, sustainability report prepared within the framework of we tried to use the performance figures of the last two the requirements of the C application level of the Global or three years when possible. The information and data Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. in the Report have been gathered by the Sustainability With this Report, we have substantially enhanced the scope Committee comprising related representatives of Companies and contents of the Communications of Progress that we participating in the reporting process. have been releasing within the scope of UNGC since 2009. Unless mentioned otherwise, the performance data given The Report includes sustainability processes, policies and in the Report cover the Akkök companies stated in the table performance of Akkök Group of Companies. Among the above. Therefore, the words “Akkök Group of Companies” issues covered are environment, supply chain responsibility, and “we” indicate consolidated data of the Companies listed occupational health and safety (OHS), employee-oriented in the table, unless mentioned otherwise. practices, and contribution to society. In addition, corporate governance practices and financial statements of Akkök This Report is prepared in line with the material issues of our Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş are also given in this Report. Companies and expectations of key stakeholders and we, as Akkök Group of Companies, aim to regularly issue the Report The boundaries of the Report cover the Companies by improving the scope and boundaries in accordance with mentioned in the table above; these companies represent the stakeholder expectations. the 55.4% of employees and 79% of the turnover of Akkök Group of Companies. The contents of the Report are Our aim was to prepare a Report that reflects our developed based on the Sustainability Reporting Principles performance and practices as expected by primarily of GRI, which is the globally most preferred guideline in our customers and investors, as well as our employees, sustainability reporting. Companies within the Group operate regulatory authorities, business partners, and the in a variety of sectors and therefore material issues in their society. Please contact us for all suggestions, comments agendas may differ. This has caused some challenges in and questions regarding the contents of our Report drawing the contents of the Report. The Report is based and our sustainability performance and practices. on numeric and verbal data that are material and available E-mail: surdurulebilirlik@akkok.com.tr 02 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO We, as Akkök Group of Companies, pay utmost attention to fulfilling our responsibilities in terms of working conditions, environment, human rights, and transparent corporate governance as specified by the United Nations Global Compact. Dear Stakeholders, Within the framework of transparency principle, Aksa has been organizing “Open Door Events” since 1999 and We, as Akkök Group of Companies, pay utmost attention to as of the end of 2012 the Company welcomed more than fulfilling our responsibilities in terms of working conditions, 17,000 visitors. During these events, non-governmental environment, human rights, and transparent corporate organizations, local communities and people, students, governance as specified by the United Nations Global families of employees, customers, and local and international Compact. visitors have the opportunity to see the production areas of Aksa. By filling in the evaluation surveys given, these visitors With Companies that have a leading position in our focus contribute to establishing improvement strategies. industries of chemicals, energy and real estate as well as with our value added products and services, we achieved Having signed the “Responsible Care” in 1993, Aksa and a successful performance level in 2012 by continuing our Ak-Kim are among the first Turkish companies to commit investment in advanced technologies. While supporting to this program. Responsible Care is a program that primarily the stable growth of Turkey with our operations as Akkök considers the protection of human life, environment and Group of Companies, we also aimed to contribute to the natural resources in all stages of activities and that gives socio-economic development of our society within the particular importance to this consistently. In line with this framework of our corporate responsibility practices. In 2007, program, Ak-Kim based its strategic goals for 2013-2018 on by undersigning the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), sustainability approach and adopted the goal of creating new we implemented a number of exemplary projects in working environment-friendly products that reduce consumption of conditions, environment, human rights, and transparent chemicals. corporate governance. We are proud to share with you this Report that covers sustainability practices of Akkök Holding, Investors In People (IIP) is a program that aims to create a Aksa, Ak-Kim, Akenerji, Ak-Tops, and Akiş GYO. common corporate culture in which employees can reveal their potentials and to improve company’s performance and This Report is the 5th Communication of Progress that profitability by contributing to the employees’ motivation we issue as Akkök Group of Companies. It is also the and productivity. In January 2012, Akenerji became the first first extensive sustainability report that we prepared in energy company in Turkey to receive the Investors in People accordance with the “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (IIP) Certificate. During this period, the Company achieved Sustainability Reporting Guidelines”. The Report includes the significant improvement in a number of areas, including sustainability issues of corporate governance, environment, establishing a human and development-oriented corporate occupational health and safety, employee practices, culture, improving performance management culture, and responsibility in supply chain, and community investment. building an individual suggestion system. Since our Companies operate in different areas, their material issues in terms of sustainability certainly differ. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO In 2012, Ak-Tops became the first enterprise to receive the We, as Akkök Group of Companies, are committed to ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems Certification within performing within the framework of sustainability in the the Akkök Group and in the textile sector. Identifying the coming years. By establishing Sustainability Committees and spots for energy savings within this system, Ak-Tops started Subcommittees comprising representatives of Companies to implement the action plans made accordingly. In addition, within the scope of this Report, we took the first step in the management system established in Aksa in accordance adopting Group-based objectives and commitments and with the ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Calculation and initiating joint practices accordingly. We have full confidence Reporting Standard was certified as “reasonable assurance” that our Committees will accelerate their efforts to realize in both 2011 and 2012. these commitments. By improving our future sustainability reporting processes, we will try to provide more extensive In all of its projects, Akiş GYO pays attention to efficient consolidated data that reflect our Group performance. use of natural resources and energy as well as to ecological balance. As an indication of its commitment to this aim, in As a Group that is nourished by an experience and expertise 2012 “Akbatı Residences & Akbatı Shopping Mall” Project of more than 60 years, we hereby would like to extend our applied to the green building evaluation system BREEAM for gratitude to our esteemed business partners, employees, a certification. customers, and social stakeholders for their continuous support to our operations aimed to create value for our In 2011, Akkök Group opened Raif Dinçkök Cultural Center in society. Yalova, where the Company has been operating for the past 43 years, in order to contribute to the cultural development With kindest regards, of the region. Covering an area of 10 thousand square meters, Ali Raif Dinçkök Ahmet Dördüncü the Center organized a number of activities in 2012, most Chairman CEO notably the first “Akkök Children’s Festival” aiming to help the children in Yalova to spend quality time in line with their interests and talents as well as to support their personal development. 04 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 COMPANY PROFILE Akkök Group of Companies consists of more than 17 trade and industrial companies actively operating in mainly chemicals, energy and real estate. Our Group’s success in its areas of operation is based upon its distinctive and innovative perspective, assuring know-how and financial strength. Our key principles in relations with all stakeholders -primarily employees, customers, suppliers, and shareholdersare transparency and accountability. About AKKÖK AKKÖK in Figures Key Financial Indicators Contribution to Economy Group Companies Company and Corporate Structure Awards and Achievements AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 COMPANY PROFILE About AKKÖK AKKÖK in Figures Akkök Group of Companies consists of more than 17 With more than 3,350 employees, we, as Akkök Group of trade and industrial companies actively operating in Companies, reached a combined turnover of USD 3,142 mainly chemicals, energy and real estate. Our Group’s million in 2012. USD 393 million of this figure was achieved success in its areas of operation is based upon its through exports to over 50 countries. As a result of the distinctive and innovative perspective, assuring knowsynergy created particularly in the energy industry and the how and financial strength. Our key principles in relations activation of the renewable energy investments as well as with all stakeholders -primarily employees, customers, the positive contribution of revenues from Akbatı Shopping suppliers, and shareholdersare transparency and Mall and residence sales, Akkök Group increased its accountability. combined net sales by 7% and consolidated net sales by 2%. Akkök Group of Companies Consolidated Figures of Akkök Group of Companies in 2012 Chemicals Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. Number of employees:: DowAksa İleri Kompozit Malzemeler Sanayi Ltd. Şti. Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. 3,350 Energy Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. Number of active companies: Sakarya Elektrik Dağıtım A.Ş. (SEDAŞ) Egemer Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. 17 Real Estate Combined net sales: USD 3,142 million Akiş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Akmerkez Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Saf Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Ak Turizm ve Dış Ticaret A.Ş. Revenue from exports to over 50 countries: Textile Ak-Tops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş. USD 393 million Aksa Egypt Acrylic Fiber Industry S.A.E. Akkök’s consolidated equity capital by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Services Akmerkez Lokantacılık Gıda San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Akdünya Eğitim Eğlence Sanat Yatırımları ve Dış Tic. A.Ş. TL 1,838 million Ak-Pa Tekstil İhracat Pazarlama A.Ş. Aktek Bilgi İletişim Teknolojisi San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Total assets: TL 4,066 million Dinkal Sigorta Acenteliği A.Ş. Note: This Report covers Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. (Akkök Holding), Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş., Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş., Ak-Tops Liabilities: TL 2,228 million Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş., and Akiş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. In addition, subsidiaries of Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş., namely Akkur Enerji Üretim Tic. ve San. A.Ş. and Mem Enerji Elektrik Üretim San. ve Tic. A.Ş. are also included. 06 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 COMPANY PROFILE Key Financial Indicators Net Sales EBITDA 7.2% 2.1% INCREASE* INCREASE* 1,629 188 3,142 437 1,595 2,931 2,674 1,371 155 349 113 231 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 COMBINED CONSOLIDATED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED (USD million) (IFRS USD million) (USD million) (IFRS USD million) As a result of the synergy created particularly in the Akkök Group recorded Akkök Group posted energy industry and the activation of the renewable combined earnings consolidated earnings energy investments as well as the positive contribution before interest, taxes, before interest, taxes, of revenues from Akbatı Shopping Mall, Akkök Group depreciation and depreciation and increased its combined net sales by 7% to USD 3,142 amortization (EBITDA) amortization (EBITDA) million and raised its consolidated net sales by 2% to USD of USD 349 million in of USD 155 million in 1,629 million. 2012. 2012. Net Profit 381% INCREASE* 302% INCREASE* 409 169 409 Owing to profit generated from the transfer of shares as part of the establishment of Dow Aksa joint venture, the 111 exchange rate profit from foreign currency borrowings due 43 42 85 to the increased value of the TL over the USD, and various real estate sales gains, Akkök Group reported USD 409 million in net combined profit and USD 169 million in net 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 consolidated profit. COMBINED CONSOLIDATED (USD million) (IFRS USD million) *Increase realized during 2011-2012. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 COMPANY PROFILE Contribution to Economy As Akkök Group of Companies, we contribute significantly to the Turkish economy by means of the employment created, payments made to suppliers, and taxes paid. Consolidated financial figures of Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. is presented in the table below. Values (TL Thousand) 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 Change % Total Revenues 2.665.671 2,665,671 10% Gross Profit 438.688 438,688 -10% EBITDA 314.302 314,302 -12% Operating Profit 239.753 239,753 52% Pre-tax Profit 93.883 93,883 318% Taxes 23.056 23,056 290% Loss After Tax from Discontinued Operations 1.190 1,190 -90% Net Profit 69.637 69,637 334% Minority Interest 63.877 63,877 149% Parent Interests 5.760 5,760 2386% Total Assets 4.050.355 4,050,355 0% Total Equity 1.588.993 1,588,993 16% Equity of Parent 824.311 824,311 18% Note: Figures are obtained from consolidated financial statements of Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. as of the related financial year-ends, namely 31 December 2011 and 2012. Group Companies of its brand not only as a producer but also as a technology developer, Aksa has grown 60-fold since its establishment Akkök Group of Companies comprises 17 commercial to reach an installed capacity of 308,000 tons/year and 15% companies and the ones included in this Sustainability Report share in the global acrylic fiber market. With its investments amount to: and innovations since 1971, Aksa enabled Turkey to become • 79% of the total turnover of Akkök Group of Companies. the second largest acrylic fiber market after China. In 2012, • 55.4% of the total employment at Akkök Group of DowAksa İleri Kompozit Malzemeler Sanayii Limited Şirketi Companies. was established with equal partnership of Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. and The Dow Chemical Company. With Profiles of Akkök Group companies included in this Report are this joint venture, the two companies started cooperation in presented below: production and global marketing of carbon fiber and carbon Aksa fiber-based products. Aksa R&D Center reinforces the Established with 100% Turkish capital to meet the acrylic reliability of Aksa brand by attaching importance to social and fiber demand in Turkey, Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. environmental issues and implementing efficiency-oriented started production in its factory in Yalova in 1971. Mainly process improvement practices. producing acrylic-based tow, tops, and fiber, Aksa serves more than 300 local and international industrial companies in 5 continents and over 50 countries. Having proved the quality 08 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 COMPANY PROFILE Ak-Kim Within the total energy generation capacity of Akenerji, Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. was established the share of the renewables portfolio is 52% and thus the and started production operations with sulphur dioxide in Company has the largest renewable energy share in terms 1977. Today the company produces inorganic and organic of installed power among the private power generation chemical agents, textile auxiliaries, pulp and paper chemicals, companies with an installed capacity of over 500 MW. As concrete agents, and construction chemicals in its two another significant step, Akenerji performed the first crosshigh-tech facilities established in Yalova and Çerkezköy on border energy trade via the European interconnected system a total area of 295,776 square meters. In its factories with in 2011. Akenerji has been on the list of “Turkey’s 500 Largest an annual production capacity of 600 thousand tons in the Industrial Establishments” released by the Istanbul Chamber international quality standards, Ak-Kim has been the first of Industry (ICI) uninterruptedly since 1993. Turkish company to produce more than 500 diverse chemical Ak-Tops agents, including sodium metabisulphite, ammonium Having started operations in 1986 on a 12,500 m2 facility, persulphate, potassium persulphate, monochloracetic acid, today Ak-Tops performs high-quality acrylic dyeing, topsdimethylacetamide, hydrogen peroxide, and caustic soda bumps and fiber cutting on an area of 86,500 m2 (including (all of which require high-tech production technologies and 40,000 m2 of indoor space). With more than 250 employees, are very significant for domestic industry) with its own the Company serves knitwear, fabrics, blanket and carpet engineering team. Thanks to its wide product range, the industries. Ak-Tops has an annual production capacity of company provides raw materials for many vital sectors such 206,685 tons. In addition, the mixtures of acrylic products with as textiles, metals, food, cleaning, water treatment, paper, natural and synthetic fibers are in great demand in the market. and pharmaceuticals both in Turkey and in the world. With an extensive distribution channel of 24 dealers, Ak-Kim sells Akiş GYO its products to all regions in Turkey and its domestic market Akkök Group of Companies started operating in the real shares varies from 30 to 100%, depending on the product estate industry, which is defined as one of the Group’s main category. Amounting to 20% of the company’s total sales, lines of business, in 1993. By transforming the concept of export operations are performed in more than 55 countries in shopping center into a new dimension with the construction 5 continents either directly or through agencies. of Akmerkez in İstanbul, the Group brought a new visionary approach to Turkish real estate. Operating since 2005, Ak-Kim has been exporting its know-how and technologies to foreign companies since 2002 and rendering all services, Akiş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (Akiş GYO) soon from engineering to turnkey contracting. International achieved a prominent position in the industry with Akbatı services provided include the delivery of a chlorine alkaline Residences & Akbatı Shopping Mall and Akbatı Beyaz Kule factory, turnkey installation of a chlorine alkaline facility (JBC) (White Tower) projects as well as with the Akkoza and Akasya in Jordan; engineering works of a hydrogen peroxide facility Acıbadem projects realized by subsidiaries. Akiş received the in Pakistan; turnkey installation of two chlorine alkali facilities designation of Real Estate Investment Trust on May 18, 2012 in Saudi Arabia; installation of a hydrochloric acid facility in upon its application to the Capital Markets Board. In 2012, Greece; and engineering and procurement works of a chlorine Ak-Al Gayrimenkul Geliştirme ve Tekstil Sanayii A.Ş. (another alkali facility in Algeria. Akkök company) was transferred to Akiş GYO. With this merger, Akiş GYO achieved a significant growth rate. With a Akenerji wide-ranging portfolio including shopping malls, residential Akenerji started its operations in the electricity generation housing, land, and manufacturing facilities, Akiş GYO creates industry in 1989 as an auto producer group and underwent new investment opportunities in diverse areas of the sector a status change in 2005 to operate under the name Akenerji via a single Company stock. Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. With a total generation capacity of 745 The Akbatı Project is 100% owned by Akiş GYO and comprises MW of electricity thanks to its investments, the Company the four-storey Akbatı Shopping Mall with a net leasable area is one of the largest private sector power generation of 65,542 square meters and a total of 350 residences in the companies in Turkey. The Company reached with the Blue and Green Towers. Located in close proximity to Akbatı activation of three hydroelectric power plants successively Residences & Shopping Mall, Akbatı White Tower stands on in 2012. Including three hydroelectric power plants activated a 3,000 square meter tract and includes 100 residential units in 2012, Akenerji operates eight hydroelectric power plants as well as commercial areas. The Akasya project, built on a (HEPP), one wind energy power plant (WEPP) and three 121,000 square meter tract in Acıbadem, İstanbul, is being natural gas power plants (NGPP). developed by SAF GYO, in which Akiş GYO is a shareholder. With 296 employees, Akenerji operates in electricity Planned for 1,357 residential units and three phases, the generation, sale, imports, exports, wholesale and retail trade, project also includes a shopping mall with a leasable area and distribution; steam generation and sale; and natural of 80,000 square meters. In addition to these, the first and gas imports, exports and wholesale trade. The Company’s second phases of the Akkoza Project is completed with the turnover in 2012 is TL 802 million. ordinary partnership of Garanti Koza and Akiş. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 COMPANY PROFILE Company and Corporate Structure Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. is a private equity and its shares are not offered to public. Partner structure, organization chart and governance structure of the company as of 31 December 2012 are given below. Partnership Structure 1% 33% Partners Share (%) A. R. D. Holding A.Ş. 33 33% Atlantik Holding A.Ş. 33 N. D. Ç. Holding A.Ş. 33 33% Other Individuals (Ali Raif Dinçkök, Ömer Dinçkök, 1 Nilüfer Dinçkök Çiftçi, Melis Gürsoy, Mehmet Emin Çiftçi) Governance Structure There are no distribution of roles among Akkök Board Members; all Board Members are equally and jointly responsible in all issues. An Executive Committee operates under the Board of Directors. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to perform transactions on behalf of the Company as well as to represent and bind the Company. Four of 10 Board Members are permanent members of the Executive Committee. Chairman of the Executive Committee is the CEO. The Chairman of the Board does not have an executive role. List of the Board Members as of 2012 tear-end is presented below. Name Role Ali Raif Dinçkök Chairman of the Board Nilüfer Dinçkök Çiftçi Vice-Chairman of the Board Ahmet Cemal Dördüncü Board Member and Executive Committee Member Raif Ali Dinçkök Board Member and Executive Committee Member Mehmet Ali Berkman Board Member and Chairman of the Executive Committee Alize Dinçkök Eyüboğlu Board Member Mehmet Emin Çiftçi Board Member Melis Gürsoy Board Member Erdoğan Moroğlu Board Member Mustafa Yılmaz Board Member and Executive Committee Member 10 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 COMPANY PROFILE Organization Chart AKKÖK EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEHMET ALİ BERKMAN CEO RAİF A. DİNÇKÖK AHMET ÜMİT DANIŞMAN MUSTAFA YILMAZ AHMET C. DÖRDÜNCÜ EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER AKİŞ GYO AND AK-KİM AND AKENERJİ AND AKCEZ AK-TOPS AKSA SUBSIDIARIES SUBSIDIARIES SUBSIDIARIES AKMERKEZ GYO AND AK-AL SEDAŞ AKPA AKSA EGYPT SUBSIDIARIES AKMERKEZ AKPORT AKHAN DOWAKSA LOKANTACILIK DİNKAL AKTEK AKHAVACILIK AKMELTEM ÖZLEM ATAÜNAL FINANCE DIRECTOR ŞERİFE FÜSUN ÖMÜR HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR VEYSİ KÜÇÜK NEW PROJECTS DIRECTOR GÜLSEV KUTUCU INTERNAL AUDIT COORDINATOR ÇAĞLA ZINGIL LEGAL ADVISOR ŞERİFE FÜSUN ÖMÜR DEPUTY CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR Valid as of 1 September 2012 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 COMPANY PROFILE Awards and Achievements Akkök Holding Celebrating its 60th anniversary in 2012, İstanbul Chamber The recent principal awards and achievements of Akkök of Industry (ICI) organized a reception on 31 May 2012, with Group of Companies in sustainability are presented below. the participation of Mr. Abdullah Gül, President of Turkey, and Mr. Hayati Yazıcı, Minister of Customs and Trade. At Aksa the reception, industrial corporations “contributing to Having started “Carbon Footprint” practices in 2010 and the Turkish economy by being member to the ICI for 60 become the first industrial corporation to achieve this years” were rewarded. As a company that was registered certificate, Aksa was audited in 2012 by BSI for certification at ICI in 1952 under the title Ariş San. ve Tic. A.Ş., Akkök of ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Management System Group of Companies received an award for its 60 years of standard. As a result of the voluntary audit, the Company membership. was certified at the highest level, namely “Reasonable Assurance”. Akkök Group of Companies was presented the “Respect for Humans Award” by the leading online recruitment Akenerji corporation Kariyer.net. The criteria of the award included Akenerji Bozüyük Natural Gas Power Plant took part in having at least 10,000 applications between 1 January and 31 “The Cleanest Industrial Plant Awards” contest organized December 2011 and at least 99% individual response rate. by Bilecik Directorate of Environment and Urbanization to celebrate the World Environment Day on June 5th. The Plant At the 31st Joint Annual Conference held in June 2012 in was selected The Cleanest Industrial Plant of 2012 and was Washington D.C. by the Foreign Economic Relations Board rewarded with an Environmental Certificate. (DEİK)/Turkish-American Business Council and American Turkish Council (ATC), Mr. Mehmet Ali Berkman, the CEO Ak-Tops of Akkök Group of Companies, received an award as Aksa IV. International R&D Project Market Summit of the Chairman for the successful cooperation and vision in Aksatextile and pret-a-porter industry was held in Bursa on Dow joint venture. This joint venture of USD 1 billion was 2-3 February 2012. At the Summit organized by Uludağ awarded as one of the largest initiatives not only in Turkey Textile Exporters Association, Bursa-Eskişehir-Bilecik but also in the USA. Development Agency and Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry with support from a variety of private and public institutions and with the participation of local and international universities, Ak-Tops was selected for the “R&D Award” with its projects. Akiş GYO In 2012, Akbatı Shopping Mall received the “Cleanest Shopping Center” award at the Cleaner Magazine’s Industrial Cleanliness Awards. With environment-friendly practices that prioritize energy efficiency, Akbatı Shopping Mall and Residences applied to the world’s leading green building evaluation system BREEAM for a certification at the “Good” application level. 12 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY We, as Akkök Group of Companies, make industrial investments that generate employment and value by considering not only today, but also the future. The perspective of sustainable growth and social responsibility play a determining role in our Group’s roadmap. Corporate governance defined in terms of openness, transparency and accountability has become a vital aspect of corporations and this governance is an integral part of the operations of all Akkök companies. Our Approach Sustainability Management Milestones in Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Memberships and Initiatives Signed AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Approach Ak-Kim Sustainability forms the basis of Ak-Kim’s strategic We, as Akkök Group of Companies, make industrial targets for 2013-2018. Attaching special importance to investments that generate employment and value by environmental sustainability, Ak-Kim aims to manufacture considering not only today, but also the future. new products that are environment-friendly and that reduce the consumption of chemicals. The perspective of sustainable growth and social responsibility play a determining role in our Group’s roadmap. Always maintaining close relationship with stakeholders, Corporate governance defined in terms of openness, Ak-Kim prioritizes stakeholder satisfaction upon feedback transparency and accountability has become a vital aspect received through customer and employee satisfaction of corporations and this governance is an integral part of the surveys. Supporting the growth of not only itself, but also operations of all Akkök companies. of the sector it operates in, the Company holds senior level positions in sectoral associations and councils and steers the By signing the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that sector. leads private sector in extending the universal principles of sustainable development in 2007, we took the first step in carrying our concept of corporate responsibility BEST PRACTICE towards universal norms. By reporting our practices and achievements in terms of the ten universally accepted Aksa and Ak-Kim are among the first Turkish companies principles of UNGC (including environment, human rights, to commit to “Responsible Care”. Responsible Care, labor, and anti-corruption) in line with the Global Reporting by definition, is a program that primarily considers Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, we realize our goal of transparency the protection of human life, environment and natural and accountability. We share our related Sustainability resources in all stages of activities and that gives Report that represents the common approach of our Group particular importance to this consistently. The idea was with all stakeholders through a variety of communication initially suggested by the Canadian Chemical Producers' platforms, including our corporate website. Association in 1984; then it spread all over the world and today it is implemented in more than 50 countries. Responsible Care Program is a voluntary initiative for the Our Sustainability Strategy chemical industry. It is coordinated by the Turkish Chemical • As one of Turkey’s well-established industrial groups, Manufacturers Association (TKSD) in our country. we make long-term and progressive investments. • In our investments and practices we seek environmental, social benefits that contribute to the Akenerji country’s economy. Akenerji supports clean and sustainable energy sources for creating a safer future for Turkey and for the world. Issues • We work to create innovative and environment-friendly such as compliance, proper waste management, operational products that offer added value. efficiency, auditing, and training are integrated into all • We adopt a responsible, ethical and transparent manner processes within the Company in line with the principle of of governance and action. continuous improvement. Among the Company’s related principles are preserving the natural capital, serving better, minimizing environmental and social risks, and making Aksa more environment-friendly production. Components of the Since its establishment, Aksa has adopted the concept of operation strategy, namely environmental, social, economic, being an “efficient and environment-friendly” producer and ethical issues are managed in an integrated manner. in implementing the three pillars (economic, social and environmental) of “sustainability”. In time, the Company Operations of Akenerji are based upon the principles of included this understanding to its mission and vision and openness, integrity and transparency. In addition to financial supported these concepts with its policies and strategies. liabilities, it operates in full awareness of environmental, As an important aspect of corporate identity, Aksa reflects social and economic responsibilities. Thus, while making transparency and accountability on all business processes investment decisions within the scope of the environmental and social socially responsible initiatives. By implementing sustainability principle, it also aims to raise awareness the Open Door Policy, Aksa ensures that employees can in stakeholders and minimize environmental impact of share all issues with their managers, customers, suppliers operations. and related institutions. 14 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY While the basis of Akenerji’s approach to sustainability is At Akiş GYO, sustainability is governed on separate bases quality, environment and occupational health and safety such as occupational health and safety, environment and policies, the concepts of risk management, ethics and human resources. The Company has one or two employees corporate governance also play a defining role. Major (of different positions) responsible for each issue. These components of its business strategy are compliance, high employees represent Akiş GYO in committees within Akkök level of customer satisfaction, operational efficiency, Holding and lead the implementation of Holding-wide protection of natural capital, minimizing environmental projects in Akiş GYO, with guidance from related Assistant and social risks, and making more environment-friendly General Managers. production. Sustainability Management Among the material sustainability issues for Akenerji are The components of management strategies, namely contributing to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions environmental, social, economic, and ethical issues, are that cause global climate change by providing energy managed separately per Company and in an integrated through renewable sources, monitoring and continuous manner with full responsibility of CEO of each Company. improvement of environmental and occupational health and safety performance at plants and projects, and achieving On the other hand, Group-wide sustainability strategy is high performance. the responsibility of the Executive Chairman of the Group. With the aim of identifying material sustainability issues for Ak-Tops the Group and manage them with an integrated approach, One of the first 100 Turkish organizations to receive TS EN a Sustainability Committee comprising representatives ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems Certification, Akof Aksa, Ak-Kim, Akenerji, Ak-Tops, Akiş GYO, and Akkök Tops is committed to implementing these quality policies in Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. (Akkök Holding) has been all business processes. By obtaining the TS EN ISO 50001 established to directly report to the Executive Chairman of Energy Management Systems Certification, Ak-Tops has the Group. This Committee contributes to the preparation become the first enterprise to be granted this designation of Sustainability Reports and meets periodically to work on in the Akkök Group and in the textile sector. The Company laying the foundations of various sustainability projects. combined the quality, occupational health and safety (OHS), environmental and energy management systems under a single roof to make them easier to understand and implement. Ak-Tops efficiently implements, reviews and Milestones in Sustainability continuously improves the requirements of management systems in all of its business processes. The Directorate Aksa of Quality and Management Systems is responsible for 1993 ISO 9001 Quality Management System efficient practice of management systems. The primary Certification objective of Ak-Tops is to achieve a sustainable growth 1993 Signatory to Responsible Care through process targets that are annually renewed to raise 1995 Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Certification for Healthy the bar. Practices in Textile 1997 First “Social Impact” survey Akiş GYO 1997 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Common grounds such as team spirit, collective thinking and Certification sharing objectives form the basis of the sustainable success 2004 ISPS Code (International Ship and Port Facility of Akiş GYO. By balancing the expectations of employees Security Code) with those of the company, fairness and equal opportunity 2004 Aksa Sustainable Development reporting among employees is observed, sustainable success and high 2006 Responsible Care Management System performance is recognized and promoted. Certification In full awareness of its responsibility as one of the leading 2006 Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) companies in real estate investment trust, Akiş GYO adopts the following qualities as the main focus of its corporate 2007 OHSAS 18001: 2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certification social responsibility approach and sustainability: minimizing 2010 ISO 14064–1 Certification (Corporation-level environmental impacts of its operations; observing health calculation and reporting of greenhouse gas and safety of employees, customers and local communities; emissions and mitigation) achieving maximum savings in the use of natural resources 2010 The first Turkish chemicals company with the and energy in its processes and projects; protecting the 2009 Sustainable Development Report approved environment and ecological balance on behalf of future by GRI at the C application level generations. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 15 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Milestones in Sustainability Aksa 2011 Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Turkey as one of the two Turkish energy companies 2011 The first and only Turkish company included in that publish a CDP report the UNGC Year Book with its “Social Awareness Campaigns” in 2011 2012 Inclusion of Akocak, Uluabat, Burç Bendi, Bulam, and Feke II HEPPs in the ISO 9001:2008 Quality, ISO 2011 Practices for compliance with the Seveso Directive 14001:2004 Environmental and OHSAS 18001:2007 launched Occupational Health and Safety Management 2012 Turkish Standards Institution (TSI) Golden Quality Systems certifications Award 2012 Bozüyük Natural Gas Power Plant selected the “The 2012 Corporate Risk Management Project Cleanest Industrial Plant” and awarded with an “Environmental Certificate” within the scope of June Ak-Kim 5th, World Environment Day 1993 Signatory to the Responsible Care program 2012 Environmental License for Kemalpaşa Natural Gas 1995 ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certification Power Plant 2004 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certification Ak-Tops 2007 Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact 1993 ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certification (UNGC) 2006 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety 2009 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System certifications (as a “first” in Management System Certification Akkök Group of Companies) 2012 Biocidal certificates for 10 products 2008 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 2012 Environmental Permit and License for Ak-Kim Certification Çerkezköy Plant 2009 R&D project included in the grant scheme of The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) Akenerji 2009 B Group Emission License from the Provincial 2008 Integrated Management System: ISO 9001 Quality Directorate of Environment and Forestry, Management System Certification, ISO 14001 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Environmental Management System Certification Certification from the Ministry of Environment and and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Forestry Management System Certification 2010 One of the 10 companies included in the voluntary 2010 ISO 9001:2008 Quality, ISO 14001:2004 agreement with the Ministry of Energy, Electric Environmental and OHSAS 18001:2007 Power Resources Survey and Development Occupational Health and Safety Management Administration to reduce the energy density System Certifications for the Headquarters, 2011 Environmental License Çerkezköy, Bozüyük and Kemalpaşa power plants 2012 The first ISO 50001 Energy Management System 2010 First and most comprehensive Environmental Certification within Akkök Group and the textile Report and Occupational Health and Safety Annual industry Report published and disclosed to all stakeholders 2011 First energy company in Turkey to receive the IIP (Investing in People) Certificate of Commitment Akiş GYO 2011 First energy company in Turkey to implement the 2012 Application to the green building evaluation system EFET (European Federation of Energy Traders) BREEAM for Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall agreement Project 2011 Energy Oscar, given for the first time in 2011 at the 2012 Akbatı Residences & Akbatı Shopping Mall project 17th International Energy and Environment Fair and was entitled to B-class “Energy Performance Conference (ICCI). “Best Leading Investor of the Certification”. Year” award for establishing the first cogeneration plant in Turkey Akkök Holding 2011 ISO 9001:2008 Quality, ISO 14001:2004 2007 Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Environmental and OHSAS 18001:2007 (UNGC) Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems certifications for Ayyıldız Wind Power Plant 16 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Engagement meetings, workshops, Open Door events, surveys, annual reports, sustainability reports and websites. Sustainability Obviously, major and material stakeholders of the Akkök reports of each Group Company as well as this Sustainability Group Companies included in the Report vary per Company. Report that includes consolidated information on Group However, employees, customers, shareholders, and Companies cover primary information on the common investors that have direct influence or that are directly ground of stakeholder expectations and Companies’ influenced by the operations of our Companies are the most priorities. important stakeholder groups for all Companies. In addition, regulatory bodies, suppliers, local communities, local Group Companies share information with stakeholders authorities, non-governmental organizations, society, media regularly and accurately through updated data released and university students are also among the significant on their websites, periodical press releases, monthly stakeholders for our Companies. e-newsletters, monthly executive newspaper and news summaries. In addition to these, internal communication We, as Akkök Group of Companies, get information on the of employees is ensured via intranet portals, internal expectations of our stakeholders via bilateral dialogue newsletters and publications, trainings, annual reports, and platforms and share our related practices with them through sustainability reports. bior unilateral platforms. Among these platforms are Stakeholders Dialogue Platforms Employees Akenerji: “We Are the Energy” Employee Suggestion System (quality, environment and OHS suggestion system). Ak-Kim: Employee satisfaction survey. Aksa: Performance management system, employee satisfaction survey. Ak-Tops: Performance management system, employee satisfaction workshop, employee satisfaction survey. Akiş GYO: Employee satisfaction survey aiming to achieve active engagement of employees in decisionmaking and implementation processes. Customers Customer satisfaction surveys. A variety of satisfaction surveys are used to get information on the expectations of our customers. We build one-to-one communication via Facebook and Twitter. In addition to responding to expectations with our operations and products, social and environmental trainings, informative meetings and projects are held. Internet pages, television, newspapers, radio programs, annual and sustainability reports are used for giving information. Aksa, Ak-Kim, Ak-Tops: Technical customer visits. Shareholders Our shareholders come together with Company executives at General Assembly meetings and exercise their rights to express opinions and obtain information. Other dialogue methods include annual and sustainability reports, company websites and material disclosures. Investors, Creditors Akiş GYO: A variety of satisfaction surveys are used to respond to the expectations of investors. In addition to responding to expectations with operations and products, social and environmental informative meetings and projects are held. Internet pages, television, newspapers, radio programs, annual reports are used for giving information. Akenerji: Annual Environmental and Social Performance Monitoring Reports are regularly submitted to creditors such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB). Regulatory bodies Regulatory bodies are informed via reports regarding the issues of the related industry. Suppliers Akenerji: Supplier assessment forms. Akiş GYO: Bases of the dialogue with suppliers are online portal, visits and audits. Ak-Kim: Supplier audits. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 17 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholders Dialogue Platforms Local communities Akenerji: Information on developments is exchanged with the local communities and authorities in cities and local authorities where power plants operate. Brochures are prepared and distributed to explain potential dangers and protection ways for local communities. Aksa: Social perception survey, social advisory panel. NGOs Akiş GYO: The Company is entitled to make donations and aids to foundations and disaster areas exempted from taxation by the Council of Ministers; public welfare associations; non-governmental organizations; local sports clubs; scientific research and development institutions; universities and other educational institutions; and such institutions that operate in social areas including culture, arts, environment, education, etc. Society Aksa, Ak-Kim, Ak-Tops: “Open Door” events. Media Press releases and interviews. Akiş GYO: In line with the principles of transparent and ethical practices, media is invited to all events to inform the public and answer questions. University students Career days. Note: Annual and sustainability reports create a significant information and dialogue platform for almost all stakeholders. Corporate Memberships and Initiatives Signed Among the major sustainability initiatives and memberships we, as Akkök Group of Companies, have include: • Borsa İstanbul (İstanbul Stock Exchange): Shares of Aksa and Akenerji started to be traded at Borsa İstanbul in 1986 and 2000 respectively. • Responsible Care: Aksa and Ak-Kim became signatories in 1993. • United Nations Global Compact: Following Aksa in 2006, Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. and Ak-Kim became signatories in 2007. • Carbon Disclosure Project: Akenerji participated in 2011 and issued its first report. • Investors in People (IIP) Certification: Akenerji obtained the certification in 2012. 18 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT We, as Akkök Group of Companies, show maximum effort to minimize our environmental impacts and aim to continuously improve our performance. Although material environmental issues may vary depending on the industries that our Companies operate in, issues such as energy and water consumption, wastewater and solid water are among the areas that all Akkök Companies closely monitor and implement improvement practices. Our Approach Environmental Management Compliance with Environmental Legislations Environmental Trainings Energy Management Carbon Management Water Management Waste Water Management Solid Waste Management Biodiversity AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 ENVIRONMENT Our Approach BEST PRACTICE We, as Akkök Group of Companies, show maximum effort to minimize our environmental impacts and aim to continuously In 2012, Ak-Tops became the first company to receive ISO improve our performance. 50001 Energy Management System Certification within Akkök Group and the textile industry. Within the scope Although material environmental issues may vary depending of this system, energy saving spots were identified and on the industries that our Companies operate in, issues such included in action plans. as energy and water consumption, wastewater and solid water are among the areas that all Akkök Companies closely monitor and implement improvement practices. Akiş GYO In all of its investments, Akiş GYO attaches importance Aksa to realize building designs that can obtain Green Since its establishment, Aksa has adopted the concept Building Certification and that aims at high-level energy of becoming an “efficient and environment-friendly” management with Energy Performance Certification and to producer. By including this concept into its mission and vision use environment-friendly products. statements, the Company puts this objective into effect through its policies and strategies. It aims to set an example by adopting not only legal requirements, but also voluntary Environmental Policy of Akkök Group of initiatives. While improving efficiency with its practices Companies in parallel with sustainability concept and operational excellence strategy, Aksa also fulfills its responsibilities We, as Akkök Group of Companies, operating mainly in towards the environment and all stakeholders through its chemicals, energy, real estate, textile and service sectors, environment-friendly production. adopt a sustainability approach where we are committed to: • Continuously improving environmental impact of our Ak-Kim processes, by preventing the impact at the source, Sustainability forms the basis of Ak-Kim’s strategic • Using energy and natural resources in the most efficient targets for 2013-2018. Attaching special importance to manner, environmental sustainability, Ak-Kim aims to manufacture new products that are environment-friendly and that reduce • Benefiting from environment-firendly technologies and the consumption of chemicals. best practices, • Complying with legal and other regulations and improving Akenerji such regulations, Akenerji has been working to minimize potential risks for • Cooperating with stakeholders and working to improve more than 22 years, keeping in mind the environmental environmental awareness. and social impacts of its operations. To make investments for a future of clean and sustainable energy, to prevent environmental pollution, to ensure protection of natural resources and to increase productivity with the help of Environmental Management advanced technological solutions are among the material Improving environmental performance and reducing environmental issues that the Company focuses on. environmental impact are material objectives of Akkök Akenerji’s principle is to achieve maximum amount of Group of Companies. We take actions to measure the impact production with the minimum use of resources possible, by of our operations on the environment, to take precautions using modern technologies. and to mitigate such impacts. Ak-Tops Akkök Group of Companies plans to establish and activate Ak-Tops actively implements environmental management an Akkök Environmental Committee in 2013 in order systems in all processes and continuously reviews and to handle and manage environmental issues in a more improves them. The Company attaches material importance integrated manner. Comprising one representative of each to high efficiency, high quality and low energy consumption Akkök Company included in the reporting process, the as well as environment-friendly practices in its production Environmental Committee will offer standard collection operations. Firstly, efforts are made to reduce the amount of indicators and data to feed the sustainability reporting of wastes and increase the amount of recycling. Wastes that process. The Committee is planned to regularly meet during cannot be reused are discharged properly. The Company has the year to exchange opinions on environmental issues evaluated environmental impacts in all processes and taken and especially to design common projects with industrial major impacts under control. companies. 20 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT With the aim of creating a synergy and a platform for Ak-Kim joint solutions by ensuring coordination of environmental Ak-Kim performs its environmental activities through activities of Aksa, Ak-Kim, Ak-Tops, and DowAksa in the Environmental Experts and Continuous Development Yalova, AKCEVRE Council has been established. This units that operate under the Management Systems Council holds monthly meetings to exchange opinions Department. On the other hand, Occupational Health and and take joint actions on environmental practices, legal Safety and Workplace Health units report directly to the liabilities, relationship with local bodies, improvement CEO. All Ak-Kim employees are trained and competent in efforts, etc. Outputs of these meetings are submitted to performing environmental as well as occupational health senior executives of all Companies and thus are efficiently and safety activities; they assume responsibility and managed. actively participate in improvement efforts. Improvement of Environmental and OHS processes are material issues; All factories and locations of Aksa, Ak-Kim and Ak-Tops root cause analyses are performed and concluded. There have ISO 14001 Environmental Management System are a number of committees to improve Environmental Certification. Akenerji implements certified integrated and Occupational Health and Safety processes. These management system in 10 locations (Headquarters and include the Suggestion, Emission, Seveso (prevention of Çerkezköy, Bozüyük, Kemalpaşa, Ayyıldız, Uluabat, Akocak, major industrial accidents), Energy Management, and OHS Burç, Bulam, and Feke II Power Plants). Feke I, Himmetli and committees. Gökkaya Power Plants that were activated in late 2012 will be audited for certification in 2014. Akenerji The Directorate of Environmental and Quality Management Systems monitors Akenerji’s compliance with environmental ISO 14001 Ratio of ISO 14001 Certified Facility/ Certification Power Plant/Factory (%) regulations and legislations. The Directorate at the Headquarters in İstanbul is responsible for the operation of Aksa 100 electricity generation plants in various cities in compliance Ak-Kim 100 with environmental legislations. In addition, each power plant has Environmental Representatives. Trainings of Akenerji 75 these representatives are monitored by the Directorates Ak-Tops 100 of Environmental and Quality Management Systems and Human Resources. All Environmental Representatives Total 82 possess Quality-Environmental-OHS Management Systems internal audit certifications. On the other hand, all 82% of the industrial Companies included in the Report departments are responsible in identifying and mitigating possess ISO 14001 Environmental Management System environmental impacts caused by the operations of Akenerji. Certification. Ak-Tops Possessing Environmental License, Ak-Tops employs Aksa an expert with Environmental Officer Certification. The Aksa implements projects that enrich environmental, Environmental Council comprised of the representatives economic and social order while maintaining the balance from the Directorates of Quality and Management Systems, and prioritized health, safety and environmental issues Financial and Administrative Affairs, Maintenance, and in business processes. All employees of each level and Production hold periodical meetings bimonthly, chaired by mainly the CEO take direct responsibility in this approach. the Chairman of the Environmental Council (a Management With the establishment of the Department of Health, Systems Expert). All environmental practices are Safety and Environment (HSE) in April 2012, Aksa merged implemented in a way that covers all departments of Akthe Environmental Expertise, Occupational Health and Tops. The system is refreshed by suggestion, environmental Safety (OHS) and Office Health units under a single roof alert cards, and dimension evaluation practices. The for greater efficiency. The Environmental Management Company assesses environmental issues in all 6 Sigma, Unit within the HSE Department monitors all legal and TÜBİTAK and 5S practices and takes necessary actions. voluntary environmental practices. Through weekly The Directorate of Quality and Management Systems is meetings by directors and department heads as well as the responsible for all legal and voluntary issues as well as quarterly “Executive Review” meetings chaired by the CEO, for the management of quality, OHS, environment and environmental practices are managed efficiently with the management systems. control and support of senior management. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 ENVIRONMENT Akiş GYO for emission and wastewater discharge permits, and for the The Investment and Planning Department is responsible vessel waste reception facility license required in line with the for sustainability and environmental issues at Akiş GYO. In Environmental Permits. The Company applied for the next addition, the Company assigns environmental management step of the Temporary Certification of Operation, namely the representatives for each investment project to perform Environmental Permit, and expects to conclude the process audits and manage the process of required environmental in 2013. certification. Ak-Kim obtained a Temporary Certification of Operation (TCO) for emission, wastewater discharge permits, wash Compliance with Environmental stripping acid recovery, and tanker washing plant license Legislations required in line with the Environmental Permits in 2012. The Company continues efforts to obtain Environmental Permits We, as Akkök Group of Companies, closely monitor all terms and Licenses on the areas stated above for its plants in two and liabilities of legislations that we are responsible for in locations in 2013. terms of environment through a variety of sources. We cooperate with public institutions and NGOs in our areas of Akenerji obtained required certifications within the scope of operation, contribute to improvement of regulations, and the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) directive before lead the industry in legislations. We follow updated laws and activating its power plants. In addition, the Company also legislations via e-publications, announce new legislations received Environmental Permit for emissions, wastewater and amendments that brings us new liabilities to related disposal, etc. at the power plants that are subject to such departments via environmental management units and Permits. ensure that necessary actions are taken for compliance, and Ak-Tops obtained Environmental Permit for emission and monitor the compliance process. wastewater discharge in 2011. The Permit will be valid for 5 Within the scope of Integrated Management Systems, years. compliance with Environmental Legislations is continuously Akiş GYO constructs buildings that are in conformity with monitored with internal an independent audits as well as environment-focused laws and legislations including environmental internal audits performed at least once a year the Construction Law, Energy Efficiency Law, Code of by Environmental Management Units in conformity with Protection of Cultural and Natural Properties, İstanbul Environmental Audit Directive. Bosphorus Law, Directive on Procedures and Principles of Aksa, Ak-Kim, Ak-Tops, and Akenerji obtain environmental Identification, Registry and Approval of Protected Areas by permits for emission, wastewater discharge, etc. that are the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. required and that need to be renewed every five years within the framework of Regulation on the Permits and Licenses as Environmental Trainings Stipulated by Environmental Legislation. Major environmental trainings provided at our industrial and Within the framework of the Regulation on Preventing energy generation companies focus on waste management, Large-Scale Industrial Accidents issued by the Ministry of integrated management systems, environmental Environment and Urbanization in line with the European management systems and environmental awareness, Union SEVESO II Directive, Aksa and Ak-Kim were identified liabilities based upon environmental legislations, energy as “high-level corporations”. The process was initiated at the management and efficiency, and internal auditing. end of 2012. Total environmental trainings in 2012 are summarized in the Aksa obtained a Temporary Certification of Operation (TCO) table below. Environmental Trainings per Company Day/Year Day/Employee/Year Aksa 23.6 0.03 Ak-Kim 35.1 0.09 Akenerji 12.0 0.04 Ak-Tops 89.6 0.35 Akiş GYO 10.0 0.30 TOTAL 170.3 0.09 Note: 1 day is calculated as 7.5 hours. 22 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT Energy Management Duty, capacity and responsibility of the Energy Management Unit can be summarized as developing projects for energy Mainly operating in chemicals, real estate, energy, textile, efficiency and savings, making required financial and and service industries, Akkök Group of Companies included technical analyses, initiating and implementing investments, in this Report consumer certain energy sources during communicating with all employee levels for the energy production and management activities. Major energy management program, giving information, and preparing sources directly consumed bu Group Companies are training programs. At Ak-Kim’s plants in Yalova, electricity electricity and steam in production, natural gas and coal in and steam is purchased from Aksa, natural gas is supplied energy generation, natural gas in chemical agent production from Armagaz whereas in Çerkezköy plant electricity and and heating, gasoline and diesel fuel in company service steam is purchased from Akenerji and natural gas is supplied vehicles, engineering vehicles and equipment. Akkök Holding from the Organized Industrial Zone. and Akiş GYO’s direct energy consumption is limited to natural has in office building heating and gasoline-diesel in Akenerji vehicles. Among the material issues at Akenerji’s natural gas power plants is the fuel efficiency, which also has direct impact on Indirect energy sources are electricity and steam. While costs. Fuel efficiency is monitored online by the Directorate electricity generated from non-renewable sources are of Operations Performance and Fuel Management located intensively used in all Group Companies, Ak-Tops and Akat the Akenerji Headquarters. In case an abnormal value is Kim also consume steam. In addition, hydroelectric and wind identified in the real-time efficiency calculations in natural power plants of Akenerji use renewable energy. gas power plants, we intervene immediately and find the root cause of the problem. In addition, in order to ensure Aksa that our hydroelectric power plants operate with maximum Energy is critical in ensuring that Aksa continues its efficiency, production programs are reviewed daily to operations with high performance. With the natural gasmake sure that the plants operate with optimum capacity. fueled power plant acquired from Akenerji in 2009 and the Operators working at power plants are also responsible for coal-fueled power plant investment initiated in 2010 (the energy management. first phase of which is activated in 2012), Aksa started energy generation. In this way, the Company included Ak-Tops electricity and steam generation in its areas of operation Ak-Tops became the first company within Akkök Group with the aim of reaching reliable, high-quality and seamless and the textile industry to obtain TS EN ISO 50001 Energy energy sources in the most economical way. Today, Aksa has Management System Certification. Founded upon the energy generation license for a total capacity of 142.5 MW. principles that corporations define their energy policies, manage their energy consumption and make improvements Through the Energy Management Unit and Energy by evaluating their performance, ISO 50001 Energy Management Council, Aksa controls its energy consumption Management System Certification contributes to efficient and works on projects to reduce environmental effects. Thus, use of resources, protection of the environment, reducing the Company’s annual steam and electricity consumption costs, and improving energy performance. The aim of the targets are set and monitored daily. Energy consumption Energy Management System at Ak-Tops is to use the is reported every month and consumption targets are resources efficiently while also making energy saving reviewed quarterly. In addition, all units within Aksa are without compromising product quality. checked in terms of energy consumption parameters. At the weekly meetings chaired by the factory directors, actions to Having assigned an energy survey for its energy minimize energy consumption are taken. management system in 2012, Ak-Tops combined all policies including the Energy Management Systems to create an Ak-Kim integrated policy to meet the demands of each system. Energy management practices are based upon the “Regulation on Precautions to Be Taken by Industrial Energy management practices at Ak-Tops are based upon Institutions to Improve Energy Efficiency” issued by the the “Regulation on Precautions to Be Taken by Industrial Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Within the scope Institutions to Improve Energy Efficiency” issued by the of this Regulation, there is an “Energy Management Unit” Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Within the scope at Ak-Kim; this unit comprises department representatives of this Regulation, there is an Energy Council chaired by an and is directed by an “Energy Manager”. The energy Energy Manager/Expert. All units are represented at the manager is selected among Ak-Kim executives. This Energy Council. executive has to be someone who participated and received a certificate in the Energy Manager training given by the Directorate of Renewable Energy. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption The table below presents the direct primary energy consumption by source at Akkök Group of Companies. The major energy sources used by the Companied in 2012 include natural gas, import coal, diesel and gasoline. Consolidated direct energy consumption by primary energy source Direct Energy Consumption (Gigajoules/year) 2010 2011 2012 Natural Gas and Coal * 5,972,526 6,776,245 6,924,686 Gasoline 3,738 4,071 7,073 Diesel 7,013 8,249 13,912 Butane (LPG), fuel oil 122 23 64 TOTAL 5,983,399 6,788,588 6,945,735 * In 2012 coal was consumed at Aksa coal-fueled power plant. When we look at the direct energy consumption by primary energy source, we see that the Akkök Companies included in the Report used more energy in 2012 than in 2011. The table below indicates the consumption of indirect energy, namely electricity and steam. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Indirect Energy Consumption (Gigajoules/year) 2010 2011 2012 Non-renewable sources Aksa 14,346 213,454 155,450 Ak-Kim* Steam 633,466 575,901 547,389 Electricity 563,594 587,226 565,602 Total 1,197,060 1,163,127 1,112,991 Akenerji Total 14,609 13,633 18,370 Ak-Tops Steam 226,706 220,070 221,240 Electricity 70,407 71,482 68,055 Total 297,113 291,552 289,295 Akhan** 4,175 4,970 4,575 TOTAL (Non-renewable) 1,527,303 1,686,736 1,580,681 Renewable sources Akenerji Total 1,667 4,281 6,135 TOTAL (Renewable) 1,667 4,281 6,135 GRAND TOTAL 1.528.970 1.691.017 1.586.816 * Data on Ak-Kim’s energy consumption includes the data of Maçka office. ** Akhan building consists of the Headquarters of Companies within the scope of the Report (such as Akiş GYO, Akenerji, and Aksa) as well as the Group Companies not included (such as DowAksa and Akpa). Akhan Building Management keep consolidated records of these data. Therefore consumption data (e.g. energy and water) are given in consolidated figures under the name of Akhan. Water and energy consumption data of Akiş GYO and Akkök Holding are included in Akhan’s data. Data regarding Akenerji power plants are given under the title “Akenerji” and data of the Headquarters is given in “Akhan” part. The same applies for Aksa. 24 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT In terms of non-renewable indirect energy consumption, the energy efficiency practices at factories. Akenerji uses when Aksa started manufacturing carbon fiber in 2011, renewable sources for its WEPPs and HEPPs. Renewable energy consumption increased. However, with the energy consumption has shown significant increase in time. activation of the coal plant in 2012 and therefore autoproduction capacity increased, amount of purchased energy The consolidated amount of “Direct” and “Indirect” energy decreased. We see a reduction in the non-renewable energy consumed annually at Akkök Group of Companies is consumption of Ak-Kim and Ak-Tops. The main reason is presented in Gigajoules in the table below. Energy 2010 2011 2012 Consumption Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect Total (Gigajoules/year) TOTAL 5,983,399 1,528,970 7,512,369 6,788,588 1,691,017 8,479,605 6,945,734 1,586,816 8,532,551 Total energy consumption at Akkök Group of Companies Akenerji increased in 2012 compared to 2011. With the vision While performing its operations, Akenerji aims to achieve of maximizing operational excellence Aksa invested in its goals for energy efficiency and mitigation of carbon technology and increased its capacity use to 95% in 2012 emissions. The Company’s natural gas power plants and thus consumed more energy. that operate as balancing units within the scope of the Balancing and Reconciliation Regulations work on the basis Energy Saving of cost-based Market Clearing Price. As bidding method Operating in industries that consume considerable amount for especially natural gas power plants is cost-based, bids of energy sources, we, as Akkök Group of Companies, are made depending on the capacity generated at high implement a number of projects that improve energy efficiency level to keep the plant going. To ensure that efficiency and ensure energy saving at each Company. Our Akenerji’s hydroelectric power plants operate at the most manufacturing Companies monitor technology closely and efficient level, their daily production programs are reviewed evaluate energy consumption and efficiency aspects that for optimum capacity. have a key role in protection of resources and in our costs. Practices aimed at improving energy efficiency of existing Ak-Tops equipment or processes and reducing energy consumption With the energy management system established, Ak-Tops are fundamental issues. While purchasing new equipment or achieved an energy saving of 30,281 GJ/year in 2012. transforming processes, we review the energy consumption data of the equipment and implement projects to reduce Akiş GYO dependence on energy sources even at the process design Akiş GYO takes energy efficiency into consideration in all of phase. its projects. In each project, energy saving is a fundamental aspect. For instance, the micro-processes integrated in the cooling system of Akbatı project aim to achieve energy We, as Akkök Group of Companies achieved a total energy efficiency. All fluorescent lamps have electronic highsaving of 173,357 GJ in 2012. frequency ballast. Inside the houses energy-efficient lamps and white goods are preferred (e.g. all refrigerators are A+). Akiş GYO builds charging stations in every project to support Aksa the use of hybrid vehicles. The Company saved 139,044 GJ/year energy in 2012 thanks to the significant projects realized within the scope of the operational excellence strategy. Ak-Kim In 2011 and 2012, Ak-Kim started to reap the fruits of its energy saving projects that it initiated in January 2011 and still actively implements. Thanks to these projects, a total of 2,472,350 kWh electricity and 20,692 GJ/year energy (equivalent to 7,390 tons/steam) was saved in 2011. With new practices, an extra of 1,120,000 kWh/year (4,032 GJ/ year) electricity was saved in 2012 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 25 ENVIRONMENT Akhan BEST PRACTICE Precautions to reduce energy consumption are implemented at Akhan. Electricity consumption has been minimized As a 100% Akiş GYO project, in 2012, Akbatı Residences with energy-saving lighting fixtures. Office employees are and Shopping Mall applied to the “green building” encouraged to benefit from service buses instead of driving evaluation system BREEAM (Building Research personal vehicles. Environmental Assessment Method) for a certification at the “Good” application level. BREEAM assesses the criteria Carbon Management of management concept, healthy living, energy efficiency, We, as Akkök Group of Companies, consume a significant transportation convenience, water management, amount of renewable and non-renewable energy. Directly material resources, waste management, ecology, and consumed energy sources (namely natural gas, coal, diesel, environmental pollution. Akiş GYO also obtained the B and gasoline) and indirectly consumed electricity and steam Class Energy Performance Certification (a new practice cause greenhouse gas emissions. It is acknowledged that in Turkey) in 2012. Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall greenhouse gas emissions cause climate change, which is will be one of the first malls to have BREEAM and Energy a global problem. Therefore we attach great importance to Performance Certifications. monitoring and controlling greenhouse gas emissions. In order to reduce the burden of heating and cooling, air conditioners operate in lower capacity at Akbatı Greenhouse gas emission data are available for Akenerji and Residences and Shopping Mall. Among other precautions Aksa within the scope of this first Sustainability Report. We are argon-filled high-insulation thermopanes that have a aim to include other Group Companies in future reports. The high level of shading and high-insulation façade systems. table below shows the CO2-equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions of Akenerji and Aksa in 2012. Greenhouse Gas Emission Amounts Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Amount (ton CO2-e) Aksa 806,943 Akenerji 616,737 Total 1,423,680 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2-e) Aksa 27,455 Akenerji 961 Total 28,416 GRAND TOTAL 1,452,096 Note: Data regarding Akenerji are obtained from Akenerji CDP 2012 Report. Note: Data regarding Aksa are confirmed by independents auditors during ISO 14064 certification process. Aksa practices through its efforts in combating global climate Operating with an energy generation capacity of 142.5 change. Aksa has been the third company and the first MW, Aksa produces electricity and steam. Consuming a industrial company in Turkey to be certified by ISO 14064part of this electricity and steam for its own processes, the 1 Greenhouse Gas Calculation and Reporting Standard. Company also supplies these sources to its sister companies Although carbon footprint practices are not yet a legal in Yalova (namely Ak-Kim and DowAksa). The excess energy liability in Turkey, Aksa started working on this issue in 2010. is sold to the grid. Aksa uses calculation methodology based The Company’s management system based upon the 2010 upon the fuel consumed to achieve greenhouse gas data. carbon inventory calculated in line with ISO 14064-1 and The resulting CO2-equivalent tons of greenhouse gas emissions its “Greenhouse Gases Inventory Report” was certified as amount to the energy it consumes and sells to sister “reasonable assurance” in accordance with ISO 14064-1 companies and the grid. standard by BSI. Aksa maintained the same successful performance in 2011 and 2012 and thus earned the Aksa reinforces its leading role in environment-friendly “reasonable assurance” certification in both years. 26 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT In order to make more practical and effective inventory Water Management calculations within the scope of the Greenhouse Gases Management System, Aksa held a joint project with its We, as Akkök Group of Companies, consume water in our sister company Aktek in 2011. With this project, inventory production processes at factories and power plants as well calculations are digitalized and regularly and securely as in Headquarters to meet hygiene, cleaning and watering entered into the system. In addition, this system allows need. The source of the water used varies depending on calculation of greenhouse gas emissions per product or the geographical location of factories, power plants and unit within any given period. Using this data, greenhouse offices. These sources are either dams, city water or wells. gas reduction goals are set in the Company’s annual The water consumed is recorded on the basis of m3 figures performance objectives and related projects are designed. stated in bills and water meters. Akenerji As a significant parameter of environmental performance, Akenerji attaches great importance to monitoring, control water consumption is monitored in line with annual efficiency and mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions. Almost all goals and projects to reduce consumption are designed. of the direct greenhouse gas emissions are created due In full awareness of the fact that water sources are as to the burning of natural gas in the Company’s natural gas important as water saving, Akkök Group of Companies aims power plants. In addition, diesel fuel consumed by leased to protect ground waters that take long years to form and vehicles and natural gas used for heating in buildings cause minimize the use of such waters to maintain natural balance. minor amounts of direct greenhouse gas emissions. Indirect Cooling water causes a certain part of water consumption. greenhouse gas emissions result from the electricity In the closed circuit system at Aksa, sea water is used for consumed at the offices in Ankara and İstanbul. cooling and this water is then returned to the sea. Some As energy sources consumed may vary and occasionally addition may be required due to natural evaporation. electricity is purchased from the grid, detailed data Çerkezköy and Bozüyük power plants of Akenerji use open collection is required to be able to calculate the greenhouse circuit cooling water cycle, whereas Kemalpaşa power plant gas emissions resulting from the electricity consumption has closed circuit cooling water cycle. The cooling water at power plants. Akenerji plans to include the greenhouse system at Ak-Kim is a closed circuit one that does not gas emissions of electricity consumption for internal uses consume any water. However, due to natural evaporation at power plants in the data to be used in 2013 Carbon in time some water may be added to the system. Ak-Tops Disclosure Project and Akenerji Sustainability Reports. does not use any cooling water. As seen in the table below, water consumption varies per Company. Akenerji and Ak-Tops achieved a noticeable reduction thanks to a variety of water saving measurements. Water Consumption (m3/year) Source 2010 2011 2012 Aksa City water + Well 2,569,867 2,724,455 2,983,614 Ak-Kim* Dam 561,980 596,990 687,050 Akenerji (power plants at all City water + Well + Natural water 1,386,420 1,418,976 1,227,235 operational units) Ak-Tops City water 312,739 308,518 283,196 Akhan** City water n/a n/a 4,230 TOTAL 4,831,006 5,048,939 5,185,325 * Ak-Kim data include the consumption figures of Maçka office. ** The figure includes water consumption of Akkök Group of Companies (including Aksa, Akenerji, Akiş GYO and Akkök Holding) at the building. n/a= not available Companies Water consumed per product (m3/ton product year) – 2012 Aksa 10.20 Ak-Kim 1.07 Ak-Tops 7.70 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 ENVIRONMENT it is discharged into the Marmara Sea within the scope of the Akiş GYO uses products that reduce water consumption Environmental Permit. (such as photocell taps and double-phase flash tanks) Pollution burden created at waste water treatment facilities in its projects. In addition, the rainwater at the rooftop of due to production processes is continuously kept under Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall is accumulated in a control at source, by operating automated processes and 400-ton tank within the Mall and used for watering the improving training-awareness level of employees, efficient landscape. Drip irrigation, which is an efficient method monitoring and communication. of watering, is used in landscapes to minimize water consumption. Except for the Kemalpaşa Natural Gas Power Plant, domestic waste water of all other Akenerji plants is collected in cesspools and then drawn by sewage trucks of Waste Water Management municipalities or licensed institutions. Domestic waste water at the Kemalpaşa Power Plant is discharged to the common As Akkök Group of Companies, we discharge waste water sewage channel of Kemalpaşa Organized Industrial Zone. in line with the criteria and methods described in national and local (organized industrial zone) directives. Since Akiş At Akenerji natural gas power plants not only domestic GYO and Akkök Holding consume water only in offices and waste water but also process waste water and turbine wash thus generate less waste water compared to other Group water is generated. Çerkezköy and Kemalpaşa Natural Gas Companies consuming water at facilities, their waste water Power Plants are located within Organized Industrial Zones amounts are not included in the table below. (OIZ) and therefore process waste water is discharged to the waste water infrastructure of the OIZs. Process waste water Production areas of Aksa, Ak-Kim and Ak-Tops in Yalova of both plants is in compliance with the discharge criteria are completely surrounded by waste water delivery pipes. of the OIZs. At Bozüyük Power Plant, process waste water Industrial waste water, field wash waste water in units, and is discharged to the stream after all discharge standards domestic waste water generated at offices, cafeterias and are ensured. Turbine wash water of these three plants are other recreational areas reach the related Company’s waste collected and delivered to the licensed disposal institution. water treatment facility. At these facilities, all domestic Analyzed waste water samples taken from Akenerji power and industrial waste water is treated in accordance with plants reveal that such waste water is below the limits set by regulations, using high-efficiency and high-tech treatment the Water Pollution Control Directive. technologies. Water is until it reaches values well below the limits stated in the Water Pollution Control Directive and then Total water discharge by quality and destination Waste Water Discharge Place of Discharge 2010 2011 2012 (m3/year) Aksa Marmara Sea after treatment facility 2,372,500 2,445,500 2,463,750 Ak-Kim Marmara Sea after treatment facility 213,470 201,750 203,900 Akenerji Process water: 130,414 123,146 123,083 In Çerkezköy and Kemalpaşa, Organized Industrial Zone Waste Water Infrastructure In Bozüyük, Kocadere River Turbine wash water: licensed disposal institution 9 26 12 Ak-Tops Marmara Sea after treatment facility 380,825 413,906 441,555 TOTAL 2,746,581 3,184,328 2795,751 Note: The quality of waste water discharged by Akkök Group of Companies is below the limits set by related directives. Note: Hydroelectric and wind power plants do not generate process-caused waste water. Domestic waste water is collected by sewage trucks and discharged to locations deemed proper by the Environmental Legislation through municipalities or licensed institutions. 28 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT Solid Waste Management • Planning the processes of sorting at source, collecting, temporary storing, and transferring, We, as Akkök Group of Companies, aim to reduce our wastes, • Arranging proper waste containers, collecting tools/ collect them at source and dispose them according to their equipment and temporary storages, nature. There are three major disposal methods: recycling• Documenting the arrangements and systems, recovery-reuse, landfill and incineration. • Recording and reporting the data related to the systems established, Waste management system is based upon: • Improving the systems. • Identifying sources and preparing waste maps, • Monitoring amounts and changes, The table below includes the disposal methods and total • Reducing wastes and preventing pollution, waste amounts of 2012 by type and company. Amount of • Benefiting from recovery, reuse or disposal, waste is measured regularly and reported to related public • Taking actions to cut costs and increase revenues, institutions. Total Solid Waste by Disposal Methods (Tons) Recovery Landfill Incineration Aksa 23,069.6 1,107.1 1,562.9 Ak-Kim 521.6 493.0 432.7 Akenerji 35.5 0.05 0.0 Ak-Tops 82.5 0.0 34.0 Akhan 1.8 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 23,711 1,600 2,030 Total Waste Weight by Type (Tons) Hazardous Non-hazardous Wastes Wastes Aksa 1,681 24,059 Ak-Kim 577 871 Akenerji 31 4 Ak-Tops 45 72 Akhan 0 1.8 TOTAL 2,334 25,008 As a fundamental principle, Akkök Group of Companies adopt a waste management system that respectively BEST PRACTICE includes preventing, reducing, sorting at source and collecting, and recovery of wastes. With this purpose, we Ak-Kim uses Hydrochloric Acid during galvanized coating. identify waste sources, monitor amounts and changes, During metal surface coating processes, the polluted reduce the amounts, prevent pollution, evaluate recoverysolution becomes waste. This solution, named Ferric II reuse-disposal alternatives, take cost-cutting and revenuechloride or decayed acid, is collected in vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning and then increasing actions especially at our industrial facilities and used to produce Ferric III Chloride. This type of chloride is power plants. processed to become a product and thus recovered. Annual These practices are performed by related units within each recovery is approximately 5,000 tons. Company in cooperation. At Aksa, Ak-Kim, Akenerji, and AkTops, targets about reducing wastes and preventing pollution are integral parts of the environmental Management Program. All wastes generated at factories, power plants BEST PRACTICE and headquarters are recycled or disposed through licensed At Akhan building where Akenerji Headquarters is located, institutions authorized by the Ministry of Environment and with the initiative of Akenerji and support of other Group Urbanization, under the supervision of related units within Companies, waste batteries are being sorted and collected. Companies. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 ENVIRONMENT Protected or Improved Natural Habitats BEST PRACTICE As Akkök Group of Companies, we assume responsibility in protecting the environment and minimizing our impact Electronic wastes (including waste cartridges) at Akenerji Headquarters and power plants are collected and recycled during our operations. In full awareness of the facts by licensed disposal institutions. that forests are carbon sinks that ensure absorption of greenhouse gases, Akkök Group of Companies performs afforestation projects. Biodiversity and Natural Habitats Aksa Since its establishment in 1968, Aksa has put its signature Within the scope of impacts on conservation areas and under a number of projects to improve forests by using biodiversity, new plants or capacity increases in existing plants and saplings grown in its own greenhouse and to plants may be subject to Environmental Impact Assessment combat soil erosion. Within the scope of this awareness level, (EIA) as required by the Environmental Law. In projects that every year Aksa distributes the plants and saplings at its are subject to EIA, all aspects of biodiversity are taken into greenhouse to participants of Public School or Open Door consideration, measures to mitigate potential negative events and to those who wish to plant a tree. In 2011-2012, effects are identified and goals are set. approximately 4,000 saplings were delivered to natureNone of the Akkök Group Companies, except for Akenerji, lovers free of charge. causes significant impact on biodiversity as these are located in industrial zones. Akenerji implemented EIA in Ak-Kim The Company has a 2,500-tree memorial forest in two the design phase of its three Natural Gas Power Plants locations in Yalova (in Denizçalı since 1998 and in Subaşı (NGPPs), one Wind Energy Power Plant (WEPP), and eight since 2001). In addition, Ak-Kim makes donations to a nonHydroelectric Power Plants (HEPPs) that are operational governmental organization for planting trees to celebrate as of the end of 2012. To avoid any negative impact on the birthdays of each employee and thus contributes to the natural ecosystem in which the plants are located, biodiversity. the Company took necessary precautions and executed legal procedures during operation and investment phases. Akenerji Although Ayyıldız power plant did not require EIA, Akenerji Akenerji planted 7,400 and 1,550 saplings in 2010 and 2011 monitored the plant’s impacts on wildlife. Bird monitoring respectively for afforestation of the regions of Akocak reports made in 2011 and concluded as they delivered and Uluabat HEPPs with the aim of contributing to the positive results are an example of such initiatives. improvement of wildlife. Ak-Tops Since its establishment, Ak-Tops planted 1,618 trees BEST PRACTICE together with its employees. In order to achieve biodiversity in projects, Akiş GYO Akiş GYO identifies the native plants of project locations and Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall contains a Life Market contributes to ecologic diversity by introducing new within its Life Platforms. Revenues generated at this market plants, without damaging the existing natural habitats. has been donated to the TEMA Foundation (The Turkish Precautions to protect green areas include uprooting trees Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the and replanting them in suitable areas after construction, Protection of Natural Habitats) with the aim of contributing building green walls, limiting the share of residential to wildlife. Akiş GYO also donated 600 saplings to the Manisa areas to maximum 40% of the net available surface area without compromising the integrity of master plan. For Salihli Gökkoy Memorial Forest again through the TEMA instance, Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall offers Foundation. a living space nested within nature thanks to 300 m² of internal vegetation, green areas of 17,000 m² with 100 different plant types, terrace gardens at apartments, and a green wall of 200m². Although there are drainage wells to meet the water needs of green areas, especially droughttolerant plants that require less water are preferred. 30 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES As Akkök Group of Companies, our human resources policy is to create a creative and people-oriented culture that is based upon democracy, flexibility and teamwork; that aims to improve employee loyalty; and that emphasized the importance of “knowledge and people” in order to support our corporate objectives. Our participatory, human-respecting approach as well as our responsibility as a corporate citizen and our sensitivity towards the environment and people shape our human resources policy and all operational processes. Human Resources Policy Employee Profile Selection and Recruitment Trainings Performance Management Talent Management Total Reward Management Internal Activities and Communication Employee Engagement Employee Motivation AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 EMPLOYEES Human Resources Policy As Akkök Group of Companies, our human resources policy is to create a creative and people-oriented culture that is based upon democracy, flexibility and teamwork; that aims to improve employee loyalty; and that emphasized the importance of “knowledge and people” in order to support our corporate objectives. While implementing our human resources policy, we follow the basic steps stated below. Organizational Development : We provide equal opportunities for everyone. Selection and Recruitment : We match the right person with the right task. Salary Management : We adopt fairness in salary, based upon performance. Performance Management : We evaluate success based upon performance and competence; we improve productivity by creating motivation and loyalty. Recognition and Rewarding : We timely recognize and appreciate success. Industrial Relations : We cooperate by ensuring continuity of a peaceful environment within the industry. Communication : We provide timely, accurate, transparent and multi-directional information. Our participatory, human-respecting approach as well as related regulations. The reasonable notice stated by the our responsibility as a corporate citizen and our sensitivity laws is performed within the manner and time given in the towards the environment and people shape our human Personnel Directives. Significant changes such as salary resources policy and all operational processes. change, workplace change, secondment, substitution, additional duty, temporary working relationships are Significant operational changes to affect declared in writing by the Human Resources Department employees and employees accept the receipt of these notifications. Significant operational changes that might affect our employees are announced within the reasonable notice Goals and Commitments stated in related laws. At Akkök Group, operational decisions Commitments set for Akkök Group of Companies in terms are implemented in accordance with the Personnel of human resources and the 2012 assessment are presented Directives prepared on the basis of the Labor Code and below. Commitment 2012 Assessment Future Goals Employee Satisfaction Aksa, Ak-Tops and Ak-Kim periodically hold After 2014, employee satisfaction and loyalty and Loyalty Survey employee loyalty, satisfaction and enthusiasm surveys will be held in all Group Companies surveys. These surveys reveal the strengths and within a plan. areas to be improved. Thus, actions to support company objectives are taken. Trainings and In line with Company strategies, needs are identified As of 2014, Mosaic Training and Improvement Improvement Activities through performance management system outputs, module (*) will be cascaded within Group personal development and learning needs, changing Companies. This module will ensure that roles and duties, trainings required by regulations, and employee groups within the scope assume certification system trainings. These are transformed their own improvement responsibilities. into an annual training and improvement plan. 32 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES Commitment 2012 Assessment Future Goals Training and Since 2010 “Managing Today’s Business” Program We aim to increase the number of training Improvement has been run. and improvement activities for common Activities for Common In 2012, 76 employees from the Group Companies improvement areas in 2014. These Improvement Areas within the scope of this Report participated in the may include English, leadership, talent program that offers practical and extensive business development trainings and mentor-mentee management experience. programs. “Akkök Orientation Program” aims to accelerate adaptation of new employees, improve efficiency, encourage teamwork, and achieve networking of employees of different Group Companies. In 2012, 17 employees from the Group Companies within the scope of this Report participated in the program. Building a Common In line with the HR vision set in 2011, Group Companies Mosaic Training and Improvement module that Performance came together in 2012 to redesign the Performance was first implemented for employee groups Management System Management System and transfer the system to a within the scope in 2013 will be extended to all web-based integrated platform. Akkök Group Companies by 2015. Ethical Principle Within the scope of the Corporate Governance We will implement the Ethical Principles Management Project, ethical values in Group Companies were Management System throughout the Akkök reviewed and combined. Group of Companies in 2014. (*) Mosaic (Mozaik) is a common online HR platform established to ensure that human resources processes are implemented in a standard and systematic manner throughout Akkök Group and to build a corporate memory. Employee Profile Employee profile as of 2012 year-end in the Akkök Group Companies included in this Report is as follows: • Aksa: Total number of employees is 778; average age is 34.1; average year of seniority is 7.74. • Ak-Kim: Total number of employees is 451; average age is 36.4; average year of seniority is 8.6. • Akenerji: Total number of employees is 296; average age is 35; average year of seniority is 5.20. • Ak-Tops: Total number of employees is 258; average age is 34.4; average year of seniority is 7.2. • Akiş GYO: Total number of employees is 28; average age is 36; average year of seniority is 7. • Akkök Holding: Total number of employees is 40; average age is 41.6; average year of seniority is 9.6. Breakdown of Employees at Akkök Group of Companies Number of Employees 2010 2011 2012 and Share in Total Number of Share in Total Number of Share in Total Number of Share in Total Number of Employees Employees Number of Employees Number of Employees Number of Companies Employees % Employees % Employees % Aksa (*) 910 47.5 945 47.2 778 42.0 Ak-Kim 391 20.4 429 21.4 451 24.4 Akenerji 302 15.7 302 15.1 296 16.0 Ak-Tops 263 13.7 263 13.1 258 13.9 Akiş GYO 17 0.9 27 1.4 28 1.5 Akkök Holding 35 1.8 36 1.8 40 2.2 Total Number of Employees 1,918 100 2,002 100 1,851* 100 (*) Carbon fiber operations of Aksa are decided to be partially separated through in-kind capital. The transfer of shares to a new joint stock company was approved by the Extraordinary General Assembly held on 28 December 2011 by the partners and in line with this decision, Aksa Karbon Elyaf A.Ş. was established on 2 January 2012. The main reason for the change in the number of employees is this separation. Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 EMPLOYEES Number of Employees by Region Companies that are included in this Report employ 55.4% As seen in the table below, as of 2012 year-end 74% of of all of our employees. As of 2012 year-end, all Akkök Akkök employees work in Yalova, whereas 15% and 11% work Group Companies employ a total of 3,341 people. in İstanbul and other locations respectively. Other locations especially include Adana, Hatay, Ankara, İzmir, Bilecik, Number of Employees by Work Contract Tekirdağ, Trabzon, Bursa, Adıyaman, and Balıkesir, where All of Akkök Group Companies operate on an indefinite-term Akenerji operates power plants. contract basis. Within the scope of the Personnel Directives, if the work to be performed is temporary, candidates may Number of Employees by Region, 2012 Number be employed for definite-term contracts up to 24 months. In this case, the contract terminates at the end of the term, Yalova 1,372 without any notification. İstanbul 272 Number of employees by work contract at Akkök Group Other 207 Companies included in this Report is presented in the table Total 1,851 below. Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Number of Employees 2010 2011 2012 by Work Contract Share of Employees by Regions (2012) Indefinite-term contract 1,812 1,904 1,816 15% Definite-term contract 106 98 35 Total 1,918 2,002 1,851 11% Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Yalova 74% İstanbul Other Number of Employees by Positions At Akkök Group of Companies, there are 4 different employment positions: senior management, mid-level management, nonmanaging white collars, and operational personnel. Senior management includes general managers, assistant general managers and directors. Mid-level management means managers, assistant managers and supervisors. Non-managing white collars comprise specialists, engineers and assistant specialists. Operational level means operators and technicians. In all of the Akkök Companies within the scope of this Report, positions are structured in this way. Number of Employees by Positions 2010 2011 2012 Senior Management 48 54 49 Mid-level Management 135 152 156 Non-managing White-collars 314 344 342 Operational Level 1,421 1,452 1,304 Total 1,918 2,002 1,851 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. 34 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES Supervised Workers At Akkök Group of Companies there is a significant number of “supervised workers”. These are employees that work in our Companies through our suppliers and therefore they are not our permanent employees. These employees include those who work at the cafeteria, cleaning and security at Akenerji; cafeteria, cleaning, service and construction, installations and painting at Ak-Kim; projects, packaging and transportation at Ak-Tops; and investments and projects at Aksa. Akkök Holding and Akiş GYO do not use supervised work. Number of Supervised Workers 2010 2011 2012 Aksa 250 211 216 Ak-Kim 106 127 124 Akenerji 112 116 140 Ak-Tops 43 40 43 Akiş GYO 0 0 0 Akkök Holding 0 0 0 Total 511 494 523 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Gender Distribution by Positions The gender distribution of Akkök Group employees included in this Report is presented in the table below. Rate of female employees increased in previous years: 14.8% in 2010; 15.3% in 2011; and 16.1% in 2012. The rate of female employees decreased in senior management, but increased in mid-level management. The rate of female employees in the mid-level management increased from 20.1% in 2010 to 23.6% in 2011 and to 26.7% in 2012. Rate of female employees in non-managing white-collar group has also increased in recent years. Gender Distribution 2010 2011 2012 by Positions Male Female Male Female Male Female Positions % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number Senior Management 75.0 36 25.0 12 77.8 42 22.2 12 79.6 39 20.4 10 Mid-level Management 79.9 107 20.7 28 77.7 115 24.3 37 73.1 114 26.9 42 Non-managing 65.7 207 34.1 107 65.1 224 34.9 120 62.9 215 37.1 127 White-collars Operational Level 90.4 1,285 9.6 136 90.6 1.315 9.4 137 90.8 1,184 9.2 120 Total 85.2 1,635 14.8 283 84.7 1,696 15.3 306 83.8 1,552 16.2 299 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 EMPLOYEES Age and Seniority Distribution by Positions The age and seniority distribution of Akkök Group employees included in this Report is presented in the table below. Especially as a result of the new-graduate employment program implemented in 2012 at Akenerji, number of employees under the age of 30 increased significantly. Age Distribution by 2010 2011 2012 Positions (%) Positions Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Senior Management 4.2 43.8 52.1 3.7 46.3 50.0 2.1 52.1 45.8 Mid-level Management 2.2 73.3 24.4 2.6 77.0 20.4 3.8 75.6 20.8 Non-managing 39.2 54.1 6.7 37.0 55.7 7.3 40.2 53.4 6.4 White-collars Operational Level 32.7 64.4 3.0 32.0 65.5 2.5 28.3 69.4 2.3 Total 30.9 62.8 6.3 29.9 64.2 5.9 27.8 66.5 5.7 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Distribution of 2010 2011 2012 Seniority Groups by 0-3 4-7 8– 10 10 years 0 3 4-7 8– 10 10 years 0 3 4-7 8– 10 10 years Positions (%) years years years and years years years and years years years and Positions above above above Senior Management 27.1 18.8 8.3 45.8 42.6 14.8 5.6 37.0 36.7 24.5 2.0 36.7 Mid-level Management 38.5 11.9 9.6 40.0 37.5 14.5 8.6 39.5 34.2 18.1 8.4 39.4 Non-managing 67.5 11.8 6.1 14.6 69.8 13.4 3.2 13.7 68.8 16.0 1.7 13.4 White-collars Operational Level 45.7 12.9 10.9 30.4 45.7 14.8 9.2 30.2 39.4 19.0 9.0 32.6 Total 48.3 12.8 10.0 28.9 49.2 14.5 8.0 28.3 44.4 18.5 7.4 29.7 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Employee Turnover Rates Employee turnover rate at Akkök Group of Companies in 2012 is 19.7%. This figure includes the employees who were transferred to Aksa Karbon Elyaf San. A.Ş. due to the partial separation at Aksa. In addition, percentage of employees who quit due to resignation, retirement, personal reasons, termination of definite-term contracts, etc. is 10.2%. Employee Turnover 2010 2011 2012 Major reasons for resignation Numbers and Rates by Company (%) % Number % Number % Number Aksa* 7.8 71 13.7 129 7.5 58 Termination of definite-term contract, transfer within Akkök Group, retirement, resignation 22.6 176 Partial separation of company Ak-Kim 5.4 21 2.1 9 4.7 21 Retirement, resignation Akenerji 12.2 37 15.9 48 17.9 53 Resignation, personal reasons Ak-Tops 30.0 79 15.6 41 19.8 51 Retirement, another job or better payment, moving, transportation, health, maternity, difficult jobs, personal reasons Akiş GYO 0.0 0 14.8 4 14.3 4 Termination and resignation Akkök Holding 5.7 2 36.1 13 5.0 2 Different career path Total 10.9 210 12.2 244 19.7 365 Note: The table above includes all resignations within the companies. Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. (*) The main reason for the change in the number of employees at Aksa is the partial separation of the Company. 36 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES Data regarding the turnover rates by age, gender and seniority are present in the tables below. Employee 2010 2011 2012 Turnover Numbers and Under 30 30 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 50 Over 50 Rates by Age % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number Aksa 32.4 23 28.2 20 39.4 28 22.5 29 66.7 86 10.9 14 19.0 11 58.6 34 22.4 13 51.1 90 48.3 85 0.6 1 Ak-Kim 9.5 2 61.9 13 28.6 6 33.3 3 22.2 2 44.4 4 14.3 3 57.1 12 28.6 6 Akenerji 8.1 3 81.1 30 10.8 4 45.8 22 41.7 20 12.5 6 17.0 9 73.6 39 9.4 5 Ak-Tops 48.1 38 50.6 40 1.3 1 56.1 23 41.5 17 2.4 1 58.8 30 39.2 20 2.0 1 Akiş GYO 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 50.0 2 50.0 2 0.0 0 25.0 1 75.0 3 0.0 0 Akkök Holding 0.0 0 100.0 2 0.0 0 23.1 3 69.2 9 7.7 1 0.0 0 100.0 2 0.0 0 Total 31.4 66 50.0 105 18.6 39 33.6 82 55.7 136 10.7 26 39.5 144 53.4 195 7.1 26 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Employee 2010 2011 2012 Turnover Female Male Female Male Female Male Numbers and Rates by Gender % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number Aksa 15.5 11 84.5 60 13.2 17 86.8 112 16.2 38 83.8 196 Ak-Kim 4.8 1 95.2 20 22.2 2 77.8 7 19.0 4 81.0 17 Akenerji 5.4 2 94.6 35 20.8 10 79.2 38 15.1 8 84.9 45 Ak-Tops 3.8 3 96.2 76 2.4 1 97.6 40 5.9 3 94.1 48 Akiş GYO 0.0 0 0.0 0 25.0 1 75.0 3 0.0 0 100.0 4 Akkök Holding 50.0 1 50.0 1 53.8 7 46.2 6 50.0 1 50.0 1 Total 8.6 18 91.4 192 15.6 38 84.4 206 14.8 54 85.2 311 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 EMPLOYEES Employee 2010 2011 Turnover Numbers 0-3 4–7 8 – 10 10 years 0-3 4–7 8 – 10 10 years and Rates by years years years and above years years years and above Seniority % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number Aksa 43.7 31 7.6 5 2.8 2 46.5 33 62.8 81 5.7 7 4.7 6 27.1 35 Ak-Kim 23.8 5 10.5 2 14.3 3 52.4 11 66.7 6 0.0 0 0.0 0 33.3 3 Akenerji 78.4 29 15.6 5 8.1 3 0.0 0 81.3 39 9.1 4 2.1 1 8.3 4 Ak-Tops 84.8 67 5.3 4 1.3 1 8.9 7 78.0 32 5.1 2 0.0 0 17.1 7 Akiş GYO 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 100.0 4 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 Akkök Holding 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 100.0 2 53.8 7 44.4 4 0.0 0 15.4 2 Total 62.9 132 8.2 16 4.3 9 25.2 53 69.3 169 7.5 17 2.9 7 20.9 51 Employee 2012 Turnover Numbers 0-3 4–7 8 – 10 10 years and Rates by years years years and above Seniority % Number % Number % Number % Number Aksa 51.7 121 18.8 37 7.7 18 24.8 58 Ak-Kim 28.6 6 5.0 1 9.5 2 57.1 12 Akenerji 62.3 33 20.5 9 5.7 3 15.1 8 Ak-Tops 78.4 40 2.0 1 2.0 1 17.6 9 Akiş GYO 100.0 4 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 Akkök Holding 50.0 1 0.0 0 0.0 0 50.0 1 Total 56.2 205 15.1 48 6.6 24 24.1 88 Note: Figures are as of 31 December of each related year. Selection and Recruitment Recruitment of Newly-Graduates In line with the vision to “timely win, improve and retain Selection and Recruitment: We match the right person competent leaders and employees of the future who will with the right task. realize the Group’s strategies and meet the needs of our organization”, especially nationwide and internationally acknowledged Akkök Companies that generate know-how Akkök Selection and Recruitment Policy and technology prefer to employ “newly-graduated” young With the aim of serving our strategy and goals, during people. In the Akkök Group Companies included in this Report, employee selection and recruitment process, we focus on the number of “new graduates with 0-3 years of experience” recruiting candidates who are eligible in terms of conformity hired in 2012 is 40. In total 53 such employees have joined our with our corporate culture and values; who possess the Group in the given period. know-how, talents, experience and competence required for Akkök Talent Seeds the job; and who have the capacity to carry our Companies In line with the vision of recruiting newly-graduates, Akkök further. We base our recruitment process upon the principle Group implements the “Akkök Talent Seeds” process for of equal opportunity and we appreciate diversity. new-graduates with high potential. The aim of this process is Throughout the selection and recruitment processes, to reach the young people via various ways and win them by we use contemporary assessment systems to support the motto “Invest in Your Future with Akkök”. Akkök Talent taking the most objective decisions and thus recruiting the Seeds helped us to employ 28 new graduates. right person for the right job. Assessment methods vary Internship Program depending on the position and staff level of candidates. With the internship program designed for university Objective tools such as personality inventory, assessment students, we aim to support their development and equip center practices, proficiency test for English may be used. them with the qualities required in business. We consider internship as our social responsibility to help students make more informed decisions on their career plans and goals. 38 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES Training and Development Organizational Development: In line with the needs of the organization, we provide equal development opportunities for everyone. Based upon the concept of continuous development, our main goal is to help employees become aware of their knowledge and talents, to identify areas to be developed in cooperation, and to meet these requirements through suitable development programs. We aim to align employee competence with the strategic goals of Akkök by encouraging employees to improve their vision and strengthen their personal and occupational skills. Important trainings that served the Group strategies in 2012 are listed in the table below. Examples Name of Content of the Name of Content of the Name of the Content of the of Trainings the Training Training the Training Training Training Training Aksa Seveso Achieving Teamwork Training focused AKSA School Improving technical Seveso criteria in and on improving knowledge of occupational health Cooperation teamwork and employees and and safety. cooperation. equipping them with information on the Company. Ak-Kim Together Carrying Ak-Kim Patent – Methods and Seveso Achieving in Carrying into the future Intellectual procedures to be Seveso criteria in Ak-Kim into together, by Products used in obtaining occupational health Future building more patents for new and safety. successful future products, ideas practices upon and inventions the experience within the scope accumulated in of the strategy for time. establishing an R&D center. Akenerji HumanTraining for midSafe Drive Supporting the Balancing Training for focused level management Techniques use of vehicles by and getting updated Performance to help them ask field workers in Reconciliation information on Coaching the right questions conformity with Regulations regulations and to employees, OHS. amendments in the guiding them, electricity market. encouraging motivation and feedback. Ak-Tops 6 Sigma Achieving business Energy Helping Project results with higher Management companies adopt Trainings added value System energy policies, through improving manage energy process efficiency consumption within and making rapid the framework improvements in of energy processes. management programs, and improve themselves through performance evaluation. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 39 EMPLOYEES Examples Name of Content of the Name of Content of the Name of the Content of the of Trainings the Training Training the Training Training Training Training Akiş GYO IFRS Adapting New Turkish Informative training IFRS financial Commercial on new articles statements to Akiş Code of the Turkish GYO. Commercial Code. Akkök IFRS Under the Holding leadership of the newly established Projects Directorate, getting prepared for the new aspects brought by the new Turkish Commercial Code. Financial Affairs teams were trained by experts within or outside the Companies. Training days per employee within our Companies are presented in the table below. Our Companies provide trainings within the framework designed in line with the employee needs. Therefore training days per employee may vary within years. For instance, in 2010 in addition to the training plan, all blue-collar employees of Ak-Kim were given occupational trainings and in 2011 an intensive training program was implemented for all employees within the scope of “Together in Carrying Ak-Kim into Future” project. Training day per employee at Aksa fell in 2012 in line with the training needs of employees. At Akenerji, financial budget and number of trainings increased in years. For our companies, the importance and value of trainings increase constantly. Training Days and Trainings per Employee 2010 2011 2012 Total Training Training Days Total Training Training Days Total Training Training Days Companies Days per Employee Days per Employee Days per Employee Aksa 7,758 8.5 5,841 6.2 4,389 5.6 Ak-Kim 1,415 3.6 1,473 3.4 968 2.1 Akenerji 1,096 3.6 1,143 3.8 1,259 4.2 Ak-Tops 1,119 4.2 796 3.0 1,088 4.2 Total 10,168 5.3 8,335 4.2 6,937 3.7 Note: 1 training day is considered to be 7.5 hours. Method of Calculation: Training days are divided into the number of total permanent employees as of the year-end. 40 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES 2010 2011 2012 Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Training Days by Days Days/Number Days Days/Number Days Days/Number Positions of Employees of Employees of Employees Senior Management 53 1.09 72 1.33 64 1.31 Mid-level Management 1,021 7.62 870 5.88 1,214 8.10 Non-managing 1,817 5.77 2,231 6.39 2,448 7.01 White-collars Operational Level 8,495 5.98 6,081 4.19 3,978 3.05 Note: 1 training day is considered to be 7.5 hours. Training days per year increase for non-managing white-collars and mid-level management. Performance Management • Involvement in and adoption of company strategies and objectives is ensured. Performance Management: We evaluate success • Company targets and individual goals are related to based upon performance and competence; we improve each other in order to integrate corporate and individual productivity by creating motivation and loyalty. performances. • During goal extending and alignment processes, relations are built among goals. Performance Management System is a process that aims • Individual goals are identified during manager-employee to ensure that individuals adopt our corporate goals and meetings. that reinforces our common corporate culture. Individual goals are evaluated in integration with the strategic goals • Regular monitoring and reviews are held per Company and of the Companies and thus, our employees’ continuous employee. performance improvement is ensured. • The process is supported by clear and quantifiable performance indicators. Fundamental principles in performance management are listed below. Performance evaluation is made once every year at Group Companies using the Performance Management System. At • Process of goal setting and extending is integrated with Akkök and Akiş GYO, the System will be activated in 2013. strategic goals and work programs. Companies that held performance evaluation in 2012 and • All company objectives are vertically extended to cover the their rates to the number of employees are stated below. lowest ranks and horizontally distributed among all related units in proper responsibility levels. Number and Rate of Employees Subject to Performance Evaluation Companies Number of Employees Subject to Performance Evaluation Rate Per Total Number Of Employees (%) Aksa 702 90 Ak-Kim 99 22 Akenerji 296 100 Ak-Tops 241 93 Total 1,338 72 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 EMPLOYEES Talent Management phase of the project involves the migration of Performance Management Process and Training and Development The first and most important strategic human resource Process to the online platform. The completion of this project goals of Akkök Group of Companies is to make qualitative will ensure easy, quick and efficient online access of all and quantitative organizational risk plans to fully implement Akkök Group employees in HR applications. the Group’s overall corporate strategies. Akkök Talent Management Process, launched in 2010 and completed In other assignments and promotions, our Group in the third quarter of 2011, was implemented by including implements rotation, evaluation and development center all top level and mid-level managers and specialists at the processes depending on the needs of Companies. Group. The basis of Akkök Talent Management is identifying the In 2012, the decision was made to transfer all human existing business objectives within the framework of resource processes across the Akkök Group onto a shared the Group vision, strategic and cultural priorities as well online platform in order to achieve standard and systematic as the success profile (knowledge-talent-competenceimplementation and build a corporate memory. The first experience) of employee and managing capacity required phase of this project called Mosaic was completed as of 2012 by the organization. The process is completed by evaluating year-end with the transfer of 360-Degree Feedback, Skills potential readiness of employee, identifying the needs and Competency Management, and Career and Succession for improvement and performing trainings needed, and Planning modules to an electronic environment. The second assigning the employee to the right job. Talent Management Approach VISION Strategic Cultural Priorities Priorities Work Business Objectives Environment Success Profile Talent Capacity Required Required Identify Potential Ensure Review Readiness Talent Accelerate Improvement PLAN Focus on Measure Performance Proficiency Select/Recruit Talent 42 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EMPLOYEES Total Reward Management employees in every location and Welcoming Summer parties for employees in İstanbul. In addition to these joint activities, our Group Companies Salary Management: We adopt fairness in salary, based upon performance. hold company-based activities as well: • Aksa: Cocktail receptions for meeting new employees, Exemplary Employee cocktail receptions, religious feast Recognition and Rewarding: We timely recognize and celebrations, TV broadcasting in cafeteria. AKSET (Aksa appreciate success. Social Activities Group) created by volunteers at Aksa organize sightseeing tours, theatre plays, parties, concerts, Job Evaluation and Remuneration Model picnics throughout the year. They also hold courses such as diving, tennis or photography. Our Companies use the internationally recognized Job Evaluation and Remuneration Model. This is a remuneration • Ak-Kim: Ak-kim Social Activities Committee organizes and benefits model that reflects the realities of national and and takes part in events and activities such as sightseeing international business world in an objective and transparent tours, theater, concerts, picnics, fast-breaking meals, manner, that is based upon the principle of equality and Dragon Boat festivals, retiree dinners, TV broadcasting in fairness, and that solely considers the work performed. cafeteria, Women’s’ Day celebrations, feast celebrations, SMS messages (feasts, birthdays, new year, etc.). Recognition and Rewarding • Akenerji: Dragon Boat festivals, birthday celebrations, Our Companies implement recognition and rewarding Women’s’ Day and Mothers’ Day celebrations, practices defined by procedures. Akenerji benefits from the announcement of births and losses. Suggestion System for reward management. Examples of • Ak-Tops: Sightseeing tours, movies, theater, concerts, practices at Ak-Kim include OHS Employee of the Month, picnics, etc. as well as Employee of the Month cocktail Seniority Plaque, Suggestion System, and Situational receptions, fast-breaking meals, feast celebrations, TV Rewarding. Aksa rewards employees with practices such broadcasting in cafeteria. as Manager of the Year, Most Active Health, Safety and • Akiş GYO: Birthday celebrations, company dinners, Environment Officer of the Year, Exemplary Employee, sightseeing tours. Seniority Plaque (Badge-Plate-Silver Plate), Aksa School Award. Ak-Tops has practices such as Employee of the • Akkök Holding: Happy hour, fast-breaking meals, feast Month (exemplary employee), Seniority Award (Silver celebrations, birthday and marriage celebrations. Plate for 25 Years of Service), Certificate of Appreciation (Suggestion System and Situational Rewarding) and 6 Sigma Employee Engagement Project Award. Industrial Relations: We cooperate by ensuring Benefits to Employees continuity of a peaceful environment within the industry. We, as Akkök Group of Companies, offer a variety of benefits to employees. Common benefits throughout the Group There are various systems to enable employees to make include Advance Payment Management, Workplace Health recommendations and suggestions to the Company, and Unit, Position-based Benefits (vehicle, mobile phone, laptop/ the senior management. In order to achieve involvement of PC, etc.), New Year Gift Baskets, Meals, and Shuttles for employees, we launched the Talent Management System commuting. In addition, our Companies also offer private throughout Akkök Group in 2012. In addition, Company-based health insurance, maternity, marriage, death, food benefits, etc. practices may be listed as follows: Internal Activities and At Aksa, with the aim of establishing communication between employees and senior management, the Company organizes Communication AKEK (Aksa Training Council) and AKSET (Aksa Social Activities Group) meetings. Organizations such as the Council Communication: We provide timely, accurate, of Representatives, Suggestion System, OHS Council ensure transparent and multi-directional information. employee involvement in the management of the Company. In order to inform Group employees on all processes and Ak-Kim employees share their opinions and suggestions with developments, we use a variety of common communication senior management through the Suggestion System and channels. Our intranet platform named “Orange” (“Portakal”) “Chat with the CEO” meetings organized twice a year. The contains e-newsletters and daily Akkök Holding news. CEO and employees come together at roundtable meetings, In addition, in order to improve employee motivation, OHS Council and ASEK (Ak-kim Social Activities Committee) we organize activities such as New Year Parties for all meetings. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 43 EMPLOYEES Akenerji implements the Suggestion System which efforts to draw career maps, establish a performance-based encourages employees to share their opinions. Suggestions rewarding system, etc. with the potential to contribute to the Company are selected and suggestion owners are awarded symbolically. Akenerji succeeded in the international human resources standard IIP (Investors In People) Certification audits and At Ak-Tops, employees share their opinions with senior received the Certification. In addition, personal development management through the Council of Representatives, plans were drawn for all employees, orientation process was OHS Council, Energy Council, Environmental Council, and improved, and the Buddy System was launched. Within this Suggestion System. The Council of Representatives has been system, a “buddy” is assigned to new employees or those established to improve employee satisfaction and motivation, who are on job rotation among departments. The “buddy” evaluate and continuously improve existing or new working helps the new employee in adaptation to business processes conditions, and reward successful and contributing employees. and provides first-hand information on the knowledge required for the job, operation of processes and basic Akiş GYO employees participate in management processes information about professional life. through annual goal setting meetings as well as other meetings held within the Company. Ak-Tops designed and activated a new remuneration model Akkök Holding employees participate in management based upon Job Evaluation and Remuneration and Benefits. processes through annual goal setting meetings, Suggestion At Akiş GYO, in order to improve motivation of employees, System, and other meetings held within the Company. activities such as project launch celebrations (e.g. opening Finally, the Open Door Policy implemented at Aksa, Ak-Kim, of a shopping mall), participation in special events at malls, Ak-Tops, and Akiş GYO enable employees to reach managers. project celebration dinners have been realized. Surveys Employee Motivation Results of the employee satisfaction surveys held to reveal We adopt a variety of practices to ensure motivation, loyalty employee motivation, loyalty and satisfaction levels are and satisfaction of our employees. Some of the internal presented in the table below. Since the number of employees communication activities held within this scope in 2012 are is small limited at Akkök Holding and Akiş GYO, these surveys presented below. are not implemented. During the IIP audit at Akenerji, face to face interviews were held with employees. They were Aksa redesigned its Performance Management System and asked questions about the processes and systems used by updated the rewarding process accordingly. Akenerji; thus, proficiency of these processes and employee Ak-Kim, with the annual Employee Satisfaction Survey, satisfaction were measured. As the interview results and received feedback from employees to make action plans inspected information and documents met the requirements and share the outcomes with employees. There are also of IIP standards, Akenerji earned the Certificate. Employee Satisfaction 2010 2011 2012 Survey Results Loyalty Satisfaction Enthusiasm Loyalty Satisfaction Enthusiasm Loyalty Satisfaction Enthusiasm Aksa 79.0 76.3 84.5 Held once every two years. 73.6 67.6 77.0 Ak-Kim 58.1 52.9 62.5 53.9 52.8 57.1 Ak-Tops 57.0 58.0 37.0 45.0 48.0 52.0 54.0 58.0 44 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The major priority of Akkök Group of Companies is to ensure that employees work healthfully in a pleasing and peaceful environment and that the best occupational health and safety (OHS) performance is achieved by integrating all legal requirements into the work model. The basis of our approach to OHS is the value we attach to humans and our goal to continuously improve our OHS performance. Our Approach OHS Goals OHS Management OHS Trainings and Awareness Activities OHS Performance Management of Material OHS Issues in Supply Chain AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 45 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our Approach suggestion and improvement systems are put into action. Group Companies use compliance with Occupational Health The major priority of Akkök Group of Companies is to ensure and Safety standards as a selection and evaluation criterion that employees work healthfully in a pleasing and peaceful in investment, development and improvement projects. environment and that the best occupational health and safety (OHS) performance is achieved by integrating all legal Note: This section of the Report excludes the data of Akiş requirements into the work model. The basis of our approach GYO and Akkök Holding. Since these Companies operate to OHS is the value we attach to humans and our goal to in offices, OHS practices are different from those at other continuously improve our OHS performance. Akkök Companies. OHS operations of Akkök Group of Companies are performed in full integration with the Environment and Quality Management Systems within the scope of Occupational Health and Safety Policy Integrated Management Systems. The major operations of Akkök Group within this framework are risk assessment, trainings, Based upon our “People Come First” approach in monthly environmental and OHS committee meetings, chemicals, energy, real estate, textile and service change management, and internal and external audits. The industries that we mainly operate in, we adopt the main factor in the success of our operations is the active following policies to create a safe working environment: participation of employees and leadership of executives. • To identify, evaluate and control OHS risks in all Akkök Group of Companies implements all sorts of practices processes and activities. to create a healthy and safe working environment and • To evaluate potential emergencies and make action to prevent occupational accidents and health risks by plans to ensure safety of our stakeholders. abiding by all legal liabilities, related provisions and technical • To abide by and improve legal and other provisions. developments. Trainings to improve awareness of employees and subcontractors on OHS and to inform them on related • To hold trainings to improve the OHS culture and rules are systematically performed. Potential dangers and competence of employees and business partners. risks of operations are analyzed and precautions are taken • To continuously improve and monitor OHS management to avoid accidents. In addition, potential emergencies are and performance by ensuring active participation of evaluated and action plans are devised. In order to improve employees. OHS performance and involve employees in the process, OHS Goals 2013 OHS goals and 2012 evaluations for OHS performance of Group Companies within the scope of the Report are presented in the table below. Akkök Group 2012 Evaluation 2013 Goals Company Aksa Achieved 49.6% improvement in frequency of Achieve 20% improvement in frequency of occupational accidents occupational accidents compared to 2012. Recorded 13.8% degradation in weighted rates of Achieve 40% improvement in weighted rates of occupational accidents occupational accidents compared to 2012. Ak-Kim Non-compliance reported by 20% of employees of Achieve non-compliance reports from at least 20% high-risk departments. of employees of high-risk departments and thus to ensure participation. Achieved 5% decrease in labor force loss due to Achieve 5% decrease in labor force loss due to health issues. health issues compared to 2012. Achieved 98% improvement in weighted rates of Achieve 5% improvement in weighted rates of occupational accidents. occupational accidents compared to 2012. 46 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Akkök Group 2012 Evaluation 2013 Goals Company Akenerji Zero frequency and weighted rates of occupational Ensure that frequency and weighted rate of accidents at all power plants. workplace accidents in each of our operating power plants are zero. Regarding the workplace accidents by contractors and subcontractors of operating power plants, keeping the frequency below 6.9 and weighted rate below 48.2. In 2012, we made sure that employees at each power Make sure that employees at each operating power plant filled at least 1 “near-miss form” and at least 1 plant fill at least 1 “near-miss form” and at least 1 “quality, environmental, OHS” suggestion form. “quality, environmental, OHS” suggestion form. Total Vehicle Accident Rate (TVAR) was 15.9 in 2011 Maintaining TVAR below 14.5 at each operating and 16.1 in 2012. power plant. Ak-Tops Frequency of occupational accidents is 7.2. Keep frequency of occupational accidents below 3.5. Weighted rate of occupational accidents is 471. Keep weighted rate of occupational accidents below 100. Akiş GYO Perform risk assessment and provide OHS training to employees Occupational Health and Safety OHSAS Rate of OHSAS Certified Facility/ Management Certification Power Plant/Factory (%) Continuous improvement in OHS is the responsibility of Aksa 100 all employees of Akkök Group of Companies under the Ak-Kim 100 leadership of senior management. In order to manage and Akenerji 75 continuously improve OHS performance, Companies adopt certified OHS management systems and OHS Council and Ak-Tops 100 Committees as required by the laws. Total 82 With the aim of high-level participation of employees and managers in OHS management, Akkök Group Companies Among the industrial Companies included in the Report, establish councils, committees, assigned leaders and the rate of those with OHSAS Occupational Health and representatives. These OHS councils meet regularly, discuss Safety Management Systems Certification is 82%. related issues and activities, and evaluate statistics and trainings. Aksa Companies implement OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and OHS operations at Aksa are the responsibility of the Safety Management Systems at Headquarters, factories and Department of Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) power plants to fulfill their OHS responsibilities. directly reporting to the Factory Directorate. HSE implements All factories of Aksa, Ak-Kim and Ak-Tops have certified field practices led by OHS Specialists and Workplace OHSAS 18001 OHS Management Systems. Akenerji has Doctors, based upon the TS-18001 Standard and within the OHSAS certifications in 9 out of 12 power plants (Çerkezköy, framework of Safety Management System. All employees Bozüyük, Kemalpaşa, Akocak, Uluabat, Ayyıldız, Feke II, Burç, of every level hold responsibility in OHS Management Bulam) and the Headquarters. Management systems at System. Therefore it is ensured that employees are trained Akenerji power plants that were activated in 2012 will be properly to fulfill these responsibilities. Manager also actively certified in 2014. participate in ensuring continuous improvement in OHS performance. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 47 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Within the scope of Integrated Management Systems, Akenerji similar to Quality Management System and Environmental Each employee at Akenerji has certain Occupational Management System, OHS Management Representative Health and Safety responsibilities. OHS and environmental is also the Purchasing and Human Resources Director. responsibilities are clearly stated in all job definitions. Senior This representative assumes the responsibility of OHS management is in full awareness of the importance of OHS Management System together with the HSE Department and environmental management and performs periodical and supports the implementation and organization in the practices to maintain the awareness within the Company. Company. Communication of OHS operations are performed by the Technical Safety, Occupational Health and Safety Manager Aksa OHS Council who directly reports to the Operations and Maintenance All managers of the Company are honorary members of Assistant General Manager. the Council. In addition, the following founding members take part in the Council: employer or his representative; occupational safety specialist; workplace doctor; a BEST PRACTICE representative of human resources, personnel affairs, social affairs or administrative and financial affairs; civil Akenerji OHS Committees defense specialist; foreman, headmaster or master; Occupational Health and Safety Act requires workplaces employee representatives. with more than 50 employees to have OHS boards. Although number of employees at each power plant of Akenerji is less than 50, in 2010, we started to hold monthly Ak-Kim Environment and OHS committees at every plant in order Occupational Health and Safety Management Unit within to achieve functionality and participation of all parties. the General Directorate of Ak-Kim is directly responsible All employees at power plants are represented in these committees. for Occupational Health and Safety. Field work is led by the Occupational Health and Safety Management Unit. An Environment and OHS Committee (if there is an employee with specified duties in the power plant) Efforts to establish a Safety Management System within comprises the Plant Manager (Chairman), Assistant the framework of the Directive for Preventing Large Scale Plant Manager, Operational Officer (Environment and OHS Representative of the Plant), Maintenance Industrial Accidents started and planned to be completed in Officer, Environment Representative, Health and Safety 2013 year-end. Safety Reporting is also in process. Representative, Maintenance Operator Representative, Operations Representative, Shift Supervisor In full awareness of the importance of OHS practices, senior Representative, Operator Representative, Mechanical management directly reporting to the CEO is responsible Maintenance Representative, Measuring Control for performing periodical efforts to maintain the awareness, Representative, and Warehouse Representative. In addition, supporting all related efforts, fulfilling their duties in if there are Directorates of Environment and Quality emergencies, and improving OHS performance. All Ak-Kim Systems as well as Technical Safety, Occupational Health employees, led by the senior management, embrace the and Safety at the power plant, related personnel from these importance of OHS practices and regularly work to maintain directorates are also members of this Committee. this awareness. With monthly meetings, the Environment and OHS Committee reviews the Plant’s Integrated Management Systems Action Plan devised in the previous meeting as well as the related corrective and preventive operations. BEST PRACTICE It discusses the findings of field inspections and plans corrective and preventive actions to be included in the Ak-Kim OHS Council possess the provisions to Power Plant’s Integrated Management System Action establish a council in line with Article 6 of the Directive Plan. The Committee also reviews environmental and on Occupational Health and Safety Councils. In full occupational health and safety suggestions made since awareness of the importance of active OHS councils the last meeting and plans the required corrective and in preventing occupational accidents and diseases, preventive actions. Workplace accidents, near-miss Ak-Kim extended the scope of representation in this incidents, environmental accidents and environmental Council: employer or his representative; occupational complaints reported and investigated since the last safety specialist; workplace doctor; a representative meeting are also discussed. Legal requirements in terms of of human resources, a representative of management the environment and OHS are reviewed. Monthly Control systems, one representative from each of the 12 plants, Charts of Occupational Health and Safety are inspected. foreman representative, employee representative, and The Committee also discusses action definitions stated subcontractor representative. in occupational health and safety field visit reports and Monthly Waste Inventory forms. Finally, it reviews the requirements arising from the Change Management Procedure and discusses various related issues. 48 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Ak-Tops • Workplace Risks and Precautions Aspects of controlling Occupational Health and Safety • Safe Work Program risks and improving performance are handled within • Internal Auditor Training the framework of the Occupational Health and Safety • Occupation Health and Safety General Training Management System. The system is kept running through • Occupation Health and Safety Regulations Suggestion, Near-Miss and Risk Evaluations. • Near-Miss and Accident Reporting Directives Risk analyses and evaluations performed by identifying, • Risk Assessment evaluating and controlling risks are monthly reviewed and • Fire, Emergency Response, Emergency Drills updated. Average OHS training days per employee in 2012 are Ak-Tops identifies risks to take preventive actions. summarized in the table below. While identifying the related practices and processes, risk analyses, risk maps and statistics are used. Risk OHS Trainings in Day/Year Day/Employee/ definitions are made or revised accordingly. Potential 2012 Year risks, incompliances and negative aspects are periodically Aksa 2,987 3.90 reviewed, reported and monitored through Safety and Ak-Kim 463 1.03 Environmental Tours. OHS issues are reviewed in all 6 Sigma, TÜBİTAK and start-up projects at Ak-Tops. Akenerji 468 1.75 Ak-Tops 189 0.73 OHS Committee actively works to evaluate and continuously improve the health and safety of Ak-Tops employees. Total 4,107 1.85 This Committee identifies deficits in terms of security of life and property at the factory and offers technical and Note: While calculating the days, 1 training day is accepted as 7.5 hours. administrative precautions to the CEO. Note: The figures are based upon the number of target OHS Committee is composed of the following members: employees required to take compulsory OHS training. OHS Specialist (Chairman), Management Systems Specialist (Vice Chairman), Cutting Operation Master (Employee OHS Performance Representative), Tops Operation Master (Employee It is a material goal for us to ensure that all Akkök Group Representative), Chemical Laboratorian (Employee employees adopt the OHS culture in order to improve our Representative), Workplace Doctor, Warehouses Unit occupational health and safety performance. Manager, Accounting and Administrative Affairs Specialist, Dyehouse Operation Engineer, Tops Operation Engineer, Akkök Group Companies periodically monitor their OHS Cutting Operation Engineer. Person or people deemed performance and implement necessary precautions within appropriate by the OHS Committee can be appointed with work plans to improve this performance. Among the material the approval of the CEO. The committee meets monthly. issues monitored in terms of OHS are occupational accidents and absenteeism due to health conditions. OHS Trainings and Awareness Occupational Accidents Activities Workplace incidents that occur within the requirements Believing that high OHS performance is closely related to identified by regulations and that cause negative effects the increase in training and awareness levels of employees, on employees are defined as “occupational accidents”. we attach great importance to trainings and ensure that Frequency and weighted rates of all occupational accidents at employees regularly trained in OHS. Akkök Group Companies are recorded. A significant reduction in occupational accident rate has been achieved, mainly We provide our employees with a variety of OHS trainings thanks to the trainings, registry system and revisions made. within the framework of integrated efforts that also cover Occupational accident data of the last 3 years of our Group environmental and quality issues. We increase the number Companies are given in the tables below. of such trainings systematically. We especially want to make sure that employees at power plants, facilities and factories have required information on OHS and earn the capacity to prevent potential risks at source through some precautions. Trainings can be grouped in the following categories: AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 49 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Frequency of Occupational Accidents 2010 2011 2012 Aksa 5.90 6.53 3.24 Ak-Kim 0.00 4.72 1.08 Akenerji 12.44 6.20 0.00 Ak-Tops 2.30 5.50 7.20 Average total 4.13 4.59 2.30 Note: The following formulae have been used in calculating rates = NOA /(TNDAPx8)x1,000,000 NOA = Number of occupational accidents TNDAP = Total number of days of accrued premium (TNDASP is multiplied by 8 hours for a full day of work and total working hour of all insured employees are found.) 1,000,000 = This figure is used to find the number of accidents per 1 million work hours. Weighted Rate of Occupational Accidents 2010 2011 2012 Aksa 116.70 223.80 254.70 Ak-Kim 0.00 184.00 3.00 Akenerji 93.29 55.80 0.00 Ak-Tops 451.00 194.10 471.10 Average total 132.20 131.54 145.76 Note: The following formulae have been used in calculating rates = TLDOA /(TNDAPx8)x1,000,000 TLDOA = Total lost days due to occupational accidents (Temporary incapacity periods) + (total of permanent incapacity levels x 75) + (number of deaths x 7500) TNDAP = Total number of days of accrued premium (TNDASP is multiplied by 8 hours for a full day of work and total working hour of all insured employees are found.) 1,000,000 = This figure is used to find the total number of lost hours due to workplace accidents per 1 million work hours. Number of Accidents Involving Death In the three years of this reporting period, there have been no accidents involving death or long-term losses in Akkök Group Companies included in the Report. Lost Days and Absenteeism Lost days and absenteeism rates due to health issues are given per Group company in the table below. Absenteeism 2010 2011 2012 Aksa 0.01 0.02 0.02 Ak-Kim 0.01 0.01 0.01 Akenerji* n/a n/a 0.01 Ak-Tops 0.02 0.02 0.03 Total 0.01 0.02 0.02 Not: Absenteeism rate is calculated using the formula: Number of days of absence due to health issues / Total workdays * Akenerji data includes power plant employees and excludes Headquarters personnel. 50 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Management of Material OHS Unsafe condition notifications, near-miss reports and occupational accidents are analyzed and effort is made Issues in Supply Chain to remove the root causes via “Failure Mode and Effects Akkök Group of Companies has launched and will continue to Analysis” (FMEA). Occupational accidents and root causes launch a number of occupational health and safety practices are shared at the monthly-held OHS boards with all Aksa in line with legal regulations and industrial developments. managers and employee representatives. The root cause Especially chemicals and energy industries have important of occupational accidents in the factory is mostly Unsafe OHS issues. The management approaches of Group Actions rather than Unsafe Conditions. Companies are given below as best practices. Ak-Kim Aksa Compliance with the Seveso Directives within the Among the material OHS issues in the chemicals industry framework of the Directive for Preventing Large Scale are lack of competent personnel at operator level, lack of Industrial Accidents and Directive for Protection of mid-level managers adopting a safety culture, low levels Employees from Dangers of Explosive Environments is a of awareness in process safety parameters, low levels material issue for Ak-Kim. of OHS awareness and performance in constructors and Key performance indicators are ensuring control, followsubcontractors, and lack of companies possessing the up and continuity of corrective and preventive actions for required know-how. occupational health and safety with high-level participation Aksa implements the following practices to meet industrial from employees; increasing personal protection equipment and corporate needs: To meet the demand for competent (PPE) use through OHS trainings and audits; and frequency personnel, it holds 16 hours of intensive training per and weighted rate of accidents. employee in a year. Tests are given before and after the As can be seen in the formula “Occupational Accident = trainings. In 2012, approximately 22,000 man x hours of OHS Unsafe condition x Unsafe action”, if one of the factors is training was given. OHS awareness of mid-level managers zero, occupational accidents can be prevented substantially are increased through SEVESO II trainings. SEVESO II (98%). Ak-Kim believes that occupational accidents can trainings are also used to improve awareness on process be prevented by clearly identifying and correcting unsafe safety at factories and cover the gaps. conditions as well as improving OHS culture through training Subcontractors and constructors are asked to perform risk and achieving an OHS discipline to avoid unsafe actions. analyses and hire occupational safety specialists in fields. Field audits are performed regularly and incompliances are demanded to be corrected through Purchasing Managers BEST PRACTICE responsible for subcontractors. Previous trainings of the Ak-Kim managed to increase participation of employees employees of subcontractors and constructors are recorded with a non-compliance notification from 20% of before the work starts. employees of high-risk departments (production, maintenance and transportation). Frequency and weighted rate of occupational accidents have been included in department performance goals of all Aksa employees. Each Directorate aims to meet the requirements of the Regulation on Preventing Large-Scale Industrial Accidents and complete the safety report by the yearend, with support from the know-how and talents gained through SEVESO II trainings. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 51 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Akenerji It is a material issue for Akenerji to ensure that its employees Frequency of scheduled maintenance varies depending adopt the OHS culture Akenerji periodically monitors the on the nature of plants. During such maintenance, number OHS performance and implements necessary precautions of employees in plants may increase up to 10-fold since within work plans to improve this performance. In addition contractors and subcontractors work simultaneously in the to the periodically monitored OHS data, the Company also field. focuses on the performance in road accidents and scheduled maintenance operations. Due to its nature which includes non-routine operations without any time pressure, scheduled and extensive The nature of the operations performed at the eight maintenance poses more specific dangers and higher risks. hydroelectric plants in Akenerji’s portfolio require employees During the scheduled maintenance, a total of 59,776 hours to drive vehicles in rough field conditions and this creates a of operations were performed at Akenerji power plants, risk factor that needs to be monitored. including the working hours of contractor and subcontractor employees. In 2012, an employee of a contractor had a job By performing scheduled maintenance in power plants, accident without any loss of limb but with loss of time during Akenerji aims to prevent damages due to malfunctions the mentioned maintenance but no accidents involving and the causes of such malfunctions. It identifies potential death have been reported so far. causes of potential problems through periodical inspections and maintenance of major and critical equipment and thus prevent equipment and performance loss by taking corrective and preventive actions. 52 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY In addition to the management of impacts resulting from its own operations, Akkök Group of Companies also assumes responsibility in the management of impacts caused in the product and service supply chain. Innovative approach, offering environment-friendly products and services, realizing practices that ensure customer satisfaction and improve the sustainability performance of suppliers are among the material issues for our Companies. Our Approach Innovative Approach Environment-Friendly Products and Services Our Customers Our Suppliers and Vendors AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 53 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY Our Approach Environment-Friendly Products In addition to the management of impacts resulting from its and Services own operations, Akkök Group of Companies also assumes We, as Akkök Group of Companies, integrate our Group-side responsibility in the management of impacts caused in the philosophy of sustainability with products and services product and service supply chain. that value human life and the environment. We evaluate Innovative approach, offering environment-friendly products environmental and social impacts of our products and and services, realizing practices that ensure customer services throughout the product/service value chain and satisfaction and improve the sustainability performance of work to minimize such impacts. By closely following social suppliers are among the material issues for our Companies. needs and industrial developments, we offer environmentfriendly products. In addition to these, a variety of practices are put into effect to achieve a high level of occupational health and safety Aksa, Ak-Kim and Ak-Tops operate in full compliance with performance in the supply chain. (“Management of Material the European Union Directives and national legislations in Issues in the Supply Chain” is presented in detail in the OHS terms of chemical use. section of this Report.) Aksa and Ak-Tops Innovative Approach Products that are in compliance with Oeko-Tex 100 (which is an internationally recognized standard for textiles The fundamental mission of innovative practices at Akkök suitable for human and environmental health) are produced Group of Companies is to generate chemical and engineering at facilities. Since 1995, these products are tested for solutions that create value added products, processes approval for Category 1 (category for baby clothing, with the and implementation areas by benefiting from advanced most strict limits and the greatest number of tests) their technology in performance, products and byproducts as certifications are renewed. With these certifications and well as to develop future-oriented, environment-friendly, audits, Aksa guarantees that its products are human and energy-saving products and processes that offer integrated environment-friendly. Examples of environment-friendly solutions, work with a customer and market-focused Aksa products include: manner, take stakeholders into consideration, and use • Technical fiber: Environment-friendly usage with high advanced technologies such as nanotechnology. chemical and thermal durability in the filtration of emissions released from coal plants and cement factories. Aksa • Carbon fiber: This robust and light material is used in Aksa launched the carbon fiber production and technology in automobile and airplane bodies instead of steel. It not Turkey thanks to its R&D investments, innovative approach only improves durability of products, but also ensures fuel and success of Turkish engineers. Carbon fiber is recognized savings and reduces greenhouse gases. and used as one of the most important raw materials of the Ak-Tops performs a variety of projects including three 21st century. Lighter and more durable than steel, carbon fiber different coloring in the same machinery, organic white is used in a wide array of industries. It can be implemented production, automated knot fastener and surface finishing, in a great number of areas thanks to its high-durability, which are the firsts of their kinds in the world. These low-corrosion and lightness. It is widely benefited in space projects are environment-friendly, innovative and efficient. and aviation industry, defense industry, land and naval It obtains support from other companied for these projects. transportation, industrial materials, building and infrastructure Material Safety Data Sheets of all dyes and chemicals used reinforcements, wind turbines, and sporting goods. in processes are reviewed and those with the least impact on the environment and ecology are selected. Pilot projects Ak-Kim to save water by reusing dyeing water are continuing. Ak-Kim established an R&D Directorate in 1996 to closely monitor the developments in the sector for ensuring the Ak-Kim production of goods with high added value, to work on When devising projects for the R&D process of a new product and technology development in areas that are chemical, Ak-Kim evaluates environmental dimension likely to gain importance in the future, and to improve and selects raw materials with the least impact on the the quality and reduce costs in current technologies and environment. An example of Ak-Kim’s environment-friendly processes. In the light of the “Search Conference” in 2011 and chemicals is Hydrogen Peroxide & Sodium Percarbonate. This “Restructuring of R&D” in 2012, the Department’s Vision, product is used in laundry, does not cause pollution during Mission, and Strategies were set and the existing R&D policy laundry process and turns into oxygen and water when was reviewed. The Company started operations to have its disintegrated. Hydrogen Peroxide & Sodium Percarbonate R&D Center certified. Ak-Kim developed 49 new products in offers perfect cleaning at low temperatures. For instance, performance chemicals in 2012. 20 of these products are for given the fact that in 85% of 14 million households in Turkey the textile industry whereas 16 is for water and paper, 13 for have washing machines and this machine is used twice a week in every home, washing clothes in 40 degrees Celsius ready-made concrete and construction industries. water instead of 60 would allow for an energy saving of 388 Gwh per year. Other environment-friendly chemicals include AKBLUE, AKBLEACH SLD and AKEF 550. 54 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY Since 1992 Ak-Kim has been using the environment-friendly with mid-voltage wires, which help to minimize transmission membrane cell process in Chlorine Alkali production. The losses and ensure a system architecture with less power world has long been using diaphragm and mercury based failure. In addition to these, dry-type and ventilated systems that might cause environmental damage. Today transformers enabled 30% spare energy. these processes are replaced with membrane cells. Our Customers Akenerji It is of vital importance to Akkök Group of Companies to Operating in the energy sector since 1989, Akenerji is one offer high-quality products and services and to ensure of the first private sector electricity producer companies superior customer satisfaction. to invest in renewable energy. It started investments in renewable energy sources by participating in the first Aksa hydroelectric power plant tenders held by the Energy Market An independent institution holds a customer satisfaction Regulatory Authority (EMRA) in 2005. Ayyıldız Wind Power survey every two years. The main purpose of the survey Plant, the Company’s first renewable energy generation is to measure and evaluate customer satisfaction in terms plant, started operations in 2009. Subsequently Akocak, of general and technical qualities of products, customer Bulam, Burç Bendi, Feke II and Uluabat hydroelectric power complaints, post-sale technical services, delivery services, and plants were activated in 2010 and Himmetli HEPP (27 MW), marketing and sales services. Weaknesses are identified and Feke I HEPP (30 MW), and Gökkaya Dam HEPP (30 MW) improved and strengths are revealed with these surveys and successfully became operational in 2012, thus increasing the thus policies to improve customer satisfaction are devised. total capacity to 745 MW and the share of the renewables in the portfolio to 52%. Akenerji has the largest renewable Ak-Kim energy share by installed capacity among energy producers Always attaching great importance to customer satisfaction, with capacity higher than 500 MW. Ak-Kim holds a customer satisfaction survey every 2 years. With this survey, customers’ opinions on issues such Akiş GYO as corporate image, products and production, pricing and Operating since 2005, Akiş GYO has always focused on the payment terms, quality of logistics, quality and competence environment, nature and sustainability. Both its projects and of technical support, and quality of sales and marketing are the environment prepared for employees, products used and obtained. In 2012, participation to the survey on Ak-Kim’s services provided, it proves the importance it attaches to the website reached 90%. Ak-Kim makes donations to the environment and human health. TEMA Foundation (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) At the Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall, Akiş GYO for each survey, on behalf of the participant. Customer implemented innovative practices that ensure energy satisfaction performance was recorded as 87% in 2012. and water saving as well as the “ozone disinfection” and “negative ions” processes integrated into the air conditioning system as the first of its kind in Turkey. Lighting materials, artificial air running through air conditioners and material BEST PRACTICE used in modern buildings all create a high level of positive Complaint Management at Ak-Kim ions. These positive ions cause people to feel tired, depressive and nervous. Negative ions destroy positive ions Ak-Kim considers each and every complaint that it to create a more comfortable and fresh environment. On the handles in the Customer Relations Management process as an opportunity for continuous development. It examines other hand, ozone is the most powerful and fast disinfection complaints in an objective, effective, fast and careful way material known. Ozone scattered into the environment and offers solutions. In parallel with this principle, Ak-Kim either completely destroys or minimizes microbiological is always committed to improving its business processes formations such as hundreds of harmful microorganisms, in a way that meets customers’ expectations to avoid chemicals, gases, bacteria, mold, fungi and allergens by recurring complaints and to developing services to meet oxidizing them. Ozone transforms into oxygen and therefore these expectations. does not leave any wastes like other chemicals. All oral and/or written complaints and other feedback are A major part of the roof of Akbatı Residences and Shopping kept in records. Soon after the complaint is received, the Mall is designed as green area and rainwater I sued for customer is informed that it is in process. Complaints are watering the plants. Thanks to the green cover created on handled within a priority list that is either categorically the rooftop drainage is reduced and burden on wastewater made or formed in accordance with the customer’s lines is mitigated. Green roofs also reduces structural heat demands. Immediately after the complaint is received, penetration and loss. each step in the business, each action is recorded together with the names of users, dates, and details. The related Electricity installation of Akbatı Residences and Shopping report is run in a way that can be used anytime by all Mall was designed in line with the qualities of a green related managers, users, customers or stakeholders. building. Energy distribution within the building was made AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 55 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY Akenerji and policies, ethical values, corporate structure, references, The primary practice at Akenerji to ensure customer reputation, etc. While identifying supplier competence, satisfaction is the survey. In surveys held in 2011 and 2012, ethical values are always important. ISO certifications level of customer satisfaction was measured under five main (ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) are also sought in topics: namely satisfaction with Akenerji, general opinions supplier selection and performance evaluation. on Akenerji, customer’s knowledge about the market and Suring purchasing processes, Aksa systematically evaluates approach to green energy, general opinions on sale services performance of suppliers and selects products and services of Akenerji, and general opinions on customer-operation in line with this evaluation. In this way, the company services of Akenerji. contributes to the quality of end product (with the rightIn the surveys rated on the scale of 5, for instance 4.14 points quality inputs), profitability (cost-effective purchasing) were received in the category of “satisfaction with Akenerji”. and production planning (timely delivery). Within this The basic satisfaction score in the “Energy Supply” topic, framework, supplier companies are selected based upon which is the main service of the Company, indicated that their environmental and OHS policies and approaches as well customers are highly satisfied with the services. as certifications. Aksa also shares its guide on safe use of products to all Covering not only information and opinions on Akenerji, but customers and transporters. also customers’ knowledge about the market to help us serve better, this survey has proved that customers have Ak-Kim sufficient knowledge on renewable energy and markets. Ak-Kim has Supply Chain Management and Purchasing procedures that regulate purchasing operations held under With the annual customer satisfaction survey, Akenerji three main groups: raw materials, technical and general. achieves a better understanding of customer needs and Suppliers are selected according to the criteria stated in expectations and it includes improved customer knowledge these procedures. This enables the Company to work only and insight into its service management. Thanks to these with suppliers that meet the requirements of the law and efforts, outcomes of customer satisfaction surveys indicate Company principles as well as to select new suppliers in a fair a trend of improvement every year. and transparent way. Akiş GYO In the purchasing procedure, firstly approved suppliers Akiş GYO holds surveys to ask Akbatı Residences customers that have passed the supplier assessment stage can place about their positive-negative opinions on their selected their bids. If a new supplier is to be employed, not only price projects; information on their education and occupation; advantage, but also conformity with Ak-Kim principles and newspapers, magazines, television channels, websites reference lists are also considered. preferred; and their hobbies. These data gives information on the customer profile choosing Akiş GYO projects. Akenerji Akenerji expects all of its suppliers to share its vision In addition, with a confidential bimonthly customer survey of responsible approach towards sustainability and that also includes other players in the industry, issues such environmental issues. as security, cleaning, information services, cleanness of food courts at Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall are Before selecting a supplier, Akenerji uses a Selection Form evaluated. Outcomes give the list of best Shopping Malls in to decide on the most appropriate candidate. In the forms, each category. This helps to achieve customer satisfaction it requests information about practices regarding Quality, and personnel auditing as well as to identify weaknesses OHS and Environmental management systems and related and improve them to increase satisfied customer potential. certifications (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001). It also uses evaluation forms to evaluate the selected and current Our Suppliers and Vendors suppliers’ performance. After this evaluation on a percentage Akkök Group companies are in continuous and transparent value, Akenerji continues to work with suppliers meeting the relationship with their suppliers and vendors. In order to required criteria and maintaining good performance. understand the expectations of our stakeholders, we organize various meetings and trainings. We also pay Akiş GYO Trainings to properly implement ISO 9001 Quality attention to the fact that, just like our Companies, our Management in purchasing procedures are given to Akiş suppliers and vendors also manage their business processes GYO employees. ISO 9001 implementations and quality in an environment-friendly manner. certifications are targeted for 2013. Reliable suppliers with Aksa ISO 9001 certification, good reputation and fast logistics While selecting suppliers and monitoring their performance, services and deliveries are selected. Aksa observes criteria including environmental approaches 56 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY As Akkök Group of Companies, our objective is to contribute to social development and welfare in especially areas we operate. Ever since our establishment, we, as Akkök Group of Companies, have shown maximum effort to be a corporation that observes benefits for the whole society. The Group’s approach to social responsibility is shaped by the awareness that it owes its success to the strength it derives from society. Akkök Group has been implementing social responsibility projects all across Turkey, predominantly in the regions where it operates. Our Approach Social Responsibility Projects Sponsorships Open Door Events AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 57 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Our Approach Ak-Kim Within in the framework of its corporate citizenship As Akkök Group of Companies, our objective is to contribute principle, Ak-Kim established a program known as Ak-Kim to social development and welfare in especially areas we Scholarship in 1996. With the contributions of volunteering operate. Ak-Kim employees, the Program gives scholarships to successful university students with limited economic Ever since our establishment, we, as Akkök Group of means. In 2011-2012 academic year 16 students were Companies, have shown maximum effort to be a corporation granted the scholarship and this number increased to 31 in that observes benefits for the whole society. The Group’s 2012-2013. A total of 104 students graduated with the help approach to social responsibility is shaped by the awareness of this scholarship fund since its inception. that it owes its success to the strength it derives from society. Akkök Group has been implementing social Akenerji responsibility projects all across Turkey, predominantly in Akenerji sincerely believes that the success of a company the regions where it operates. In the selection of social is measured not only by financial performance, but also responsibility projects to be supported, we pay attention by the benefit provided to society. In conformity with this to ensuring that the particular investment will serve the belief, through a collaboration with the Turkish Education high-priority needs of society. We seek education, culture, Foundation (TEV), Akenerji awarded scholarship to 10 arts and social-benefit projects and sponsorships that university students from the town of Araklı in Trabzon, where are compatible with the values constituting our corporate Akocak Hydroelectric Power Plant is located. The scholarship culture. support continued with the same number of students in 2012. The Company also built a prefabricated dormitory Another factor considered in social responsibility projects and a three-storey building for the Directorate of National is their accessibility to the widest possible audience and Education in the town of Feke. With the protocol signed by securing their support. It is at this point that relations with and between Akkur, Governor’s Office in Adana, Directorate non-governmental organizations gain further importance. of National Education, District Governor’s Office in Feke, and Akkök Group of Companies sponsors projects of various District Directorate of National Education on 29 July 2011, foundations from this perspective. construction works for the dormitory started in September 2011. The building was completed on 15 February 2012 and Some of the corporate social responsibility projects that we delivered to the District Directorate of National Education in actively implemented in 2012 are presented below. Feke. Social Responsibility Projects Akiş GYO We implement our Social Responsibility projects under three In line with its principle of social responsibility Akiş GYO main categories: Education, Culture and Arts, and socialaims to contribute primarily to education, culture-arts and benefit projects. sports through its donations and social aids. The Company also made a donation in 2012 to the school building with Supporting Education 10 classrooms and dormitory for 200 students in Alucra, Believing that education is the fundamental prerequisite Giresun in a joint effort with sectoral associations. In addition, for economic and cultural advancement of a society, we donations were made to a variety of institution on behalf of continue to create projects that contribute to educating Akiş GYO. individuals for securing Turkey’s future. We attach Akkök Holding importance to cooperation with universities and research Operating in Yalova, the Akkök Firefly Mobile Learning Unit institutes. was initiated in 2009 with the cooperation of the Akkök Aksa Group of Companies and the Educational Volunteers of Aksa Vocational School was built in 1992 in Yalova’s Taşköprü, Turkey (TEGV). A total of 86 people have volunteered since Çiftlikköy area by AKSA Akrilik ve Kimya Sanayi A.Ş. The the beginning of the project to facilitate the activities, which school started education in 1992-1993 academic year under are supported by university students for the most part. the name Aksa Industrial Vocational High School. Until 2012, While children learn basic computer applications with the some lessons were made in the Aksa laboratory. Then this help of the volunteers at the Akkök Firefly Mobile Learning laboratory was moved to the school with all equipment. In Unit, they also have the opportunity to participate in various addition, graduation ceremonies and balls are organized with programs that would in turn make them more socially aware support from Aksa every year and the Company always and beneficial to society. The Firefly project is designed so contributes to meet the needs of the school. that each child receives 12 hours of educational support. 58 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY The initiative is composed of various programs including Akiş GYO a six-hour computer and technological literacy training Works of prominent Turkish sculptors are regularly exhibited program titled “Knowledge Is My Business” as well as other at various spots of Akbatı Residences and Shopping Mall. six-hour training programs such as “Enjoy-Learn-Hygiene”, In 2012, the location also hosted the Contemporary Turkish “I’m Beginning My Career Journey”, “We Are Active Citizens”, Artists Exhibition with the participation of paintings of “Environment, Traffic, Health” and “Journey to Myself.” prominent artists. In addition, throughout the year 9 Having reached more than 14 thousand students at almost public concerts for 6000 people, 2 theatre plays and 2 10 elementary schools to date, the Firefly initiative continued contests were organized free of charge. Every week, to support the creativity and research skills of 3,000 self-improvement panels, activities for children, cooking children in Yalova with workshops held in 2012. Currently, 64 workshops, pilates and yoga classes, interviews with special volunteers are actively involved with the project. guests on various issues and musical performances are held. These are all open to public and free of charge. Social-Benefit Projects Akenerji Sponsorships Akenerji acts upon not only operational excellence and Ak-Kim profitability, but also the principles of social responsibility Having supported the Marmara Environmental Monitoring and environmental sensitivity in all of its investments. The (MAREM) project in the “International Year of Chemistry” in Company adopts a cautious and stable management style 2011, Ak-Kim continued its sponsorship in 2012, proving the that is based upon mutual trust. In line with this approach, importance it attaches to the environment and sustainable in locations where it has installed hydroelectricity plants, it resources. MAREM reached impressive results in the implemented some practices to create awareness in local “Monitoring Changing Oceanographic Conditions of the communities and to protect them from potential hazards. Marmara Sea” Project. The Project’s outcomes were shared In 2013, Akenerji aims to distribute posters and brochures with the press on July 24th, 2012 on board the Oktay 4, in public areas around HEPPs – namely in the village MAREM’s logging and research boat. headmen’s office, schools, city halls, coffee houses, aviation plants, etc. With this initiative approximately 1,700 brochures Ak-Kim also supported the 10th Chemical Physics Congress and 400 posters will be delivered to the cities of Trabzon, organized by the Materials Science and Nanotechnology Adıyaman, Bursa, and Adana. Engineering Department of TOBB University of Economics Akkök Holding and Technology in 2012. Organized on 10-12 October Akkök Children’s Festival was held in 2012 for the first time 2012, the Congress welcomed a number of Turkish and in order to help the children in Yalova to spend quality time foreign scientists. Ak-Kim also sponsored the 26th National in line with their interests and talents as well as to support Chemistry Congress organized by Muğla University on 1-6 their personal development. Held at Raif Dinçkök Cultural October 2012. Center, the Festival enabled children to have a great day with Another initiative supported by Ak-Kim was the Chemistry a variety of activities and create a joint artistic work. They Industry Competitive Power Report which is very significant painted the 54-piece “Kaleidoscope” painting together with for the Turkish Chemistry Industry. This Report, prepared by renowned artist Seymen Şener. All pieces of “Kaleidoscope” the Federation of Industrial Associations (SEDEFED), aims to were then brought together and this painting is now create a sustainable model to reveal the competitive power of permanently exhibited at Raif Dinçkök Cultural Center. Akkök both Turkey and the chemistry sector in Turkey, to measure Children’s Festival will continue in the coming years. this competitive power, and to guide decision makers. Revealing the competitive power of the chemistry industry, Culture and Arts the Report was shared with the sector and the public at the 8th Raif Dinçkök Cultural Center Congress of Competition on November 15th, 2012. In May 2011, Akkök Group opened Raif Dinçkök Cultural Center in Yalova, where the Company has conducted Akkök Holding operations for the past 43 years, in order to contribute to the Carrying out projects to foster social and cultural cultural development of the region. Named after the founder development in the locations where it operates, Akkök of Akkök Group, the late Raif Dinçkök, the Center comprises Group of Companies continued to provide support to sports four buildings on a 10 thousand square meter tract allocated activities in Yalova in 2012. Following an agreement signed by the Yalova Municipality. Designed with an ingenious in November 2012, the Group became the main sponsor of architectural approach, the Center features multi-purpose the Yalova Orthopedics Sports Club, a leading sports club in halls for various arts and cultural events, workshops for Yalova; founded in 2005, the Club currently competes in the formal trainings, a foyer, exhibition halls, cafeteria space and Wheelchair Basketball Super League. a terrace. Filling a gap in urban life in the area, the Center was warmly welcomed by the people of Yalova. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 59 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Firmly believing that a country’s sustainable development Members of Çiftlikköy and Taşköprü City Councils and village depends largely upon bringing up youth in good quality headmen. The last guests of the year were members of and modern conditions, Akkök Group has constructed city councils of various districts and towns. Open Door Days six schools so far. The Group continues to meet annual are organized to encourage the people of Yalova to see the maintenance needs of these schools. power plant within their borders and have their questions answered. In line with the importance attached to international educational opportunities for Turkish youth, Akkök Group Ak-Kim of Companies became one of 15 private sector companies With the Open Door Policy it activated in 1999, Ak-Kim to provide support to the Master’s Program of the College ensures that its employees can easily reach their managers of Europe conducted by the Secretariat General for the about every issue. Within the framework of this policy “Chat EU Affairs during the 2011-12 academic year. Under the with the CEO” meetings where working conditions are program, which was designed to increase the number of discussed in a great transparency are organized twice a year, scholarships for young people within the framework of with the participation of employees. the EU Communication Strategies scheme, Akkök Group provides the tuition and living expenses of a student Ak-Kim also opens its facilities to public institutions and pursuing a master’s degree. organizations as well as students -from primary school to collegethat would like to visit the Company and get Open Door Events information. When students visit the facility, Ak-Kim managers and employees try to help them in identifying Considering the principles of transparency and future goals and selecting professions, thus increasing their accountability as key components of its corporate values, awareness. In 2012, Ak-Kim welcomed 77 students. Akkök Group of Companies ensures exchange of information with its stakeholders with its Open Door Policy. Now put into Ak-Tops writing, the Open Door Policy aims to enable employees to Since its establishment, Ak-Tops ensures that its employees freely communicate with Company executives regarding any can easily reach their managers about every issue with the professional or non-professional subject matter. The Policy Open Door policy. Within the framework of this policy “Chat also allows customers, society at large, business partners with the CEO” meetings are organized twice a year, with and shareholders to communicate with the officers of the the participation of employees and interns. Interns get help Company with ease and without hesitation. in identifying their future goals and gaining awareness. In addition, seminars on the profession and factory visits are Aksa planned for students. Organized within the framework of transparency principle and first held in 1999, Aksa’s Open Door Events Akiş GYO continued in 2012. Visitors including non-governmental Akiş GYO ensures that its employees can easily reach their organizations, local communities, students, families of managers about every issue with the Open Door policy employees, customers, benchmarking teams, local and initiated in 2009. international visitors have a trip to the production area of Aksa and are informed on-site. At the end of the visit, evaluation surveys are given and outcomes are used for improvement strategies. Over 17 thousand visitors have had the opportunity to visit Aksa Akrilik facilities and receive information since the launch of Open Door Events in 1999. In 2012 separate field trips were organized for elementary school, high school, associate’s degree and undergraduate students guided by Aksa officers. During the events eye, laboratory, fiber stretching, treatment, and textile pilot facilities as well as other sections requested by guests were visited. Within the scope of “Open Door Days” events, Aksa organized Power Plant Contact Meetings in June 2012. Opening the doors of the power plant (the first phase of which is activated) that was built to support the existing natural gas power plant, Aksa first welcomed the Members of Provincial Council and City Council and then hosted 60 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES INDEX This Report has been issued to disclose the sustainability policy, practices and performance of Akkök Group of companies. The contents of the Report are developed in compliance with the G3 version of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which is an internationally recognized reporting standard. The data collected to meet the minimum C-application level indicators covers the financial year January-December 2012. The table below shows the information provided in the report and/or the related pages within the framework of GRI's C-level application. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionMessage from the CEO Full 2-3 maker of the organization, regarding and Chairman the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy of the organization 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Full Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme Anonim Şirketi 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Company Profile Full 5, 7-8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Company Profile Full 7-8, 10 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Full Gümüşsuyu Miralay Şefik Bey Sok. Akhan No:15 Beyoğluİstanbul, Turkey 2.5 Countries where the organization operates Full Turkey 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Company Profile Full 9 2.7 Markets served Company Profile Full 7-8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Company Profile Full 5-7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Company Profile Full 7-8 period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Company Profile Full 11 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About the Report Full 1 January 2012 31 December 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About the Report Full This is the first sustainability report published. 3.3 Reporting cycle Full The second sustainability report will be published in 2015 by including 2013 and 2014 data. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Full Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve report or its contents Geliştirme A.Ş. surdurulebilirlik@akkok.com.tr 3.5 Process for defining report content About the Report Full 1, 16-17 Approach to Sustainability 3.6 Boundary of the report About the Report Full 1 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 61 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES INDEX Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or About the Report Full 1, 7 boundary of the report Company Profile 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and About the Report Full 1 other related organizations 3.10 Explanation of the effect and reasons of About the Report Full This is the first sustainability any re-statements of information provided report published. in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, About the Report Full This is the first sustainability or measurement methods applied in the report published. report 3.12 GRI Indicators table GRI Index Full The mentioned table is this table given between pages 60 and 63. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Company Profile Full 9-10 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest Full The Chairman is not an governance body is also an executive officer executive officer. 4.3 Number of independent members of the Full There are no independent highest governance body members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Full There is no mechanism which employees to provide recommendations or are intended for shareholders direction to the highest governance body because Akkök is a non-public company. 4.11 The precautionary approach or principle Environment Full 19 4.12 Externally developed sustainability Approach to Sustainability Full 17 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Approach to Sustainability Full 17 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Approach to Sustainability Full 16-17 organization 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Approach to Sustainability Full 16-17 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Approach to Sustainability Full 16-17 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PART III Performance Indicators Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and Company Profile Partial 7 distributed EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Partial Regarding standard entry wage compared to local minimum wage at level wage, while we take into significant locations of operation. account the legal minimum wage applicable in Turkey, at Akkök Group of Companies entry wages are usually higher than minimum wage. For supervised workers, we make sure minimum wages are paid. 62 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES INDEX Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations Economic EC8 Infrastructure investments and services Contribution to Society Full 57-59 provided for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Environment Full 23 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Environment Full 23 source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Environment Full 24-25 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Supply Chain Full 53-54 or renewable energy based products Responsibility and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment Full 26 EN9 Water resources significantly affected by Environment Full 26 water withdrawal EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment Partial 29 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans Environment Partial 29 for managing impacts on biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Environment Full 25 emissions by weight EN17 Other related indirect greenhouse gas Environment Full 25 emissions by weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Environment Full 27 destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Environment Full 28 method EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Supply Chain Full 53-54 impacts of products and services Responsibility Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Employees Full 32-33 employment contract, and region LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, Employees Full 35-37 gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employees Full 42 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Employees Full 31 significant operational changes LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Occupational Health and Partial 46-48 in formal joint management-worker health Safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 63 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES INDEX Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Occupational Health and Full 49 days, and absenteeism, and number of Safety work-related fatalities LA8 Training, education, guidance, disease Occupational Health and Partial 50-51, 58 prevention and risk control programs for Safety severe diseases Contribution to Society LA10 Average hours of training per year per Employees Full 48 employee by employee category LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Employees Full 39-40 performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Employees Partial 34 breakdown of employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership Social: Human Rights HR6 Incidents of child labor, and measures taken Full Akkök does not have any to contribute to the elimination of child labor operations that might pose such risks. Social: Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Supply Chain Full 54-55 including results of surveys measuring Responsibility customer satisfaction 64 AKKÖK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL APPROVAL Akkök Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. Miralay Şefik Bey Sokak No: 15-17 Akhan Gümüşsuyu 34437 İstanbul T +90(212) 393 01 01 F +90(212) 393 01 12 www.akkok.com.tr
