UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Communication on progress As managing director of Goodpoint AB I hereby confirm our continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. Goodpoint is integrating the Global Compact principles in our code of conduct and in our organisational strategy and culture. In our business activities we will continue to advance the Global Compact and responsible and sustainable business practices to our clients, partners and other stakeholders. Stockholm, 10 June 2014 Totta Ogander Managing director Goodpoint AB Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Introduction Goodpoint supports and respects the ten principles of the Global Compact. We actively integrate respect for human rights, labour and the environment in our business operations and take an absolute stand against corruption and unethical business. Conducting our business in a responsible manner gives us a social licence to operate which builds trust and relationships with our stakeholders. Responsibility strengthens both our brand and profitability. Management approach Goodpoint counts as at 10 June 2014 17 employees and is headed by a managing director who reports to the board. The board of Goodpoint counts an employee representative who brings the perspective of the employees to the board room. Goodpoint has an elaborate management system, including policy documents and guidelines that guide us in our daily work. The management system includes, inter alia, procedures for non conformity reporting and follow-up. All employees have access to, and know how to use, the system. Internal and external audits are conducted on an annual basis and followed up through management reviews. During 2013, Goodpoint has continued to work with our internal code of conduct and the four issue areas of the Global Compact; human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. If any situation occur in our work with the clients, we discuss it in our monthly meetings and if relevant take action according to our code of conduct. In 2013, Goodpoint hired three new persons with different experience and knowledge. At the same time, two employee left the company for other challenges. Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals As set out in our code of conduct, Goodpoint supports the Universal Declaration of human rights and shares the same principles as the Global Compact in this field. Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and will not be complicit in any actions that will violate the human rights. We encourage all of our partners to respect the human rights. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any human rights violations directly to the CEO. Violation of the law will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External operations Goodpoint’s most important contribution to implementation of the human rights principles is through helping our clients manage human rights related risks within their own operations. This often involves anticipating and counteracting risks and events that may occur related to social responsibility and human rights. We give our clients and organizations advise on how to manage and work with human rights within their supply chain. Within this area, we assist our clients with a range of measures to minimize and manage risks, including education, evaluations, analyses and audits. Goodpoint actively works to advance the human rights within our clients' business. We help our clients on how to present their work related to human rights in their sustainability reports. Our operations have resulted in awareness raising about human rights at many clients and their partners. We have assisted a number of clients in developing and/or updating their codes of conduct making sure they include respect for human rights and takes into account complicity in human rights abuses. Internal operations We have an elaborate management system, including policy documents and guidelines, which guide us in our daily work and facilitates non-conformity reporting and follow-up. Goodpoint’s code of conduct also provides support on internal human rights related issues, including discrimination and the right to privacy. Each year we review the policy documents and guidelines and we do internal audits of the management system. We evaluate our suppliers to try to make sure that we only buy products and services from suppliers who respect human rights in their own operations. When Goodpoint is in a position to start working with a client that may be involved in, for Goodpoint, questionable fields of work, the possible client’s organisation and business is evaluated and discussed within the organisation before a further work relationship is developed. Outcomes Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 No violations of human rights have been reported as a result of Goodpoint’s operations throughout 2013. Goodpoint has contributed to a greater understanding among our clients of the link between human rights and business and human rights related risks linked to clients’ business operations. Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and respects the labour standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our code of conduct provides support in the field of labour. Goodpoint has procedures for dialogue on labour related issues between the management and the local independent trade union representatives. Violation of the law will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External operations Goodpoint actively works to transmit knowledge about labour standards to our clients, among others through training activities, development of code of conducts, factory audits and gap-analyses against ISO 26000. One of Goodpoint’s main operations is to assist our clients in managing their risks related to labour rights and social justice. We help our customers anticipate and solve labour related problems, and we spread awareness and knowledge about labour standards and social justice. Our aim is to assist our clients to implement working conditions in line with legal requirements (local and international) both at our clients and at their suppliers. In 2013 we assisted several clients in developing and updating their code of conducts, including provisions on labour. We also conducted a number of supplier audits and labour risk analyses for our clients. Internal operations Goodpoint works actively to create a safe and healthy workplace by trying to minimize physical and psychosocial risks. Goodpoint strives for equality and diversity in the workplace and we do not accept any forms of discrimination, harassment or other types of abuse. We do not, to any extent, accept child labour or forced labour. We welcome our employees to join independent trade unions and engage in collective bargaining. All of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement under Swedish law. Goodpoint welcomes an open dialogue within its own organisation. Regular individual performance reviews take place with all employees, which provide an opportunity to bring forward opinions and encourage discussion. There is an ongoing dialogue within Goodpoint about possible improvements, including appraisals and surveys. Employees are given the opportunity to influence their work situation. Anonymous employee surveys are conducted at least once a year, where employees can openly comment on their job satisfaction and work environment. Monthly meetings are held with all Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 staff where ongoing matters are commented on and discussed. Goodpoint’s board includes an employee representative. The representative is elected by the employees and participates in the board meetings. Employee surveys are carried out yearly or more often if deemed necessary. Desired changes and improvements are implemented if required, as a result of the employee surveys. Salary negotiations are held yearly with the employees. All permanent employees are covered by a health insurance. Outcomes Through anonymous employee surveys and appraisal talks, employees have expressed that a variations in workload and work-life balance sometimes lead to high stress levels. Management takes this issue seriously and monitors the workload of the consultants. Stress and work-life balance is discussed regularly both with individual consultants who suffer from stress and at monthly meetings. Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint supports and respects the principles set by the Global Compact. Goodpoint has an environmental management system and the organisation is certified according to ISO 14001 since 1998. Our environmental policy states that we shall make a positive impact on the environment through increasing our clients’ awareness about the environment and climate. We also consider our negative impact in everything from purchasing goods and services to travel. Goodpoint’s environmental goal states that 90% of our projects classified as environmental projects should result in (real) environmental benefits (by improving our clients’ environmental performance). External Goodpoint has extensive experience and knowledge in the fields of chemistry and environment. Our main contribution in this field is by helping our clients create more sustainable and environmentally sound operations. We help our clients increase their knowledge within these areas among others through trainings, internal audits, legal compliance and by implementing environmental management systems. We contribute to a better understanding of the subject matters and help set requirements for chemicals in products and goods. Internal Goodpoint’s environmental work is guided by our environmental management system. We apply environmental criteria as well as quality criteria when purchasing goods and services. We recycle as much waste as possible. We work to reduce our environmental impact by actively selecting modes of travel and use of equipment that will lower our impact on the environment. We compensate for the CO2 emissions that we cannot avoid. Outcomes We try to measure our impact on our clients’ environmental performance through external and internal surveys after project closure. However it proves difficult to derive the performance to our specific project when a lot of parameters influence the performance and the results often show several years later. Those projects we were able to measure, we have achieved the targets for six projects in 2013. More than 90 % of our office consumables are eco-labelled (KRAV, Nordic eco-label or Fairetrade). Our electricity comes from renewable energy and Goodpoint has a green electricity contract. Heating and cooling are included in the lease. During 2013 Goodpoint emitted 5,9 ton CO2 due to travel (air and rail). This is an increase from previous year, due to the need to travel by air in several projects. We compensated for 100% of the CO2 emissions due to travel. Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress 10th June 2014 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint follows and respects Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption and complies with Swedish Law, including anti-corruption and competition laws. Goodpoint’s code of conduct covers these areas and stipulates that we do not accept any forms of corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has also developed guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits. The guidelines are meant to help Goodpoint employees act ethically and avoid doubtful situations. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any cases of corruption or bribery directly to the CEO. Violation of the law will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External Goodpoint has great expertise in anti-corruption work. We help our clients increase their knowledge about anti-corruption legislation and manage their risks through qualified advice, risk analyses, trainings, workshops and development of policy documents on corruption and bribes. Internal Goodpoint has through internal dialogue developed a code of conduct and guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits. A couple of employees have been trained in anti-corruption legislation. Outcomes Goodpoint has assisted clients in developing e-learning modules on anti-corruption and business ethics and organised a number of anti-corruption trainings and workshops. No cases of violation of the principles, suspected corruption or bribery has occurred within Goodpoint’s operations. Goodpoint AB | Norrlandsgatan 18 | 111 43 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se
