Rebuilding Bridges Sustainable Development Report 2014 Contents REPORTING APPROACH 2 CORPORATE PROFILE 4 LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 10 EVOLUTION OF THE STRATEGY 12 ADDRESSING THE STRIKE 15 REPORTING ACCORDING TO THE MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS page 20 1 MATERIAL FOCUS AREA: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 28 Overview 30 Key stakeholders 32 Sustainability risks and opportunities 33 Accountability and governance 34 Approach and performance 35 CONTACTS FORWARD-LOOKING Lonmin welcomes feedback from stakeholders on the Sustainable Development Report, approach to reporting according to the various STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements that involve inherent risks and frameworks, and how it addresses its material focus areas. For feedback or uncertainties and, if one or more of these risks materialise, or should the underlying requests for more information on sustainable development please contact: assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may be different from those anticipated. Words such as “believe”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “seek”, “will”, “plan”, “could”, “may”, Dr Mel Mentz “endeavour” and “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forwardlooking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Executive Manager Sustainability Forward-looking statements apply only as of the date on which they are made, and +27 14 571 4561 +27 83 653 1080 Lonmin does not undertake to update or revise any of them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. mel.mentz@lonmin.com MATERIAL FOCUS AREA: MATERIAL FOCUS AREA: EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH 46 ENVIRONMENT 78 Overview 48 Overview 80 Key stakeholders 49 Key stakeholders 81 Sustainability risks and opportunities 50 Sustainability risks and opportunities 82 Accountability and governance 51 Accountability and governance 83 Approach and performance 52 Approach and performance 85 2 4 MATERIAL FOCUS AREA: SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE Overview 3 60 62 Overview 5 MATERIAL FOCUS AREA: RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNMENT 98 100 Key stakeholders 63 Key government departments 102 Sustainability risks and opportunities 64 Accountability and governance 65 Approach and performance 66 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 104 Governance for sustainable development 104 Ethics 106 Compliance 108 Assurance 109 Independent Assurance Report 110 Conclusions 112 Key performance statistics 114 Lonmin Charter 115 Lonmin: Reporting preparation Reporting approach This report provides information about Lonmin’s The reported information relates to Lonmin group sustainable development policies, practices and subsidiaries: Western Platinum Ltd (WPL), Eastern performance and should be read in conjunction with the Platinum Ltd (EPL) and Messina Platinum Mines Ltd 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, and supplementary (MPML), as well as the joint ventures and exploration reports available online at www.lonmin.com. Lonmin activities over which the Company exercised management seeks to present to stakeholders detailed information control during the ﬁnancial year. There have been no about Lonmin's approach to sustainability and presents signiﬁcant changes in the Company’s size, structure, to readers the most material sustainability issues the ownership or products that have materially altered the Company faced and how challenges were addressed. boundary of this year’s report. REPORTING GUIDELINES The report is presented according to material focus chapters that analyse and present the relevant data and This is the ﬁrst report prepared according to the Global statistics pertinent to that area. To keep the report concise, Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s)1 revised guidelines (G4) and relevant and material, as endorsed by the G4 reporting the revised GRI’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. guidelines, certain previously reported areas have been This report has been prepared in accordance with the core removed. Some of these are covered in supplementary GRI G4 basis. Lonmin's independent assurance providers reports and a comprehensive GRI index that are available conducted a gap assessment of this report to assist the on the Company’s website. The boundary of data transition from GRI G3.1 reporting guidelines to the revised remains unchanged. G4 guidelines. The report has also taken into consideration the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and The Rand weakened against the Dollar during the year 2 the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and averaging South African Rands (R)10.55 to US Dollars reporting requirements. (US$) 1 compared to an average of R9.24 to US$1 in the 2013 ﬁnancial year. All monetary amounts reﬂected in the BOUNDARY AND SCOPE report are expressed in South African Rands or in US$. This report covers the ﬁnancial year from 1 October 2013 A total production of 882,094 platinum group metal ounces to 30 September 2014. The previous sustainability report is used to calculate intensity or efficiency in the report, covered the ﬁnancial year ending 30 September 2013. unless indicated otherwise. 1 The GRI is a global reporting guideline that provides a framework for sustainable development reporting (https://www.globalreporting.org). The GRI index is available online at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/reporting-approach. 2 The UNGC sets universal principles on labour, environment, anti-corruption and Human Rights. http://www.unglobalcompact.org. Lonmin Plc 2 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin: Reporting preparation DATA AFFECTED BY RESTATEMENT THE STRIKE Five months of limited to no production due to the strike 1 MEASUREMENT UNITS had an impact on the comparability of data contained The greenhouse gas emissions efficiency rates in this report with that of 2013. Where possible, the measurement unit that was provided for in the Key data has been normalised for purposes of like-for-like performance statistics table in the 2013 Sustainable comparison and trend analysis. However, in the majority Development Report incorrectly referred to kilo of cases normalisation has not been possible, resulting tonnes CO2e/PGMoz; the measurement unit which in the reporting of actual data. Therefore, data should be aligns to the units reﬂected is tonnes of CO2e/ understood in the context of the ﬁve-month long strike. PGMoz. In data tables and graphs where data has been severely The measurement unit that was provided for impacted by the strike it has been noted and/or indicated the tailings and waste rock data provided in the with an icon. ! Summary of waste streams table in the 2013 Sustainable Development Report incorrectly ASSURANCE referred to tonnes; the measurement unit which KPMG has provided assurance on selected sustainability aligns to the units reﬂected is kilotonnes. information in this report and the supplementary reports provided online. This is in line with the ISAE 3000 SPECIFIC TERMS AND assurance standard and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) sustainable development REFERENCES Data in the report is provided in terms of both operations and framework: Assurance procedure and the ICMM Subject geographic areas, as outlined below: Matters 1 – 4. ICMM Subject Matter 5 no longer applies (as it refers to the GRI G3 guidelines). The scope of the Q Marikana: refers to the operational activities of WPL assurance, the data assured and statement of assurance and EPL in the North West Province are provided on page 110 of this report. Q The PMR: owned by WPL, refers to the precious metal Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (R), reﬁnery, located in Brakpan, Gauteng Province Limited (L) Q Limpopo operations: refers to MPML, owned by WPL and located in Limpopo Province Q GLC: refers to the Greater Lonmin Community, which incorporates the communities within a 15km radius of the Company’s Marikana operations Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 3 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle Corporate proﬁle AT A GLANCE WHO Lonmin Plc (Lonmin or the Company) is one of the largest primary Q The Company employs 38,292 people – producers of PGMs in the world. These metals are essential for 28,276 own employees (2013: 28,379) many industrial applications, especially catalytic converters for internal combustion engine emissions. Lonmin has been granted and 10,016 contractors (2013: 10,042) a new order mining licence by the South African government for Q Of own employees, 98% are employed at our core operations which runs to 2037 and is renewable to 2067. the North West operations, 1% in Gauteng and 0.2% at the Limpopo operations WHERE Q Women constitute 8% of own employees Q Operations are based in the North West, Limpopo and Gauteng provinces of South Africa Q There are an estimated 186,000 people in Q Operational head office is located in Johannesburg, communities that fall within a 15km radius South Africa of the Marikana operations, known as the Q Corporate office is located in London, United Kingdom Greater Lonmin Community Q Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) Q Lonmin directly and indirectly sustains Q Secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) the livelihoods of over 126,0001 people connected to its business WHAT Q Mining operations 1 Based on the assumption that every employee and contractor supports R Located at Marikana in the North West Province and 3.3 dependants which is based on the result of the South African Census 2011 – Statistical Release (revised) PO301.4 by Statistics currently sources more than 95% of production South Africa. R At Marikana the Company has 10 active shafts, one on care and maintenance as well as open cast operations R An additional mine at the Limpopo operations under care Platinum sales (000 ounces) ! and maintenance R Pandora operations – a joint venture in which Lonmin 800 has a 42.5% interest; it is a source of 5% of our production 700 721 R Exploration both in South Africa and international 706 702 696 600 67R Q Process operations 500 000 ounces R Seven concentrators at Marikana and one concentrator in Limpopo 400 442 R Smelter and a base metal reﬁnery (BMR) at Marikana 300 R Precious metal reﬁnery (PMR) at Brakpan, Gauteng 200 100 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Lonmin Plc 4 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle PLATINUM GROUP METALS (PGMs) PGMs are precious metals found in PGM-bearing rock. PGMs are highly durable and have robust catalytic and electrical properties. Lonmin PGM production ! (000 ounces) PGMs mined by Lonmin are platinum, palladium, gold, 1,500 rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, of which platinum is the 1,447 biggest proportion. 1,350 1,336 1,315 1,200 PGMs produced (000 oz) PGMs are used rather than consumed, they have a long life cycle and PGMs can be recovered for reuse. The high 900 recyclability complements and mitigates the energy 882 intensive impact of primary production. 600 The primary use of PGMs is in the application of their catalytic properties in the automotive industry. The second 300 major industry for platinum is jewellery. Its white colour, weightiness and resistance to tarnishing make platinum 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 an attractive medium for jewellery-making. Uses of PGMS globally1 The use of PGMs in automotive catalytic converters reduces emissions produced by motor vehicles, thereby mitigating the impact of air pollution and greenhouse gases on climate change. 54% Auto 16% Jewellery 6% Investment FOR EXAMPLE, 100 cars ﬁtted with PGM-loaded exhaust catalysis systems in 2014 will emit less pollutants due to the catalytic converters ﬁtted, than a single car manufactured in the 1960s. Refer to the online supplementary reporting piece: Life cycle assessment 8% Electricity 6% Chemicals 2% Dentistry 2%Glass 1% Petrol 1% Medical 4% other Source: SFA (Oxford) Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 5 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle MARKET OVERVIEW During the year under review the platinum price has fallen of 2014. During the last two weeks of September a short of market expectations. Signiﬁcant destocking by strengthening dollar combined with uneven global mining companies during the longest strike in platinum’s economic trends resulted in signiﬁcant liquidation and history, not to mention the growth of platinum exchange price depreciation. traded funds products in South Africa, should have led to Nonetheless, as investors have shifted from relatively higher prices than prevail today. overweight to underweight in platinum, the health However, speculative investment positions have been of market fundamentals is expected to exert greater long for some time, constraining upward price movement inﬂuence on future price recovery. leaving platinum largely range bound throughout most Global Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) demand by region (ounces) United States Western Europe China Japan 3,807,978 4,394,723 5,101,884 2,516,255 Rest of the world 3,522,005 TOTAL 19,342,845 Source: SFA (Oxford) Lonmin Plc 6 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT Lonmin distributes ﬁnancial value to a variety of stakeholders through business operations, shareholdings, investments, procurement contracts and development projects. VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT ! US$ million 2013 2014 Net cash generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products 1,529 972 Cash returns on investment 1 15 1 Suppliers Cash payments for materials and services purchased (443) (174) Cost of borrowings (34) (31) Net cash ﬂows 1,053 782 Cash distributed Human capital (salaries and beneﬁts) 742 563 2 Social capital 7.9 6.6 Donations 0.2 0.1 3 Other community projects 7.7 6.5 Government taxes 37 18 Shareholders’ distribution – – 4 Cash retained for growth 266 194 Net cash distributed 1,053 782 For further information on directors’ remuneration please refer to the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. 1 Lonmin has a 30-day payment policy on services and procurement. 2 This includes the expenses related to the Social and Labour Plan community projects, donations and other community investments. 3 This includes salaries and administrative costs. 4 Inclusive of directors’ remuneration. ! DISTRIBUTION OF CASH TO STAKEHOLDERS Cents in Destination US$m the Dollar Payments to employees 563 57 Payments to suppliers* 174 17 Government taxes 18 2 Payments to/for communities 7 1 Payments to bank lenders (interest etc.) 31 3 Cash retained for reinvestment 194 20 Reconciling to cash earned in the year 987 100 * A signiﬁcant proportion will be wages paid to contractors. We estimate around 60% of our costs are labour related. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 7 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle LONMIN'S BUSINESS Lonmin's current productive operations are all in South Africa. Lonmin has small projects in Canada, Northern Ireland and Kenya. Although Lonmin will continue to seek further economic PGM resources, our principal asset base is our substantial investment in the major and established mines in South Africa, the world's premier PGM deposit. Process Explore Mine Mill Concentrate Description Explore for potentially Underground and Crushing circa 11 million Separation of economic PGM surface mining of two tonnes of ore delivered metalliferous particles mineralisation ‘reefs’, Merensky and to surface to the from host rock using UG2 each approximately consistency of talc, circa basic physical chemistry 1m thick 75 microns Output Mineral Resources Millions of tonnes Millions of tonnes Kilograms of PGMs in measurement (PGM ounces) concentrate Effectiveness Increase or replace Tonnes hoisted Tonnes milled PGMs in concentrate (kg) measurement Mineral Resources Ore reserves, available recovery rate (%) to be mined of contained PGMs recovered Quality measures In situ PGM grade and Underground head Milled head grade Concentrate grade tonnes grade, per ore type (grams per tonne) (grams per tonne) (grams per tonne) Efficiency Resources converted to Cost per ounce Cost per tonne milled Cost per ounce measures Reserves recovered Supply chain The Company has 7,873 discretionary suppliers registered on our data base. Of these suppliers 84.3% are based in South Africa and 15.7% are internationally based. Lonmin Plc 8 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin: Corporate proﬁle Smelt Reﬁne Base Metals Reﬁne Precious Metals Market Further separation of metals Chemical and electro-chemical Chemical separation of the Two principal customers with (matte) from silicate host separation of base metals (for individual PGMs contained global presence and several rock (slag) using electrically sale in ﬁnished or semi-ﬁnished in BMR matte and reﬁning to discretionary customers for generated heat form) from PGMs within purity of 99.995% or better for PGMs. Six customers for the matte sale in various ﬁnished forms base metals Kilograms of PGMs in Troy ounces of PGMs in Troy ounces of ﬁnished Troy ounces of ﬁnished metals smelter matte BMR matte metals in the form of sponge purchased in the form of and ingot sponge and ingot Primary tonnes smelted Recovery rate (%) of contained PGMs in saleable form recovery Revenues per PGM ounce recovery rate (%) of contained PGMs recovered rate (%) of contained PGMs achieved relative to marketPGMs recovered recovered) related prices as published by appropriate exchanges Convertor matte grade (grams Base metal purity (%) Purity (%) Adherence to internationally per tonne) recovery rate (%) of PGM (%) set and monitored purity and contained PGMs recovered quality levels Cost per tonne smelted Cost per reﬁned ounce Cost per reﬁned ounce Days from delivery of PGMs First pass recoveries to cash settlement (percentage of each metal recovered) Throughput time View the supplementary reporting piece on the Supply Chain at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/supplementary-reporting/employeevolunteering-and-donations.pdf Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 9 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Our aim is to ensure that the changes to the Company take place in a sustainable manner in which all stakeholders share the same vision of value creation. Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer DEAR STAKEHOLDER and Community Value Proposition. Refer to pages 35 and Success depends on a robust strategy, operational 67 for further detail. excellence and the quality of relationships. We are We are determined to emerge stronger from the focusing on our relationships with our critical stakeholders challenges of recent years and move towards – employees, unions, government and communities to a better future where Lonmin is competitively build on the platforms we have already established. positioned, and can deliver value through sustainable Lonmin has undergone challenging times in recent stakeholder relationships. years that have tested our resilience. During the year, a protracted strike led to ﬁve months of no normal GOVERNANCE production – yet, we came through the experience Lonmin is committed to the principles of good corporate with a renewed commitment to fundamental change. governance. The Board is ultimately responsible for Our aim is to ensure that the changes to the Company ensuring that business is conducted in an ethical and take place in a sustainable manner in which all sustainable manner. Sustainability imperatives inform our stakeholders share the same vision of value creation. decision-making processes and drive our approach to risk “Rebuilding bridges” symbolises this shared vision we management. We are a signatory to the United Nations aim to create, by recognising challenges and building a Global Compact and endorse its principles. positive future through collaboration and constructive stakeholder engagement. HIGHLIGHTS I am pleased that the Lonmin Renewal Plan, which was Though the year was dominated by the ﬁve-month strike, created to address the challenges immediately following the following was achieved: the events that changed our lives in August 2012, enabled us to focus on a path of fundamental change. Detailed planning and execution resulting in The Board’s longer-term initiatives drew on the plan to an efficient, rapid and safe start-up process articulate the speciﬁc programmes and projects needed to achieve our goals over ﬁve years. The underlying Historic conclusion of three broad based spirit of these broad frameworks is to build sustainable economic empowerment deals with the relationships and improve the lives of our employees and Bapo Ba-Mogale, Marikana Community and the communities on whom we rely to run our business. Employee Share Trusts A robust collaboration with government, particularly local government, is necessary for the Company to deliver the JT Ryan award for the safest shaft (4B/1B) initiatives that comprise its Employee Value Proposition in South Africa for the third year running Lonmin Plc 10 Sustainable development report 2014 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer A milestone reached after the 2014 ﬁnancial year-end building with our unions, our communities and our was the achievement of one year fatality free on stakeholders to help create a more predictable and stable 26 October 2014. operating environment for the future. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS ENVIRONMENT Improving our relationship with our employees is of As a mining company, our operations have an impact on utmost importance to the sustainability of the business. the environment and it is our responsibility to mitigate We appreciate that our success in this endeavour will that impact. depend on our ability to deliver demonstrable progress in Environmental management will always be a key priority addressing certain socioeconomic conditions experienced as our licence to operate depends on responsible by our workforce. Key initiatives include our integrated stewardship practices. Our aim is to leave a positive human settlements plan as well as health and employee legacy following the closure of our operations. development programmes. The wage settlement agreement – which we signed in RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNMENT June 2014 with the Association of Mineworkers and Lonmin and the government have a shared responsibility Construction Union as well as with UASA and Solidarity – to improve the socioeconomic conditions in which places us on a two-year path of aligning objectives, during employees and communities live. which time we will focus on building a robust and mutually We are encouraged by the progress we have already beneﬁcial relationship, as articulated in our Relationship made in partnering with government and donated Charter. We are focusing on strengthening our relations the 50 hectares of land to the North West provincial and working towards a common goal to build Lonmin government. into a sustainable, thriving PGM producer and employer. We uphold the rights of minority unions as we believe OPPORTUNITIES AND OUTLOOK that every employee has a right to be heard and we have signed recognition agreements to this effect. In the short-term we expect the market to remain challenging, but the fundamentals of PGMs remain In an effort to address the underlying causes of many of solid. We will continue to work hard to take advantage the organisation’s systemic challenges, we have embarked of changing conditions, and opportunities that may arise. on an internal process of cultural transformation to drive change and transformation at an individual level. Lonmin’s people are resilient. Lonmin’s people are able to learn from experience and build a better future. I am EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH proud of our fortitude during 2014 which saw us through A year ago, I spoke about a belief that Zero Harm is the strike and back to work with a renewed commitment achievable and the experiences following the strike have to change. We are determined to rebuild bridges and share reaffirmed that belief. That we were able to return to work in a common purpose of a sustainable Lonmin in which efficiently, rapidly and safely is testimony to our ability to stakeholders can beneﬁt from the Company’s success. achieve Zero Harm. Every incident is a human tragedy and APPRECIATION I extend my condolences to the family of Mr Siyabonga Sibango who was a passenger in a tragic vehicle accident This past year saw our engagement with our stakeholders and lost his life at East 3 shaft on 26 October 2013. reach a new level and I wish to extend my gratitude to He is survived by his wife Nolusindiso Sibango and their everyone who played a role in sustaining the Company two children. through a tough year and in reaffirming our commitment to a successful future through operational credibility. SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE The Company strives to maintain our social licence to operate through securing the trust and acceptance of communities and stakeholders as they are both impacted Ben Magara by the Company and have the capacity to affect Lonmin into the long term. This is achieved through our community Chief Executive Officer projects. 15 December 2014 We concluded a historic three broad based empowerment deal. We need to maintain this momentum and it must be underpinned by a relentless focus on exceptional execution which can only be achieved through relationship Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 11 Evolution of the strategy Evolution of the strategy CONTEXT 2014 has been challenging, with a combination of factors Reclaiming our relationship with employees and that inﬂuenced the industry, and particularly Lonmin. rebuilding our reputation are essential to future success, The Company faced a ﬁvemonth long strike compounded with increased focus on cost and efficiency to ensure by an already subdued metal pricing environment. the Company remains proﬁtable in the current economic climate. The issues that were raised by the strike and the volatility of platinum prices require continued pursuit of the vision A detailed overview of Lonmin’s operational context for operational excellence with optimised value. This and strategy can be found in the Annual Report and requires an environment in which Lonmin’s stakeholders Accounts 2014. support the business and wish to see it prosper and ultimately deliver shareholder and stakeholder value. Lonmin Plc 12 Sustainable development report 2014 Evolution of the strategy STRATEGIC PRIORITIES In 2013, Lonmin began a fundamental review of the A detailed overview of Lonmin's strategic priorities is business and ﬁve initiatives were laid out around social provided in the Annual Report and Accounts. and community issues as well as operational optimisation. Throughout, and after, the subsequent ﬁve-month strike The Lonmin Renewal Plan which was discussed in in 2014, Lonmin took the opportunity to adapt our thinking. previous reports, has been absorbed into the initiatives This has developed into the strategy, which takes into to ensure that building relationships and improving lives account the Board initiatives laid out in early 2013 and are embedded. These critical areas are operationalised comprises the following four pillars: through various programmes and projects across the business. The Company discusses its progress on the Operational excellence ﬁve initiatives throughout the material focus chapters on pages 28 to 103. Enhance balance sheet strength People and relationships Corporate citizenship agenda Employee relations 1 Renegotiate union recognition agreements Empowering employees and communities 2 Addressing needs via the Employee Value Proposition (EVP) and Community Value Proposition (CVP) Initiatives Migrant and local labour 3 Review the current shift system and leave cycles and limit our dependence on migrant labour over time 4 Use of invested capital and infrastructure Total cost of ownership and theory of constraints Housing and accommodation 5 Continue conversion of hostels and implementing projects to address the living conditions LIFE OF BUSINESS PLAN All strategic imperatives and projects need to be aligned 60-year horizon. The LoBP caters for aspects such as with the Lonmin Life of Business Plan (LoBP). This is a energy and water requirements, labour, projects, and comprehensive operational management tool used by calculates the costs required to mine until ore reserves the Company for long-term planning on a 40 to are exhausted. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 13 Evolution of the strategy SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The sustainability strategy aims to integrate sustainable Fair, honest and development thinking into the Company’s DNA, such that the generation of ﬁnancial and social value is mutually transparent reinforcing, rather than a trade-off between the two. Lonmin incorporates the following into its sustainability communication strategy: to build trust The sustainability model focuses on the development and wellbeing of employees and with stakeholders. environmental management and seeks to improve the lives of communities surrounding the business To achieve the objectives of the strategy, a number of International Council on Metals and Mining – internal initiatives were implemented, most notably the 10 principles advocating safe and sustainable Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards. Read more practices in mining detail on these standards at www.sd-report.lonmin. com/2014/evolution-of-strategy. For the Lonmin Safety United Nations Global Compact – 10 principles for and Sustainability policy, refer to www.sd-report.lonmin. businesses to adopt to ensure human rights, fair com/2014/evolution-of-strategy. labour practices, environmental stewardship and The sustainability strategy is reviewed annually against ethical behaviour the Lonmin strategy and LoBP to ensure relevance and The Safety and Sustainable Development Policy alignment. Simultaneously, stakeholder concerns that which is available at www.sd-report.lonmin. have been prominent during the year are considered and, com/2014/evolution-of-strategy if required, adjustments are made to the tactical plans that operationalise the sustainability strategy. Lonmin Plc 14 Sustainable development report 2014 Addressing the strike Addressing the strike INTRODUCTION 2014 saw an unprecedented and the most costly strike ever experienced in South African history. The ﬁve months of halted production affected far more than output and proﬁts for the three largest platinum-producing companies – it sent waves across the country’s political, social and economic spheres that will resonate for years to come. A combination of macroeconomic and socioeconomic factors contributed to employees’ decision to embark on a protected strike and forego all earnings for ﬁve months. FIVE-MONTH STRIKE: Lonmin impact: Period: 23 January 2014 – 24 June 2014, employees returned to work on 25 June 2014 The number of employees that were not at work during the strike: 18,200 A total of 2,811 patients defaulted on chronic medication Number of person days lost due to the strike: 2 million days Estimated production loss to Lonmin: 391,000 saleable platinum ounces Lonmin established a toll-free support line and SMSs that were sent to employees regularly, were translated into three different languages. The employees who required detailed information could phone the support line and/or send an SMS requesting feedback. Estimated revenue lost due to the strike R8.3 billion Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 15 Addressing the strike AN AGREEMENT REACHED The road ahead remains a challenging one and it will take some time for our operations to resume full production, with the safety and wellness of employees being paramount. This is at a time when the platinum market remains subdued, and operational proﬁtability remains constrained. We acknowledge the work that needs to be done to improve the lives of our employees and members of our communities. We will work toward these goals in committed partnership with their representatives and the South African government at all levels. Collectively Lonmin, Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Implats) and Anglo American Platinum Limited (Amplats) participated in the negotiations to reach an agreement. This was the ﬁrst time that the platinum industry collaborated on negotiating with unions. Joint statement by the chief executive officers of Lonmin, Implats and Amplats after the signing of the settlement agreement on 24 June 2014. SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT: KEY FACTS The agreement is effective from 1 October 2013 A simpliﬁed format payslip was rolled out in July 2014 until 30 June 2016 allowing employees to better understand how their pay is calculated. This was accompanied by a training campaign Within a week of the settlement agreement, all for all supervisors and AMCU shop stewards on how to Lonmin employees received back pay from the explain items on these payslips. For further detail, refer increase date of 1 October 2013 to 22 January 2014, to page 37 of this report. the day before the start of the strike The Company made payments on behalf of some employees during the strike period, including garnishee Beneﬁts (including medical aid and pension fund orders and medical aid contribution for dependants. The contribution) and allowances (including living out settlement agreement incorporated a two-month debt allowance, annual leave allowance and attendance holiday for employees who return to normal working allowance) will increase by amounts linked to the routines before the deductions were made. inﬂation rate The wage agreement covers three aspects of an employee’s package: basic salary increases, cash remuneration and total guaranteed pay. Lonmin Plc 16 Sustainable development report 2014 Addressing the strike PAY PACKAGE STRUCTURES Basic salary Allowances Cash remuneration Pay cheque R Medical aid Beneﬁts Total guaranteed pay Pension fund Employee remuneration includes attendance Employees are compensated for overtime and are allowances, living out allowances, holiday leave rewarded bonuses should they meet certain targets. allowances and a skills allowance, which applies to Beneﬁts include medical aid and contributions to a certain scarce skills. Holiday leave allowances are deﬁned-pension fund. The pension fund includes risk paid out as a lump sum when an employee takes cover that pays out in the event of death or disability. annual leave. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 17 Addressing the strike IMPACT OF THE STRIKE Work stoppages pose a risk to operational safety. Firstly, temporarily unﬁt. This was due to a combination of a 30% it is the nature of the mining industry that the heavy increase in defaulters on chronic medicine provided by infrastructure and equipment are not designed to remain the Company and employees being less active during the inactive for lengthy periods. For this reason, Lonmin ﬁve-month strike period. The full impact that those months continued running maintenance and performance checks without regular medication will have on the workforce is on all active shafts and plants throughout the strike. still to be determined. Secondly, safe behaviour is habitual and easily unlearned A number of projects were deferred as a result of the over long periods away from work. As such, employees strike, these include the hostel conversions and the required extensive retraining before they could return implementation of the new shift system. The impact of the underground or to the plants safely. strike extended to communities, suppliers and employees. The majority of employees passed their health and ﬁtness assessments. However, 11% of employees were declared RETURNING TO Throughout the ramp-up process, the PRODUCTION KEY FACTS Company’s activities were closely monitored and regulated by various government The lessons learned during the ramp-up period representatives including those from the in 2012 were useful to facilitate a smooth and Department of Mineral Resources and the efficient return-to-work process for employees. Department of Health. On 25 June almost 85% of Lonmin employees Health screening was conducted at shafts, immediately returned to work following the training centres and other workplaces and signing of the wage agreement on 24 June 2014. comprised a health questionnaire and brief medical check by trained medical professionals. The Company achieved a steady-state In total, 17,757 health screens were performed production within eight weeks. of which 292 employees (1.6%) were referred to the clinics for further assessment. Lonmin called in all non-core employees and Q Additional mobile medical units were hired hired external helpers at mobile data centres to to assist with the start-up phase manage the volume of work required upon startup. Over a period of three weeks 6,172 returning Q In the ﬁrst 12 days, 11,970 successful employees received refresher training and medical surveillance tests were performed licence renewals before returning to work. Q In the ﬁrst month after start-up 2,394 patients, of the 2,811 patients on A total of 1,030 supervisors, managers and team chronic medication resumed treatment. leaders underwent preparatory training on how to engage with returning employees proactively and positively once the strike came to an end. More detail on the ramp-up can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc 18 Sustainable development report 2014 Addressing the strike OUTLOOK WE DIG TO BUILD The Company will use the experiences learnt from the success through a shared value structure. It is also a challenges of the past two years to enable meaningful message to the Country and global investors that, with change and shared value for its stakeholders. As a ﬁrst the support of all stakeholders, Lonmin is on a path to step, Lonmin embarked on a campaign of renewal driven success and sustainability. The slogan features a play on by Chief Executive Officer Ben Magara under the banner words, indicating that Lonmin embraces its role as a miner We dig to improve lives. “digging” for its business and that it is passionate about mining – and “digs” it. The vision of the campaign is to unite the internal forces by aligning individual employee success with Lonmin’s Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 19 Reporting according to the material focus areas Reporting OVERVIEW ACCORDING TO THE MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS Lonmin is faced by challenges that affect the daily The steps of determining materiality considered the operations of its business. The most material of these are Company’s values-based approach to broad sustainability those that substantively affect the Company’s ability to objectives and culminated in an exercise of aligning create long-term value, those that reﬂect signiﬁcant impact, these with the overall business strategy. The six steps and those that considerably inﬂuence stakeholder decisions. involved considering value drivers, social impact, risks and stakeholders, which were then used to determine An analysis of internal operational variables and external those areas most material to the Company. These were factors took place to determine the most material focus then aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 areas. This analysis followed a structured six-step process, aspects and the Company strategy, as depicted below. as depicted below, that identiﬁed the ﬁve material focus areas that form the framework for this year’s Sustainable Development Report. SIX STEP MATERIALITY PROCESS OPERATIONAL VARIABLES CONTEXTUAL VARIABLES 1 Risk Analysis 3 Value Drivers Considering our key risks: Considering our value creation process: 1. Safety 7. Mining Charter obligations, other Q Business model 2. Employee and union relations regulatory requirements and Q Customer value proposition and proﬁt 6 3. Failure to deliver required social licence to operate formula operational performance 8. Changes to the political, legal, Strategic Focus Q Key resources and relationships 4. Community relations social and economic environment Aligning 5. Metal prices and currency including resource nationalism Q Value proposition underpinned by supply material focus volatility 9. Loss of critical skills and demand dynamic in the global PGM areas with 6. Inadequate liquidity levels – 10. Access to secure energy and water market Unavailability of funds to meet 11. Lack of geographical overall business business needs diversiﬁcation strategy and 2 establishing a Social Impacts Stakeholder Perspectives 4 framework for Considering our impacts on social, human and sustainability Considering the concerns of our stakeholders: natural capital: Q Associations Q Regulators reporting. Q Integrated model for sustainability Q Communities Q South African Citizens Q Consideration of the ﬁve capitals Q Customers Q South African Government Q Emphasis on social capital challenges in Q Employees and contractors Q Shareholders and Investors Q Media Q Trade unions terms of employee relations and impact on Q Suppliers relationships with community, labour and government 5 Global Reporting Initiatives G4 Alignment with material aspects We have chosen to only report on those aspects and their related indicators that are most material. This is in line with the G4 recommendations and we believe that it will produce a more focused report this year. Lonmin Plc 20 Sustainable development report 2014 Reporting according to the material focus areas FIVE MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS RISK ANALYSIS Lonmin follows an integrated approach to risk 1 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS: Investing in employee relationships and development (page 28) management to ensure that risks are used to inform the internal audit process. This process includes the implementation of mitigation measures, where necessary. 2 EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH: Promoting The risk management process is illustrated in the risk employee safety and health (page 46) management structure below, which displays how risk 3 SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE: Maintaining social licence to operate and investing in the community (page 60) is integrated into, and cascaded throughout, the various levels of the organisation. Sustainability risks make up a substantial portion of the Company’s risk proﬁle. These risks are reviewed by the 4 ENVIRONMENT: Managing environmental impacts and opportunities (page 78) Safety, Health and Environment and the Social, Ethics and Transformation Board sub-committees. 5 RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT: Improving relationships with government (page 98) Refer to the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 for further information. RISK TOLERANCE Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk a company is willing to accept in order to meet its strategic objectives. Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in place in terms of which risks are rated based on their probability of occurrence and potential severity should it materialise. RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE ° Q Top-down risk identiﬁcation and assessment to Go andverna conﬁrm the validity of the corporate risk register ove nce Strategy development process includes assessment Q Board rsig of key risks ht and committees Q Establishing Lonmin strategy St aligrategi Identiﬁcation of strategic risks and mitigation plans Q nm c Executive management Q Assurance and monitoring ent ° Q Top-down reviews Q Bottom-up reviews Q Translation of strategic objectives to operational plans Fu assnction Identiﬁcation of functional risks and mitigation plans Q ess al Business unit functional heads Q Bottom-up reviews me Monitor performance and compliance against key nts Q ° objectives Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 21 Reporting according to the material focus areas This renewed focus on communication, transparency and STAKEHOLDER genuine engagement led to several structural changes in a PERSPECTIVES bid to align the Company and our stakeholders to a shared A stakeholder priority table was developed to identify vision of a sustainable and proﬁtable Lonmin through all stakeholder dependence on and expectation of Lonmin. cycles and minimise business interruptions. This enables the Company to determine the possible Projects such as the Employee Value Proposition and the impact certain groups may have on the execution Community Value Proposition are focused on improving of Lonmin’s strategy, and these reviews have been relationships and rebuilding trust. considered during the strategic alignment segment of the risk process. The Executive Vice-President of Communications and Public Affairs is responsible for corporate communications, The importance of genuine and robust stakeholder media and public relations and stakeholder management. engagement has become increasingly apparent over the past decade. We need to understand stakeholder A more detailed report on stakeholder engagement, expectations and communicate on key issues including an overview of the method and frequency of transparently, consistently and in a timely manner. We engagement, concerns raised and Lonmin’s responses have identiﬁed and prioritised our stakeholder groups can be found online at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/ through desktop reviews, analysis of media coverage, evolution-of-strategy. online sources, internal conversations and consultation sessions. Our aim is to rebuild and protect Lonmin’s relationships with critical stakeholders who have a signiﬁcant ability to impact Lonmin’s operations and Events at Marikana – two years on investment case. The renewed focus and energy on The events that changed our lives in stakeholder engagement acknowledges the role of August 2012 began a nationwide process partnerships in confronting the challenges plaguing the of introspection. The Farlam Judicial industry. Functional partnerships between Government, Commission of Inquiry has been concluded and the ﬁnal ﬁnding and recommendations are due organised labour and community leaders are essential to be presented to the President in March 2015. if we are to create the necessary environment for a Lonmin is a signatory of the July 2013 sustainable future. Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining The events of August 2012, the protracted strike of 2014 Industry, also known as the Peace Accord, which was facilitated by then Deputy President and the media reporting about the Farlam Commission of Kgalema Motlanthe. The Company has, and Inquiry have all impacted negatively on the Lonmin brand. always will, condemn the use of violence and Our reputation is, and will continue to be, shaped by what intimidation to achieve a desired outcome we do and not by what we say. This principle underlies our and supports employees’ right to collective bargaining through peaceful negotiations. approach to all stakeholder engagement. The role of communications has been critically examined, speciﬁcally with respect to rebuilding trust externally as Rebuilding well as internally between management and employees, Bridges and creating an environment of peace and tolerance. Lonmin Plc 22 Sustainable development report 2014 Reporting according to the material focus areas Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 23 Reporting according to the material focus areas OVERVIEW OF MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS The following table depicts Lonmin's ﬁve material focus areas. It summarises the key elements of each focus area, the applicable KPI's, stakeholders and risks. It also links these areas to various frameworks and guiding principles used in preparing this report. Material focus areas KPIs EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Q Number of employees INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIPS AND DEVELOPMENT Q Number of contractors Q HDSAs, including white women, employed in Q Culture transformation management on a permanent basis (%) Q Employee Value Proposition Q Women employed in mining (%) Q Improving internal customer service Q Women employed at the mine (%) Q Engaging with unions Q Employee turnover rate (%) Q Contractor management Q Number of people attending adult basic education Q Migrant and local labour and training (ABET) Q Employee development Q Number of people on the bursary programme Q Transformation and empowerment Q Number of graduates Q Human settlements Q Number of people on the learnership programme Q Number of hostel blocks converted Q Human Resources Development expenditure as percentage of annual payroll EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH Q Fatalities PROMOTING EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH Q Lost time injury frequency rate Q New noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) cases Q Safety at Lonmin diagnosed – employees Q Safety performance Q NIHL cases compensated – employees Q Safety stoppages Q Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases Q Contractor safety and health Q HIV/Aids-related deaths Q Health strategy Q Voluntary counselling and testing conducted Q Medical scheme Q Patients on antiretroviral treatment Q Employee health services Q Patients on the wellness programme Q Safety performance per operation* Q Life cycle assessment* * Supplementary reports available online. Lonmin Plc 24 Sustainable development report 2014 Reporting according to the material focus areas Risks relating to the material Stakeholders focus area GRI aspects Strategic alignment Q Employees Q Employee and union Q Market presence Q Initiative 1: Q Unions relations Q Employment Employee relations Q Contractors Q Loss of critical skills Q Training and education Q Initiative 2: Empowering Q Labour practices and employees and decent work communities Q Freedom of association and Q Initiative 3: Migrant and collective bargaining local labour Q Labour/management Q Initiative 5: Housing and relations accommodation Q ICMM Principle: 3 Q UNGC Principles: 3, 4, 5, 6 Q Employees Q Safety Q Occupational health Q Initiative 2: Empowering Q Contractors and safety employees and Q Communities communities Q Government Q Initiative 5: Housing and Q Industry partners accommodation Q ICMM Principle: 5 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 25 Reporting according to the material focus areas Material focus areas KPIs SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE Q Rand value spent on Social and Labour Plan MAINTAINING SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE AND INVESTING IN projects THE COMMUNITY Q Number of community members receiving bursaries Q Community development Q Number of community members on the Q Transformation through social and economic development university preparedness programme and Q Human rights technical preparedness programme Q Employee volunteering and donations* Q Number of community members receiving Q Supply chain* ABET training Q Number of community members receiving mining skills and portable skills training Q Number of infrastructure projects completed Q Number of local suppliers receiving training and/or contracts from Lonmin Q Procurement spend on BEE entities ENVIRONMENT Q Total fresh water consumption (m3) MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND OPPORTUNITIES Q Total fresh water intake efficiency (m3/PGMoz) Q Climate change Q Electricity (MWh) Q Energy security and usage Q Electricity efficiency (MWh/PGMoz) Q Air quality management Q Total direct and indirect energy (Terajoules) Q Water management Q Energy efficiency (GJ/PGMoz) Q Waste management Q Total scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas Q Biodiversity and land use* emissions (t CO2e) Q Research and development* Q Greenhouse gas efficiency (t CO2e/PGMoz) Q Tailings disposed to tailings facilities (kt) Q Waste rock disposed to rock dumps (kt) Q Hazardous waste disposed of to landﬁll and incineration (tonnes) Q General waste to landﬁll (tonnes) Q Average sulphur dioxide emissions (t/d) RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT Performance against KPIs across all operational IMPROVING RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT aspects of the business is measured according to various government policies and compliance Q Key government departments requirements. 1 * Supplementary reports available online. Detailed information on Resource Nationalism as a risk is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc 26 Sustainable development report 2014 Reporting according to the material focus areas Risks relating to the material Stakeholders focus area GRI aspects Strategic alignment Q Communities Q Community Q Economic performance Q Initiative 2: Empowering Q Non-governmental relations Q Indirect economic impact employees and organisations Q Mining Charter Q Procurement practices communities Q Government obligations, Q Security practices Q Initiative 5: Housing and other regulatory Q Local communities accommodation requirements and Q ICMM Principles: 9,10 social licence to Q UNGC Principles: 1, 2 operate Q Government and Q Mining Charter Q Economic performance Q ICMM Principles: 6, 7 regulators obligations, Q Energy Q UNGC Principles: 7, 8, 9 Q Communities other regulatory Q Water Q Industry bodies requirements Q Emissions and associations and social licence to Q Effluents and waste operate Q Access to secure energy and water Q Various government Q Community Q Diversity and equal The array of national and departments relations opportunity international frameworks Q National, provincial Q Mining Charter for ethical and sustainable and municipal obligations, mining to which the Company role players other regulatory subscribes are incorporated in requirements and its mine licence requirements social licence to operate Q Changes to the political, legal, social and economic environment including resource nationalism1 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 27 Lonmin Plc 28 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area: Employee relations Overview 30 Key stakeholders 32 Sustainability risks and opportunities 33 Accountability and governance 34 Approach and performance 35 Culture transformation 35 Employee Value Proposition 35 Improving internal customer service 37 Engaging with unions 38 Contractor management 39 Migrant and local labour 39 Employee development 41 Transformation and empowerment 43 Human settlements 44 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 29 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Overview EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Success depends on the Company’s ability to engage with and develop employees. Employees have a signiﬁcant impact on the sustainability of the Company. Conventional mining is a labour-intensive industry and the Company provides employment to 38,292 people, including contracted employees (2013: 38,421). Without the support of its labour force, the Company cannot produce. Lonmin: rebuild our relationships with our employees and develop our relationship with all the unions that represent our employees The traditional distinction between migrant and local labour has become less clear. This phenomenon is not unique to Lonmin – the historical legacy of migrant labour across the South African mining industry has resulted in multifaceted challenges such as the growth in informal housing communities around the operations. This has put pressure on service delivery and local infrastructure. The events at Marikana during August 2012 and the 2014 extended strike were each unprecedented and precipitated a fundamental change in South Africa’s industrial relations. Established practices and expectations around collective bargaining and labour relations had to be recreated and re-established to remain relevant. Employee relations are no longer internal matters but have become a multi-stakeholder challenge. Lonmin: committed to effective and constructive relationships Lonmin Plc 30 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations This chapter will outline the Company’s approach to employee development, engagement and performance We employ on a full-time basis 28,276 against the objectives over the past year. (2013: 28,379) people (21,929 are historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs), 98% The content of this chapter is applicable to all operations. of whom are based at the mining operations in Housing data is predominantly for the North West Marikana in the North West Province. We also Province operations. employ 10,016 (2013: 10,042) contractors; of these 897 contractors are women. Own employees as at Paterson 30 September 30 September Employment category band 2013 2014 Unskilled A-band 14,425 14,391 Semi-skilled B-band 9,938 9,889 Skilled technical and academically qualiﬁed: junior management; supervisors; foreman and superintendents C-band 3,479 3,480 Professionally qualiﬁed and experienced specialists and mid-management D-band 369 354 Senior management E-band 152 149 Top management F-band 16 13 Grand total 28,379 28,276 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 31 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Key CONTRACTORS stakeholders Our workforce includes contracted labour. When a contracted individual works on Lonmin property under the terms and conditions of a formal contract, their safety and health becomes the shared responsibility between their employer and Lonmin. Therefore, it is essential that the procurement assessment process establishes that all contracted companies operate sound business models that protect the basic rights of their employees and facilitate an environment of productivity and development. The Company endeavours to EMPLOYEES UNIONS avoid using labour brokers and only 1.13% of its workforce are Lonmin continues to rebuild its The Company focuses on rebuilding contracted in this manner. The relationship with employees. relations with its employees while Company only uses labour brokers Engagement takes place on an enabling the unions to be effective when it does not have an immediate ongoing daily basis between representatives. replacement for a vacant position. leaders and their teams and Following the strike there is The Company cannot operate these relationships are critical willingness on all sides to rebuild every aspect of its operations to improving Company-wide the relationship. AMCU is the without contractors and it is employee relations. Employees critical to business success that majority union and the Company are encouraged to address their all external partners provide an provides limited organisational concerns to management in a effective, reliable and ethicallyrights to the minority unions. constructive and open manner. sound service. All contracted Lonmin subscribes to a multiChannels of communication include service providers initially engage union model and it supports its shaft legotlas (large meetings with the Procurement department workers’ right to choose their between shaft senior management and thereafter with the on-site organised labour representatives. contractor hub that assesses and employees) and line of sight1 Union members are represented their medical ﬁtness and provides and mission directed work2 team throughout the operations in induction to contractors. meetings. various service departments and The Company strives to maintain authority structures. 1 The safety and productivity performance programme open communication with in place at the shafts that involves structured meetings on a daily or weekly basis to map out their respective parties as outlined in 2 performance against set targets. its formal service agreements, Performance improvement programme in the concentrators, smelting and reﬁnery plants. which can be either transient and small-scale, or long-term, largescale professional partnerships. The terms and conditions contracting companies have to sign require them to adhere to Lonmin’s Sustainable Development Standards1 and to the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 75 of 1997. 1 The supplementary report that is available at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/supplementaryreporting/Lonmins-15-Sustainable-DevelopmentStandards.pdf provides a list of the standards. Lonmin Plc 32 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Sustainability risks and opportunities The table below discusses why the following risks to sustainability have been identiﬁed with reference to employee relations, and indicates where more detail can be found in the chapter on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. EMPLOYEE AND UNION RELATIONS RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE A volatile industrial relations environment characterised by poor communication, FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER mistrust and industrial action, including strikes, exacerbated by poor UNDER THE FOLLOWING macroeconomic and socioeconomic factors, could result in disruptions to HEADINGS operations and have a material adverse effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial position. Q Culture transformation The three largest South African PGM producers, including the Company, Q Employee Value experienced a signiﬁcant strike during the year due to a breakdown in wage Proposition negotiations with the majority union, AMCU. The ﬁve-month long strike at our Q Improving internal Marikana operations resulted in the loss of around 391,000 saleable platinum customer service ounces and an average revenue lost of R8.3 billion. Striking employees lost, on Q Engaging with unions average, 45% of their annual earnings and many suffered deterioration in their health and wellbeing due to poor nutrition and reduced access to health care Q Contractor management and medication. The protracted strike also severely impacted local communities Q Migrant and local labour and businesses, suppliers and, more broadly, led to a deterioration in investor Q Employee development conﬁdence in the sector and in the region. Q Human settlements OPPORTUNITIES Q Improving internal customer services to build internal employee relationships Q Piloting a shift system that increases employees' quality of life as longer rest periods can be accommodated Q Partnering with government to address housing around operations Q Building an improved relationship bridge between Lonmin and the trade unions LOSS OF CRITICAL SKILLS RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE Increased global investment in mining over the past few years has driven FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER demand for skilled workers around the world. In South Africa, this is UNDER THE FOLLOWING compounded by the requirement to increase the proportion of HDSAs HEADINGS represented in management to 40% by the end of 2014. Q Employee development The loss of critical skills could negatively impact safety, production and the ability Q Transformation and to deliver against targets. Failure to meet HDSA targets could also negatively empowerment impact Lonmin’s mining rights. OPPORTUNITIES Q To retain skilled labour, the Company continuously reviews the market related remuneration packages as compared to the incentive and retention schemes offered by Lonmin Q To continue to develop employees through training initiatives and creating opportunities for development e.g. through mentoring More detail on the risk management approach can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 33 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Accountability and governance Management of employee relations falls under the human to facilitate talent management – upskilling our existing resources function. Within Lonmin the senior responsibility employees and development of new and future employees. for union negotiations resides with the Executive Vice The Company has formal mechanisms in place for President of Human Resources. employees to lodge grievances. Employees can approach Employee development programmes are an integral part the human resource practitioner or line manager to set of Lonmin’s overarching business strategy for developing a up a mediation session between both parties. The formal sustainable, empowered and competent workforce for the procedure follows guidelines set out in the corrective future. Shortage of skills remains of critical concern and action procedure. An ethics hotline is also available should we operate a range of employee development initiatives an employee wish to remain anonymous when lodging a in partnership with various external service providers labour-related issue. For more detail, refer to pages 77 and 106 of this report. GOVERNANCE TOOLS The table below lists the key applicable internal and external policies, frameworks, procedures and regulations that govern employee relations at Lonmin. INTERNAL EXTERNAL Q Human resources strategy Q The International Council on Mining and Metals principles of Q Social and Labour Plans sustainable development R Principle 3: Uphold fundamental human rights and respect Q Internal indicators and targets cultures, outcomes and values in dealings with employees that are reported on a monthly and others who are affected by its activities basis Q United Nations Global Compact 10 principles Q Bonus scheme that includes transformation-related targets R Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to Q Initiatives1 collective bargaining R Initiative 1: Employee R Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and relations compulsory labour R Initiative 2: Empowering R Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour employees and communities R Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of R Initiative 3: Migrant and local employment and occupation labour Q Minerals and Petroleum Resource Development Act, R Initiative 5: Housing and 28 of 2002 stipulates requirements for social development accommodation through Social and Labour Plans (SLPs) Q Mining Charter categories 1 R Housing and living conditions As laid out by the Board in 2013. R Employment equity R Human resource development Lonmin Plc 34 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Approach and performance CULTURE TRANSFORMATION The Company understands that fundamental cultural The Company identiﬁed transformation does not take place overnight. Instead, the Company engages with employees at all levels of behaviour that needs the organisation. As previously reported, the Company identiﬁed behaviour that needs to stop, behaviour that to stop, behaviour must stay and new practices that need to start. The three that must stay and new 'S's are applied holistically to all aspects of the business and a working group has been established to embed the practices that need to start. changes in the way we work at Lonmin. Rebuilding Bridges EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION The Employee Value Proposition comprises a broad set targets which have to be achieved. The Company has a of programmes and initiatives that deﬁne the overall corporate Balanced Scorecard in place that management package a full-time employee can expect to receive from employees can participate in. This is designed to the Company in terms of pay and beneﬁts, as well as incentivise safe behaviour and cost control, the delivery development and advancement opportunities. Beneﬁts of Mining Charter imperatives, as well as production include on-site healthcare, life and disability insurance, outcomes. Employees participate in either the Balanced which include an education protection plan and retirement Scorecard bonus or the relevant production bonus provisions. The Company also operates a deﬁnedscheme. contribution pension scheme. More detail on the Balanced Scorecard can be found in the All employees who reside within the Greater Lonmin Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Community have access to Lonmin’s free transport service As per the wage agreement signed with AMCU in to and from shafts, plants, hostels and bus stops. Other June 2014, employees’ monthly pay package will increase beneﬁts include study assistance, study leave, training and incrementally over the next three years, depending on the four months paid maternity leave. category of the employee. Currently, the monthly package, Employees are also incentivised through various bonus including beneﬁts (which excludes bonus and overtime) schemes that directly relate to performance. The majority of lowest-paid employees, is R11,2411 and is made up of employees in operations participate in productionas follows: related bonus schemes which are based on speciﬁc 1 This is before taxes and bonuses. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 35 Material focus area 1: Employee relations BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL PAY PACKAGE FOR AN ENTRY-LEVEL EMPLOYEE AT LONMIN1 2013 2014 Basic wage R5,921 R6,921 Living-out/accommodation allowance R2,000 R2,000 Holiday leave allowance R435 R577 Attendance allowance R201 R266 Cash package R8,557 R9,764 Value of medical beneﬁts R584 R626 Employer contribution to pension fund R774 R931 Total package per month before taxes and bonuses R9,915 R11,321 Employees can receive additional earnings through 95% of the workforce (2013: 92%) received a living-out production bonuses. allowance. The living-out allowance is part of the overall package for EMPLOYEE TURNOVER category 4-9 employees and was introduced to support During the year, employee turnover was 5% (2013: 6.2%). employees in paying for their own accommodation – The turnover rate in the 2013 reporting year reﬂects management retrenchment. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REASON (NUMBER) 2013 2014 Male Female Total Male Female Total New recruits 1,735 119 1,854 1,158 156 1,314 Resignations (1,548) (157) (1,705) (231) (68) (299) Deaths (not work related) (224) (14) (238) (226) (9) (234) Deaths (work related) (3) – (3) (1) – (1) Dismissals (667) (50) (717) (606) (49) (655) Retirements (101) (1) (102) (35) – (35) Retrenchments (166) (17) (183) (31) (1) (32) Net gain/(loss) 187 (38) 149 (128) (38) (166) 1 Employees working on surface and in employee category 4. Further information on pay packages can be viewed at www.lonmin.com/media centre. Lonmin Plc 36 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations EMPLOYEES SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST (EST) IMPROVING INTERNAL We expanded the Employee Value Proposition with the introduction of an employee share ownership trust (EST) CUSTOMER SERVICE for non-management employees. We view this as critical in The customer service improvement project forms an terms of the Mining Charter requirements and in achieving integral part of the Employee Value Proposition. The our deeper culture transformation goals. By aligning Company identiﬁed the following customer service process individual performance with the rewards of a successful where value can be added and relationships rebuilt: business, the EST creates a greater sense of shared Q Recruitment ownership among our employees. Q Medical services Q Payroll MEDICAL SERVICES RECRUITMENT PAYROLL Lonmin recognises that Lonmin launched a customer The aim to improve services at recruitment is the ﬁrst point service training project at payroll was to train employees of contact between a new the Medical Services in to better understand their employee and the Company. October 2013, to improve the payslips. A total of 1,010 people Therefore, it is a unique patient to employee relationship. were trained and to measure opportunity to establish a The health customer survey the effectiveness of the training good and positive relationship. indicated that employee a survey was completed. Improving customer service satisfaction with the service Of the survey participants, 81% at the point of recruitment will they receive improved from 75% indicated that the payslip training beneﬁt employees. in 2013 to 83% in 2014. helped them to understand their payslip better. To instil a culture of continuous improvement, recommendations were made to ensure the training will not be a once-off initiative. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 37 Material focus area 1: Employee relations FINANCIAL DEBT COUNSELLING Lonmin entered into a partnership with an external 11,362) have undergone ﬁnancial literacy training on service provider in October 2013 to assist employees basic ﬁnancial matters such as credit, debt and budgeting. in ﬁnancial difficulty. There are on-site consultation 1,465 employees made use of the ﬁnancial counselling centres where employees can seek ﬁnancial advice services. The Company estimates that, in partnership with on how to manage their debt and any employee with a the external service provider, it helped employees save garnishee order is referred to these centres for assistance. almost R3.6 million through stopping garnishee orders Subsequently, 21,027 permanent employees (2013: from unscrupulous lenders. The Company estimates that, in partnership with the external service provider, it helped employees save almost R3.6 million. ENGAGING WITH UNIONS The Company respects its employees’ right to collective Alongside the formal recognition agreement signed bargaining and freedom of association, and for trade in August 2013, which outlines the legal aspects of unions to negotiate terms and conditions of employment the Company’s relationship with AMCU, a Relationship on behalf of their members. At 30 September 2014, Charter has been created that outlines the expectations 25,041 employees, or 88.6% of the labour force and accountability of both parties that aims to facilitate (2013: 87.7%), are members of organised trade unions. a healthy and constructive relationship. The spirit of this relationship agreement is to be replicated and adapted RECOGNITION STRUCTURES at all levels between the two organisations to arrive at a MAJORITY UNION AMCU robust culture of co-operation to ensure that the conditions As the majority union representing 72.6% of the that led to the strike should not recur. workforce (2013: 66.1%), the Association of Mineworkers In line with Lonmin’s commitment to a multi-union model, and Construction Union (AMCU) has bargaining the Company provides limited organisational rights to rights, unrestricted access and rights to deductions, minority unions. full-time shop stewards and office facilities on the Company’s property. Lonmin Plc 38 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations UNION REPRESENTATION Percentage representation (%) Trade union 2013 2014 Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) 66.1 72.6 Chemical Energy Paper Printing Wood and Allied Workers Union (CEPPWAWU) 0.6 0.6 National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) 13.8 8.1 Solidarity 3.7 3.7 United Association of South Africa (UASA) 3.5 3.6 Total unionised 87.7 88.6 No trade union 12.3 11.4 100% 100% CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT MIGRANT AND All contracting companies undergo rigorous assessment, LOCAL LABOUR which involves either yearly or half-yearly reassessments Migrant labour can no longer be simply deﬁned as workers for long-term contractors. The assessment places who stay in a hostel near the mine and return to their particular emphasis on safety, environment and aspects families for brief periods during the year. Many employees of human rights. All contractors are familiarised with who originate from elsewhere have made their permanent internal safety procedures at the contractor hub prior homes in the community and have become “localised”, to commencing work at any of the Company’s facilities. while others consider their place of origin their ultimate The Company offers all on-site contractors access to its home to which they intend to return. In many cases, healthcare facilities. ﬁnancial necessity pulls individuals from their places of While Lonmin does not have direct inﬂuence over origin to seek employment. Beginning with initiative 31, decisions such as the remuneration and accommodation ﬁrst identiﬁed in 2013, the Company is on a journey to of contracted employees, part of the terms and conditions better understand this complex subject as legacies of the of each contract are that the contractor must provide migrant labour system are at the root of many of its most evidence of internal processes that ensure fair treatment material social risks and challenges. and their employees’ right to collective bargaining. Lonmin has a series of interventions in place to address the key symptoms of migrant labour-related challenges in the business, primarily absenteeism and human settlements; the latter is covered in a separate section on page 44. 1 Migrant and local labour. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 39 Material focus area 1: Employee relations EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS BY GEOGRAPHIC ORIGIN AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 2013 2014 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Province employees total employees employees total employees Eastern Cape 10,202 36 9,222 33 North West 7,935 28 8,827 31 Limpopo 1,416 5 1,375 5 Gauteng 1,128 4 1,519 5 Free State 1,138 4 1,007 4 KwaZulu-Natal 849 3 786 3 Mpumalanga 566 2 430 2 Northern Cape 288 1 293 1 Western Cape 279 1 11 0 Total foreign 4,578 16 4,806 16 Grand total 28,379 100 28,276 100 ABSENTEEISM The intention to run a pilot project testing the new shift The rate of absenteeism, was exacerbated this year system was delayed by the strike. Lonmin will trial the by the conditions leading up to, during and after the new shift pattern at E1 shaft, to monitor the impact strike. If Lonmin continued with normal operations the on employees and the productivity of the shaft over a absenteeism rate would have been 6.3%. Absenteeism in 12-month period. Once a thorough assessment of the pilot 2014 was 29.3% and is a direct result of the strike and the project has been made, an informed decision can be made Company lost 2.6 million person days due to absenteeism. on whether the new shift pattern could be successfully Particularly in the mining operations, employees work introduced across the Company’s operations. in teams, and it affects a team’s ability to function safely The intended beneﬁts of the new shift pattern are that and optimally when members are not at work. Bonus employees will have more time to spend with their families payments are linked to attendance with measures in place and more time to go about their personal business, to discourage absenteeism. reducing absenteeism. IMPROVING THE SHIFT SYSTEM Lonmin has identiﬁed the shift system as a potential means of improving employees’ quality of life and ultimately making for a more fulﬁlled and productive workforce. The Company has the objective to ﬁnd a solution to absenteeism, by addressing its underlying causes and improving the productivity of its operations. Lonmin Plc 40 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations ! The prolonged strike had a signiﬁcant impact on the EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT various development programmes planned and committed Employee development programmes are an integral part to for 2014. However, in many cases, the deferred of Lonmin’s business strategy, as it needs to develop a programmes that form a critical part of the business sustainable, empowered and competent workforce for strategy and Social and Labour Plan will be restarted the future. Shortage of skills remains a critical concern and re-energised. and there are a range of employee development initiatives to facilitate talent management through the upskilling During the ﬁnancial year, the Company invested of existing employees and the development of new and R172 million (3.25%L of the annual payroll) on employee future employees. development and R311.1 million is allocated for 2015. BREAKDOWN OF AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE 2013 2014 Employee category Male Female Male Female Contractors 37.2 36.8 28.5 15.4 Unskilled 54.5 73.6 31.0 26.9 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 51.2 58.3 29.4 23.6 Skilled technical and academically qualiﬁed, junior management, supervisors, foremen and superintendents 47.2 28.7 19.5 13.2 Professionally qualiﬁed, experienced specialists, and mid-management 21.6 24.0 14.6 12.1 Senior management 20.2 12.8 11.6 8.1 Top management 10.8 – 13.1 11.5 Lonmin trained 21,141 employees and 9,590 contractors during the year; investing in 1,819,276 hours of training. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 41 Material focus area 1: Employee relations LEADERSHIP STAIRCASE 56 (63%) are members of the community, 74 (83%) are Lonmin’s broad approach to employee development is HDSA and 24 (27%) are female candidates. encapsulated in the leadership staircase, an overarching Bursars that successfully complete their studies enter the model to facilitate employee development enacted in organisation as graduates in training where they complete various leadership development programmes throughout a structured work development programme. In 2014, the business. Lonmin had 34L graduates on the programme; 28 (83%) are HDSA and 9 (27%) are women. LEARNERSHIPS Lonmin provides technical skills training in the form of MENTORSHIP PROGRAMME AND INDIVIDUAL learnerships in our mining and processing operations, and DEVELOPMENT PLANS (IDPs) engineering function. Unfortunately, this programme was Formal mentorships and IDPs represent the core drivers affected by the prolonged strike, but 144L learners of the talent management strategy. Mentorships allow (2013: 181) continued with their learnerships during for skills transfer and knowledge sharing. Lonmin had the year. 75 (2013: 63) active mentorship relationships in place as at end of September 2014. IDPs encourage employees to set Learnerships (number) personal goals for their current and future development 80 and there were 1,735 (2013: 2,205) employees with formal IDPs in place at the end of September 2014. 60 67 In 2014 the focus shifted to increase the quality of the content of the development plans as well as the validity 11,88 Number of review periods. This resulted in a decrease of IDPs due 40 46 to the stricter enforcement of guideline principles. 31 ADULT BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING (ABET) 20 The Lonmin Academy provides courses on pre-ABET and ABET level one to four; level four is the equivalent 0 Mining Processing Engineering of a Grade 9 qualiﬁcation in the South African schooling system. In 2014, a total of 473 people were registered, Learnership type including employees (353), contractors (22) and community members (98). This training was stopped BURSARIES AND GRADUATES for the duration of the strike, therefore the number of Lonmin recognises the need to ensure that competent candidate registrations are reported rather than those people are recruited, developed and retained to meet the who completed their training. current and future human resource and transformational needs of the business. The Lonmin bursary scheme forms PORTABLE SKILLS TRAINING a vital part of the business strategy in terms of meeting Lonmin offers portable skills training to individuals who these business needs. have recently left employment e.g. retired and who are Comprehensive bursaries are offered to students who interested in acquiring practical skills that can be applied wish to pursue a career in mining or mining-related outside of the mining industry. During 2014, 378 people disciplines such as Mining, Electrical, Mechanical or (2013: 386) received portable skills training, of whom Chemical Engineering, Metallurgy and Mining Technical 220 (2013: 232) are employees and 158 (2013: 154) are Services disciplines (e.g. Geology). Preference is given members of the community. Most of the portable skills to HDSA candidates and those from the Greater Lonmin training takes place in August and September and was Community. In 2014, Lonmin allocated 89L bursaries – therefore not impacted by the strike. Lonmin Plc 42 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations TRANSFORMATION AND EMPOWERMENT Through the requirements of the Mining Charter, and WOMEN IN MINING because it is important to the business, transformation Lonmin is committed to cultivating a working environment imperatives are entrenched in policies within the that welcomes the contribution of women to an industry recruitment, succession planning and talent management that has historically been dominated by men. The functions that enable opportunities for historically Company actively seeks ways of attracting and retaining disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs)1. more women, but there is no simple solution. Lonmin differentiates between women who work at Lonmin and The aim is to create a pipeline of strong internal those working in core mining activities. candidates, particularly HDSAs and women, to take Lonmin into the future. In 2014, 8.18%R (2013: 8.0%) of the total workforce was women and 5.35%R (2013: 5.09%) of the core mining The Company also has an internal employment equity positions were occupied by women. Although an increase score at management level, which excludes white women is observed in both measurements, the target of 10% of from the calculation and focuses speciﬁcally on HDSAs. women working for Lonmin that was set for 2014 has not Signiﬁcant progress has been made in this area, achieving been achieved and this remains a major challenge for the 37.8%R (2013: 35.8%). However, there is still room organisation as part of its transformation journey. The for improvement and various employee development drive to establish structures for women in the Company programmes – particularly the leadership staircase – aim has been revitalised and notable steps were taken during to raise this ﬁgure over time. The regulatory employment 2014. Projects are underway to better equip the mining equity score is informed by legal parameters, which environment for women. These projects include include white women and the Company surpassed the improvements of the Maternity Policy and reviewing the required target of 40% at management level and achieved Personal Protective Equipment Policy to better cater for 48.4% R (2013: 47.2%). women in the workforce. HDSAs in management Women employed at Lonmin (%) (including white women) (%) 9 8.15 8.18 50 8.00 49.4 48.4 7.45 46.5 47.2 7.04 43.3 40 6 HDSAs in Mangagement (%) % 5.11 5.09 5.35 30 4.33 3 20 3.22 10 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14R 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14R Women at Lonmin: WAM Women in core positions: WIM 1 Lonmin employs a total of 21,929 employees that are HDSA. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 43 Material focus area 1: Employee relations HUMAN SETTLEMENTS CHALLENGES To appreciate the scope of the human settlements or continue with business once the mining activities stop. challenge, the current situation needs to be explained in Through the Human Settlement strategy the aim is to the context of recent history. reduce or avoid this from happening. Following the dismantling of the hostel system, many If successful, absenteeism will reduce, workforce stability companies in the industry introduced a living-out will be achieved as well as family wellbeing established. The allowance to give employees the freedom to choose ultimate objective is to grow the local economy by keeping their own accommodation, as opposed to live-in malethe wealth in the region in the form of a stable population only communal compounds. Though the intention of this that is housed comfortably with access to the relevant policy was positive, the abolition of the hostels created a social and economic resources to sustain it over the long number of unanticipated and undesirable consequences. term. The strategy for achieving this comprises three pillars Many employees have opted not to invest their resources as set out on the next page. in formal housing and have chosen to live in informal housing. This has precipitated the emergence of a backPROVISION OF LAND FOR DEVELOPMENT room informal economy, which brings with it a host of Following the announcement of the Special Presidential negative socioeconomic issues, not least of which is Package initiative, Lonmin, in collaboration with the North a rapidly growing community without basic services West Department of Human Settlements, contributed 50ha and infrastructure. of land to develop housing. It was donated, on 10 July 2014, in an effort to address the critical issue of accommodation In the past the Company committed to the construction in the area. This donation was made directly to the of houses for employees to buy and own, but this had to Department of Human Settlement, the North West Public be curtailed as the overwhelming majority of employees Safety and Liaison Department and Rustenburg Local prefer to rent. This has been the almost unanimous Municipality. The building of anticipated housing units response from the initial pilot project, conﬁrmed by has commenced. The premier of the North West Province subsequent surveys and market research. Rental options announced that R462 million has been set aside to fund will be the leading drivers in delivering on initiative 5 to this project in phases. Phase one is already underway and facilitate the provision of accommodation for all. comprises 292 Breaking New Ground units (formerly known INTEGRATED HUMAN SETTLEMENTS STRATEGY as RDP housing) and 252 community residential units. Housing development and construction falls outside of the Company’s core business. Therefore, the integrated human settlements strategy will focus on building partnerships with property developers, providers of capital, lending institutions, local and provincial municipalities and government. Mining towns struggle to function normally Lonmin Plc 44 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 1: Employee relations 1 HOSTEL CONVERSIONS 2 AFFORDABLE HOUSING 3 FUTURE HOUSING PLANS AND ADDITIONAL HOUSING Lonmin is on track to deliver on the target Under the auspices of Lonmin engages with to convert all hostel blocks on the property the Marikana Housing external partners in a at a total cumulative cost of R387 million to Development Company, a collaborative effort to single or family units. The last blocks have section 21 NPC company, provide a sustainable 1 been completed and bring the total number 1,149 homes are available housing proposition for of converted hostel blocks (renovated for outright purchase or on employees. It is critical apartments) to 128. a rent-to-buy scheme. The that the Company achieves selling price of these 45m2 its human settlements The second phase of the development is to homes is R62,426, including objectives by providing the investigate the option to utilise the open spaces land. Despite efforts to land, the research and the between the existing converted buildings for encourage home-ownership, resources to a third party additional housing, thereby using existing bulk only 305 people (2013: 297) who is responsible for infrastructure, i.e. water, power and sewage have taken ownership of construction, administration, facilities. Work will commence in the 2015 these houses. rental collection and ﬁnancial year with the aim to provide between maintenance of the 4,000 and 5,000 units. 1 Lonmin also built houses during 2000 – 2004 at Karee (369) and at Wonderkop (280) properties. The Company and are available for rent. The challenges to this project will be: is currently engaging with Q achieving fairness in the rentals, as rates potential partners in the ﬁeld for single and family units have been of property development subsidised by Lonmin in the past; and and administration ﬁnding Q competing with the back-room subletting a solution that balances economy of the informal settlements. affordability, proﬁt and quality. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 45 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Lonmin Plc 46 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Material focus area: Employee safety and health Overview 48 Key stakeholders 49 Sustainability risks and opportunities 50 Accountability and governance 51 Approach and performance 52 Safety at Lonmin 52 Safety performance 53 Safety stoppages 55 Contractor safety and health 55 Health strategy 55 Medical scheme 56 Employee health services 56 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 47 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Overview EMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR: SAFETY AND HEALTH Lonmin’s core business is mining and reﬁning PGMs, which is a labour intensive activity exposing employees to a range of potential safety and health hazards. Lonmin acknowledges the interconnectedness of safety and health and is constantly exploring ways to improve safety in the workplace to prevent incidents and occupational health risks. A part of the Employee Value Proposition is to create a work environment that is conducive to overall wellness and productivity. There is only one manner in which to approach safety and health and that is to aspire to a target of Zero Harm. Lonmin: acknowledges the interconnectedness of safety and health The Company appreciates that individual safety and health is not isolated to the workplace. Many of the safety awareness and healthcare programmes have been expanded into the communities around the operations. The informal accommodation conditions of many of the settlements where employees live are not conducive to wellness and have a pervasive impact on safe and healthy behaviour. An indirect negative consequence of the strike is that returning employees have to relearn the practices that are so vital to the safety of their fellow miners. The number of people who default on their chronic medication is affected directly during periods of labour unrest, resulting in health deterioration and decreased quality of life. This chapter will provide an overview of the Company’s approach to safety management across all Lonmin operations. It also outlines the healthcare facilities, programmes and services available to employees. Lonmin Plc 48 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Key stakeholders EMPLOYEES GOVERNMENT INDUSTRY PARTNERS AND CONTRACTORS Lonmin’s legal licence to operate Lonmin is represented on several The various awareness campaigns1 as a mine requires that Lonmin industry-wide forums to learn what and training interventions around demonstrates that its operations works elsewhere. Participation in safety and health practices are are compliant, particularly in mine industry occupational safety all geared towards creating a safety and health practices. and health (MOSH), facilitated work culture that is conducive to The Department of Mineral by the South African Chamber employee and contractor wellness Resources (DMR) functions as of Mines, has led to the adoption and productivity. This includes the a regulator of performance in of several safety initiatives at requirement that unsafe work is the form of assessments, site operations. This platform of shared stopped or not undertaken and inspections and, when necessary, knowledge remains beneﬁcial for empowers the workforce to ensure work stoppages. Lonmin engages the Company. that this expectation is understood with government representatives and complied with. This chapter As a member of the International regularly on Company matters describes how the Company Council on Mining and Metals and participate in industry forums. supports employees to enact (ICMM), Lonmin participates in Lonmin continues building and implement safe and healthy ICMM health and safety activities, relations with the regulators. practices at work and at home. which enables benchmarking of health and safety activities 1 For example, 'talk topics' cover subjects such as road safety, workplace safety, wellness, chronic diseases and outcomes against mining and HIV/Aids. companies globally. The Company also participates in various forums such as the Health Policy Committee, Mine Health and Safety Council, and Global business coalition on health. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 49 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Sustainability risks and opportunities The table below discusses why the following risks to sustainability have been identiﬁed with particular reference to employee health and safety, and indicates where more detail can be found in the chapter on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. SAFETY RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE FOUND Lonmin values its people. The Company endeavours to position itself IN THIS CHAPTER UNDER THE as an employer of choice, and to provide safe jobs for employees, FOLLOWING HEADINGS contractors and the communities that Lonmin operates in. However, the Q Safety at Lonmin mining industry has inherent risks that can cause fatalities or injuries. Q Safety performance A failure in safety performance could result in injury or a loss of life Q Stoppages which would have tragic implications for employees, their families and the local communities. It would also severely disrupt operations and Q Contractor safety and health would result in safety stoppages. OPPORTUNITIES Opportunities exist in the sharing of lessons on safety and health matters to save lives. ICMM and industry forums provide opportunities to share lessons among member companies. NOISE-INDUCED HEARING LOSS (NIHL) CASES DIAGNOSED4 RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE FOUND NIHL remains a signiﬁcant occupational disease and exposure to high IN THIS CHAPTER UNDER THE noise levels is continually addressed through various programmes. FOLLOWING HEADINGS OPPORTUNITIES Q Health strategy Increased awareness on the importance of wearing hearing protection Q Employee health services equipment should be created. A hearing conservation committee will seek opportunities to reduce noise levels in work areas. DISEASE PROFILE WITH HIGH INCIDENCE OF TB AND HIV/AIDS5 RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE FOUND HIV/Aids and tuberculosis are a threat to the wellbeing of a person. IN THIS CHAPTER UNDER THE HIV/Aids remains the biggest cause of in-service deaths and those FOLLOWING HEADINGS defaulting on antiretroviral and tuberculosis treatment are a concern. Q Health strategy OPPORTUNITIES Q Employee health services Increased awareness campaigns will be held to create further awareness about the importance of employee health and behaviour associated with a healthy lifestyle. 4, 5 These risks are not part of Lonmin’s top 12 strategic risks, but in the context of health important to note. More detail on the risk management approach can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc 50 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Accountability and governance Every person employed by the Company is responsible for These individuals represent employees on Health and behaviour and practices that build a safer and healthier Safety Committees that meet quarterly. Lonmin. Line managers are responsible for the safety of The health department is responsible for healthcare their teams and daily incident reports are consolidated, delivery, occupational health and hygiene policies, analysed and ultimately reported to the Executive standards, monitoring and auditing of these services. Committee. Lonmin's safety department holds the responsibility to In 2014, there were 17 (2013: 12) full-time safety and monitor and audit safety protocols and standards. The health representatives and 3,028 (2013: 1,365) safety Chief Executive Officer is ultimately accountable for representatives employed throughout the operations. the health, safety and wellbeing of all employees and contractors when they are on site. GOVERNANCE TOOLS The table below lists the key applicable internal and external policies, procedures and regulations that govern employee safety and health at Lonmin. INTERNAL EXTERNAL Q Safety and Sustainable Development Policy Q South African Mining Charter Q Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards Q Occupational Health and Safety Q Induction programme that all employees have to undergo Standards (OHSAS) 18001 Q Every supplier signs terms and conditions committing Q South African Mines Health and to adhere to Lonmin’s policies and standards Safety Act Q Safety R Lonmin Life Rules Q ICMM principles of sustainable R Fatal Risk Control Protocols development R Contractor Safety Management Protocol R Principle 5: Seek continual improvement of health and safety Q Health performance R Lonmin HIV/Aids and Tuberculosis Policy R Lonmin Medical Scheme Q Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of 2002, Q Safety, Health and Environment Committee of the Board stipulates requirements for social Q Internal indicators and targets that are reported against development through Social and on a monthly basis Labour Plans Q Initiatives1: Q Department of Health and Department R Initiative 2: Empowering employees and of Mineral Resources tuberculosis communities programme management guidelines R Initiative 5: Housing and accommodation 1 As laid out by the Board in 2013 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 51 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Approach and performance SAFETY AT LONMIN Lonmin formalised its safety strategy in 2009 with three strategy on an annual basis in line with the overall business key objectives: strategy to identify strengths, risks and opportunities to improve. Q Fatality prevention Q Injury prevention The overarching frameworks under which the Company operates are the Safety and Sustainable Development Q A safe culture Policy, Sustainable Development Standards and the Fatal The strategy was bolstered in 2013 incorporating the Risk Control Protocols. Four strategic enablers have been overarching slogan and vision: Zero Harm to everyone, identiﬁed on an operational level for which the senior everywhere, every day. The Company reviews the safety management is responsible: Strategic enablers TRANSFORMED CULTURE LEADERSHIP SIMPLE, FIT-FOR-PURPOSE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT SYSTEMS To reach a high level of safety To develop strong leaders To understand risks and awareness driven by the supported by safety To invest in systems that will optimise control and employees to entrench safe professionals to lead the record real-time information management, moving behaviour in the operational workforce in the right for trend analysis and beyond compliance to an DNA. decision making and incident prevention. environment of excellence. behaviour. TRANSFORMED CULTURE A signiﬁcant challenge is that the workforce are at Lonmin aims to empower its managers, supervisors different stages of safety awareness and independence, and team leaders to play a direct and integral role in the and safety plans need to be appropriate for these functioning of the workforce through the promotion of audiences. To transform and empower our workforce – we Visible Felt Leadership. This approach positions the leader will continue with safety training and create awareness as an agent of change who leads by example and not by that any employee or contractor has the right to withdraw power, and who has a personal commitment with each from any unsafe work area. This has, and will, reinforce member of the team to collectively enable a safe and the belief that the underlying enabler is a transformed transformed environment in the workplace. culture, which will drive Lonmin towards Zero Harm. INDUSTRY BODIES LEADERSHIP Lonmin continues to work with the Chamber of Mines to identify leading practices in safety and health in mining, Safety training forms part of the employee and contractor for example through the Mine Industry Occupation Safety induction. Lonmin's objective is that every individual in the and Health (MOSH) initiatives and to eliminate fatalities, business has a personal understanding of and respect for a CEO forum. the importance of safety in the workplace. This is achieved by entrenching safety principles in the organisation and increasing visibility on safety matters. Lonmin Plc 52 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health MOSH INITIATIVES ADAPTED AND IMPLEMENTED The ALLeRT initiative is a tool speciﬁcally We require all supervisors to attend APPLY LONMIN developed to provide guidance on how to a rock engineering course during LIFE RULES manage the risk of falls of ground, which implementation of the ALLeRT initiative AND RESPONSE is historically the biggest contributor to to assess the safety of underground TRIGGERS fatalities in mining. conditions effectively. (ALLeRT) The initiative is based on two Lonmin Life During this course, 795 crews were Rules: trained, enabling them to apply the ALLeRT initiative. Q Entry examination Q Support installations and geological hazard identiﬁcation With the aim of: Q Withdrawing people from possible unsafe conditions and to request assistance from specialists. PDS refers to collision avoidance systems Current functionality gives a warning to PROXIMITY or collision avoidance technologies, which slow the vehicle down to a predetermined DETECTION are implemented to reduce the risk of speed when vehicles are in close SYSTEM (PDS) vehicle-related accidents. proximity to each other. SIMPLIFIED SYSTEMS Lonmin has an internal audit programme in place for This year the Karee 4B/1B shaft was recognised the 15 Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards1 with the JT Ryan award for Safest Mine in South to improve the safety governance practices. The audit Africa for the third time in a row at the annual programme continued during the year and this year MineSafe Conference held on in August 2014. This the operations completed self-assessments to evaluate shaft is the industry leader in safety with more than 8,000,000 fatality free shifts. their compliance and implementation of the standards. Externally, Lonmin obtained OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation at More detail on safety achievements per operation can be found online at www.sd-report.lonmin. all processing plants. com/2014/evolution-of-strategy. SAFETY PERFORMANCE The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)2 declined by was 194.16, a year-on-year decrease of 7.7%. There 4.6% in 2014, from 3.50 per million man hours worked in were 12 level 3 safety incidents in 2014 compared to 2013, to 3.34R per million man hours worked. The target 21 incidents in 2013. for 2014 aimed to reduce the LTIFR by a further 5%; this target has not been achieved by a narrow margin. We will The Company also monitors ﬁrst aid treatment cases again aim in 2015, to improve our LTIFR rate by 5% against (2014: 141) and cases of medical treatment (2014: 315). the 2013 base year. The system to improve reporting on ﬁrst aid cases is still maturing. The lost time injuries (LTIs) for 2014 were 217 (2013: 317). The primary causes of LTIs relate to falls of ground These statistics need to be interpreted in the context of (35%) and scraping and rigging (26%). The Company the prolonged strike as risk of injury is heightened during recorded 12,598 days lost due to LTIs. The severity rate restart and ramp-up. 1 Please refer to the supplementary reporting piece to view the comprehensive list of the 15 standards. Lonmin Plc 2 LTIFR = LTIs (217) per million hours worked (64,885,341). Sustainable development report 2014 53 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health Fatalities and FIFR ! Lost time injuries and LTIFR ! 0.07 5.87 7 0.07 600 6 6 0.06 4.71 6 4.16 473 Lost time injuries 5 0.05 400 4 0.04 419 3.50 3.34R Fatalities 4 0.04 372 0.03 FIFR LTIFR 3 0.03 317 3 3 0.02 0.02 200 2 2 0.02 217 2 1 0.01 1R 0 0.00 0 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Fatalities Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Lost time injuries Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) IN MEMORIAM Total injuries and TRIFR ! Sadly, on 26 October 2013, Mr Siyabonga Sibango was a 8.48 passenger in a tragic vehicle accident at East 3 Shaft that 900 8.20 9 took his life. He is survived by his wife Ms Nolusindiso Sibango and their two children. 769 Total injuries A full investigation was conducted by an external expert 600 6 assisted by an internal team of subject matter experts. 532 TRIFR Speed control, braking systems, how equipment is being transported as well as driver and passenger safety 300 3 were reviewed. The decision was taken to stop the use of conventional light duty vehicles for underground applications. Special built emergency and service 0 0 vehicles have been designed and ordered and the '13 '14 Lonmin Standards have been changed to incorporate Total injuries Total recordable injuries the new designs. frequency rate (TRIFR) Lonmin Plc 54 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health SAFETY STOPPAGES HEALTH STRATEGY Section 54 stoppages are imposed by the DMR under The Company, through its occupational health and hygiene the Mine Health and Safety Act, 29 of 1996. The Company department, adopted the slogan Your Health, Our Priority also initiates its own safety stoppages when Lonmin's to align its broad approach to the provision of healthcare Life Rules have been violated. Section 54s occur when and operates according to the following six focus areas: the inspector of the DMR has reason to believe that any Q Fitness to work practice or conditions at a mine endangers the health or safety of any person at the mine. During 2014, 20 section Q Employee wellbeing, care and rehabilitation 54 stoppages were imposed at operations, resulting in Q Medical surveillance 55.5 production lost days. This ﬁgure is higher than the Q Increased occupational hygiene monitoring 18 Section 54 stoppages in 2013. and footprint Lonmin is committed to building relationships with the Q Deliver on Social and Labour Plan projects – DMR and participates in forums in which industry, labour community health and government representatives discuss expectations and shared objectives on safety stoppages. Q Medical service delivery model Lonmin offers employees a healthcare service which CONTRACTOR SAFETY extends various programmes to the Greater Lonmin AND HEALTH Community (GLC). For further detail on community health All companies contracted by Lonmin are subject to projects, refer to pages 70 and 71. rigorous protocols, in which health and safety items are assessed. All contractors are required to register on a formal industry-wide database with their full compliance accreditation as evidence of good practice. Contractors have access to healthcare facilities. These include health and safety induction, medical surveillance, voluntary counselling and testing (VCT), treatment of injuries on duty, wellness campaigns, tuberculosis (TB) screening and treatment and NIHL mitigation measures. Lonmin and other industry partners have been involved in the establishment of a non-proﬁt organisation called the South African Mining Contractors Association, or SAMCA. This is intended to create an environment for sharing of best practices and standardisation of safety practices. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 55 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health MEDICAL SCHEME A medical scheme administered by a third-party service OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE provider is offered to all employees. The Lonmin Medical NIHL is a key occupational health and hygiene risk for Scheme fully covers the cost of all medical treatment of employees and contractors. Lonmin set a target to the member, with subsidised treatment for dependants. reduce NIHL cases by 10% from a 2012 baseline year, Employees who opt to have their own medical schemes this has not been achieved. In 2014, 66R new cases of receive subsidies on their monthly payments from NIHL were diagnosed (2013: 48), an increase of 38%. the Company. Contributing factors to the increase in NIHL cases are the employees' age, number of years exposed to noise, EMPLOYEE HEALTH concurrent medical conditions and non-compliance with SERVICES wearing of hearing protection devices. 49R cases of NIHL The Company provides employees with a range of have received compensation during the year (2013: 36). occupational and primary healthcare services as part of All rock drills and noise sources have been silenced to the Employee Value Proposition. Every employee has to below 110 dB(A). The Hearing Conservation Committee undergo health assessments on a regular basis. This year continually seeks and investigates additional methods Lonmin invested over R150 million in employee health to reduce noise exposure and prevent NIHL. Through programmes. awareness campaigns, greater emphasis will be placed on the importance of wearing hearing protection equipment. Lonmin Plc 56 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health OTHER OCCUPATIONAL HEALTHCARE PROGRAMMES PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOTHERAPY, OTHER FUNCTIONAL WORK OCCUPATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL CAPACITY FITNESS THERAPY AND DISEASES TESTING REHABILITATION MANAGEMENT These tests assess the Q Therapy and rehabilitation Occupational diseases such as cardiorespiratory ﬁtness, as well programmes are available for Platinum Salt Sensitivity and as work simulation assessments employees that have chronic occupational asthma remain as part of a comprehensive diseases or injuries. concerns in the processing of medical surveillance programme. platinum. Lonmin works with Q The Company is formalising the International Platinum Group its disability management STATUS Metals Association speciﬁcally to framework, which makes understand and manage Platinum Q 62% of employees provision for accommodation, Salt Sensitivity better. successfully passed their retraining or alternative job ﬁtness assessment in 2014. placement of people with When an employee fails disabilities. STATUS they will be referred to Q Two employees were physiotherapy or alternative STATUS diagnosed with occupational job placement will be sought. asthma, i.e. ﬁve per 100,000. Q An average of 120 clients are No dermatitis or Platinum Salt Q As women have a higher treated at physiotherapy per Sensitivity cases have been failure rate when assessed month. diagnosed during 2014. for work ﬁtness, an exercise Q 1.4% of employees are people programme is provided for with disabilities (2013: 0.9%). women to follow at home. We have seen a higher pass rate when the exercise programme has been followed. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 57 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health PRIMARY HEALTHCARE Lonmin offers its employees a range of services that in-service employees. This policy focuses on education address non-work related health issues, many of which and awareness in an effort to combat the stigma around are extended to contractors and community members. the disease, as well as on the provision of medical and HIV/Aids, TB and chronic illnesses are the most common emotional support to infected patients. In 2014, diseases that afflict employees and contractors. A formal R23.1 million (2013: R26.6 million) was related to the policy is in place for the management of HIV/Aids, prevention and management of HIV/Aids. which remains the primary cause of mortality among FIVE-YEAR PERFORMANCE: TB AND HIV/AIDS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Diagnosed and treated TB cases 528 545 527 446 436L HIV/Aids-related deaths 88 139 104 99 97 Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) tests conducted 39,006 31,666 46,945 17,682 17,964 Patients on antiretroviral treatment (ART) 1,349 2,022 2,510 3,288 3,666 Patients on the wellness programme 498 526 657 690 637 PRIMARY HEALTHCARE PROGRAMMES HIV/AIDS AND TB HIV/Aids remains the main cause of employee deaths positive. On-site peer educators raise awareness and there with 97 HIV/Aids-related deaths in 2014. Furthermore, is one trained peer educator for every 75 employees, the high number of people (1,065) who defaulted ART which is in line with the 2014 target. The target for during the strike is concerning. Lonmin's target is to 2015 will remain the same. Workplace peer educators reduce the rate of ART defaulters to below 3%, which decreased substantially during the strike period and has not been achieved this year. There are 3,666 patients only 201 remain active, a ratio of one for every that participate in the ART programme, an increase of 141 employees. 11% from 2013. The ART wellness programme supports Individuals infected with HIV/Aids are more prone to patients through group counselling sessions, training on TB infection and it is therefore important to monitor and the treatment and healthy eating. Due to the strike the track TB. This year, there were 436L new cases of TB Company was not able to increase the number of patients diagnosed and treated, 17 of multi-drug resistant TB and participating in the wellness programme. The Company no new cases of extreme drug resistant TB. The Company supplies free ART to employees and covers the estimated continued efforts to trace the individuals and those in cost of R8,504 per person on treatment annually. contact with TB patients. Lonmin kept the hospital and Awareness and voluntary testing campaigns were clinics operational 24 hours a day during the entire strike interrupted due to the prolonged strike. This year, two period. The TB cure rate1 and treatment completion rate is campaigns were held and 17,964 employees and 85.1% against the 2014 target of 85% cure and treatment contractors were tested for HIV, of which 10.3% were completion rate. The target for 2015 will remain the same. 1 The percentage of patients who tested positive for TB and converted to test negative for TB. Lonmin Plc 58 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 2: Employee safety and health CHRONIC DISEASE TREATMENT DESCRIPTION Q Chronic diseases prevalent amongst the workforce include HIV, asthma, diabetes, epilepsy and hypertension. Q The Company provides care for chronic and acute illness with channels for referring to specialist care. Q Outcomes of disease treatment are monitored through controlled treatment programmes. STATUS Q There are 4,224 patients (2013: 3,552) registered for chronic treatment. During the strike, 1,065 patients defaulted on ART and 1,746 patients defaulted on chronic medication. TRAUMA AND EMERGENCY CARE WOMEN’S HEALTH DESCRIPTION Q Casualty capacity for emergency cases. DESCRIPTION Q Disaster plan that has been tested. Q In support of women's healthcare and Q Extended support from peers and other hospitals to to better cater for women in medical support the Company in emergency situations. services, speciﬁc initiatives have been embarked on. STATUS STATUS Q Regular emergency drills to test emergency preparedness. Q Established a female-only ward in 2013. Q Ante-natal care provided on-site. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING SERVICE DIETICIAN DESCRIPTION Q The Company provides counselling and follow-up service to employees for medical, social and ﬁnancial DESCRIPTION issues. Q Nutrition is closely connected to health Q Support includes emotional and psychological and wellbeing. treatment. Q Nutrition consultations held twice Q Support service is extended to family members. a month to promote healthy diets. STATUS STATUS Q Two full-time social workers on-site and psychologists Q This service has been introduced and a psychiatrist at the Rustenburg medical centre. in 2014. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 59 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Lonmin Plc 60 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Material focus area: Social licence to operate Overview 62 Key stakeholders 63 Sustainability risks and opportunities 64 Accountability and governance 65 Approach and performance 66 Community development 66 Transformation through social and economic development 72 Human rights 77 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 61 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Overview SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE CONTEXT Maintaining the social licence to operate through securing Q Transformation initiatives to meet the government’s the trust and acceptance of communities is important social and economic development goals as, due to their location surrounding the Company’s Q Ethical business practices that include the operations, they have the capacity to affect Lonmin in commitment to uphold human rights the long term. Improving our social licence to operate is The Company’s community upliftment focus includes achieved through: education, health and infrastructure programmes through Q Stakeholder engagement to ensure social expectations which Lonmin aims to address some of the socioare understood economic challenges of the Greater Lonmin Community Q Community upliftment initiatives to address social (GLC). The programmes aim to provide a pipeline of issues skilled local employees and increased procurement from the local community. Lonmin: relationship building with local government is a key enabler for the social licence to operate Dialogue and relationship building with local government Position Paper on Mining and Indigenous People, which is a key enabler for the social licence to operate. includes a number of commitments to respect and have Community liaison officers and stakeholder engagement meaningful engagement with indigenous people. In officers engage with local communities. Community our local communities, this is driven by the Community members can raise concerns directly with these officers Value Proposition (CVP) process, which aims to identify either formally in writing or verbally at the community community needs accurately through consultation and to offices or during engagement sessions. prioritise these through a collaborative process. The Company’s commitment to partner with communities The content of this chapter provides an overview of the is entrenched in our charter and commitments are initiatives aimed at local communities with a predominant outlined in the Safety and Sustainable Development focus on the GLC, due to the majority of the Company’s Policy. As a member of the ICMM, Lonmin supports the operations being in the North West Province. Lonmin Plc 62 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Key stakeholders COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS (NGOs), The local community surrounding To ensure viability and the operations consists of the Bapo sustainability, socioeconomic NON-PROFIT Ba-Mogale traditional community development efforts need to align ORGANISATIONS (NPOs) and various other communities. with the National Development AND CHURCHES The Bapo are surrounded Plan and regional Integrated Around the operations NGOs, NPOs by formal settlements and Development Plans (IDPs). In and churches play a critical role. burgeoning informal settlements speciﬁc areas, regular engagement They support communities, raise of transient migrant workers takes place with the Department of awareness on social matters and from across southern Africa. Basic Education, the Department support local people in need. These communities provide an of Health, the Department of Trade Lonmin engages with NGOs, assortment of challenges, including and Industry and the Department NPOs and churches through a a lack of formal governance of Mineral Resources. variety of methods including structures in informal settlements formal written correspondence, These departments are all sources and providing jobs equitably to direct communication or informal of partnership, but also provide local community members without discussions. an oversight role on projects infringing migrant workers’ right Through partnership and implemented by the Company to to work. collaboration with this stakeholder ensure alignment with standards The CVP is a means by which and goals. group we can better address many social challenges. to communicate with local ward councillors and traditional authorities, and it facilitates community engagement. This enables the Company to understand their needs and expectations and to ensure collaboration in contributing to the GLC. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 63 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Sustainability risks and opportunities The table below discusses why the following risks to the sustainability of the business have been identiﬁed with particular reference to the social licence to operate, and indicates where more detail can be found in the chapter on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. COMMUNITY RELATIONS RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE Dysfunctional relationships with local government hinder transformation and FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER can lead to operational disruption. UNDER THE FOLLOWING Poor relationships with the local communities as a result of inadequate services HEADINGS and high unemployment can result in civil unrest which could severely disrupt our operations. As many of the employees live locally, any disruptions within Q Community development the communities and poor living conditions can have a direct impact upon our Q Transformation through employees. The failure to deliver social upliftment projects (triggering protests social and economic or violence) and corporate reputational damage can result if communication with development these stakeholders is not managed effectively. The environmental, health and Q Human rights social impacts of mining can be felt by those communities who live and work in close proximity to the operations. OPPORTUNITIES The Community Value Proposition provides the opportunity to improve community engagement to build relationships. MINING CHARTER OBLIGATIONS, OTHER REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE Lonmin is heavily regulated by a vast array of regulatory requirements including FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER the Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Development Act (MPRDA). This UNDER THE FOLLOWING legislation is critical as it impacts Lonmin’s operating licence. Various compliance with other regulatory requirements are also required to be complied with and HEADINGS it is therefore critical that they are understood and that appropriate measures Q Transformation through are implemented to achieve compliance. Alongside these legal and regulatory social and economic obligations and, equally critical, are our social responsibility obligations by which development we earn our social licence to operate in the communities that host our operations. Q Human rights Lonmin’s New Order Mining Rights are conditional upon the performance of obligations set out in the Social and Labour Plans agreed with the DMR and which detail the Group’s responsibilities under the Mining Charter. Failure to meet these obligations can impact Lonmin’s operating licence and can result in deteriorating relationships with our stakeholders, reputational damage, regulatory ﬁnes and other punitive measures. In addition, certain of the Company’s BEE partners are reliant on funding provided by the Company and have signiﬁcant balances owing to the Company. OPPORTUNITIES Lonmin has the opportunity to support government’s social and economic development goals to develop communities and develop a pipeline of healthy, skilled prospective employees. More detail on the risk management approach can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc 64 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Accountability and governance The Lonmin Social, Ethics and Transformation Committee meetings are held with ward councillors to gather is responsible for ensuring that the Company meets community input. Any new projects are developed its commitments in the areas of transformation and in partnership with, or approved by, the relevant community development. municipalities and government departments. The Executive Vice President of Communications and Public Community development is overseen by the community Affairs is responsible for the commitments regarding development department who works in close relationship community development. Transformation commitments lie with the enterprise development arm of the procurement with the Executive Vice President of Transformation. Both department to leverage the substantial synergy between EVPs reports to the Chief Executive Officer. the local economic development (LED) projects and enterprise development (ED) projects. Prior to the introduction of new projects, engagement takes place with members of the GLC and monthly GOVERNANCE TOOLS The table below lists the key internal and external policies, procedures and regulations that apply to Lonmin’s social licence to operate. INTERNAL EXTERNAL Q SLP, which has been Q Mining Charter categories submitted to the DMR for R Ownership approval R Procurement and enterprise development Q Community investment R Mine community development programme Q ICMM principles of sustainable development Q Security Risk Management R Principle 9: Contribution to social, economic and institutional Policy development of the communities in which the Company Q Code of Conduct for Security operates Q Lonmin Sustainable R Principle 10: Implement effective and transparent engagement, Development Standards communication and independently veriﬁed reporting Q Internal indicators and arrangements with stakeholders targets that are reported Q United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles against on a monthly basis R Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Q Initiatives1 R Initiative 2: Empowering R Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not employees and complicit in human rights abuses communities Q Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 53 of 2003 R Initiative 5: Housing and Q Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 5 of 2000 accommodation Q Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of 2002 stipulates requirements for social development through SLPs 1 As laid out by the Board in 2013. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 65 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Approach and performance COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The Lonmin community development strategy is aligned Q Enable community businesses to become a business with the notion of creating social and economic value partner of choice and contribute to the growth of Lonmin and states that community development projects and Lonmin invests in community development projects that programmes should: are aligned to enterprise and skills development, education Q Alleviate poverty and unemployment development, community health and social infrastructure (including housing). Expenditure on socioeconomic Q Enable communities to participate in decision making development (SED) for the year amounts to R69.6 million to achieve greater long-term control over their lives (of which R47,672,897R was spent on community projects and development thereof that are part of the SLPs1). As a result of the prolonged Q Ensure communities are resourceful, skilled and able strike, a number of interventions had to be placed on hold, to take full advantage of economic opportunities but will be continued as per the SLP commitments. SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY EXPENDITURE ! 2013 2014 SED ﬁnancial investment in communities Rm Rm Spend on community education programme (in schools) 6.9 6.4 Spend on skills development (ABET, portable skills training, technical skills, university preparedness and learnerships for communities) 9.1 11.0 Spend on sports, arts and culture 1.3 0.6 Spend on community health programmes (including nutrition programme spend) 5.1 5.1 Spend on local economic development2 32.0 28.0 Donations 2.8 1.0 Supplier development 3.9 5.1 Other infrastructure projects (such as waste management) 10.5 9.9 Overheads 2.1 2.5 3 Total 73.7 69.6 or US$7.9 US$6.64 1 Social and Labour plan dated 23 November 2013: refer to Annual Report and Accounts 2014. 2 This includes salaries and wages. 3 This includes programmes over and above SLP projects for Western Platinum Ltd and Eastern Platinum Ltd. 4 Using an exchange rate of R10.55. Lonmin Plc 66 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate COMMUNITY VALUE PROPOSITION (CVP) The CVP project that commenced in 2013 is aimed at social investment that is sustainable. The Company’s better understanding the impact of the company and the objective is to make a social investment that has a lasting development needs of the community to deliver focused impact beyond the life of the mines. The CVP process comprised three phases. 1 2 3 PHASE ONE PHASE TWO PHASE THREE Research to ensure CVP stakeholder engagement Provide feedback to alignment with the process. A series of engagements with communities selected National Development prominent community stakeholders and for projects. Plan (NPD), municipal other interested and affected parties The successful IDPs and other to understand the socioeconomic outcomes of this contextual frameworks. background, developmental needs and process would result in priorities of the communities. a mutual-beneﬁcial and The two main priority areas that symbiotic relationship emerged were: between the Company Q Those that improve living conditions and its communities. Q Long-term investments that will facilitate the reduction in high levels of unemployment, increase access to health services and maintain sustainable access to basic social services. EDUCATION AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT Lonmin views education and skills development as a In 2014, the Company assisted schools in repairing long-term investment that beneﬁts, supports and carries damaged buildings, electrical wiring and plumbing to the learner through the education value chain to create ensure that learners and educators can continue working employable, skilled individuals. This is a social and a and learning in a safe environment. Major infrastructure commercial imperative as a poorly educated and illiterate work was typically stopped due to the strike and community leads to several social risks, including those subsequent cash-ﬂow constraints. Despite these challenges, of increased unemployment and misinterpretation some infrastructure projects continued. A crèche was built of communication. Skilled community members will at Thlapi Moruwe Primary School in Wonderkop that will provide a pipeline of local employees for the Company beneﬁt 100 grade R2 learners and four grade R2 educators. and local industries providing the opportunity to lower unemployment levels. LEARNER SUPPORT Lonmin provides support to learners in the GLC to improve The Lonmin community education programme provides the quality of education being provided. At a primary support in a value chain of six key areas of education: school level, Lonmin provides a holiday programme for school infrastructure development, learner support, grade four to seven learners to supplement classroom educator support, parent support, school nutrition, and learning. sport, arts and culture1. 1 In addition, the Company provides transport in the form of nine school buses per day, which make an estimated 2,000 trips every month and are available to all the schools in the GLC, at a cost of R7.1 million per year affecting 675 learners per day. 2 The grade a child is in prior to starting with formal schooling. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 67 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Secondly, the Company aims to improve matric1 results, among parents about the exposure programmes Lonmin where 500 learners (2013: 260) from the GLC will beneﬁt offers. The aim is to motivate parents to support their through the Ithutheng Saturday School aimed at top children’s performance such that they will be able to enter learners in grade 12, and the Saturday and holiday the programmes that Lonmin offers. Examination Preparedness and Support (EPS) programme. SCHOOL NUTRITION PROGRAMME These sponsorship programmes also target the tertiary For detail on this programme, refer to page 70 of level through the University Preparedness Programme this report. (UPP), which assisted 13 students in 2014 to transition from secondary to tertiary education through either a SPORT, ART AND CULTURE DEVELOPMENT university or a technical stream. In addition to this, the This year, various teams were sponsored to participate Technical Preparedness Programme (TPP) enables school in different sporting events, including two learners that leavers to achieve N3 accreditation for their technical represented South Africa at a gymnastics event in Mexico. skills within three years of training; and the Miningrelated Skills Programme, provides skills development opportunities to local youth who have reached NQF level SOCIAL IMPACT 4 (equivalent to grade nine) and are seeking employment. The total students on UPP and TPP are 56L. Visit the online clip for feedback by community stakeholders who beneﬁt from these projects. The students in the university stream qualify for the www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/community-clip Company's bursary pipeline, while the students in the technical stream qualify for Lonmin's learnership pipeline. 63% of available bursaries on the Lonmin bursary scheme SKILLS DEVELOPMENT have been awarded to learners from the GLC, an increase Lonmin has identiﬁed the need for speciﬁc skills from 34% in 2011. development interventions and programmes to bridge the gap created by local schools not offering technical EDUCATOR SUPPORT programmes, and school leavers not having the requisite The Company considers Early Childhood Development skills to enter into employment at the mines. These are (ECD) to be a critical part of socioeconomic development offered through one-year skills programmes (Process in the region and the country as a whole, as it builds a Division Exposure Programme and Mine Technical Skills vital foundation for successful education. A signiﬁcant Programme) that are structured to empower school number of local children do not have access to formal leavers with skills suited for positions in the mining education during early childhood, and are cared for in industry. informal day care facilities. Lonmin is currently aware of Graduates of these programmes are able to enter the job 52 such informal day care facilities and provides support market with a quality skill set that makes them attractive in the form of the Ready Steady Learn programme. to the Company as potential employees. This programme provides the carer with basic skills to teach the children the foundations required to begin with PORTABLE SKILLS TRAINING their formal schooling. Sixteen educators are attending Lonmin offers portable skills training for employees and ECD Level 4 accredited training and should ﬁnish by the community members, seeking employment opportunities end of December 2014. outside of the mining industry but who lack formal Mathematics, technology and physical science workshops education. This training especially focuses on artisanal have also been provided to 300 educators for the year trades, enabling entrepreneurial individuals to develop through in-class and off-site training. small businesses. In especially promising cases, these small businesses are connected with the opportunities PARENT SUPPORT provided by the Shanduka Black Umbrellas2 for further Lonmin organised a career day and invited the parents funding and development. to attend. The career day is not only to illustrate career 1 The ﬁnal year to complete in South African schools. opportunities for learners, but also to create awareness 2 Shanduka Black Umbrellas is an incubator that mentors, partners and collaborates with black South African entrepreneurs to create a new era of economic and social evolution. Lonmin Plc 68 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate OVERVIEW OF SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES AND BENEFICIARIES Skills development programme 2014 progress and beneﬁciaries TECHNICAL Technical Preparedness 39 of the 43 TPP students obtained their N2 qualiﬁcations in either electrical, mechanical or Programme (TPP) both. They commenced with their N3 classes in August. Mine Technical Eight community learners are currently placed in the mine technical service teams and Services feedback from the business is that the learners are doing exceptionally well, especially those who were obtained their N1 and N2 qualiﬁcation through the TPP programme. TERTIARY University Preparedness 17 UPP students (13 community students and four Lonmin bursary students) who concluded Programme (UPP) their Cambridge AS level Mathematics examinations in May passed (of the 17 students, three learners achieved over 70%, placing them among the best students internationally; 10 learners achieved 60% or more and four learners achieved 50% or more). Community Bursaries Thirty-nine community members are currently assisted ﬁnancially to further their studies. (Refer to page 42 for further information on the bursary programme.) EXPOSURE Process Division 36 community learners are taking part in this programme. After an initial focus on Exposure Programme mathematics, communication skills and operational skills programmes and training modules, the students have been placed at the concentrators and smelters plants working with production teams. Learners completed a matrix of theoretical assessments and all were found competent. Practical assessments will be conducted from September 2014. Community Learnerships 41 community students are on these learnerships, 54 vacancies were placed on hold due to the strike. Projects affected/on hold due to the prolonged strike Portable Skills Training of 158 community members has been completed. Members were trained on landscaping, cooking and housekeeping. Mining-related Skills The future focus of this programme is to train women Programme Q 242 community women are in the process of being screened, and undergoing medical assessment for training in mining skills Q The training of 60 community members will commence every eight weeks 39 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 69 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate COMMUNITY HEALTH The Company recognises that the health status of the Lonmin encourages and supports volunteer peer community has a direct impact on its employees as they educator and home-based carer networks towards reside in the community. forming NPOs with the relevant structures and systems to be self-sustaining entities. There are currently Community health programmes are managed with nine successful NPOs operating in the GLC run by various partners. Through the 2012 GLC health survey, it 134 community volunteers. was identiﬁed that many of the challenges to health and wellbeing in the community are the systemic outcomes of HEALTH PROMOTION the socioeconomic conditions which characterise informal Health promotion programmes within the GLC are mainly settlements. To address this, Lonmin’s community health directed at school children and school leavers. Awareness programme primarily comprises awareness, promotion campaigns are regularly conducted at all of the high and prevention, and where possible, infrastructure schools in the GLC where sexual health and substance development to alleviate these issues. abuse are discussed. Of the R5.1 million spend on community health initiatives, Lonmin’s TB awareness and contact tracing extends into R1.3 million (2013: R2.8 million) was spent on health the communities by visiting households of employees infrastructure and vehicles. Community health programmes that were diagnosed with TB for case ﬁnding and health are implemented in all the operational areas, i.e. Marikana, education. Health awareness campaigns at the Limpopo Lebowakgomo (Limpopo) and at PMR, as well as in the and Marikana operations reached 3,459 households. Eastern Cape labour sending area of Silindini. NUTRITION AWARENESS, PROMOTION AND PREVENTION Lonmin recognises that nutrition and health are HIV/AIDS inextricably connected and that without a healthy diet, Lonmin held four formal health promotion days that people are more vulnerable to illness and fatigue. focus on HIV, tuberculosis (TB) and sexually transmitted Particularly in the case of growing children, nutrition plays infections (STIs). Volunteers from within the community a vital role in physical and mental development. Lonmin go on door-to-door campaigns to perform mobile has been providing food to the GLC learners since 2007 assessments on community members in their own and has eight food centres that provide food to orphaned homes. 225 specimens were sent for TB analysis and and vulnerable children in the community. These food 608 community members were tested for HIV at a 7.2% centres operate throughout the year to provide a daily positive rate. The prevention of HIV infection in the meal to children who would otherwise go hungry over communities remains important, and to address this, the weekends and holidays. At four of the centres, there are Company runs two programmes to educate members permaculture food gardens where volunteers are trained of the community about HIV/Aids, and offer training to on how to cultivate food and are encouraged to start their volunteers (40) from within the GLC to spread awareness. own gardens. These peer educators are working closely with seven There are food gardens at 17 of the 26 schools in community clinics. Marikana and four of the 12 schools in Limpopo. An The Company also supports 84 home-based carers who annual competition encourages participation among the attend to those who are too ill to leave their homes. schools to establish the best and most productive gardens. Volunteers receive in-service training and medical kits The students learn invaluable lessons on how to grow provided by the Company and are assisted in registering their own food and are able to share this knowledge with as formal carers with the Department of Health. These their families. volunteers provide social assistance to orphans and vulnerable children who have lost their parents to the disease by making sure they are registered to receive support from the government and have the means to go to school every day. Lonmin Plc 70 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS Lonmin is working with various partners to improve Brits ( a town near our operations), computers and security access to basic healthcare in the GLC. This responsibility at GLC clinics and construction of three maternity waiting is shared with various stakeholders, including the homes at provincial community health centres. Department of Health and local government. This year’s Lonmin played an integral part in improving the infrastructure projects were severely affected by the emergency services control centre in Rustenburg by strike. Procurement contracts have been approved for successfully engaging the service of Telkom to install the planned 2014 infrastructure projects, however, due a sophisticated communications system at the control to the strike these will be taken forward to the 2015 centre enabling the public to have emergency services ﬁnancial year. Plans included the purchase of an obstetric respond to urgent situations in the immediate region. ambulance, the refurbishment of the mortuary facility in Health awareness campaigns at the Limpopo and Marikana operations reached 3,459 households. INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT The economic footprint and the CVP project have further BULK WATER INFRASTRUCTURE highlighted the pressing need to continue improving Bulk water infrastructure projects have been identiﬁed to living conditions in the GLC. Local economic development enable access to potable water and sanitation facilities, (LED) investment includes bulk water infrastructure, road with priority focus on the Wonderkop area. Currently, infrastructure, waste removal and lighting to improve Lonmin provides 5,000 litres per day of bulk water supply public safety. in Wonderkop. Water availability is also improved through Although Lonmin is aware of its responsibility and works the ﬁxing of leaks and broken pipes. Furthermore, water to address these needs, infrastructure development from the Lonmin owned reservoir goes directly to the is a shared responsibility between the Company and municipal reservoir and provides water to the various government. As such, dialogues take place between the communities. Over the last ﬁve years Lonmin has invested Company and government offices to ensure that both in various water-related projects of which the bulk water sides contribute co-operatively in line with their skills and infrastructure project at Wonderkop is the most recent. resources, and deliver according to agreed timelines to ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE provide long-term solutions. Lonmin’s road infrastructure project involves the LED expenditure amounted to R28 million in 2014, a construction of new access roads and improvement of decrease of 12.5% from 2013. existing roads to provide access for employees living in surrounding communities and settlements, with a bus and taxi drop-off zone. Construction is underway, providing contract opportunities for local civil construction companies and short-term job opportunities. The ﬁrst link road is under construction. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 71 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate WASTE REMOVAL Mnxekasi JSS comprehensive school in the Eastern To assist communities to manage their waste removal Cape has been completed. The school consists of needs while at the same time creating employment in seven classrooms, a multi-media centre, science the GLC, Lonmin partnered with a waste management laboratory, multi-purpose hall, grade R facility and 1 company, Tedcor , since 2012. This year 3,887 tonnes of administration block. general waste was collected from the GLC and disposed of The brick-making facility in Bapong is in the ﬁnal year of at Lonmin’s permitted landﬁll site. Lonmin aims to hand receiving assistance from Lonmin, and it should be able to over the project to the municipality in 2016 and develop run independently in the coming year. The project reaching an affordable pricing model to ensure its sustainability. It self-sustainability and it employs an average of 32 local currently costs Lonmin R26 per month for waste removal people. per household. LIGHTING FOR PUBLIC SAFETY TRANSFORMATION A rise in crime in Nkaneng and Wonderkop, the community THROUGH SOCIAL AND settlements near Marikana, has identiﬁed the need for ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT lighting to counteract unlawfulness. New installations and The contribution Lonmin makes towards South Africa’s repairs to existing lights have resulted in 11 functioning transformation agenda has a direct impact on its high mast lights in the Wonderkop area (formal and social licence to operate and is managed through the informal sides). Eight more installations need to be commitment to the Mining Charter and good corporate completed by 2015 to reach the total target of 19. Lonmin citizenship. works closely with Eskom to ensure prompt approval, Transformation is promoted throughout the business in connection and supply of the power. accordance with the requirements of the Mining Charter. To retain the social licence to operate, particular focus is UPDATE ON PREVIOUSLY REPORTED LED PROJECTS placed on the Mining Charter ownership and procurement Ipopeng Community Centre in Modderspruit, which clauses that seek to accelerate the participation of HDSAs accommodates a food centre, an arts and crafts centre, in the mainstream economy. government services and office space for three local SMEs, was completed in 2012 and handed over to the community in 2013 and is now operational. 1 Tedcor trains and develops entrepreneurs from historically disadvantaged backgrounds to provide cost-effective, sustainable waste management services in South Africa’s disadvantaged and under-serviced areas. Lonmin Plc 72 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate BEE EQUITY OWNERSHIP BAPO TRANSACTION The Company is required to increase HDSA ownership in The Bapo Transaction involved a royalty for equity swap its prospecting and mining ventures by 31 December 2014 and the sale of the Bapo 7.5% stake in the Pandora from its current holding of 18% to at least 26% as required Joint Venture to a Lonmin subsidiary. This transaction under the Mining Charter. provided the Bapo Community with equity participation of circa 2.25% at Plc level, a deferred royalty payment of As ﬂagged to shareholders in the regulatory release of R20 million per annum payable by Lonplats (Eastern and 30 July 2014, Lonmin announced that it had entered into Western Platinum combined) in each of the ﬁve years binding agreements with the Bapo ba Mogale Traditional following completion of the transaction, and provides Community (the Bapo) in relation to a series of transactions opportunity to participate in R200 million of procurement. which would enable Lonmin to meet its Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) targets. Lonmin also stated its intention EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST (EST) to implement an Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) The EST proposed by Lonmin (which is based on a proﬁtand a Community Share Ownership Trust for the beneﬁt sharing scheme) will result in economic partnership of the local communities on the western portion of our and ownership by our employees and sharing the Marikana operations. All three transactions were intended to responsibilities and involvement that this ownership collectively provide the additional 8% equity empowerment brings. This implementation will ensure that Lonmin which Lonmin requires to achieve the 26% effective BEE receives HDSA equity accreditation of 3.8%. equity ownership target by 31 December 2014. On 26 November 20141 Lonmin announced completion of the COMMUNITY TRUSTS three transactions, which combined make up 8% additional Two separate community trusts have been established equity empowerment: – one for the Bapo Community and the other for the Q Completion of th royalty-for-equity swap transaction with communities on the western side of our operations. the Bapo Ba Mogale Traditional Community ( the Bapo ) Each community trust will hold Lonplats shares and will already approved by shareholders in general meeting. be entitled to dividend payments which will be used for The transaction includes a swap of the Bapo's interest in upliftment projects in the respective communities. To the Pandora for Plc shares and the establishment of a Bapo extent that no dividend is payable in a particular year, each Community Trust holding a 0.9% equity stake in Lonplats. community trust will be entitled to a minimum annual This results in Lonmin achieving 3.3% HDSA equity payment of R5 million escalating in line with CPI each year. empowerment. Q The establishment of the Lonplats Employees Share Ownership Trust (EST) which will acquire 3.8% of the ordinary share capital in Lonplats. Lonplats will implement a proﬁt shares scheme for the beneﬁt of employees through this Trust. Q The establishment of the Lonplats Marikana Community Development Trust (CDT) which will acquire 0.9% of the ordinary shares in Lonplats for the beneﬁt fo speciﬁc communities residing in the western portion of Lonmin's Marikana operations. 1 Outside the ﬁnancial year 2014. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 73 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT Preferential procurement of To facilitate entrepreneurial upliftment the Preferential Procurement Strategy is pursued as a Group priority, capital goods (%) with a focus on maximising expenditure with local 70 Percentage of discretionary spend suppliers and using procurement criteria to support 69 60 64 67R environmental, safety, health and community programmes. Lonmin’s strategic objective is to provide opportunities 50 50 to empowered companies in terms of Broad-based Black 40 Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), female representation 30 and, where possible, to focus on candidates within the GLC. 28 20 It is vital that the businesses surrounding the operations 10 are economically diversiﬁed and ﬁnancially robust. Compliance with Mining Charter targets of 70% services, 0 '101 '11 '12 '13 '14 50% consumable goods and 40% capital goods Target 40% expenditure with HDSA-owned suppliers has been a major component in the preferential procurement strategy. The Company has achieved its targets in two of the three preferential procurement categories and is making Preferential procurement of progress towards achieving the target for the services consumable goods (%) category by the end of the 2014 calendar year. 70 Percentage of discretionary spend 72 Beyond these external requirements, the Company 60 67R operates according to a set of internal transformation 58 targets, which focus on black-owned business (20%) and 50 54 black women-owned business (10%). Lonmin actively 40 41 designates certain contracts to local suppliers based in the 30 GLC. There is growing direction from the DMR to increase discretionary expenditure with companies with a higher 20 proportion of black ownership and especially black female 10 ownership and Lonmin continues to make progress in 0 these areas. '101 '11 '12 '13 '14 Target 50% Challenges during the year related primarily to the strike where, despite an initial decision not to issue force majeure status on any suppliers, this was eventually unavoidable. More detail on the supply chain can be found online at Preferential procurement of www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/evolution-of-strategy services (%) and the impact of the strike on page 18 of this report. 70 Percentage of discretionary spend 1 Black-owned was deﬁned differently in 2010 and a company with more than 5% HDSA 68R ownership was regarded as BEE compliant. However, since 2011 the measurement is 68 deﬁned as a company with 25% HDSA ownership status plus one vote. 60 64 50 55 48 40 30 20 10 0 '101 '11 '12 '13 '14 Target 70% Lonmin Plc 74 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Lonmin has established a small business incubation centre in R1.8 bn partnership with Shanduka, called spend on local procurement the Shanduka Black Umbrellas. Rebuilding Bridges PROCUREMENT WITH LOCALLY BASED SUPPLIERS ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT SHANDUKA BLACK UMBRELLAS Locally based suppliers 2013 2014 In response to members of the GLC approaching Lonmin Total value spent on local in a bid to ﬁnd work, Lonmin opted to create a programme procurement R3.2bn R1.8bn to develop a pool of sustainable businesses within the GLC. Lonmin has established a small business incubation Percentage of discretionary expenditure 42% 81% centre in partnership with Shanduka, called the Shanduka Black Umbrellas (SBU). SBU provides a holistic set Amount spent with suppliers of training including mentorship and business plan based within GLC R337m R427m development as well as practical resources such as office space at the Lonmin community office and IT resources for Number of suppliers registered as vendors from interested GLC members, resulting in a database of robust, GLC 101 423 accredited vendors for the company to employ from. Currently there are 39 entrepreneurs in the small business incubator, with 16 in pre-incubation, ﬁve in residual TOTAL SPEND WITH NEW VENDORS CREATED 2014 ! incubation and 18 in virtual incubation. BADUMELA 2013 2014 Vendors R million R million Badumela Projects, a youth-owned enterprise from the local community Bapong, has a joint venture called Black-owned 34.4 14.6 Concentrate Carriers, a local company that holds a R45 million transportation contract from Lonmin. Non-BEE 40.4 16.8 This company is 100%-owned by GLC youth in Bapong, Other 7.5 0.8 increasing the GLC supplier participation in Lonmin’s supply chain. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 75 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate OTHER ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS TECHNICAL SIGNAGE MANUFACTURING MENTORSHIP MANUFACTURING OF PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT BENEFICIARIES BENEFICIARIES BENEFICIARIES 39 GLC entrepreneurs within Awarding the contract to TM 18 GLC women Shanduka Black Umbrellas Eureka (a GLC supplier) will PROGRESS Incubator. create 12 job opportunities for Sewing machines valued at local community members. PROGRESS R220,000 have been purchased Entrepreneurs are registered at PROGRESS for 18 local women beneﬁciaries, Shanduka Black Umbrellas to be and a suitable building for the The project is complete and set provided with entrepreneurial business has been identiﬁed. for implementation during 2015. skills. BENEFITS BENEFITS Q 18 GLC women will obtain BENEFIT Q Created 12 job opportunities employment Q Opportunity for skills transfer from expert individuals Q Local procurement Q Local procurement and suppliers to GLC Q Promotion of local Q Promotion of local entrepreneurs. enterprises enterprises Employees have again volunteered their time this year to support various community programmes. View the online supplementary reporting piece on Employee volunteering and donations at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2014/ supplementary-reporting/employee-volunteering-and-donations.pdf. Lonmin Plc 76 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate HUMAN RIGHTS Lonmin is committed to providing a working environment Incidents of human rights violations are recorded that upholds international standards for human rights in and followed up wherever possible. In 2014, there alignment with internal values and the Code of Business were 16 reported cases of intimidation and one case Conduct. The commitments contained in Lonmin's Human of discrimination. All the intimidation cases have Rights policy have been incorporated into the Lonmin been reported to the South African Police Service. Sustainable Development Standards. With the support There have been no incidents of forced or child of the Company Secretary, the Chief Executive Officer is labour at the operations. ultimately accountable for human rights matters across all operations. HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE SUPPLY CHAIN All new suppliers are screened, when registering under Lonmin is committed to developing a policy response to vendor database. Compliance audits are also conducted, the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and this year 15 audits were completed. Three cases were Human Rights and ensuring that its grievance mechanisms investigated and the contracts suspended due to unethical are both compliant and effective. Work on this was due to business practices. Contractual agreements with suppliers start in 2014 but had to be deferred as a result of the strike, contain clauses pertaining to human rights requirements. during which time the Company focused on conserving its resources and reaching a solution that beneﬁted HUMAN RIGHTS AND SECURITY all stakeholders. Besides the security personnel employed directly by APPROACH Lonmin, a number of contracted security representatives provide various services at our operations. Appointments Employees and contractors receive information about are subject to Lonmin’s procurement assessments and human rights during training and induction programmes controls to ensure that all security personnel associated and mandatory annual refresher training. These sessions with the Company are trained in human rights and inform attendees of their rights, expectations, standards ethical behaviour. and mechanisms to report grievances or incidents, which include a toll-free ethics hotline service. This year, 35,266 people (including contractors) attended the induction programme, and about 578,220 hours of induction training was provided. PERFORMANCE Lonmin remains committed to human rights through: Q Equality and fair labour practices free of discrimination Q Prohibiting forced or child labour Q Rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining Q Employees voluntarily enter into their employment conditions and this is regulated by legislation. Overtime is restricted to national permitted levels by the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 75 of 1997 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 77 Material focus area 4: Environment Lonmin Plc 78 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Material focus area: Environment Overview 80 Key stakeholders 81 Sustainability risks and opportunities 82 Accountability and governance 83 Approach and performance 85 Climate change 85 Energy security and usage 88 Air quality management 90 Water management 92 Waste management 94 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 79 Material focus area 4: Environment Overview ENVIRONMENT Lonmin mines, reﬁnes and markets platinum group metals, creating economic and shareholder value, but not without environmental impact. Therefore, it is important for the Company to prevent, mitigate or remediate these effects throughout the life cycle and value chain of its operations. Lonmin manages environmental impacts through four environmental strategic imperatives: to maintain the licence to operate, manage resource usage, minimise environmental footprint and reduce the environmental impact. In the South African context water, electricity and legislation changes regarding waste were the most prominent matters raised by stakeholders during the year. WATER The community water protests across South Africa earlier this year highlight the water crisis, the role the Company has in conserving and optimising this resource, as well as the role government plays in providing these services. The Company works towards reducing its use of this resource by recycling. ELECTRICITY Eskom declared a number of power system emergencies during the year, which required large consumers (industrial and domestic alike) to reduce their load, further emphasising the need to take measures to secure energy supply as well as actively implement plans to reduce usage. WASTE Over the course of 2014, several of the pending environmental regulations were ﬁnalised and published by the various government departments, for example the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA). These will add a signiﬁcant administrative and cost burden to the Company. Changes to the Waste Act, where residue stockpiles will now be classiﬁed as hazardous waste, will have signiﬁcant cost implications. The change requires that all hazardous waste sites (waste residue stockpiles, including tailings dams and waste rock dumps) will require a landﬁll liner equivalent to the waste classiﬁcation and disposal site rating determined. This will double the cost of the design and construction of a tailings facility in particular. It is also important for the Company to understand fully the differences, discrepancies and obligations these regulations bring. Lonmin commits to the duty of care principle as deﬁned in environmental legislation. Lonmin: Environmental awareness is created via communication channels e.g. talk topics, newsletters, and by celebrating environmental awareness days This chapter will provide an overview of the signiﬁcant environmental impact, how it is managed, monitored and where possible, mitigated. The information in this chapter is both internally and externally focused and the programmes discussed are predominantly located at the North West operations near Marikana, which is the location of the majority of Lonmin's operations. Following the strike, the challenge is to report the environmental footprint in a manner which is comparable with previous years, particularly energy efficiency. Although there was no production, core equipment for ventilation and water pumps was required and maintenance took place. The Company has provided actual data for the year, and explained the impact the strike had on performance. Lonmin Plc 80 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Key stakeholders GOVERNMENT COMMUNITY INDUSTRY BODIES AND REGULATORS Lonmin shares AND ASSOCIATIONS Government has the task of ensuring that environmental resources The Company engages with with the communities Business Unity South Africa, the equitable access to natural resources is in which it operates. South African Chamber of Mines allowed, and that the direct and indirect Therefore, it is necessary for (CoM) and other stakeholders costs of environmental impacts of the engagement and awareness seeking that the environmental mining industry are managed responsibly. building around responsible legislation is passed in a form that This requires a co-ordinated effort by use of resources, by both promotes sustainability, balancing government departments to set regulatory the Company and the environmental responsibility, in standards and ensure compliance. These community. consideration of business and include primarily the Department of industry needs. Mineral Resources which is responsible for Through memberships in the overseeing the mining industry of South International Council on Mining Africa and the extraction of the country's and Metals (ICMM) and the CoM, mineral resources, the Department the Company is indirectly involved of Energy; the Department of Water in advocacy on environmental and Sanitation; and the Department of issues such as the feasibility of Environmental Affairs. renewable energy programmes to supplement the national Lonmin engages with each of these grid, carbon tax and climate departments regularly through workshops, change. A prominent area of meetings and/or written communication engagement this year is around to support better environmental the reclassiﬁcation of waste management, ensure compliance to streams under the National regulation and to secure the Company's Environmental Management: licence to operate. Waste Act. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 81 Material focus area 4: Environment Sustainability risks and opportunities The table below discusses why the following risks to sustainability have been identiﬁed with particular reference to the environment, and indicates where more detail can be found in the chapter on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. MINING CHARTER OBLIGATIONS, OTHER REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE Increasing environmental legislation for mining and processing requires careful FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER understanding and management to ensure compliance and avoid unnecessary UNDER THE FOLLOWING costs. Various regulatory requirements are required to be complied with and HEADINGS it is therefore critical that they are understood and that appropriate measures are implemented to ensure compliance. Alongside these legal and regulatory Q Accountability and obligations, and equally critical, are the Company’s social responsibility governance obligations by which it earns the social licence to operate in the communities Q Climate change that host Lonmin’s operations. Q Waste management OPPORTUNITIES The opportunity exists to work more closely with industry partners so that environmental matters are sustainably managed on both a regional and national basis. ACCESS TO SECURE ENERGY AND WATER RISK MORE DETAIL CAN BE Lonmin faces potential supply constraints in energy and water together with FOUND IN THIS CHAPTER increased costs in the consumption of these utilities. Electricity supply is likely UNDER THE FOLLOWING to be especially at risk in the next two years until Eskom’s new power stations, HEADINGS which are currently behind schedule, come on stream. In 2013, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa granted Eskom an 8% average increase per annum over Q Energy management the next ﬁve years. Despite these tariff increases being lower than those in the Q Water management previous few years, they continue to be higher than inﬂation. Water availability is particularly problematic in provinces such as the North West and Limpopo where the infrastructural capacity to store and transfer water is limited and where long periods of drought are common. Furthermore, water for mining is increasingly competing with other priorities, such as water for communities, agriculture and other industries. Supply constraints in respect of energy or water could impact upon our ability to operate effectively and meet our production targets. Furthermore, cost increases in respect of these utilities impact our margins. This is then compounded by the imminent implementation of a carbon tax which would place further pressure on our operational costs. OPPORTUNITIES Lonmin engages with communities and other stakeholders and seeks opportunities for environmental management that will be sustainable. More detail on the risk management approach can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. Lonmin Plc 82 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Accountability and governance Environmental management and compliance is managed environmental management system used to identify and by the Lonmin environmental department. Ultimate control environmental impact and constantly improve accountability resides with the Board and the Executive environmental performance. Committee, supported by senior management at corporate All environmental incidents are logged on ISO 14001 and operational levels. registers. Environmental maturity audits were partially At a minimum, the Company seeks legislative compliance, integrated in the ISO 14001 audits. There were ten level while aiming for industry-leading practice and continual three environmental incidents this year of which eight improvement. To ensure this, a precautionary approach related to water discharges (seven at Marikana and one to environmental management is followed, through at the PMR) and two relate to air emissions incidents regular environmental audits. All operations have at Marikana. All of these incidents are reported to the retained their ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, which is an regulating authorities. GOVERNANCE TOOLS The table below lists the key applicable internal and external policies, procedures and regulations that govern environmental management at Lonmin. INTERNAL EXTERNAL Q Safety and Sustainable Development Policy Q ICMM principles of sustainable development Q Standard 12, of the Lonmin Sustainable R Principle 6: Seek continual improvement of Development Standards environmental performance Q Environmental Management Strategy (EMS) R Principle 7: Contribute to biodiversity and Q ISO 14001 Environmental Management integrated approaches to land use planning System, with third party veriﬁcation to Q United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles maintain certiﬁcation R Principle 7: Businesses should support a Q Environmental Management Plan (EMP) precautionary approach to environmental Q Induction including environmental matters challenges Q Internal and external audits R Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Q Monthly internal data reporting, with quarterly sessions with the Safety, Health and R Principle 9: Encourage the development Environment Committee of the Board and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Q Environmental legal compliance audits Q Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Q Environmental performance assessments Act, 28 of 2002 contains environmental obligations Q Lonmin Environmental Management Q National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) Standards and the National Water Act imposes environmental Q Internal indicators and targets that are duties reported against on a monthly basis Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 83 Material focus area 4: Environment GOVERNANCE TOOLS (CONTINUED) INTERNAL EXTERNAL Carbon emissions and climate change Q Voluntary disclosure of greenhouse gas Q Climate Change Response Strategy that focuses emissions and climate change matters on adaptation and mitigation; aligned with the Risk through the Carbon Disclosure Project Management Policy Q Greenhouse gas protocol (GHG protocol) Q Energy Management Strategy (EMS) and SANS 50001 Q Water Conservation and Demand Management Strategy Q Notiﬁed Maximum Demand per Eskom agreement Energy security and usage Q Energy Management Strategy (EMS) Q SANS 50001 Air quality management Q National Environmental Management: Air Q Internal and external audits on all licences Quality Act, 39 of 2004 (NEM:AQA) and all associated by-laws and regulations Q Internal and external audits on emissions veriﬁcation Q Ambient monitoring Q Emissions monitoring Q Atmospheric Dispersion Modelling Q Emissions Inventory Q SO2 and Total Suspended Particles Impact and Emission Reduction plan for the Smelter Q Issued Atmospheric Emissions Licence under the National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act Q National Water Act, 36 of 1998 and all Water management associated by-laws and regulations. Q Integrated Waste Water Management Plan (IWWMP) Q Water Conservation and Water Demand Management Strategy (WC/WDMS) Q Integrated Water Balance (IWB) Q Internal and external audits on all licences Q Monitoring (surface and groundwater, bio-monitoring) Q Water Use Licences (WUL) under the NWA Q National Environmental Management: Waste Act, 59 of 2008 (NEM:WA) Waste management Q Relevant waste by-laws Q Integrated Waste Management Plan (IWMP) Q Internal and external audits on all permitted or Q National Environmental Management: licensed waste facilities. Biodiversity Act, 10 of 2004 (NEM:BA) Q South Africa Mining Biodiversity Forum Biodiversity and land management Q National Biodiversity and Business Q Biodiversity Action Plan Network Q Closure based risk assessment More detail on biodiversity and land use can Q Alien invasive plant species removal project be found online at www.sd-report.lonmin. com/2014/supplementary-reporting/ Q Land Use and Spatial Development Framework biodiversity-and-land-use.pdf. Lonmin Plc 84 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Approach and performance Performance data is given according to the areas As Lonmin’s biggest contributor to greenhouse gases is of climate change, energy security and usage, air the Company’s electricity consumption, detail is provided quality management, water management and waste on energy security and usage on page 88. management. Air quality management is integral to environmental In the context of climate change the environmental management and air quality performance data provides approach and performance are given on page 85. the reader with information on emissions and the regulatory requirements in this regard, on page 90. Performance information on the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions, which covers the Kyoto Protocol Promoting the sustainable use of natural resources e.g. greenhouse gases, depicts Lonmin’s approach to water and the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste are climate change is given on page 86. important to Lonmin. Performance data can be found on pages 93 and 94. Responding to climate CLIMATE CHANGE Lonmin’s approach to carbon emissions and climate change through change is guided by its Climate Change Response Strategy. The strategy identiﬁes and monitors risks both mitigation and and opportunities associated with climate change and includes a dynamic carbon optimisation model that adaptation measures. assists with strategic planning and informs the feasibility of interventions designed to reduce greenhouse gas Driving mitigation through (GHG) emissions. energy efficiency of our Risks associated with climate change include both physical and regulatory issues. From a physical perspective, operations to minimise changing weather patterns and extreme weather events pose a risk to the operations as for e.g. heavy rainfall our release of greenhouse results in water discharges. The increasing demand for gases and adapting to those water presents a signiﬁcant challenge for Lonmin and the communities in which it operates. Water security and signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed for supply has been identiﬁed as a principal sustainability risk and equally a climate change risk. Regulatory risks arise our operations. from the impending implementation of the national carbon tax scheme in South Africa. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 85 Material focus area 4: Environment The most signiﬁcant source of greenhouse gas (GHG) PERFORMANCE ! emissions are the indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) The total carbon footprint for 2014 was generated as a result of the usage of electricity and 1,205,265R tonnes (t) CO2e, 26.8% lower than in 2013 consequently the dependence on coal-based power (1,646,520t CO2e). Lonmin’s emissions are predominantly generation. In response to this Lonmin developed intensity made up of scope 2 emissions (1,142,916t CO2e) which targets for both energy and GHG to minimise emissions. related to purchased electricity. The reduction of emissions Given the dependence on Eskom, the regulatory risk on can be ascribed to the impact on production as a result of the impending implementation of the national carbon tax the prolonged strike. The GHG intensity of 1.4t CO2e per scheme in South Africa is a reality for the Company. PGM ounce has increased 12% from 1.23t CO2e per PGM ounce, indicating that Lonmin was less efficient. The GHG CARBON TAX intensity is measured per PGM ounce, and since the strike Carbon taxation is designed as an economic instrument had an impact on production this resulted in a poorer to move South Africa to a cleaner and greener economy. efficiency. Although Lonmin supports this intention, the execution and implications that this will have on costs and global GHG by location (%) ! competitiveness remains concerning. The impact on Group | 0.09 5.22 | Limpopo Lonmin is twofold. (1,072t CO2e) (62,944t CO2e) Firstly, as a direct cost of carbon taxation PMR | 1.34 (16,183t CO2e) on scope 1 emissions. 93.35 | Marikana Secondly, a pass-through cost from Eskom, (1,125,066t CO2e) which could amount to an increase of more than 7% in the year of inception, over and MEETING REDUCTION TARGETS above any other increases that have been planned. The target is to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 4% by 2017 from a 2012 baseline year. This year the Further to the secondary effects that would be caused GHG tonnes of CO2 decreased by 23% against the 2012 by commodity price increases. The implementation of baseline year which is due to the impact the strike had the proposed carbon tax has been delayed till 2016 over on production. As scope 2 emissions are a signiﬁcant concerns about the impact it may have on South Africa’s proportion of the overall emissions proﬁle, the Company industrial competitiveness. focuses predominately on enhancing electricity efficiency to reduce GHG emissions. While progress was made on the scope 3 emissions proﬁle, it will only be fully completed by 2016. Carbon footprint scope 1, 2 and 3 contribution (%) 0.2 | Scope 3 Scope 1 | 4.9 Scope 2 | 94.8 Lonmin Plc 86 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Emissions 2014 GHG emission category (t CO2e) Calculation Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations that are owned or controlled by Lonmin: Q Mobile combustion (25,418t CO2e) Q Stationary combustion (31,382t CO2e) GHG protocol: Corporate Q Explosives (2,560t CO2e) Accounting and Reporting Q Non-combustion product use (214t CO2e) 59,567 Standard Scope 2: Energy indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed within GHG protocol: Corporate Lonmin: Accounting and Reporting Q Electricity (1,142,916t CO2e) 1,142,916 Standard Scope 3: All indirect emissions that occur outside of Lonmin, upstream and downstream: Q Purchased goods and services (46t CO2e) GHG protocol: Corporate Value Q Transportation of waste generated by operations (508t CO2e) Chain Accounting and Reporting Q Business travel (1,072t CO2e) Standard for the reporting of Q Employee commuting (1,157t CO2e) 2,782 Scope 3 emissions Total carbon footprint 1,205,265R More detail on GHG and climate change assessment can be found in the CDP submission online at www.cdp.net/en-US/Results/Pages/responses.aspx Total GHG emissions (000t CO2e) ! Scope 1 GHG emissions (000t CO2e) ! 1,800 120 1,648.3 1,646.6 1,571.9 100 1,534.4 102.1 101.2 97.5 101.9 1,200 80 000t CO2e 1,205.3 000t CO2e 60 59.6 600 40 20 0 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14R '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Scope 2 GHG emissions (000t CO2e) ! Scope 3 GHG emissions (000t CO2e) ! 1,600 6 1,541.7 1,540.1 1,470.8 5 1,428.2 5.3 1,200 4.5 000t CO2e 4 1,142.9 4.1 000t CO2e 3.7 800 3 2.8 2 400 1 0 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 87 Material focus area 4: Environment ENERGY SECURITY AND USAGE The secure supply of electricity directly affects the ability Lonmin will endeavour to to run the current operations and ensure the safety of continuously decrease our employees underground. Electricity is used to power surface and underground ventilation fans, dewatering impact on the environments pumps, material handling equipment, smelters and that our businesses winding plants constituting approximately 8% of operating cost. The continued constraints on South Africa’s operate in. This can only electrical energy has been identiﬁed as a business risk, be achieved through primarily through above-inﬂationary cost increases with a secondary risk brought about by supply interruptions. sustainable development The approach to energy management is guided by the and actively managing Energy Management Strategy (EMS), within a framework based on the SANS 50001 standard. As electricity is the energy consumption. This most signiﬁcant energy source at Lonmin our primary outcome will be achieved focus is on reducing our consumption. by implementing energy This approach incorporates raising awareness, implementing new strategic technologies and considering efficient technologies. the total cost of ownership of electrical equipment. Lonmin assesses its energy management approach and the effectiveness of the EMS through monitoring the impact initiatives have on consumption and efficiencies. Energy consumption (TJ) and energy efficiency (TJ/PGMoz) PERFORMANCE 7,000 6 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EFFICIENCY 5,30 5,04 6,500 4,73 4,77 5 Projects are being implemented and capital expenditure 4,52 and support is provided from management to meet 6,000 4 targets to reduce aggregate energy consumption per Terajoules TJ/PGMoz unit of production by 8% by 30 September 2017. The 5,500 3 base year for this improvement is 2012. Actual efficiency performance for 2014 is skewed due to the ﬁve-month 5,000 2 strike. Despite the mine effectively not producing, essential 4,696.7R 4,500 1 6,215 6,533 6,433 6,740 equipment, such as ventilation fans and pumps, and services still consumed approximately 50.5% of normal 4,000 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 load. From a gross consumption perspective 72% of yearEnergy consumption Energy efficiency on-year load was consumed. Ring-fencing the months affected by the strike shows that targeted trajectory with regard to energy efficiency could have been met. Lonmin Plc 88 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment Grid electricity consumption (MWh) ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS and efficiency (kWh/t hoisted) In 2013, Lonmin reported several energy efficiency projects that were co-funded by Eskom. Although these 16,000 200 projects reduced our electricity consumption, year-on-year 177.9 reductions cannot be measured for 2014 due to the strike action which reduced usage in totality. As the electricity 12,000 140.6 150 125.1 load was signiﬁcantly reduced during the period the kWh/t hoisted 119.7 Company does not want to proclaim any saving. 000 MWh 129.3 8,000 100 The beneﬁts from the optimised air network projects, and the performance contracting on compressed air, enabled Lonmin to manage its electricity requirement related to 4,000 50 compressed air more efficiently during the strike period. 13,802 14,968 14,856 15,556 11,350 These initiatives and the ability to reduce load on the 0 0 main ventilation fans while maintaining life sustaining '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 conditions underground, were key enablers in maintaining a relatively low base load during the strike period. These Electricity consumption Electricity efficiency projects also enabled Lonmin to gradually increase load during the ramp-up phase in July and August. Energy consumption (TJ) and energy efficiency (MJ/unit tonnes hoisted) Projects that have been completed, and remain active, are shown below. 7,000 742.5 750 Q Full roll-out of optimised air networks at Karee, Rowland and Eastern Platinum operations 6,500 700 Q Energy efficient lighting retroﬁt at Lonmin Platinum MJ/unit tonnes hoisted Division (LPD) offices in Marikana 6,000 650 Q Heat pump roll-out at change houses Terajoules 608.7 5,500 560.3 600 Q 45kW energy efficient fans 546.5 Q Energy efficient lighting underground 5,000 538.9 550 Q Compressed air initiative 4,696.7R 4,500 500 Q 1MW solar plant being planned 6,215 6,533 6,433 6,740 Q Fuel feasibility study at PMR 4,000 450 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Q Focus on further lighting optimisation Energy consumption Energy efficiency It has also become evident that grade and the elasticity Savings per energy efficient of production processes may skew ﬁgures from year to technology (R million) year. However, going forward, efficiency will be reported 20 not only in terms of MWh per PGM ounce produced but also kWh per tonne mined. The base year will remain 19.3 2012 in both cases and a target of 8% improvement in 15 consumption per unit of production will be maintained 15.7 throughout. R million 10 The total energy consumption for the year was 4,696.7R terajoules (TJ), (2013: 6,740TJ), a year-on-year decrease of 30%. 5 1.35 Total energy consumption is broken down into direct and indirect consumption. Indirect energy consumption refers 2.0 0 to electricity supplied by the national electricity utility, Water Compressed Ventilation Lighting Eskom. At 3,994.7TJ, Lonmin’s electricity consumption heating air amounted to 85% of the Company's overall energy proﬁle Technology in 2014 (2013: 5,600TJ). (Direct energy amounted to 702.1TJ.) Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 89 Material focus area 4: Environment AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT Air quality has been identiﬁed as important as it can potentially impact the health of workers and communities Lonmin is committed PERFORMANCE surrounding operations. to reduce gaseous Given the nature of operations, air quality management forms an integral component of the Environmental and particulate Management Strategy. Sourcing of technology with the aim to minimise emissions released to the environment emissions so as not to and maintaining it throughout the lifespan of the activity helps Lonmin in the management of air quality. Lonmin pose an unacceptable understands the emissions sources and releases of risk to the health of all operating activities, and maintains these within an emissions inventory database. our employees and The operations are subject to the regulatory requirements of the National Environmental Management: Air Quality communities or the Act (NEM: AQA), which is aimed at managing air quality in South Africa through regulating both the source and the environment in which impact. A requirement of the Act necessitates relevant we operate. and listed activities to operate within the requirements of an atmospheric emissions licence (AEL). The smelter and precious metal reﬁnery (PMR) have an AEL in place. Air quality objectives and requirements are managed Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions (t/day) through the Environmental Management Programmes 18 and incorporated into the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation process. Through the independently audited and certiﬁed ISO 14001 environmental management system the business units take direct responsibility and accountability for the 12 14.1 management thereof. The Company monitors and audits 11.9 t/day 10.6 the emissions generated by the smelter, base metal 8.5 7.16L reﬁnery, PMR and the laboratory. The ambient monitoring 6 network is continually reviewed and expanded where and when necessary. Capital investment is required by 2020 to ensure 0 compliance to the emission limits set for processing '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 activities. Relevant research into the appropriate Target technology continues, to ensure that the Company meets the 2020 emission requirements, relevant to its processing activities. Lonmin Plc 90 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment PERFORMANCE AIR QUALITY PERFORMANCE SULPHUR DIOXIDE TOTAL SUSPENDED FUGITIVE EMISSIONS EMISSIONS PARTICLES (TSP) FOR THE SMELTER Q The AEL outlines the various Q The most signiﬁcant sources Q Fugitive emissions are those conditions within which the of TSP include tailings dams, that are not emitted through Company is required to operate. stacks, general mining a speciﬁed point source, i.e. activities such as drilling and a stack. Q The majority of SO2 emissions blasting, materials handling, are released from the smelter at Q The ﬁrst phase of the action crushing and screening and the Marikana operations. and implementation plan to from vehicle movement on manage and control fugitives Q Lonmin manages and maintains paved and unpaved roads. was successfully completed SO2 air pollution control during 2014. equipment which effectively STATUS reduces emissions released to Q Target: To reduce ground level Q Dust suppression measures at atmosphere. fugitive SO2 concentrations by tailings dams are continually 40% by 30 September 2014, Q The chemical process involved maintained. against a 2010 baseline year. generates calcium sulphite Q Suppression undertaken on (CaSO3) as a product. gravel roads. STATUS Q Target: to operate below Q Suppression systems installed Q The relevant technology has 16.5 tonnes per day, as per for materials handling and been implemented to capture the licence and manage the crushing facilities. and redirect these emissions reduction strategy. through the stack at 120m above ground level. STATUS Q Lonmin has invested Q Average emissions: 7.16Lt/d R58 million over the past (2013: 11.9t/d), which is lower ﬁve years on its fugitive than the previous year due to the management and capture smelter not being operational as programme. a result of the strike. Q Monitoring and measuring Q Average SO2 concentration have indicated that 50% for 2014: 724mg/Nm3 (2013: of the fugitives formerly 889mg/Nm3). released at ground level Q Conducting research into are now efficiently captured improved technology that and stacked. generates a by-product in the SO2 pollution control process, rather than a hazardous waste. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 91 Material focus area 4: Environment WATER MANAGEMENT Lonmin recognises and acknowledges that water scarcity in South Africa presents one of the greatest challenges to the country and its development. South Africa is rapidly Water is recognised approaching full use of all easily accessible water and the as an environmental few remaining large-scale water resource development opportunities will be challenged to meet forecast demand, resource that requires making delivery and supply of water costly and inefficient. Lonmin’s approach to water management is guided by conservation and its Integrated Waste Water Management Plan (IWWMP) and the Water Conservation and Water Demand Strategy protection. Lonmin (WC/WDMS), which focuses on securing, optimising and proactively manages avoiding contamination of ground and surface water resources. A key tool of the strategy is the Integrated activities to minimise Water Balance (IWB), which is a specialised software that simulates scenarios and risk assessments so that water use and limit the Lonmin can make informed decisions about its water use and manage the effectiveness of the strategy. The IWB impact of our operations is used to inform how best to transfer water from water positive areas to water deﬁcit areas within the Marikana on the quality of surface operations, to increase understanding of water ﬂows, improve efficiency, investigate opportunities, reduce cost, and groundwater. and decrease potable water consumption. From this, the aim is to standardise best water practices throughout the business. Fresh water consumption (000 m3) Precautionary and risk management processes regularly and water efficiency (m3/PGMoz) consider and evaluate water management risks to ensure 9,000 7.5 they are adequately mitigated and proactively managed. 7.04 8,500 7.0 8,000 6.4 6.5 6.2 Water Conservation and Water Demand Strategy 6.1 m3/PGMoz 7,500 6.0 000 m3 objectives: 5.5 Q Secure access to sufficient water to supply 7,000 5.5 our operations and sustain our Life of 6,500 5.0 Business Plan (LoBP) 6,206R Q Optimise our freshwater consumption and 6,000 4.5 use process water more efficiently 8,005 7,912 8,666 8,284 5,500 4.0 Q Minimise the contamination of ground '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 and surface water resources around our Consumption Efficiency operations, with a view ultimately to reducing our closure liabilities Lonmin Plc 92 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment PERFORMANCE WATER MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE WATER CONSUMPTION AND EFFICIENCY WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE Q Freshwater for Marikana is purchased from Q Process water is maintained in a closed reticulation Rand Water. Limpopo operations draw water system. from regional well ﬁelds. Q Lonmin owns and operates seven waste-water sewage Q Water efficiency is calculated as the treatment plants at the Marikana operations, from consumption per PGM ounce produced. which ﬁnal effluent is used as input to operational Q Target: To reduce aggregate freshwater processes. intake per unit of production by 15% by Q Lonmin teams assist with sewage blockages that are 30 September 2017 (2012 base year). brought to the Company’s attention through formal STATUS stakeholder engagement structures. Q Our total freshwater intake from Rand Water, Q Waste-water sewage treatment plants further support Buffelspoort Canal and from the Limpopo local communities, where the Company supports well ﬁelds for 2014 was 6,206,167Rm3 (2013: municipalities in the provision of sewage infrastructure. 8,284,039m³); marking a 25% decrease. STATUS Q This decrease is due to the strike resulting in reduced production and less water Q 20 million m3 (2013: 31 million m3) of water recycled requirements by operations. through closed reticulation system. Q Water efficiency was 7.04m3/PGMoz (2013: Q 35% decrease in water being recycled compared to 6.20m3/PGMoz), marking a 13.5% increase year2013 due to lower production. on-year as production was lower as a result of Q The construction of the Eastern Platinum Ltd sewage the strike. treatment plant was ﬁnalised in 2014. Q Total decrease of 28% in water efficiency against Q A total of 8Ml of community sewage is treated per day the 2012 base year; the production has been through two of the waste water treatment plants. impacted by the strike. Q Tanker discharge points are provided for disposal and treatment from the GLC. DISCHARGES AND CONTAMINATION WATER AND THE COMMUNITY Q Water quality is monitored via regular groundwater and surface water monitoring at the operations, using 211 borehole and 109 surface Q Responsible water monitoring sites. Water quality is compared against SANS 241 Standards stewardship directly impacts for drinking water. Lonmin’s communities, Q Due to the nature of the ore and the manner in which it is processed, particularly the GLC. no acid mine drainage is generated from residue waste stockpiles. Q Lonmin is working in Q The greatest risks of water discharges into the environment are from the partnership with the Local return water dams, particularly during the rainy season. Municipalities to ﬁnd solutions Q Preventative and management procedures have been developed for for community water sources. discharges, with the installation of equipment to monitor and measure STATUS discharges at risk areas. Lonmin is in the process of implementing monitoring devices for relevant facilities to determine the volume of Q The Company worked with discharges. Madibeng Local Municipality to identify areas for underground STATUS water abstraction for human Eight discharges (2013: seven): consumption. Q The majority of the water discharges were as a result of less water being Q Water safety awareness used from water storage facilities by the operations for production as programmes are being production halted during the strike, which resulted in storage facilities undertaken in Lonmin’s being full. Any water being pumped from underground and or rainfall communities to educate resulted in water overﬂowing. community members on the Q Rainfall experienced further contributed to the number of discharges. management and safe use Q All discharge incidents have been reported to the regulating authorities. of water. Q The implementation of the IWMP will allow for Lonmin to transfer water and balance water across its Marikana operations. Q The WC/WDMS and IWMP will allow for maximum water reuse, Lonmin Plc Rand Water reductions and reduce discharges into the environment. Sustainable development report 2014 93 Material focus area 4: Environment WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste management is the process whereby waste is Strive to prevent, generated, handled and transported within the activities of collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and ﬁnally reduce, reuse and disposal. As part of mining and metallurgical operations considerable amounts of general and hazardous waste recycle waste as far as are generated, which can impact the natural environment and surrounding communities if not managed properly. practicably possible. Waste streams are classiﬁed under general and hazardous waste, with waste rock and tailings now forming part of Waste will be managed the hazardous waste stream. Lonmin’s approach to waste management is guided by in such a manner that its Integrated Waste Management Plan (IWMP), which was drawn up in accordance with the new requirements it does not pose an of the National Environmental Management: Waste Act (NEM: WA), and primarily focuses on the reduction in unacceptable risk to volume of general and of hazardous waste streams and appropriate management thereof. This is enacted the environment through the prevention of waste generation, as well as the reuse, recycling and recovery of waste materials already generated. Lonmin assesses its waste management Lonmin developed a Waste Management Standard to approach and the effectiveness thereof, through ensure commitment and responsible waste management determining how and where targets for reduction to waste by implementing the requirements of the relevant disposal are being met; through internal and external legislation, norms and standards, licence/permit ISO14001 audits and compliance to waste procedures conditions, the Duty of Care and Cradle to Grave Principles and legislation and where research and development are striving for continual improvement. making a fundamental difference especially with respect to cleaner production. Challenges regarding waste management relate to the newly ﬁnalised and published environmental regulations and amendment act for waste management, which contain changes that pose potential risk and cost implications New waste legislation to Lonmin. One of the key concerns is the transfer of the Q Waste classiﬁcation and management governance of mine residue deposits (MRDs) from the regulations Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of Q National norms and standards for the: 2002, where MRDs were not classiﬁed as a waste, to being R assessment of waste for landﬁll disposal R disposal of waste to landﬁll governed under the Waste Act, where they are classiﬁed R remediation of contaminated land and as waste and are subject to licensing requirements, soil quality regulations and standards. R storage of waste The Company engages with mining industry peers and Q List of Waste Management Activities, that industry bodies to gain clariﬁcation on the discrepancies have, or are likely to have, a detrimental effect on the environment between the two Acts and the transitional arrangements Q National Environmental Management: Waste for the implementation of these changes. Under the new Act, 59 of 2008 act, all MRD stockpiles are pre-classiﬁed as hazardous Q National Environmental Management Waste requiring stringent and costly management and mitigation Amendment Act, Act 26 measures from the Company. Lonmin is in the process Q National Environmental Management Act, of reclassifying all of its available waste streams and 107 of 1998: Regulations to phase out the disposal options, including an indication of those that are use of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) not hazardous or intended for ﬁnal disposal. materials and Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) contaminated materials As a result of this change to legislation, Lonmin will in future be reporting all mine residues as waste, but still keep the independent hazardous waste streams separated to ensure consistency and comparability in our reporting. Lonmin Plc 94 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment PERFORMANCE WASTE MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE GENERAL WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE Q General waste streams include steel, scrap Q Primary hazardous waste streams comprise calcium metal, industrial plastics, rubber, wood, sulphite (CaSO3) and PMR effluent waste streams. garden waste, tyres and paper. Q Reduction strategies for hazardous waste products are Q The signiﬁcant majority of general waste based on continuing research and development into goes to the licensed Mooinooi GSB landﬁll chemical technologies that could be used to reduce waste site at the Marikana operation, and initiated generation, reduce toxicity and treat hazardous waste an authorisation process for the extension materials and generate non-hazardous products and of this site. waste. Q Research and development work on Q Calcium sulphite (CaSO3) is a residue generated from the prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse capture and treatment of SO2 emissions from the smelter. of hazardous waste (CaSO3, BMR, PMR It is the most signiﬁcant component of Lonmin’s hazardous effluent projects). waste stream and it is sent to a licensed waste landﬁll site Q Target: Reduce general waste to landﬁll by for disposal. 5% by 30 September 2017, 2012 baseline Q PMR produces acid and alkaline effluent waste streams. year. A large portion of the acid effluent is diverted to a recycling plant and regenerated. STATUS Q Target: Reduce hazardous waste to landﬁll by 5% by Q Total: 10,552 tonnes of general waste 30 September 2017 against a 2012 baseline year. generated (2013: 23,095). This is lower than the previous year and as a direct result of STATUS the strike. Q Total: 44,021 tonnes of hazardous waste was generated Q To landﬁll: 5,460 tonnes (2013: 9,577). (2013: 78,844). Q Recycled: 3,739 tonnes (2013: 9,674). Q To landﬁll: 40,097 tonnes (2013: 71,336), a reduction of Q Composted: 288.5 tonnes. 48% against the 2012 baseline year. Reduced production Q Reused: 1,090 tonnes (2013: 122). due to the strike has impacted this ﬁgure. Q Progress on target: Lonmin achieved a Q Recycled: 2,553 tonnes (2013: 4,464.9). 47% reduction of general waste to landﬁll Q Reused: 1,361 tonnes (2013: 3,008). compared to the 2012 baseline year. Q CaSO3 to landﬁll: 25,252 tonnes (2013: 52, 693), Although the strike had an impact on the 50% reduction. average waste to landﬁll, the months not Q PMR waste effluent to landﬁll: 13,431 tonnes impacted by the strike were below the (2013: 16,845), 20% reduction. target. Q PMR acid effluent recycled: 2,522 tonnes (2013: 4,465), Q Just under half of general waste was 43% reduction. Recycled and Reused. Q The PMR incinerator project is in a feasibility and an Q In 2013, Lonmin started a separation pilot environmental impact assessment stage, with an aim of project that is being rolled out at offices, incinerating the hazardous waste stream, to: the BMR and some concentrators – more R implement a waste hierarchy, than 30 tonnes of office waste was R reduce safety risks to personnel, recycled. A good indication that the pilot is progressing well. G GSB: G – General waste landﬁll S – Small landﬁll B – Water balance; this is a negative water balance site and there is little or no potential for leachate from the landﬁll. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 95 Material focus area 4: Environment WASTE MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED) TAILINGS STORAGE LAND WASTE ROCK FACILITIES (TSF) CONTAMINATION Q Ten on-site waste rock dumps. Q Five dormant and six Q Internal inventory of Q Rock dumps are among the operational above ground TSFs. potentially contaminated most visible waste streams land has been compiled. Q Current operational TSFs are from mining. lined with a layer of clay. Q Full land contamination Q Continue seeking viable assessments have been uses for this waste rock. Q Operational dams have grassed conducted on four sites. Engage with the South side walls and irrigation African National Roads systems in place, to reduce STATUS Agency, SANRAL, which dust. Q Remediation options purchases waste rock for road Q Chemical dust suppression developed for four sites. construction. measures have been Q EIA authorisation still pending Q Lonmin also supplies ﬁner implemented at the largest TSF. for the PMR remediation of material to a privately owned contaminated land application. crusher plant. Q Revegetation measures have been undertaken on all of the STATUS dormant dams. Q Total: 85kt of waste rock Q Residue deposits now (2013: 996kt). fall under NEM:WA waste Q Reuse of waste rock on N4 legislation which pre-classiﬁes COMMUNITY WASTE Bakwena1 Highway: 16,2kt of them hazardous, requiring MANAGEMENT waste rock supplied. stringent liner requirements at Q Income from waste rock sold signiﬁcant cost. during the year amounted to R1 million. STATUS Q Total: 6,004kt of tailings Q Waste management extends Q Reduction in environmental into the communities. liability, rehabilitation costs material was generated and ﬁnancial provision. (2013: 11,661kt). Q A challenge in communities Q Codes of Practice have been is littering and it has impacts developed for the management on the health of community 1 It is the road between Pretoria and Rustenburg. of the tailings dams. members. STATUS Q A waste collection project has been established in communities. Q 3,887 tonnes of general waste was collected from the GLC. Q Collaboration with Rustenburg Municipality on waste transfer stations and Madibeng on waste swop shops for the community. Q Regular clean-up campaigns are being held in the community to address the litter. Lonmin Plc 96 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 4: Environment SUMMARY OF WASTE STREAMS Material (tonnes) 2013 2014 General waste to landﬁll 9,577 5,460 Hazardous waste to landﬁll 71,336 40,097 General and hazardous waste incinerated 9 8 General waste recycled, reused and refurbished 13,581 5,094 Recycled 9,674 3,739 Reused 3,844 1,090 Recovered 112 289 Hazardous waste recycled, reused and refurbished 7,508 3,915 Tailings (kt) 11,661 6,006 Waste rock (kt) 996 85 GENERAL WASTE MATERIALS RECYCLED AND REUSED Recycled (tonnes) 2013 2014 Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap 5,070.2 2,979.4 Metal liners with steel balls 216.4 141.2 Concentrator scats and scrap 864.9 460.5 Paper (and mixed domestic recyclables) 53.7 30.8 Rubber 2,296.1 7.9 Plastics 229.8 94.3 Tyres 157.2 24.8 Garden waste 766.9 288.5 Reused (tonnes) Recovered steel 112.5 77.2 Food 29.9 22.8 Wood 3,702.0 990.0 Plastic 0.1 94.3 HAZARDOUS WASTE MATERIALS RECYCLED AND REUSED Hazardous waste (tonnes) 2013 2014 Calcium sulphite (CaSO3) sent to landﬁll 52,693 25,252 PMR effluent 16,845 13,431 Recycled (tonnes) Oil 30 30 E-waste 3 1 PMR effluent (acidic waste) 4,465 2,522 Reused (tonnes) Ash 3,008 1,361 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 97 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government Lonmin Plc 98 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government Material focus area: Relationships with government Overview 100 Key government departments 102 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 99 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government Overview RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT In this chapter, many of the challenges described in the preceding four material focus chapters are brought together and express the intention to work in collaboration with government to ﬁnd sustainable solutions. Throughout this report, reference was made to government at various levels from municipal to national as a key stakeholder. As so many of the challenges are beyond the scope of the Company’s core business, it cannot solve them in isolation. Many are characteristic of South Africa’s broader systemic socioeconomic issues and form part of a national imperative to drive meaningful change in a society. It is important for Lonmin to work with the three tiers of government to solve community challenges in partnership. The responsibility for change is shared between Lonmin and the government. What follows is how the relationships with government play an important role in the material focus areas that have been addressed in the preceding chapters of this report. Lonmin: committed to working with government EMPLOYEE AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS The challenge of improving employee relations cannot be addressed in isolation as it is aggravated by infrastructural and service delivery-related shortcomings affecting employees’ home environments. While the Company’s responsibility to enable development is not restricted to the workplace, making a difference in the employees’ home environment requires a collaborative partnership with government to meet the challenges and build relationships. As a ﬁrst step the Company donated land to the North West Provincial department to build houses (Page 44). Lonmin Plc 100 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government SAFETY AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS Since 2013 Lonmin has been focusing on building relationships with representatives of the DMR to better understand what is expected of the Company and to proactively ﬁx potential unsafe mining conditions before a Section 54 stoppage is imposed. SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS Social and Labour Plans (SLPs) required by the Mineral and Petroleum Resource Development Act (MPRDA) are submitted to the Department of Mineral Resources for approval on a ﬁve-year basis. These plans include a number of initiatives that Lonmin delivers as part of its legal and social licence to operate. To this end, the SLPs for the coming years are focused on transformation and implementing measures to improve living conditions of employees and communities. To roll-out these SLPs Lonmin continues to engage with government to coordinate and align in the provision of social infrastructure. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS Lonmin has over 50 environmental-related licences, authorisations and permits to which it adheres in the daily activities of its operations. Further to this, in the last year alone, the Company has seen 30 amendments to and introductions of environmental management requirements which have both cost implications and governance impacts. Therefore, it is crucial for the Company to build a relationship with government through which the practical implementation of environmental policies can be achieved in a spirit of collaboration and acknowledgement of the Company’s speciﬁc context and challenges. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 101 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government Key government departments DEPARTMENT The mining industry is heavily regulated and Lonmin operates according to OF MINERAL a vast array of government policies and frameworks. In the implementation RESOURCES (DMR) and regulation of these policies, role players from various government departments engage directly with Lonmin on a regular basis. The DMR is responsible for the KEY GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO LONMIN regulation of the country’s mineral and mining resources with the objective of ensuring their optimal use and beneﬁts to the South DEPARTMENT African economy. The DMR is DEPARTMENT OF OF TRADE AND responsible for monitoring and LABOUR (DOL) regulating mine safety, health INDUSTRY (DTI) and environment. LONMIN AND THE DMR The DOL implements a set The dti is responsible for enabling Q Legal licence to operate of policies and programmes structural economic transformation regulated by the DMR regulating labour relations in through the facilitation of Q Social and Labour Plans are South Africa with the objective of investment in trade and enterprise submitted to DMR for approval reducing unemployment, poverty development. The department is on a ﬁve-year basis and inequality and protecting responsible for the administration human rights. of Broad-Based Black Economic Q Environmental Management Empowerment (B-BBEE). Programmes (EMPs) are LONMIN AND THE DOL a mandatory requirement Q All employee contracts comply LONMIN AND THE DTI to operate Q Promotion and support of with labour relations legislation Q Performance against EMPs for fair and equitable terms and SMMEs (Small, Medium and regularly submitted to the DMR conditions of employment Micro-sized Enterprises) in Q Regulation and monitoring by Q All employees have the right the GLC the Mine Health and Safety to collective bargaining and Q Procurement contracts based Inspectorate negotiations can be facilitated on B-BBEE status veriﬁcation Q Transformation and through the CCMA (Commission as part of broader preferential empowerment performance for Conciliation, Mediation procurement framework measured against the and Arbitration) requirements of the Q The Mining Qualiﬁcations Mining Charter Authority (MQA) facilitates and promotes employee development. Lonmin works closely with the MQA to improve and promote training Lonmin Plc 102 Sustainable development report 2014 Material focus area 5: Relationships with government DEPARTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH (DOH) (DBE) AFFAIRS (DEA) The DOH is tasked with ensuring The DBE is responsible for the The DEA is responsible for the all South Africans can enjoy their administration, maintenance protection of the environment and basic right of access to effective and regulation of a sustainable conservation of natural resources, healthcare. education system in which all as well as the sustainable development and the equitable South Africans have access to LONMIN AND THE DOH distribution of the beneﬁts derived lifelong learning and training. Q Regular monitoring and from natural resources. reporting against compliance LONMIN AND THE DBE LONMIN AND THE DEA requirements in the provision Q Monitoring of school Q Environmental Impact of occupational and primary administration in the GLC Assessments (EIAs) and healthcare to the DOH Q Co-investment in school Environmental Management Q Ongoing awareness and VCT infrastructure projects Plans (EMPs) for the operation (voluntary counselling and Q Provision of a daily meal to of listed activities and relevant testing) campaigns for HIV/Aids all schools in the GLC through activities and TB the NSNP (National School Q Legal licence to operate Nutrition Project) framed by compliance to and implementation of various environmental acts pertaining to water, waste, air, biodiversity DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT and land OF RURAL OF WATER AND DEVELOPMENT AND SANITATION (DWS) LAND REFORM The DWS is responsible for the This department is responsible for DEPARTMENT OF formulation and implementation social and economic development of ENERGY (DOE) of policy governing water in rural South Africa and land reform. South Africa. It has an overriding mandate for the provision of water LONMIN AND THE DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND The DoE is responsible for the services by local government. LAND REFORM transformation and sustainability LONMIN AND THE DWS of the energy sector through Q The BEE transaction (detailed various regulations. Q Legal licence to use water information on page 73) operationally through the with the communities were LONMIN AND THE DOE granting of a Water Use Licence authorised by the Minister Q Lonmin's Energy Management Q Integrated Water and Waste of Rural Development and Strategy (EMS) regulated and Management Plan (IWWMP) Land Reform because all monitored against DoE’s Energy requirements to adhere to mineral rights are owned by Policy requirements government, the community Q Bulk infrastructure projects as owns only the surface rights part of human settlements plan Q Community development to address housing in the GLC strategy have to align to the National Development Plan Q All our development plans at local and provincial government level must ﬁnd Refer to the online supplementary expression in the Integrated reporting piece on Research and Development Plans; which we Development in which information aimed to achieve through our is provided on the beneﬁciation Social and Labour Plans programmes. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 103 Governance and compliance Governance and compliance GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The Company has a responsibility to manage the The Lonmin Board of Directors (the Board) is the foundation environmental and social impact of its operations. This of the corporate governance systems and the custodian of is managed through corporate governance based on the Company’s strategic aims, vision and values. It assesses strong leadership and accountability from a Board level, whether the necessary ﬁnancial and human resources are, supported by Lonmin’s corporate values and the Lonmin and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to Code of Business Conduct. meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account Although the majority of Lonmin’s operations are based in of safety, environmental and social factors. The Board South Africa, Lonmin is domiciled in the United Kingdom provides effective control through a governance structure (UK) and has a premium listing on the London Stock that has been established, and through committees to Exchange. Therefore, the Company is subject to the UK assist it. These include Nomination, Remuneration, Audit Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and its supporting and Risk, Social, Ethics and Transformation and Safety, guidance (www.frc.org.uk). Health and Environment committees. More detail on the Board structure and the composition and activities of the At the date of this report, the Board consists of various committees can be found in the Annual Report and 101 members, including the Chairman2, seven NonAccounts 2014. executive Directors (of which four are independent) and two Executive Directors. Lonmin has two female members The Safety, Health and Environment Committee met three on the Board. Board appointments are made on merit, times this year. This Committee's name changed during against objective criteria. Skills, experience and personal the year; the committee was formerly known as the Safety attributes, including independence of mind, are important & Sustainability Committee. This Committee has oversight factors considered when making appointments. For in the areas of safety, health and environment, and assists detailed information regarding the Board of Directors, the Board to meet the commitments of the sustainable refer to the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. development policy. 1 Two of these members are Historically Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs). 2 In the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 we provide information on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. Lonmin Plc 104 Sustainable development report 2014 MaterialGovernance focus area 5: Relationships with andgovernment compliance The Transformation Committee’s name changed this year alignment with the South African Companies Act. More to the Social, Ethics and Transformation Committee. This detailed information on these committees can be found committee met three times this year to monitor, review in the committee reports in the Annual Report and and evaluate progress made in respect of transformation Accounts 2014. and applicable regulatory requirements. The Chief Executive Officer is ultimately responsible for the These committees' Terms of Reference focus on the performance on sustainability commitments. areas that Lonmin views as critical and provide increased GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY LONMIN BOARD SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE SOCIAL, ETHICS AND TRANSFORMATION COMMITTEE Executive Committee Management Safety and Sustainable Development Policy 15 Sustainable Development Standards Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 105 Governance and compliance ETHICS Lonmin is committed to the highest standards of social uphold corporate ethical responsibility. Lonmin is a and business practices and requires that employees and founding member of the Institute of Business Ethics, contractors do the same. Currently, the Company operates headquartered in London. The Code of Business Ethics in accordance with the Code of Business Ethics drawn reﬂects the principles of the International Council on Metals and Mining (ICMM) and the United Nations Global up in 2004, which formalises how all business practices Compact (UNGC). involving Lonmin should be conducted, managed and regulated. The Lonmin Code of Business Ethics can be found online at www.lonmin.com. This document forms an integral part of the employee and Lonmin reviewed its ethics contractor induction training process. Lonmin believes framework. This new Code that good ethical practices reinforce Lonmin’s licence to operate, assist the Company to attract and maintain the of Business Conduct is the best talent, create an environment of trust and should facilitate the sustained success of the Company. Lonmin product of over two years of aspires to embed an ethical culture in the Company extensive industry research, through its corporate values. The Code of Business Ethics outlines the policies related international benchmarking to conﬂict of interest, anti-competitive behaviour, lobbying and internal analysis, and relationships with government, bribery and corruption, insider trading, the receipt of gifts and donations, whistleand aims to illustrate a blowing and reporting of corruption or unethical behaviour. All of the business units are analysed for corruption clear and understandable risks through internal auditing processes. Any incident set of guidelines which of corruption that is exposed through internal auditing or reported with sufficient detail by other stakeholders will further improve the is investigated and could result in dismissal, contract implementation of ethics termination and/or legal action. The policy with regard to bribery is in line with the Bribery Act 2010, which came awareness and behaviour into effect in the UK in 2011. across the business. Though The Company operates a 24-hour Ethics Hotline that is available to all employees and community members this had been scheduled for to report ethical grievances through formal Company channels. The hotline is operated by an independent implementation during the third party and the call logging process is kept strictly current year, we were unable anonymous to protect individual rights and encourage the true spirit of whistle-blowing. Each call received is to focus the attention and logged and addressed to the relevant investigations unit. Appropriate steps are taken to ultimately determine resources required on this culpability and issue disciplinary action. project. Our commitment to sound ethical business conduct includes our membership of international bodies that Lonmin Plc 106 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin_8547-6-V9_15Dec_KH MaterialGovernance focus area 5: Relationships with andgovernment compliance The Lonmin Code of Business Ethics forms an integral part of the employee and contractor induction training process PERFORMANCE In 2014, 170 cases of unethical behaviour were Numbers1 2014 investigated, including 53 cases carried forward from 2013. All reported cases are investigated according to a Number of whistle-blowing incidents logged through hotline 45 formal Code of Conduct for Investigations. Of these cases 71 are still pending, 55 were unfounded, and 44 were Number of cases of unethical behaviour concluded. Cases concluded are those that have resulted reported 72 in either dismissals, ﬁnal warnings, counselling or contract termination. Percentage of business units2 analysed for corruption risks 100% UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR CASES INVESTIGATED AND CONCLUDED 1 53 cases were carried forward from 2013. 2 These are Mining, Concentrating, Smelting and Reﬁning, Shared Services, Management Reason 2014 and Marketing Services. Corruption 0 Company procedure violations 8 Fraud 17 Job selling 0 Vendor investigations 3 Intimidation 16 Total 44 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 107 Governance and compliance COMPLIANCE Lonmin seeks to align its actions with the recommendations and requirements of various international standards related to sustainable development and ethical business practices. This includes voluntary membership of various external organisations, initiatives and social charters as well as active participation in national and international mining organisations. Those of strategic importance are listed below. The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an international, not-for-proﬁt organisation that provides a global system for the measurement, disclosure, management and sharing of vital CDP environmental information. Lonmin has submitted a CDP report for our carbon emissions for the eighth consecutive year in 2014 disclosing our carbon emissions for ﬁnancial year 2013. Lonmin supports the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) through our membership of the ICMM, a global standard that promotes openness and accountable management of EITI revenues from natural resources. The Company pays tax fully and properly in all jurisdictions in which it operates as a matter of policy. More detail on Lonmin’s tax affairs can be found online at https://www.lonmin.com/media_centre/. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international organisation that promotes the use of sustainability reporting as a way for organisations to become more sustainable and contribute to GRI G4 sustainable development. This year our Sustainable Development Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines. The ICMM was founded in 2001 to improve sustainable development performance in the mining and metals industry. As a member and active contributor of the ICMM, Lonmin shares ICMM information with industry peers about our programmes to encourage mutual learning and is indirectly involved in environmental advocacy on issues. Our 15 Sustainable Development Standards are fully aligned with the ICMM Principles and Position Statements. External assurance of our Sustainable Development Report is in line with the ICMM’s Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure. The Broad-Based Socioeconomic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry MINING (the Mining Charter) was developed and introduced with the goal of redressing the imbalances CHARTER created by apartheid and creating a globally competitive mining industry. This was enacted through a scorecard consisting of nine categories aimed at driving transformation across the industry. The Mining Charter applies to all holders of mining licences issued under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of 2002. The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative to help business align with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Lonmin UNGC recognises the importance of these principles and endorses them across the various areas of our business. More detail on our memberships can be found online at www.lonmin.com/2014sdr. Lonmin Plc 108 Sustainable development report 2014 Independent Assurance Report ASSURANCE To support the integrity of our measurement and data Q External Assurance: Assurance over our Sustainable management systems, the Audit and Risk Committee Development reporting provides the reader with an oversees internal audit and external assurance procedures objective and impartial opinion over the balance and for the Company. These procedures set out the internal veracity of the performance data presented. This management and controls of key risks, and enhance the is further motivated by our ICMM membership and reliability of information used by investors and other ensuring best practice. A range of assurances are stakeholders. provided by our external assurance providers, KPMG, and other external specialists which continue to add Q Internal Audit: The Internal Audit department reports value by identifying areas for improvement in our data directly to the Chief Financial Officer and to the collection processes and control. Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and is responsible for providing objective assurances on key risks and key internal controls in alignment with the risk management framework. The ﬁndings and recommendations from Internal Audit are used by management to devise and implement corrective action plans that are monitored and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee. Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 109 Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT ON SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INFORMATION TO THE DIRECTORS OF LONMIN PLC REPORT ON SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected sustainability information as described below and presented in the 2014 Sustainable Development Report for Lonmin Plc (Lonmin) for the year ended 30 September 2014 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. SUBJECT MATTER AND RELATED ASSURANCE SUBJECT MATTER (C) TO (F) The subject matter of our engagement and related In compliance with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic assurance is set out in the tables below: Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining and SUBJECT MATTER (A) AND (B) Minerals Industry (BBSEEC) and related Scorecard: BBSEEC (2002) and related scorecard (2004) In compliance with the International Council of Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework: c) Reasonable Assurance (R) Unit Page Assurance Procedure (ICMM Assurance Procedure), Percentage of women employees Subject Matter 4 (selected performance data) and in in mining (WIM) Percentage 43 accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines: Percentage of women employees at the mine (WAM) Percentage 43 ICMM Subject Matter 4 Total EE in Management <incl. white women> Percentage 43 a) Reasonable Assurance (R) Unit Page Total HDSA’s in Management <excl. Number of new cases of noise induced No. of white women> Percentage 43 hearing loss (NIHL) diagnosed cases 56 Number of cases of noise induced No. of Community Development: Rand hearing loss (NIHL) compensated cases 56 Value Spend on SLP projects Rand Value 66 Number of contractor and Employee No. of Fatalities people 54 d) Limited Assurance (L) Unit Page Employee and Contractor Lost Time Number of GLC and non GLC UPP & No. of Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Ratio 54 TPP learners people 68 Total Fresh Water consumption m3 92 Number of GLC and non GLC No. of Bursaries provided people 42 Direct and Indirect Energy TJ 88 Number of GLC and non GLC No. of Total scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse graduates provided people 42 Gas (GHG) emissions as per deﬁned boundary tCO2e 87 Total number of learners (internal 18.1 and external 18.2) in the No. of b) Limited Assurance (L) Unit Page learnership programme people 42 Number of new cases of TB diagnosed No. of and treated cases 58 SO2 Emissions (against Atmospheric Emissions Licence) T/day 90 Lonmin Plc 110 Sustainable development report 2014 Independent Assurance Report Amendment to BBSEEC (2010) and related scorecard Board for Accountants, which includes independence and (2010) other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due e) Reasonable Assurance (R) Unit Page care, conﬁdentiality and professional behaviour. Procurement spend from % Capital 74 In accordance with International Standard on Quality BEE entities (in line with the Control 1, KPMG Services Proprietary Limited maintains % Services 74 mining charter categories of a comprehensive system of quality control including capital goods, services and % Consumdocumented policies and procedures regarding consumable goods) ables 74 compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory f) Limited Assurance (L) Unit Page requirements. HRD expenditure as percentage of total annual payroll (excl. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Mandatory skills development levy) Percentage 41 Our responsibility is to express assurance conclusions on the subject matter set out above. We conducted our DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES engagement in accordance with the International Standard The Directors are responsible for the selection, preparation on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), Assurance and presentation of the selected sustainability information Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical in accordance with the reporting criteria set out in Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing the following paragraph. This responsibility includes and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires the identiﬁcation of stakeholders and stakeholder that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain requirements, material issues, for commitments with assurance about whether the selected sustainability information is free from material misstatement. respect to sustainability performance and for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control An assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 relevant to the preparation of the Report that is free from involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the quantiﬁcation of the selected sustainability information and related disclosures. The nature, timing and extent The following reporting criteria were used in the of procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s preparation and presentation of the respective subject judgement, including the assessment of the risks of matter: material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In a) & b), Lonmin’s reported performance during the given making those risk assessments we considered internal reporting period for the identiﬁed material sustainable controls relevant to Lonmin’s preparation of the selected development risks and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter performance data. A limited assurance engagement is 4): the GRI G4 Guidelines. substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance c) & d), selected mining charter elements: the BBSEEC engagement in relation to both risk assessment (2002) and related Scorecard (2004). procedures, including an understanding of internal e) & f), selected mining charter elements: the Amendment control, and the procedures performed in response to to the BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards appropriateness of quantiﬁcation methods and reporting Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 111 Independent Assurance Report policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. CONCLUSIONS In relation to the Report for the year ended Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing 30 September 2014: the procedures listed above we: (a) On the selected performance data on which we Q Interviewed management and senior executives are required to express reasonable assurance in to obtain an understanding of the internal control accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines environment, risk assessment process and information In our opinion, the selected performance data identiﬁed systems relevant to the sustainability reporting in a) above is prepared, in all material respects, in process; accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Q Inspected documentation to corroborate the (b) On the selected performance data on which we are statements of management and senior executives in required to express limited assurance in accordance our interviews; with the GRI G4 Guidelines Q Tested the processes and systems to generate, Based on our work performed and the evidence we collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that sustainability information; causes us to believe that the selected performance Q Performed a controls walkthrough; data identiﬁed in b) above is not prepared, in all Q Inspected supporting documentation and performing material respects, in accordance with the GRI G4 analytical procedures on a sample basis to evaluate Guidelines. the data generation and reporting processes against (c) On the selected mining charter elements in compliance the reporting criteria; with the BBSEEC (2002) and related Scorecard (2004) on Q Undertook site visits to Lonmin’s Marikana operations which we are required to express reasonable assurance (which represents the most material contribution to In our opinion, the selected mining charter elements the selected sustainability performance information identiﬁed in c) above are prepared, in all material for ICMM Subject Matter 4 and for selected elements respects, in compliance with the BBSEEC (2002) and from the Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment related Scorecard (2004). Charters 2002 and 2010 and related Scorecards); and (d) On the selected mining charter elements in compliance Q Evaluated whether the selected sustainability with the BBSEEC (2002) and related Scorecard (2004) information presented in the Report is consistent with on which we are required to express limited assurance our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability Based on our work performed and the evidence we management and performance at Lonmin. have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient causes us to believe that the selected mining charter and appropriate to provide a basis for our reasonable elements identiﬁed in d) above are not prepared, in assurance opinions on the selected sustainability all material respects, in compliance with the BBSEEC information in a), c) and e). (2002) and related Scorecard (2004). The procedures performed in a limited assurance (e) On the selected mining charter elements in compliance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent with the Amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, Scorecard (2010) on which we are required to express the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance reasonable assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that In our opinion, the selected mining charter elements would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable identiﬁed in e) above are prepared, in all material assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a respects, in compliance with the Amendment to the reasonable assurance opinion about whether the selected BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). sustainability information set out in b), d) and f) has been (f) On the selected mining charter elements in compliance prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the with the Amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related relevant criteria. Scorecard (2010) on which we are required to express limited assurance Lonmin Plc 112 Sustainable development report 2014 Independent Assurance Report Based on our work performed and the evidence we have in (a) and (f) set out in our ‘Report on Selected obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes Sustainability Information’ above, nothing has come us to believe that the selected mining charter elements to our attention that causes us to believe that: identiﬁed in f) above are not prepared, in all material 1. Lonmin’s sustainability policies are not aligned respects, in compliance with the Amendment to the with the ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements. 2. Lonmin has not reported material sustainable REPORT ON THE ICMM ASSURANCE PROCEDURE development risks and opportunities based on a review We are required to report our ﬁndings on the International of its business and the views and expectations of its Council of Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable stakeholders. Development Framework: Assurance Procedure (ICMM 3. Lonmin has not implemented systems and approaches Assurance Procedure) in respect of: to manage its material safety risks and opportunities. 1 The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies to the ICMM 10 Sustainable Development (SD) Principles and OTHER MATTERS any mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position The maintenance and integrity of the Lonmin website is Statements (ICMM Subject Matter 1). the responsibility of Lonmin management. Our procedures 2 The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable did not involve consideration of these matters and, development risks and opportunities based on a review accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes of its business and the views and expectations of its to either the information in the Report or our independent stakeholders (ICMM Subject Matter 2). assurance report that may have occurred since the initial 3 The implementation of systems and approaches that date of presentation on the Lonmin website. Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks Our report does not extend to any disclosures or and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter 3). assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in the Report. DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for: RESTRICTION OF LIABILITY Q The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the to the ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory conclusions on the subject matters in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements. (f) in our ‘Report on Selected Sustainability Information’ Q The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable together with ﬁndings on 1, 2 and 3 in our ‘Report on the development risks and opportunities based on a review ICMM Assurance Procedure’ to the Directors of Lonmin in of its business and the views and expectations of its accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no stakeholders. other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any Q The implementation of systems and approaches that party other than Lonmin, for our work, for this report, or Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks for the conclusions we have reached. and opportunities. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Our engagement included reporting on the ICMM KPMG Services Proprietary Limited Assurance Procedure in respect of 1, 2 and 3 above based Per PD Naidoo on the knowledge obtained in our evidence gathering Director procedures in our assurance engagement on the subject Johannesburg matters in (a) and (b) set out in our ‘Report on Selected 15 December 2014 Sustainability Information’ above. FINDINGS Based on our evidence gathering procedures in our assurance engagement for the year ended 30 September 2014 on the subject matter Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 113 Key Performance Statistics KEY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS Group Group Group Group Group Assured Production Measurement 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 data PGMs produced oz 1,314,772 1,446,662 1,349,802 1,336,109 882,094 Employees Employees Number 23,915 27,796 28,230 28,379 28,276 Contractors Number 9,131 9,564 8,293 10,042 10,016 HDSAs, including white women, employed in management on a permanent basis Percentage 43.3 46.5 49.4 47.2 48.4 R Women employed in mining 1 Percentage 3.22 4.33 5.11 5.09 5.35 R Women at the mine 2 Percentage 7.04 7.45 8.15 8.00 8.18 R Employee turnover rate Percentage 6.6 10.6 6.2 6.1 5.0 People attending ABET Number 793 6033 9424 954 473 Occupational health and safety: employees and contractors Fatalities Number 3 6 2 3 1 R Lost time injury frequency rate Rate 5 5.87 4.71 4.16 3.50 3.34 R New NIHL cases diagnosed – employees Number 40 35 42 48 66 R NIHL cases compensated – employees Number 28 17 33 36 49 R Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases Number 528 545 527 446 436 L HIV/Aids related deaths Number 88 139 104 99 97 Voluntary counselling and testing conducted (VCT) Number 39,0066 31,6666 46,9456 17,682 17,964 Patients on ART Number 1,349 2,022 2,510 3,288 3,666 Patients on the wellness programme Number 498 526 657 690 637 Environment Total fresh water consumption m3 8,005,092 7,912,595 8,667,896 8,284,039 6,206,167 R 3 Total fresh water intake efficiency m /PGMoz 6.09 5.47 6.42 6.20 7.04 Electricity MWh 1,380,218 1,496,841 1,485,630 1,555,651 1,135,000 Electricity efficiency MWh/PGMoz 1.05 1.03 1.10 1.16 1.28 Total direct and indirect energy Terajoules 6,215 6,533 6,433 6,740 4,696.7 R Energy efficiency GJ/PGMoz 4.73 4.52 4.77 5.04 5.32 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Kt CO2e 1,534 1,648 1,572 1,646 1,205 R 7 Greenhouse gas efficiency t CO2-e/PGMoz 1.17 1.14 1.16 1.23 1.4 Tailings disposed to tailings facilities8 Kilotonnes 11,038 11,820 10,666 11,661 6,006 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps8 Kilotonnes 1,602 1,772 1,482 996 85 Hazardous waste disposed of to landﬁll and incineration Tonnes 50,562 72,052 77,826 71,336 40,097 General waste to landﬁll Tonnes 9,595 9,744 10,271 9,577 5,460 Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 14.1 10.58 8.5 11.9 7.16 L Communities Rand value spent on SLP projects Rand 28,175,000 37,980,955 39,743,935 38,661,225 47,672,897 R 1 Women employed in mining represents those employed in core mining operations. 2 Women employed at the mine represents all women employed at our operations. 3 After audits conducted on ABET for our SLP reporting we identiﬁed that we had under reported the ABET ﬁgure in 2011 Sustainable Development report as 601. The correct ﬁgure is 603. 4 The ﬁgure includes community members as well. 5 Injuries per million hours worked. 6 These ﬁgures include VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2,000 tests a month), the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees tested twice. 7 In the 2013 Sustainable Development Report incorrectly referred to kilotonnes CO2e/PGMoz; the measurement unit which aligns to the units reﬂected is tonnes of CO2e/PGMoz. 8 In the 2013 Sustainable Development Report incorrectly referred to tonnes; the measurement unit which aligns to the units reﬂected is kilotonnes. Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (R), Limited (L) Lonmin Plc 114 Sustainable development report 2014 Lonmin Charter Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. MISSION WE ARE OUR VALUES Q To grow and build our portfolio SUCCESSFUL ZERO HARM of high quality assets WHEN Q We are committed to Zero Harm Q To deliver the requirements of to people and the environment Q Our employees live and the South African broad-based work safely and experience socio-economic Mining Charter INTEGRITY, HONESTY AND TRUST the personal satisfaction and we welcome the opportunity Q We are committed ethical people that comes with high to transform our business who do what we say we will do. performance and recognition Q To build a value-based culture, Q Our shareholders are TRANSPARENCY which is founded on safe work, realising a superior total Q Open, honest communication and continuous improvement, return on their investment free sharing of information common standards and and support our corporate procedures, community sustainability values RESPECT FOR EACH OTHER involvement and one that rewards employees for high performance Q The communities in which Q Embracing our diversity enriched we operate value our by openness, sharing, trust, relationships teamwork and involvement Q We are meeting our HIGH PERFORMANCE commitments to all business Q Stretching our individual and partners and our suppliers, team capabilities to achieve contractors, partners and innovative and superior outcomes customers support our Charter EMPLOYEE SELF-WORTH Q To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem Brian Beamish Ben Magara Chairman Chief Executive Officer Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report 2014 115 GREYMATTER & FINCH # 8547
