UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 DECEMBER STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henrik Marstrand CEO & Founder, Mater A/S. Mater Mater is a Danish design brand with a strong vision to create timeless and beautiful design based on an ethical business strategy. Mater is committed to creating ethical, sustainable and socially responsible design in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In Mater we treat our employees, customers and suppliers with respect, humility and dignity. In collaboration with our supply chain we try to develop more sustainable, safe and secure methods in the production. Through our way of thinking we enforce production of recycling materials and believe that value lies within the story and history of our products. It is our mission that every single product at Mater meets the requirements of sustainable production.  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Vision rights; and At Mater we have taken an active role in the work and compliance with human rights as described in UN Global Compact – this is part of the company Code of Conduct. We respect human rights  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are as absolute, and strive to ensure all humans in our determination to provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. Mater will never voluntarily be complicit in human or labour not complicit in human rights abuses. rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where our reach allows. Progress Mater has initiated a project linking business’ interests and the productive integration of people with disabilities in the labour market. In collaboration with “Glad Design” we look into a series  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should of pillows, all oeko-tex certified to ensure, that no harmful substances are to be found in the uphold the freedom of association product. The series of cushions provides a substance to our way of thinking, and it is something and the effective recognition of the we wish to accomplish with every product we launch. It feeds profits back to a company that right to collective bargaining; supports hiring of people with disabilities in a constructive way – not by a passive donation but with active work, thereby supporting a company that allows room for being different beyond  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they normal standards for social responsible companies. are not complicit in human rights Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental abuses. improvements, has proven to be of great importance to our local community and we strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact  PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all at the production sites. forms of forced and compulsory labour; Results We encourage our manufacturers to support the principles of the 'United Nations Global  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of Compact' within they possible reach. We have experienced continuous improvements, discrimination in respect of economically, socially, and environmentally. employment and occupation. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS SELECT PROJECTS SUSBIZ INDIA Through workshops, individual counseling and close dialogue this program provided the Indian suppliers a wide range of improvements in labor standards, health and the environment. The project was conducted from 2007 to 2010 in collaboration with The Danish Federation of small and medium sized enterprises and Crafts Council. We still try to enforce and the project's main objective to strengthen CSR work with our suppliers – see the next selected project. BRICpro Maters overall strategy place great emphasis on ethical criteria and since the project SUSBIZ INDIA is no longer in progress we have looked for a responsible partner to facilitate and build responsible operation in the countries where we manufacture our products. This led us to BRICpro who assist companies in creating ethical business relations with socially responsible manufacturing units, factories and workshops in emerging markets. They are now facilitating the development of selected products by Mater. Not at last through BRICpro, Mater adopts sustainable production practices supporting employees, local craft traditions and the environment. Read more: http://bricpro.com/about/ CUSHIONS At ‘Glad Design’ handicapped and non-handicapped AYUSH KASLIWAL people work side by side. In the cross field between Designer for Mater spontaneity and graphical craftsmanship, a special magic is created. ‘Glad Design’ works to spread joy through patMore than creating jobs in India, Ayush, respects the terns, graphics and illustrations. The studios impulsive, traditional nature and culture of India. He provides colorful and non-filtered design is not just eye candy it written guide-lines on labour standards, health, safety is a protest towards the straight lines, rigid forms and and environment to the vendors in the local language. Progress is based on supervision and education instead design without passion that surrounds us. of demands on compliance.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary ENVIRONMENT approach to environmental Vision challenges; Mater is a Danish design brand with a strong vision to create timeless and beautiful design based on an ethical business strategy. Mater combines exclusive high-end design  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake with working methods that support people, local craft traditions and the environment. initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Progress Sustainability is a core element in every aspect of our production processes. We seek to find innovative ideas bringing sustainable design to every element in our business.  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the Consequently, we actively support the international recognized non-profit development and diffusion of organization FSC™. In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees than the forest can environmentally friendly reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ technologies. guarantees that flora and fauna are protected and that the people who work in the forest are guaranteed education, safety and a fair pay. Sustainably harvested natural mango wood is grown and tended for, and once the productive life of the tree is over, it is cut down and another one is planted. Incidentally, mango, as a fruit is widely consumed across the country hence the wood is plentiful. Danish law requires us to manage our waste in an environmentally sound manner. It also imply that waste must be sorted so that the most can be recovered and recycled. We try to adopt these thoughts to not only our products but also suppliers, as there are no such rules in India, China and Vietnam. We will continue to work with our partners (customers, suppliers, authorities) to obtain and develop the most optimal environmental products and services. Results Today almost all our products are characterized by sustainability, whether it is through certified materials, recycling, fair trade or staining done by substances of plant origin. We are also looking into developing products of biodegradable material. See selected products and history on sustainability on the next page or follow this link: http://www.mater.dk/Files/mater_catalogue_2013_digital_.pdf ENVIRONMENT SELECT PROJECTS THE MILL TABLE THE BOWL TABLE SERIES The wooden surface is from old mills and other wooden Sustainably harvested natural mango wood is used in structures that are being torn down to make place for new the production and the legs detach for ease of factories. While we cannot effect the restoration and transportation, reducing the cost and the energy spent preservation of old structures, we can at least make sure that on transporting material from various parts of the the remains are put to good use, in a new and sustainable form, world. The paint is lead free water based PU lacquers, a form that celebrates history, and can take the object into the thereby respecting the local environment. future. The table brings together the noble materials – the legs is cast recycled aluminium, and wood in an elegant and strikingly modern aesthetic completely bared down to the most essential elements without compromising the structure. MATER SIDEBOARD AND OUR BOX SYSTEM. HIGH STOOL The mango cabinet is made from the wood of a fruit tree, making it sustainable. It is grown and tended for, and once the Maters internationally recognized wooden High Stool is productive life of the tree is over, it is cut down and another now labelled and manufactured in FSC™ certified one is planted. Incidentally, mango, as a fruit is widely consumed wood. FSC™ stands for Forest Stewardship Council across the country hence the wood is plentiful. and is the label for responsible forestry.  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should ANTI-CORRUPTION work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Vision Mater has a zero-tolerance towards corruption. In building ethically viable communities any form of bribery. bribery and corruption must be sought eliminated. Progress We recognise the risks of corruption in our supply chain, and as a consequence of this, we continue to work closely with our suppliers in India, Vietnam, and China to eliminate any form of misconduct, UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUPPORT including extortion and bribery. Mater chose to support the UN Global Compact, economical, although this is Results optional for companies of our size. We We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zerodo this because we believe that the tolerance. initiative helps companies understand the context of and work with social responsibility.
