COP REPORT 2014 SOPHARMA AD THE BULGARIAN PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY www.sopharma.bg COP REPORT 2014 Statement of continued support 10.04.2014 Dear stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Sopharma AD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ognian Donev, CEO COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Pharmaceutical production in Bulgaria at a new level Newly Build Solid Dosage Forms Factory according to GMP, GLP и GDP and ecologic requirements start its working process! This plant gives a new level of pharmaceutical manufacturing in Bulgaria. The new plant is the basis on which the Company will upgrade. Implementation of new technologies and products still lies ahead, which will depend on the development activity for which there will be much more funds available after the large investment in the plant. Key technological engineering and innovative features of the Facility All machines have European certificates; they are energy-efficient, computer-controlled and record the whole process, which warrants uncompromised product quality. Production facilities are manufactured by leading European manufacturers Bosch, Fette, Uhlmann, LBBohle, with advanced electronic control and complete recording of manufacturing process. COP REPORT 2014 The building has been air-conditioned and the cleanliness class in production premises has been ensured with the help of a modern ventilation system supplied by GEA Ltd. with computer control and constant monitoring of environment parameters. The chillers of 3,3 megawatts cooling power ensure comfortable working environment in the premises. Clean working environment is of significant importance for the manufacturing process. It has been developed with two purposes – to ensure product quality and working environment. Air conditioning is one of the components which help to achieve this. Specific, constantly maintained temperature, air purity and humidity are required for the manufacture of any product. De-dusting systems, supplied by Nedermann, Herding and Infastaub, ensures purification of the air exhausted from the installations and are consistent with current ecological standards. 196 thousand cubic meters of air are processed per hour. They are filtered, heated or cooled depending on temperature and season. The absence of errors is ensured by the controlled working environment. The water used in the technological process is purified by a plant with ultrafiltration and double reverse osmosis. In this building one of the largest photovoltaic parks has been realized. The systems are located on the roofs of storehouses and industrial buildings and guarantee that at least 30% of the energy will be from renewable sources. The preliminary design for the new plant received a Class 1 Investor Certificate in 2007 from the Bulgarian Investment Agency. The construction of the plant has completely changed Sopharma and is the last step in the modernisation of all production facilities. The investment in the new facility amounts to 75 million BGN. The new manufacturing complex was built for two and a half years and it includes a plant for solid dosage forms with a gross floor area of 21 280 m² and a laboratory and administrative complex with an area of 5 000 m². We have modern and high technology Laboratories according to the European requirements! All the technological processes are very well synchronized and integrated regarding the full process from A to Z. That makes the Facility to use maximum of the space, time, energy and to keep the process and work areas still clean. Everywhere the processes are electronically controlled and reduce the production process to minimum losses and pollution. Starting with nine laboratories, where substances and final products are tested, than continuing with production line where the initial substances enter the zones of measuring, sieving, mixing/blending, homogenization, granulation, coating, etc. the final packaged production goes directly to the High Rack Storage where the production is classified. The initial and final products goes through different enters. COP REPORT 2014 The capacity of the plant for solid dosage forms is 4 milliard tablets per year and it will ensure 420 new jobs. „What makes us happy is that these jobs will be for operation of high technology equipment and I hope, considering conditions in Bulgaria, these will be well-paid jobs. We have never stopped making investments, we are faced with the opening of a warehouse in Varna, and then in Plovdiv, there are a lot of things which we can do, but it seems that in the field of manufacture we have already radically changed the company's image , said Ognian Donev, CEO. • Results achieved: (1) We keep environment clean! (2) We achieve best quality production that is controlled on every stage! (3) We have excellent working environment, safe on every stage of working and production process! (4) Our production line reach maximum efficacy so to meet patient needs! Virtual tour of the Facility on http://360tour.sopharma.bg/ The New Solid Dosage Forms Plant of Sopharma AD is a winner in the category of Industrial and Logistic Buildings in the National Contest of BUILDING OF THE YEAR 2013. COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AWARDS Building Of the Year 2013 Forbes Business Awards for 2013 Investor of the 2013 Year! COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT The New Facility is being built in an ecological park environment as a new generation of energy-efficient buildings, using energy-saving technologies and materials for low environmental pollution. The parameters are set to improve lighting, heating and air conditioning, insulation of the building and use of technologies for green landscaping according to environmental standards. This will reduce energy consumption and maintenance costs of comfortable climate in the building. The largest photovoltaic park that has been realized made us one of the few companies with Ecological thinking for the environment in Bulgaria. At least 30% of the energy we use is from renewable sources. COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT ON EARTH DAY SOPHARMA EMPLOYEES PLANTED TREES On the beautiful sunny day of April 25th, just two days before the Orthodox Palm Sunday, Sopharma employees planted 25 trees from a special selection of oak seeds with a lot of love and enthusiasm. Gingko Biloba and two large Magnolias are just some of the trees that were planted on the territory of the new Sopharma factory for solid forms. GREEN OASES IN THE INDUSTRIAL ZONE OF SOFIA The planted acorn trees on April 25th made the spaces around the new Plant of Sopharma look like green oases in the industrial zone of Sofia. We are happy to show the green result. We decided to go on planting another suitable plot of land somewhere in Bulgaria in the autumn. COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT SOPHARMA JOINED THE GLOBAL INITIATIVE PARK(ING) DAY On 20.09.2013 Sopharma became part of the global annual event PARK(ing) Day aiming to temporarily transform public spaces through creative experiments. The project originated in 2005 in the USA, when Art and Design Studio Rebar transformed a parking lot into a city park for several hours. This event’s mission is to attract the attention to the need for more open green spaces in urban environment. SUSTAINABLE SOCIAL PROGRAMME “WE FOR THE SOCIETY” A sunny October day in Balvan Village! We planted the first acorn trees from the special selection under the 80 Planted Trees project on the grounds of the Home for Elderly and the area around the village square. By essential medicines and professional blood pressure and heart rate measuring device donated by Sopharma, we joined the Pensioner's Club in Balvan to the sustainable social programme We for the Society . COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT EIGHTY TREES WERE PLANTED ON THE OCCASION OF THE EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF SOPHARMA AD The project was realized with the special contribution of Dipl.Eng. Deliysky who selected the acorns and gave the professional advice on proper planting and by the help of Mrs. Blagovesta Fakirova and its Association St. Ivan Rilski, as well as all deputy-mayors who supported and assisted in the initiative! GENERATION AWAKE ACCEPTED SOPHARMA AS THEIR PARTNER AND ADHERENT “Generation Awake” the European Commission campaign is for efficient use of natural resources. It is oriented to active people ready to change their daily habits, to make a better place of the World we are living in. The campaign topic each year is different, which for 2014 is the better management of wastes. This is a key element to achieve the Green Economy objectives. Generation Awake shows us what we can do in our life to reduce wastes and to make a more reasonable use of natural resources such as water, energy, wood and metals. The intelligent approach to the daily round has an enormous impact on our life and the lives of our family and friends. Our choice makes not only our own world different but also the whole planet. COP REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT According to our Social and Clean Environment Program, we create Logo, which fits our aims. After active work on “80 Planted Trees” social campaign though all the year, we received very positive answers about the campaign! 87.5% of the respondents like the campaign and totally 100% of them support it! There were no negative answers about the campaign – people are aware of environment and social campaigns towards it! COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO GENERICS MARKET Sopharma AD, as EGA Member, supports accessible treatment with generic drugs for wide-spread and social important diseases. European Generic Association (EGA) created a communication group in 2013 On March 21 at the headquarters of the European Generic medicines Association / EGA / Brussels, was established the Consultative Group for Communications EGA Advisory group for communications / AGC /. Sopharma AD as member of EGA was among the founders of the AGC. The main purpose of the group will be to identify the best practices, taking into account the difficulties and exchange of experiences during and after the implementation of communication campaigns in the generic industry and production of communication projects and the promotion of those projects at the European level. The goal is that citizens of the European Union to be objectively informed about the quality, effectiveness and affordability of generic drugs. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sopharma with two CSR projects in contest for Responsible Business Awards 2012 The tenth jubilee issue of the Annual Business Responsibility Awards of the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum collected a record-breaking number of nominees. The successfully realised sustainable projects of Sopharma Corporate Social Centre and We for the Society Health Days , are also among the 85 projects. They were featured in the categories Investor in Human Capital and Cause-related Marketing . COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Equity of Access to Quality Healthcare as EU goal The Conference Health Inequalities in the New EU Member States and Candidate Countries. Equity of Access to Quality Healthcare”,dedicated to the inequalities in healthcare systems in EU, took place on 26 July at the European Parliament in Brussels. Hosting the conference was Dr. Andrey Kovatchev, MEP from the European People's Party (GERB), which announced the creation of an informal group of MEPs from different political groups to work on solving the problem. Access to quality healthcare is a citizens’ right ensured in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU and its implementation should be a priority for the European Union institutions and member states. Severely limited access of citizens, especially in the new member states and candidate countries for the EU to quality treatment and prevention is a result of budgetary constraints related to low GDP, failed economic reforms, the current economic crisis and budget cuts imposed, in the words Dr. Andrey Kovachev. Thanks to the sincere concern of policy-makers, public health authorities, health stakeholders such as patients’ and professionals’ organizations, as well as the industry, the conference achieved its main objectives. The conference concluded with the commitment of MEPs’, champions of patients’ rights, who pioneered the establishment of an informal interest group to foster robust reflection processes and decisive action in addressing the challenges of health inequalities and equal access to healthcare across Europe. The conference is organized jointly with the Bulgarian National Patients Organization (NGO) and the European Patients' Forum (EPF). Among the key speakers were leading experts on healthcare and related problems as Natalie Chase from DG Health and Consumers of the European Commission (DG SANCO), President of the EPF Nicola Bedlington, Antonyia Parvanova MEP. Vice-President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and chairman of Bulgarian NGOs Dr. Stanimir Hasardzhiev. Attended by representatives of patient and medical organizations, public administrations of the Member States and the pharmaceutical industry. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Job Information Meeting of the European Association of Communication Directors On April 25, a working-information meeting took place, for the regional organization of the European Association of Communication Directors with representatives from Sopharma AD. Discussed were current issues and situations related to the development of communication processes in companies and at branch level. In relation to the dynamics of the development of the profession of communicators and the need for continuous improvement of knowledge and professional training, it was decided to conduct a thematic study. The main theme for the trainings was managing reputation and relationship with internal communications. Sopharma AD took part in European Communication Summit 2013 On 27 and 28 June annual European Communication Summit 2013 was held in Brussels, organized by the European Association of Communication Directors and Communication Director magazine. The working part of the conference was opened by Connie Hedegaard, EU Commissioner for Climate Action, which made a presentation for Communicate Sustainability. Issues about the future of PR-a, crisis communications, making ethical value in economic value for companies, creating values through communication and others were presented and discussed. The interactive session of Marie-Therese Letorney Your most valuable communication tool and organic your voice provoked great interest. Considerable time and attention was paid to the digital communications that change the very nature of communication and the business as a whole. Representatives of Sopharma, members of the Association, participated in discussions of issues related to corporate communications, media relations and more. The European Communication Summit is an annual two-dayconference in Brussels with the leading in-house communication professionals. Participants come from the fields of business, politics, associations and media from all over Europe. More than 60 top speakers hold presentations and discussions during the Summit. Participants have the opportunity to debate strategies, tools, methods and best cases within the fields of Corporate Communication, PR, Media Relations and political communication. The event is co-hosted by the European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) and the Communication Director, a magazine for communication professionals. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Unravel the mystery of the consciousness with Ratio The second event of its kind for popular science a Ratio forum was held on April 27th at the Mladezki Theatre Sofia. After the huge success of its first edition in the fall of last year, this year's forum for the science of human language was supported by Sopharma AD. Ratio 2013 introduced new scientific topics presented by four interesting speakers who talk about science that is engaging and accessible for everyone. Ratio wants to show that science is not just for scientists it could be interesting for everyone. More than 1000 photos took part in the photo contest “Family Values” of Club50+, with the support of Sopharma More than 1000 photos on the subject “Family values” were sent by participants in the first monthly photo contest of Club 50 Plus (www.club50plus.bg). The contest was carried out with the assistance of Sopharma and was a specific monthly photo sequence on various topics, where the users of Club 50 Plus platform can participate and win monetary awards. Registration for participation has been made on the website of Club 50 Plus (www.club50plus.bg), where the participants have sent their photos to the relevant contest selection. The sequence continues on different topics by every month. For example, in March the photo-marathon was under the motto “My hobby”. Club50+ is a social platform that helps adults over 50 years old to live worthy and happy life. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CHARITY Sopharma employees help children at the St. Mina day care center Days before March 1, the martenitzi handmade by children from the St.Mina day care center, aroused great interest among the employees of Sopharma. The traditional Bulgarian martenitzi are plaited with red and white wool by the children, each having a unique design. The kids from the St.Mina Children Center suffer from various diseases and are looked after by art therapists, psychologists, physiotherapists, and speech therapists. By purchasing the handmade martenitzi, the employees of Sopharma supported this noble cause. Sopharma’s support for the children includes working with the Institute Libera and organizing another healthy drum-session at the day care center. The second edition of the photo contest “Philanthropy through the Lens” Bulgarian Charity Forum and the Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation organized for a second successive year a photo contest on the topic of “Charity through the Lens”. The contest visualizes and promotes the role of charity in society, enabling professional and amateur photographers to capture and show the different faces of philanthropy. The categories in which the winners was appointed are: 1. Charity and Education 2. Charity and Health 3. Charity and Culture 4. Charity and Ecology 5. Charity and Social Support 6. Volunteering Changes the World 7. Charity through the Eyes of Children (only children up to 14 years shall compete in this category) 8. My Hero (faces and actions of people who did something extraordinary for another person or cause) 9. Photo-story of Charity (a group of 4 to 8 photographs) 10. Audience Award COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Winning photographs, which competed in all the categories as well as for Audience Award, were announced on July 2, 2013 at exhibition opening ceremony presenting all nominated works. The Audience Award went to Master Boyan and Owl a photography taken by 12-year-old Ivaylo Atanassov. The photographs were rated by a jury consisting of Boris Missirkov, Elitsa Barakova, Vesselin Borishev, Krassimira Velichkova, Nadezhda Pavlova, Nadezhda Chipeva, Nikolay Vassilev and Yavor Popov. Prizes for the winners have been provided by contest sponsors Sopharma AD, Aurubis Bulgaria, Olympus, Odysseia-In and Photomania Magazine. In September the exhibition traveled through different communities of the country that competed and won the chance to present it to their residents. A special catalogue with photographs and texts to them, intended to be spread together with The Program cultural and information guide, was presented at the exhibition too. The photography contest is supported by America for Bulgaria Foundation. CHARITY COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Paper Art. Charity exhibition presents art created with newspapers. Who knew that newspapers can make something so beautiful? One of Sopharma’s longtime empolyees, Tanya Iordanova, demonstrated this with an array of handcrafted newspapers and colorful paper objects. On March 18th and 19th, in celebration of Spring approaching, and in support of the charity bazaars “ Help a friend”, Sopharma employees enjoyed their colleague's unique art. HUMANITY Sopharma supports LIBERA Institute of Art and Therapy Sessions has been conducted over the last six months by LIBERA Institute and was kindly supported by Sopharma. The purpose of the sessions was to help children who are deprived of parental care improve communication skills and their ability to deal with aggression. To accomplish this, drums and rhythm therapy are utilized in the sessions. This has proven to be especially successful in the risk groups of adolescents. Daily incidents of violence in homes and schools show how important it is to teach young people to deal with anger and other negative emotions. Drums are ideal for this purpose. Through the power of rhythm, negative energy and aggression in adolescence is transformed into self-expression and connection with yourself and others. Conducting two monthly group sessions for a period of seven months results in: • Reduced aggression • Improved communication skills • Overcoming of anxiety and depression. This type of therapy boosts children's self-esteem and allows them to learn how to communicate more freely and successfully, while overcoming isolation and social exclusion. The rhythm sessions for children that were funded by Sopharma AD: • August 20, 2012 Home for children deprived of parental care in the village of Doganovo • September 17, 2012 Social and Youth Center “St. Constantine” of the foundation “Concordia Bulgaria” two sessions, one for children and one for young adults • October 1, 2012 Day Care Centre for children with disabilities St. Mina • October 11, 2012 Day Care Centre for children with disabilities St. Mina • November 19, 2012 Day Care Centre for children with disabilities St. Mina • February 21, 2012 Day Care Centre for children with disabilities St. Mina • February 27, 2012 Center for family-type accommodation in Dren village 2 sessions COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PEOPLE National Round Table on children's reading On April 4th, a meeting for the Children's Literature Challenges and Opportunities , took place at the American Center at Sofia City Library. Representatives of the Ministry of Education, City Library, libraries from across the country, as well as teachers, authors and publishers, were among the attendees. Topics discussed were the role of libraries in children's reading, the responsibility of publishers of children's literature, and art of the translation in children's literature. Presented was the Summer reading fun for 2013, which for the third consecutive year, aims to include a wide range of participants to nurture and encourage reading habits in children. Sopharma AD was a sponsor of the initiative of the Bulgarian portal az-deteto.bg, and together with the City Library Summer reading fun , planned large annual summer campaigns for to promote children's reading. The initiative was aimed towards all children in Bulgaria aged 6 to 14 years and their parents, and took place between June 1st and September 15th. EMPLOYEE Our first grade pupil ready for school! All children of the employees of Sopharma AD, who 15th of September will step across the threshold of the national school for the first time, were given unexpected presents. Seventy are the future first grade pupils and each of them is already a proud owner of a school knapsack with complete set for the first grade. The knapsack is quite heavy as it contains: notebooks, sketchpads, a drawing block, paints and colour pencils, a drawing set, plastic sticks, letters, digits and mathematical symbols, plasticine board and a knife and a 10 colour plasticine set, children's scissors and a dry glue stick, pencils НВ and an eraser for both pencil and ink, pencil sharpener with shavings container, felt-tip pens and 12 colour set of crayons, water colours and brushes, a counting frame, labels and notebook covers ... and best wishes for much diligence and love of learning! COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 8200 children from the whole country took part in „Amusing Summer Reading” in summer 2013 On September 15th during a special event under the patronage of Sofia Mayor Mrs.Iordanka Fandakova, the prizes for „Most Reading Town”, „Most Reading Child” and „Most Reading School” were awarded. This finalized the campaign of „Amusing Summer Reading“ for 2013. Sopharma AD was a partner in the campaign of az-deteto.com, where over 8200 participants took part, and Ruse was named the most reading town with an activity of 20%. CHILDREN PEOPLE The much anticipated Winter Adventure Slide the Winter of the children's online portal Az-deteto.bg (me the child) was realized with the support of Sopharma AD. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stable social program for support of employees In accomplishment of its social program for support of its employees, Sopharma AD provides the opportunity for the children to accompany their parents at work at Simba Nursery School. The Company provides on its account part of the resources required for the education, training and care of the children. This way the charge for the parents has remained unchanged, together with the relief that their children are safe and close to them. EMPLOYEE Pre-Christmas Celebration for Colleagues The evening of 4th of December 2013 was unforgettable for all Sopharma employees. The event was held in the cosy building of the new dining complex, in close proximity of the new plant for solid dosage forms opened this year by the company. Over 1200 colleagues were pleasantly surprised by the greetings of famous Bulgarian actors. People met with the management of Sopharma AD as well and had the chance to have friendly conversations and make many photos. Mr.Ognian Donev, the Executive Director, greeted everyone with the eightieth anniversary of Sopharma, noted the achievements during the jubilee year and wished health and luck to all during the next year. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMANITY Assistance to refugees people without a home and country On 13.08.2013, the household items collected by the colleagues from Sopharma AD, have been donated to the Necessities of Life Collection Centre. The refugees people without a home and country The flow of refugees to Bulgaria has increased this year. By the end of July this year, about 1,800 refugees have been registered in our country, with applications filed. For the last year 2012 the total number of refugees was 1400. We expect that until the end of this year their number might be over 3,000 which is unprecedented. Such large refugee flow occurred in 2001-2002. Bulgaria is generally used as an intermediate point on the way to other countries. However, the conditions in which such families are living, are extremely severe. People need both a shelter, which is care of the state, and clothing and essential household items. Every home will have their favourite or not so favourite items which have been stored somewhere to not stand in the way of the inhabitants. Kitchen utensils may be to us remnants of long used, scattered and already boring dinner service, but to refugees they may be a real treasure. CHARITY Sopharma AD in a joint action with the Bulgarian Donation Forum for support of Syrian refugees in Bulgaria Bulgarian Donation Forum organized a donation and volunteer action in support of Syrian refugees in Bulgaria. Employees of Sopharma AD took part in this initiative, and just before Christmas the Comany made a donation of essential medicines. With the joint efforts of both organizations medicines, toys and shoes were supplied to the centres in Kovachevtsi, Ovcha Kupel and Vrazhdebna. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMANITY Sopharma Develops its Social Programme The active socially oriented activity of Sopharma created the We for the Society Project that is distinguished for its sustainability and is developing following those in need of permanent care – pensioners. The new campaign under the Project is being carried out at two pensioners' clubs in Sofia, where health care for patients is provided with the aim of preventing cardiovascular and lung diseases so much common among that population group. For more than two years, Sopharma AD has provided free measurement of the blood pressure, body weight, respiratory volume and СО content in exhaled air in many towns and cities in this country. The difference this time is the continuous care and monitoring of levels of those measurements in the population groups affected most – pensioners. It is a fact that hypertension (high blood pressure) is a precondition for the most common health problems in this country –one in four people suffers from high blood pressure and this affects mostly elderly patients. It is also clear that they need continuous blood pressure monitoring in order to maintain a normal way of life. Therefore, the help we are offering is to give people a lead toward assuming responsibility for their own health by having their blood pressure monitored daily and several times a day. Everyone who is willing to be informed of their current blood pressure values, body weight and pulse, as well as the respiratory volume and СО content in lungs, may do this absolutely free every weekday between 13:00and 17:00o'clock at the two clubs operating under Sopharma's programmewith the approval of the Sofia Municipality. The two clubs are: Club of the Disabled and Pensioners at the Sofia Municipality, jk Lyulin 4, located at the corner near Block 427 and Club of Invalid Soldiers and Pensioners at Ilinden Municipality, located at the corner of Slivnitsa and Hristo Botev Blvds. Pensioners meet there, play cards, chess, backgammon, talk, but the first thing they do when coming is to have their blood pressure and pulse measured and to talk to the nurse. This gives us hope that our Company has its positive effect and helps for improvement of the health status of people. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH SUPPORT Zdravi (Healthy) Mobile Application Zdravi mobile application is already online – downloaded 5 000 times for a month and a half! This free application gave everyone useful health advice for every day, because ... life is nice when we are healthy! http://zdravi-app.com COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SPORT SUPPORT Cherni Vrah Bicycle Rally 2013 The tenth jubilee edition of the Drag-Cherni Vrah competition of mountain biking, cross-country race, took place on October 5th, 2013. Over 200 participants passed the 40-km route from Boyana to Cherni Vrah and back with much enthusiasm and satisfaction. Sopharma AD was again a partner to the rally and was highly appraised by both organizers and participants. Tennis Tournament Team Championship for Journalists The tennis players from the Bulgarian National Television won the complex position in the restored team championship for journalists, which finished this day on Tennis Club “Dema”. The event was organised by TC “Journalist” and was carried out with the support of Sopharma AD. The BNT team was composed of Irina Tsoneva, Sasho Yovkov and Asen Grigorov. Quite naturally, the National TV earned also the team title for men. Among the ladies, the first place was taken by “Hicom” with leader Ms Yoana Andreeva. The prize winners were awarded by Mr Georgi Donchev, the President of TC “Journalist”. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SPORT SUPPORT Tennis Tournament “Diplomats and Friends” In the finals in category “aged over 50 years” he domineered over H.E. Matthias Höpfner, Ambassador of Germany, winning 6:3 games in a challenging match. Sopharma AD sponsored the tournament and exactly the two finalists and the BTF President Mr Stefan Tsvetkov were the initiators of its performance. In the final couples matches in category “aged over 50 years” Mr Svetlozar Panov and Mr Christian Iliev won the title after the success achieved over the singles champion H.E. Mario Konticheli, Ambassador of Italy to Bulgaria and the Defence Minister Mr Angel Naydenov. Among the diplomats of age up to 50 years the winners were Mr Angel Angelov and Mr Svetoslav Stankov, who won in the finals against Mr Dimitar Dimitrov and Mr Nikolay Naydenov. Mr Stankov became also the singles champion in this category. ART SUPPORT Sopharma AD lent a helping hand to the National Academy for Theatre and Film Arts It is owing to the assistance of Sopharma AD that the National Academy for Theatre and Film Arts „Krastyo Sarafov“ now have six pianos for training and rehearsal of students. “Life is nice when we have theatre!” was the motto of the premiere on stage Etazhna grozdova (Condo Grape Brandy) at “Salza i Smyah” Theatre, supported by Sopharma AD. COP REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SCIENCE Challenges to Modern Chemistry and Pharmacy On November 20th, 2013 The V Science Conference on Challenges to Modern Chemistry and Pharmacywas held at the Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy of the Sofia University St. Kliment Ohridski . As a leading manufacturer in Bulgaria, Sopharma was invited to present themselves by their new innovative Plant for Solid Dosage Formsand exceptionally modern laboratories. They roused great interest in both students and lecturers. Willingness and possibilities for future practices at the Plant sites where young students could be trained even before they go into the practice were expressed. Prof. Elena Kirkova opened the Science Part of the Conference with the theme „Thermodynamic Parameters and Quantum Theory of Substances“. Possibilities and challenges in pharmaceutical nanotechnologies, as well as other properties and applications of nanoparticles were discussed. The Conference wound up withlively conversations and discussions during the Chemistry Night. EMPLOYEE Cozy place for reading and relaxing at Sopharma AD On the Day of Enlighteners – 1st November 2013, a little cozy library was opened at Sopharma AD on 16, Iliensko Shose Str. Now all colleagues can come and see the books and magazines available for reading during the lunch break or for taking home for a short period of time. COP REPORT 2014 FREEDOM OF SPEECH Ad Forum 17 On April 23, 2013 the traditional advertising Ad Forum took place, organized by the Bulgarian Association of Communication Agencies. The seventeenth edition of the event presented the latest trends in advertising, and the winners of the Young Liones Bulgaria and the awarded ads at the Cannes Lions 2012 Festival. The vision of this year's Ad Forum focused on the special edition of the module, which provided the information from the 7 days of the Cannes Advertising Festival. The forum provided an analysis of the advertising market in the country during 2012 and the expectations for its dynamics in the current year. The Forum is traditionally sponsored by Sopharma, with the assistance of Konica Minolta, MallAdvertising, One.bg and Jobs.bg. Mediamixx 2013 The 19th edition of the international media forum Mediamixx, which took place between 9 and 12 June in Albena Resort, Bulgaria, ended with 7 Golden crowns for one TV seria, a few Golden umbrellas and fix dates for the next edition Mediamixx 2014. This year's media forum was concentrated around congress part that starts with a discussion for capitals in the media and freedom of speech, a natural continuation of last year's Mediamixx and another interesting year in media environment development in Bulgaria. Essential part of the Congress program was discussions between providers and content creators, as well as the subject of copyright. Award Smart Investor a smart investment in the media business for 20122013, was for Darik web for the acquisition of NetInfo. Previous two years this award honors the investments in 24 hours and Trud newspapers (2011) and the development of media group Bulgaria On Air in 2012. Award for contribution to the international communications development and business between countries Cross Culture received producer and president of the India Film Guild Mukesh Bath, who spoke about the possibility of shooting in Bulgaria Indian films. Award hosts Albena Resort receive internet-portal Bulgarian municipalities Kmeta.bg. COP REPORT 2014 Award for lifetime contribution in the media business progress were for all active bloggers and this idea is outstanding recognition for all active participants on the web who freely express their opinions and are a catalyst for the media environment and civil society progress in the country. All awards Golden Crown for the Bulgarian series, collecting the interest not only of the media profession, but the audience went to the show Undercover of Bulgarian National Television. He received the award for best TV series, director, screenwriter, cameraman, casting, music and the best product positioning. This year they are selected not by jury, but entirely through online voting on the website Mediamixx . Nominated for the awards were series “The Tree of Life , House Arrest , Where's Maggie , Not given , Revolution Z , Seven hours difference , Sofia residents in more and The family . First prize Undercover received this year was presented by Elena Krusteva, Corporate Communications and Advertising Director in Sopharma AD, the company that traditionally support different projects related to communications. One of the awards was presented by a representative of Deloitte, which was the guarantor for the correct counting of the votes and determine the winner of the awards. Mediamixx traditionally focus the media guild interest and the circle of active participants in the discussions expands every year. This year's forum included also bloggers who increasingly influencing the public opinion and media environment. Significant interest to the subjects had representatives of different business sphere, including Sopharma, Port Infrastructure, Deloitte and other companies, that made the event possible because of the belief that investments in such projects and promote media freedom is the way for the development of democracy and responsible civil society, which are a natural environment for business prosperity. The Mediamixx's Edition 2014 organizers expectation, are for bigger support and cooperation of more companies and media players, including foreign participants. Capital in the Media and Freedom of Speech Capital in the Media and Freedom of Speech was the topic of the first discussion panel in the congress program of Mediamixx 2013, sponsored by Sopharma AD. For third successive year the Mediamixx 2013 media festival has been organized with the support of Sopharma AD. FREEDOM OF SPEECH COP REPORT 2014 FREEDOM OF SPEECH ON!Fest – the festival for urban culture looking into the future From the 20th to the 22nd of September, Sofia hosted ON!Fest, a unique festival in Bulgaria for urban culture that unfolded its huge potential with the help of Sopharma as well. During the two days of the Festival, everyone shared his passion: gaming, graffiti, parkour, anime competition, comprehensive program. The finals of the Balkan tournament for the most played game in the world for 2013 League of Legends, was presented on huge screens in the festival rooms. One of the most interesting competitions that gathered a large number of contestants was the representation of the symbols “SFRM” (Sopharma). Over several “sessions” each of 15 minutes throughout the two days, beginning graffiti artists were able to show their talent and inspiration, and those graffiti that won the most votes received awards: accessories for graffiti painting. Contestants and visitors of the festival captured their impressions with photos that took part in the competition “Everyone is a media”. Both competitions are part of the initiative “Looking into the Future” by which Sopharma supports the development of contemporary urban culture. In the heat of the summer, in July, the campaign supported the Animes festival – a festival for anime and manga. This year ON! Fest has attracted more than15 000 visitors and it is becoming the biggest festival of this kind on the Balkans and maybe in Europe.
