Nykredit's GRI-index 2013 Nykredit’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index includes reference to relevant reports and websites dealing with the matter in question. Reporting is made at level B (self-declared). Reference is mainly made to publications by the Nykredit Group, which are available at nykredit.com The index includes the following abbreviations: About Nykredit = About Nykredit 2013 CSR Report Annual Report = Annual Report 2013 The Nykredit Realkredit Group Risk and Capital Management = Risk and Capital Management 2013 The Nykredit Realkredit Group Environmental and Climate Report = Klimaog miljøregnskab 2013 The symbols in the Status column have the following meanings: ■ = Nykredit meets the reporting requirements in full ■ = Nykredit meets the reporting requirements in part ■ = Nykredit does not report in respect of this indicator ■ = It is not relevant for Nykredit to report in respect of the indicator GRI Description Reference Status Strategy og analysis About Nykredit p. 1 1.1 CEO statement ■ Annual Report p. 1 About Nykredit p. 1 About Nykredit pp. 30-31 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk and Capital Management ■ Annual Report pp. 20-22 Annual Report pp. 28-38 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation About Nykredit p. 7 ■ About Nykredit pp. 4-9 About Nykredit pp. 17-18 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual Report p. 28 ■ Annual Report pp. 46-56 nykredit.com 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation About Nykredit p. 7 ■ 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters About Nykredit, back page ■ 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates Annual Report pp. 12-14 ■ About Nykredit p. 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ■ About Nykredit p. 30 About Nykredit pp. 4-9 2.7 Markets served Annual Report pp. 12-19 ■ About Nykredit p. 7 About Nykredit pp. 32-33 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation ■ Annual Report p. 3 Anuual Report pp. 12-19 GRI Description Reference Status Annual Report p. 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period About Nykredit p. 3 ■ About Nykredit p. 7 About Nykredit p. 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ■ Digital awards and accolades Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period Calender Year 2013 ■ About Nykredit: 06. February 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ■ Nykredit's GRI-index 2013: 09. April 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual ■ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Corporate Communications ■ nykredit.com/gri 3.5 Process for defining report content Nykredit's stakeholders ■ About Nykredit p. 1 3.6 Boundary of the report About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc that can 3.8 significantly effect comparability from period to period and/or between About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in 3.10 About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 About Nykredit pp. 34-35 ■ boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report nykredit.com/gri ■ Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 3.13 nykredit.com/gri ■ the report Governance, commitments & engagement Annual Report pp. 23-25 Annual Report pp. 143-145 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation ■ Board of Directors Executive Board 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the organisation Annual Report p. 143 ■ Annual Report p. 143 Number of members of the Board of Directors who are independent 4.3 ■ and/or not members of the Executive Board by gender Corporate Governance in Nykredit Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 Annual Report p. 25 ■ or direction to the board 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives Corporate Governance in Nykredit ■ 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board Corporate Governance in Nykredit ■ Method to determine board members' qualifications and expertise, 4.7 Corporate Governance in Nykredit ■ including consideration of gender and other diversity indicators Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Financial sustainability 4.8 ■ environmental, and social performance and the status of their Core Values GRI Description Reference Status Corporate Governance in Nykredit 4.9 The board's monitoring of the sustainability work ■ The Board of Directors and the Executive Board approve the Annual Report, CSR Report and Processes for evaluating the board's own performance, particularly with 4.10 No such processes are in place ■ respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Annual Report p. 28 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed ■ Risk and Capital Management About Nykredit p. 1 UNPRI Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charts, UN Global Compact 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or ■ Social partnership endorses Women in management New Network About Nykredit p. 17 About Nykredit p. 18 UN Global Compact The Danish Bankers Association Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 4.13 Association of Danish Mortgage Banks ■ national/ international advocacy in relevant organisations UNPRI DANSIF CDP Signatory European Mortgage Federation Nykredit's stakeholders About Nykredit p. 10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups About Nykredit p. 18 ■ NYKREDS Financial sustainability 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Corporate Social Responsibility ■ nykredit.com About Nykredit p. 8 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement ■ About Nykredit pp. 17-18 Stakeholder policy About Nykredit p. 4 About Nykredit p. 8 About Nykredit p. 15 About Nykredit pp. 17-18 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 Stakeholder policy ■ engagement, and the organisation's response Environment and climate policy Nykredit blog Nykredit's financial hotline See 4.14 Economic indicators About Nykredit pp. 17-18 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, About Nykredit pp. 32-33 operation costs, employee compensation, donations and other community EC1 Annual Report p. 4 ■ investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Annual Report pp. 86-87 governments No reporting on distributed economic value Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate EC2 Not reported ■ changes EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report p. 104 ■ Annual Report EC4 Financial assistance received from government ■ No goverment capital NYKREDS EC5 General starting pay compared with local minimum pay by gender Nykredit’s employees are subject to collective ■ pay agreements GRI Description Reference Status EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers About Nykredit p. 24 ■ Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 Not relevant ■ from the local community EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes Not reported ■ EC9 Indirect economic impacts About Nykredit pp. 17-18 ■ Environment Environmental and Climate Report EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ■ About Nykredit pp. 23-24 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environmental and Climate Report ■ EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source About Nykredit pp. 23-24 ■ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source About Nykredit pp. 23-24 ■ EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements About Nykredit pp. 23-24 ■ About Nykredit pp. 23-24 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Energy account EN6 ■ and services and the result of these initiatives EnergiEftersyn Green insurance Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the result of these EN7 Environmental and Climate Report ■ initiatives Environmental and Climate Report EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ■ All water obtained from public water supply Environmental and Climate Report EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water About Nykredit pp. 23-24 ■ No water sources significantly affected EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused All water discharged into public sewers ■ Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, No land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent EN11 protected ■ to, protected areas or areas of high biodiversity areas or areas of high biodiversity value Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected No impact from Nykredit activities, products EN12 ■ areas and services on biodiversity in protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Nykredit does not operate in habitats protected ■ or restored EN14 Management of impacts on biodiversity Not relevant ■ None of Nykredit's operations affects such EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species with habitats in operation areas ■ areas Environmental and Climate Report EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Environmental and Climate Report ■ About Nykredit pp. 23-24 Environmental and Climate Report EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Environmental and Climate Report ■ About Nykredit pp. 23-24 Environmental and Climate Report EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ■ About Nykredit pp. 23-24 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not reported ■ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not reported ■ EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant ■ GRI Description Reference Status EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not reported ■ EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not reported ■ Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and Not relevant ■ VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s Not relevant ■ discharges of water and runoff Environmental and Climate Report EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services About Nykredit p. 23-24 ■ Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN27 Not relevant ■ reclaimed Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Nykredit has received no fines or sanctions of EN28 ■ with environmental laws and regulations this type Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other EN29 goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and Not reported ■ transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Not reported ■ Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total labour force by gender, type of job, type of contract and region About Nykredit p. 27 ■ About Nykredit p. 27 Total number and percentage of new staff and staff turnover by age LA2 ■ group, gender and region About Nykredit p. 33 LA3 Benefits provided only to full-time employees Not reported ■ Nykredit has entered into a collective LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreement with Nykreds, a company-specific ■ branch of the Danish Financial Services Union Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes LA5 Not reported ■ including whether it is specified in collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and Total workforce of Nykredit is represented ■ advise on occupational health and safety programs Work-related sickness, absenteeism, lost working days and work-related LA7 Not reported ■ deaths by region and gender Education, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 employees, their families, or community members regarding serious Not reported ■ diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not reported ■ Average number of training hours per staff member per year by gender LA10 Not reported ■ and staff category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the About Nykredit pp. 25-27 LA11 ■ continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Work-life balance Percentage of staff who receive regular feedback on performance and All permanent staff have an annual LA12 ■ career development advice by gender performance and development review with their Composition of management bodies and distribution of staff by category LA13 About Nykredit pp. 25-27 ■ in terms of gender, age, minority groups and other diversity indicators Basic pay components for female and male staff by employment group Equal basic pay for women and men thanks to LA14 ■ and region Nykredit's collective agreement LA15 Retention and attrition after maternity/paternity leave by gender Not reported ■ GRI Description Reference Status Human rights About Nykredit p. 17 HR1 Human rights and actions taken: investment agreements ■ About Nykredit p. 18 HR2 Human rights and actions taken: suppliers and contractors About Nykredit p. 17 ■ Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of No training. It is considered not material for HR3 ■ human rights Nykredit HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken About Nykredit p. 17 ■ Operations and major suppliers identified as having significant risk of HR5 violation of the right to exercise freedom of association and collective No operations identified ■ bargaining, and actions taken to support these rights Operations and major suppliers identified as having significant risk of HR6 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the Not relevant ■ elimination of child labour Operations and major suppliers identified as having significant risk of HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to Not relevant ■ the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Security personnel trained in the policies or procedures concerning HR8 Not relevant ■ aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous HR9 Not relevant ■ people and actions taken Percentage and number of operations reported or subjected to impact None of Nykredit's operations have been HR10 ■ assessment for violation of human rights subject to human rights review or impact Number of human rights-related complaints filed, addressed and resolved None of Nykredit's operations have been HR11 through formal complaints mechanisms subject to grievances related to human rights ■ Society Number of operations with local community involvement, impact SO1 About Nykredit p. 17-18 ■ assessments and development programmes Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related SO2 About Nykredit p. 17-18 ■ to corruption About Nykredit p. 17-18 Percentage of staff trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and SO3 All new staff members are trained in measures ■ procedures to combat money laundering SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Not reported ■ Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and About Nykredit p. 17-18 SO5 ■ lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Nykredit does not provide direct or indirect SO6 ■ politicians, and related institutions by country financial support to politicians or political parties Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 Stock exchange announce ■ monopoly practices and their outcomes. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws SO8 Assessment of financial companies 2013 ■ and regulations Organisational operations with a significant potential or current negative SO9 Not relevant ■ impact on the community Preventive measures implemented in the organisation's operations having SO10 Not relevant ■ a significant potential or current negative impact on the community GRI Description Reference Status Product responsibility PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Not relevant ■ PR2 Non-compliance concerning health and safety impacts of products Not relevant ■ Type of product and service information required by procedures, and PR3 percentage of significant products and services subject to such Not reported ■ information requirements Non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling PR4 Not reported ■ About Nykredit p. 15 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction ■ About Nykredit p. 23 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related PR6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and Not reported ■ sponsorship Non-compliance concerning marketing communications including PR7 Not reported ■ advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 Not reported ■ privacy and losses of customer data Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 Not reported ■ provision and use of products and services Management approach Annual Report Economic About Nykredit pp. 5-8 ■ About Nykredit pp. 30-33 About Nykredit pp. 23-24 Environmental Environmental and Climate Report ■ Climate and environmental targets About Nykredit pp. 26-28 Labour practices and decent work Employees ■ Clobal Compact About Nykredit pp. 17-18 Human Rights Sustainable conduct ■ Clobal Compact About Nykredit pp. 17-18 Society Community ■ Corporate Governance About Nykredit p. 3 Product Responsibility About Nykredit pp. 8-13 ■ About Nykredit pp. 14-19
