Sustainability Review 2013 bp.com/sustainability Building a stronger, safer BP Who we are BP is one of the world’s leading integrated oil and gas companies.a Through our work we provide customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items as diverse as paints, clothes and packaging. Our projects and operations help to As a global group, our interests and generate employment, investment activities are held or operated through and tax revenues in countries and subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures or communities around the world. associates established in – and subject We employ more than 80,000 to the laws and regulations of – many people, mostly in Europe and the US. different jurisdictions. We have wellestablished operations in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa. a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production. Front cover imagery Thunder Horse consists of two fields. The wells required to access the reservoir are some of the deepest in the Gulf of Mexico. Left image: Located in over 6,000 feet of water, Thunder Horse is designed to process up to 250,000 barrels of oil and 200 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. Centre image: More than 200 BP employees and contractors live and work on this platform. Right image: The vent stacks onboard Thunder Horse – one of the largest integrated offshore drilling and production platforms in the world. Cautionary statement BP Sustainability Review 2013 and bp.com/sustainability contain factors, including the specific factors identified in the discussions Material is used within this document to describe issues for certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial accompanying such forward-looking statements; the receipt of voluntary sustainability reporting that are considered to have the condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain relevant approvals; the timing and level of maintenance and/or potential to significantly affect sustainability performance in the of the plans and objectives of BP with respect to these items. turnaround activity; the timing of bringing new fields onstream; view of the company and/or are expected to be important in the In particular, among other statements, BP’s outlook on global the timing, quantum and nature of certain divestments; future eyes of internal or external stakeholders. Material for the purposes energy trends to 2035 and its plans in connection therewith, plans levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing; OPEC of this document should not, therefore, be read as equating to any presented under the heading ‘What we plan to do next’ throughout quota restrictions; PSA effects; operational problems; economic use of the word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. BP Annual this document, expectations regarding BP’s advanced and and financial market conditions generally or in various countries Report and Form 20-F 2013 and BP Strategic Report 2013 may proprietary technologies and techniques, expectations regarding and regions; political stability and economic growth in relevant be downloaded from bp.com/annualreport. No material in this the emissions, water use and commercial viability of BP’s oil areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental regulations; Sustainability Review forms any part of those documents. No part sands projects, expectations regarding the commercialization and regulatory or legal actions; the impact on our reputation following of this Sustainability Review or bp.com/sustainability constitutes, or sustainable production of biofuels, the timing and composition of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill; development and use of new shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in planned and future projects, plans regarding opportunities in the technology; the success or otherwise of partnering; the actions of BP p.l.c. or any other entity and must not be relied upon in any way Arctic and expectations regarding future regulatory developments, competitors, trading partners, creditors, rating agencies and others; in connection with any investment decisions. BP p.l.c. is the parent are forward looking in nature. the actions of contractors; natural disasters and adverse weather company of the BP group of companies. Unless otherwise stated, By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and conditions; changes in public expectations and other changes to the text does not distinguish between the activities and operations uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on business conditions; wars and acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks or of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries. circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside sabotage; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document the control of BP. Actual results may differ materially from those and under ‘Risk factors’ in our Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of as filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. BP Sustainability Review 2013 Contents Overview Overview 2 Introduction from our group 6 Our progress in 2013 chief executive Where we are today and what’s next. Bob Dudley discusses what safe and responsible operations means in practice. 8 BP in figures Five-year data on our safety, environment, 4 At a glance people and performance. What we do as a business and the value we deliver to society. 10 Update on the Gulf of Mexico The energy future Restoring the environment and economy in the region. Focus areas 12 The energy future 28 Safety Our energy forecasts and view on climate Managing safety and operational risk, change, deepwater oil and gas, hydraulic including measures to prevent accidents fracturing, oil sands and biofuels. and oil spills. Our people 20 Our people 34 Environment How we encourage diversity of people Our approach to greenhouse gas and thought, and depend on a motivated emissions, oil spills, water, waste, and talented workforce. biodiversity and working in the Arctic. 24 How we operate 40 Society Our governance framework, how we Our socio-economic impacts, including manage risk and our operating supporting development in the societies How we operate management system. where we work and human rights. Our reporting 46 Our stakeholders and 48 Find more online our reporting Our website is an integral part of our Our approach to engaging with our reporting, covering a wide set of issues, stakeholders – what we heard and how data and case studies. It also includes our we are responding. country and site reports. Safety Environment Society Our reporting BP Sustainability Review 2013 1 Introduction from our group chief executive Within BP, 2013 will sadly be remembered for the capabilities and influence will prove valuable over terrorist attack in Algeria in January, when four the coming years as Russia looks to develop staff members and 36 colleagues from other more of its vast resources safely and securely. companies were killed. Those who died had There is one thing that we can rely on about many friends in BP and our thoughts remain with the future – it will surprise us. The shale gas their loved ones, as well as with those who revolution in the US shows just how fast the survived that terrible ordeal. I was proud of the energy landscape can change. Thanks to way that people in BP responded with great technological innovation, access to this lowercompassion, but also with great fortitude. carbon resource has not only led to increased gas In Algeria and around the world, we have an and oil production, lower energy prices and new important role to play in finding and delivering jobs, but also to lower greenhouse gas emissions much needed resources of oil and gas to meet as gas has replaced coal in power generation. the growing energy demand. It is vital we conduct The lower carbon option became the lower cost our operations in a safe and responsible way. option – demonstrating the power of market But what does ‘safe and responsible’ mean in forces to reduce emissions when the conditions practice? Here are a few examples. are right. This example is instructive as the world In Papua, we are consulting widely with local seeks to achieve the right balance between groups who may be affected by the planned the affordability, security and sustainability expansion of our gas facilities at Tangguh. We of energy supplies. have held public consultation meetings in over Open and well-informed discussion – between 60 villages and have involved elected community governments, business, academic bodies, leaders in the hearings that will determine how non-governmental organizations and the the facilities are developed. public – is vital as priorities are debated and In the Gulf of Mexico, we are supporting solutions developed. And BP plays its part in environmental restoration efforts after the this discussion, particularly in encouraging 2010 oil spill and paying all legitimate claims for governments to apply a carbon price. This would compensation, while getting back to work on our level the playing field by incentivizing the We have an important role to 10 offshore rigs and production facilities. We are production and use of lower-carbon options. also representing the interests of our shareholders play in finding much needed and staff by rightly challenging claims that we These are just a handful of examples of the actions we are taking to conduct our operations in resources of oil and gas to believe to be unfounded. a safe and responsible way. This Sustainability meet the growing energy In China, we are working to reduce the impact Review – together with bp.com/sustainability – is of petrochemicals manufacturing on water part of our commitment to report clearly on what demand. resources. Our latest PTA plant in Zhuhai uses we do and the effect our actions have. I believe a recycling technique – developed by BP – that it shows that BP aims to make a positive Bob Dudley reduces water discharge by 75%. Meanwhile, contribution to the world for many years to come. in the Middle East we are partnering with Harvard University to help better plan how we access and use water at our facilities. That last example underlines that we don’t work alone. In fact, close collaboration with others is becoming ever more important as the scale and complexity of energy challenges multiply. Bob Dudley Group Chief Executive Take offshore drilling and safety. In 2013 we 19 March 2014 worked with regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil and Libya on oil spill response planning. This included sharing what we have learned about dispersants and many forms of logistics. 2013 also saw us enter into a new partnership in Russia with Rosneft, and we can already see enormous potential for collaboration between the two companies. I believe BP’s experience, 2 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Overview Our strategy and sustainability Our values We believe that the best way for BP to in a transparent way. We believe good We have five values that express our achieve sustainable success as a company communication and open dialogue are vital shared understanding of what we believe, is to act in the long-term interests of our if we are to meet the expectations of our how we aim to behave and what we aspire shareholders, our partners and society. employees, customers, shareholders and the to be as an organization. local communities in which we operate. BP’s objective is to create value for shareholders and supplies of energy for the We are working to become a simpler Safety world in a safe and responsible way. We strive business, focusing on where we can generate to be a world-class operator, a responsible the most value, and not necessarily the most Safety is good business. Everything we do corporate citizen and a good employer. volume, through our production. We are relies upon the safety of our workforce and strengthening our portfolio of high return and the communities around us. We care about Keeping a relentless focus on safety is the safe management of the environment. longer life upstream assets, while building naturally a top priority for us. Rigorous We are committed to safely delivering energy high-quality downstream businesses. We are management of risk helps to protect the to the world. also investing in lower-carbon options that people at the frontline, the places in which have the potential to contribute to meeting we operate and the value we create. We Respect growing energy demand over the long term. understand that operating in politically All of this is underpinned by our expertise, We respect the world in which we operate. complex regions and technically demanding technology and relationships. It begins with compliance with laws and geographies, such as deep water and oil sands, requires particular sensitivity to local Strong financial performance is vital, because regulations. We hold ourselves to the highest environments. We continue to enhance our it enables us to make the investments ethical standards and behave in ways that systems, processes and standards, including necessary to produce the energy that society earn the trust of others. We depend on the how we manage the risks that can be created requires, while rewarding and maintaining the relationships we have and respect each other by the actions of our contractors and support of our shareholders. and those we work with. We value diversity the operators of joint ventures in which of people and thought. We care about the By supplying energy, we support economic consequences of our decisions, large and we participate. development and help to improve quality of small, on those around us. We can only operate if we maintain the trust life for millions of people. Our activities also of people inside and outside the company. We generate jobs, investment, infrastructure Excellence must earn people’s trust by being fair and and revenues for governments and responsible in everything we do. We monitor local communities. We are in a hazardous business, and are our performance closely and aim to report committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations. We follow and uphold the rules and standards we set for our company. We commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to learn, and to improve. If something is not right, we correct it. Courage We have reduced emissions at our Valhall facility in the Norwegian North Sea by using power from What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best shore, rather than onsite gas turbines. outcomes often requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short-term priorities of our world. One Team Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. BP Sustainability Review 2013 3 At a glance BP delivers energy products Finding Developing and extracting and services to people around oil and gas oil and gas the world. First, we acquire exploration rights, Once we have found then we search for hydrocarbons hydrocarbons, we work to bring Through our two main operating segments, beneath the earth’s surface. them to the surface. Upstream and Downstream, we find, develop and produce essential sources of energy, turning them into products that people need. We also buy and sell at each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain. In renewable energy, our activities are focused on biofuels and wind. Business model For more information on our business model see bp.com/businessmodel. Upstream Our Upstream segment manages exploration, development and production activities through global functions with specialist areas of expertise. The value we deliver  conomic value E E  conomic value to society generated by BP distributed to others We believe that societies and communities where we work should benefit from our $403.3bn This includes revenue plus Operating costs This includes purchases from Governments We contribute to presence. interest and dividend receipts, suppliers and contractor costs, economies around the and disposal proceeds. as well as production and world through the taxes Our projects and operations create jobs, manufacturing expenses. we pay. We also pay taxes opportunities for local suppliers and tax revenues that we collect on our for governments. products and services. When we move into a new area we look for opportunities to create a positive impact. This includes supporting communities’ efforts to increase income and improve standards of living. $328.7bn $13.9bn  ee BP Annual Report S See page 27. See page 42. and Form 20-F 2013. 4 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Overview Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing oil and gas fuels and products fuels and products We move hydrocarbons using pipelines, We refine, process and blend We supply our customers with fuel for ships, trucks and trains and we capture hydrocarbons to make fuels, lubricants transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants value across the supply chain. and petrochemicals. to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals required to make a variety of everyday items. Fuels Lubricants Petrochemicals Investing in renewable energy International oil and We develop and invest in biofuels and operate a gas markets wind business. BP’s lower-carbon businesses are managed through our Alternative Energy business. Biofuels Downstream Our Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses – fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals. Economic value retained by BP Employees We provide direct employment Capital providers This includes $5.4 billion Communities The social investment figure $34.4bn The majority of this is invested to about 83,900 people around in dividends paid to is in addition to social bonuses in capital expenditure and the world. Employee costs shareholders and $5.5 billion paid to governments as part acquisitions. include salaries and benefits. distributed via our share of licence agreements. repurchase programme, as well as finance costs. $13.7bn $12.5bn $0.1bn See page 20. See bp.com/investors. See page 43.  ee BP Annual Report S and Form 20-F 2013. BP Sustainability Review 2013 5 Our progress in 2013 We aim to meet the world’s energy needs by creating long-term value for both our shareholders, and the societies and economies in which we operate. Here we report on where we are today and our plans for the future. The energy future Our people How we operate We seek to meet the growing We value diversity of people We strive to be a world-class demand for secure, affordable and thought, and we aim to operator, a responsible corporate energy, while addressing treat everyone at BP with citizen and a good employer, with climate change and other issues. respect and dignity. a relentless focus on safety. • Assess long-term global and regional • Work for 25% of our group leaders to • Issue a policy to provide a consistent What we said patterns of energy demand and supply. be women by 2020. framework for identifying and managing • Investigate the effects of natural resource • Recruit 40% of our graduate intake BP’s exposure to risks associated with non-operated joint ventures. we would do scarcities on patterns of energy supply from outside the UK and US in 2013. and consumption. • Screen for environmental and social • Further embed our values throughout • Fulfil the commitment we made in 2005 impacts in planning major projects. the business. to invest $8 billion in alternative energy • Develop deeper, longer-term by 2015. relationships with selected contractors in our Upstream business. Extended forecasts for world energy Non-operated joint Where we markets in BP Energy Outlook 2035. 18% 44% venture policy launched. of group of our graduate are today 15 leaders are intake recruited 91 universities took part in female. from outside the projects completed our Energy Sustainability UK and US. the screening process Challenge programme. from April 2010 to the 12 end of 2013. $8.3bn percentage point invested in alternative energy since 2005, meeting our commitment increase in employee understanding of BP 37% two years ahead of schedule. values and how they increase in spend under global agreements relate to their work. with upstream contractors and suppliers. • Help meet the growing energy demand • Further increase the number of women in • Assess how the non-operated joint What we plan through a diverse mix of fuels and leadership positions and build on our work venture policy is being applied. technologies. to encourage other forms of diversity. • Evaluate our current screening process to do next • Continue to engage with our • Focus on global graduates through the to help projects identify and assess stakeholders on climate change. development of programmes to achieve a socio-economic sensitivities and impacts. • Further improve fuel efficiency through consistent approach around the world. • Look for opportunities to continue to the use of our branded fuels and • Enhance how we manage ethics and support a local supply chain. engine oils. compliance risks by targeting priority areas of our business. For more R  ead our view on the concept of View statistics on our workforce  ead about our approach to working R  unburnable carbon on page 14. profile at bp.com/people. with our contractors and partners on page 27.  iew our programme of action to V  ead about our code of conduct on R information manage carbon and climate risk on page 23. View BP’s approach to managing risk  page 15. at bp.com/riskmanagement. 6 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Overview Safety Environment Society Everything BP aims to do as a We work to avoid, minimize and We seek to have a positive company relies upon the safety mitigate environmental impacts impact on the communities of our workforce and the wherever we do business. and societies in which we communities around us. operate. • Continue to embed our operating • Assess which operations are in water • Update our risk processes to better What we said management system (OMS). scarce areas to understand associated describe the potential socio-economic • Conduct self and independent risks. consequences from incidents. we would do assurance that confirms our conduct • Seek to work collaboratively with • Continue to support community of operating. government regulators in planning for development programmes. • Appoint an independent expert to oil spill response. • Develop human rights training, provide an objective assessment • Focus efforts on energy efficiency prioritizing specific businesses and of our progress in implementing where it is relevant for local business functions. the Bly Report recommendations. management. Where we 20 Independent expert assessing progress Around half of our major operations Socio-economic risk criteria developed. Our reported tier 1 in implementing withdraw fresh water are today process safety the Bly Report in areas of water events are down from 43 to 20. recommendations. stress or scarcity. $78.8m spent on community 8% investment. 3 Lessons shared on improvement in lines of defence to support safe and Audit Assurance oil spill response with regulators in energy intensity at our Toledo refinery 21 Azerbaijan, Brazil in the US from human rights training events reliable operations. Self verification and Libya. 2010 to 2013. conducted. • Continue to use the performance • Investigate water management • Test the socio-economic risk criteria What we plan improvement cycle to align business approaches taking into account our with our businesses. practices with our OMS. operations’ life cycle water demand • Update our framework for managing and local water resources. to do next • Further develop the self verification social investment. capability of operations. • Continue to develop modelling tools to • Deliver human rights workshops • Maintain our progress towards better predict the consequences of an in other priority areas. oil spill to land. completing the outstanding recommendations of the Bly Report. • Share lessons learned at Toledo with our other refineries around the world. For more  ead about how we are working to R View the ratios for GHG emissions See how we are working to align   prevent incidents at our operations on to upstream production, refining with the UN Guiding Principles on page 30. throughput and chemicals produced Business and Human Rights at information at bp.com/greenhousegas. bp.com/humanrights. See progress updates on implementing  the recommendations of the Bly Report See how we are using IPIECA’s  ee how we are working with local S  at bp.com/internalinvestigation. Global Water Tool to manage water suppliers in Azerbaijan on page 42. risks at bp.com/water. BP Sustainability Review 2013 7 BP in figures Data on our safety, environment, people and performance from 2009 to 2013. For the year ended 31 December Safetya 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fatalities – employees 0 0 1 1 4 Fatalities – contractors 18 14 1 3 2 Day away from work cases – workforce 134 408 168 152 130 Day away from work case frequencyb (DAFWCF) – workforce 0.069 0.193 0.090 0.076 0.070 Recordable injuries – workforce 665 1,284 677 710 578 Recordable injury frequencyb (RIF) – workforce 0.34 0.61 0.36 0.35 0.31 Hours worked – employees (million hours) 174 168 165 182 170 Hours worked – contractors (million hours) 216 255 209 220 203 Losses of primary containment (number) 537 418 361 292 261 Tier 1 process safety eventsc (number) – 74 74 43 20 Tier 2 process safety eventsc (number) – – – 154 110 Oil spillsd (> _ one barrel) 234 261 228 204 185 Volume of oil spilled (million litres) 1.2 1.7e 0.6 0.8 0.7 Environment Oil spills – to land and waterd (number) 122 142 102 102 74 Volume of oil unrecovered (million litres) 0.2 0.8e 0.3 0.3 0.3 Direct carbon dioxide (CO 2)f (million tonnes (mte)) 60.4 60.2g 57.7 56.4 46.0 Direct methanef (mte) 0.22 0.22g 0.20 0.17 0.15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG)f (mte CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e)) 65.0 64.9g 61.8 59.8 49.2 Indirect carbon dioxide (CO 2)h (mte) 9.6 10.0g 9.0 8.4 6.6 Customer emissionsi (mteCO 2) 554 573 539 517 422 Flaring (Upstream) (thousand tonnes (kte) of hydrocarbons) 2,149 1,671g 1,835 1,548 2,028 Environmental expenditurej ($ million) 2,483 18,400 8,521 7,230 4,288 Environmental and safety fines ($ million) 66.6 52.5 77.4 22.4 2.5 People Number of employees – group j 80,300 79,700 84,100 86,400 83,900 Number of employees – group leadership 492 482 516 546 530 Women in group leadership (%) 14 14 15 17 18 Women at management levelk (%) 23 24 25 25 27 People from UK and US racial minorities in group leadership l (%) 6 7 6 6 6 People from beyond the UK and US in group leadership l (%) 21 19 19 20m 22 Employee turnovern (%) 15 15 14 13 15 OpenTalk caseso 874 742 796 1,295 1,121 Dismissals for non-compliance and unethical behaviourp 524 552 529 424 113q Benefits to employees – including wages, salaries, share-based payments, 12,523 12,256 12,501 13,448 13,654 benefits and pensionsj r ($ million) Performance Total hydrocarbons produced (thousand barrels of oil equivalent (mboe) per day) 3,998 3,822 3,454 3,331 3,230 Reserves replacement ratior s (%) 129 106 103 77 129 Total refinery throughputs (thousand barrels per day (mb/d)) 2,287 2,426 2,352 2,354 1,791 Total petrochemicals productiont (thousand tonnes (kte)) 12,660 15,594 14,866 14,727 13,943 Replacement cost profit (loss)j r u ($ million) 13,740 (5,259) 23,412 11,428 23,681 Taxes to governments – comprising income taxes and production taxes paid ($ million) 10,309 12,071 16,339 15,033 13,904 Dividends paid to shareholders ($ million) 10,483 2,627 4,072 5,294 5,441 Contribution to communities ($ million) 106.8 115.2 103.7 90.6 78.8 Notes to figures e This data does not include the oil spill volume from the Deepwater h Indirect emissions are associated with the purchase of electricity, a This represents reported incidents occurring with BP’s operational Horizon incident. See BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 heat or steam into our operations, and include CO2. HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary includes BP’s own operated page 142 for information about the volume used to determine i Based on BP’s total reported production of natural gas, natural gas facilities and certain other locations or situations. our estimated liabilities. liquids and refinery throughputs. b DAFWCF and RIF are the annual frequency per 200,000 hours worked. f See page nine notes to graph four for more details. j Information for 2011 and 2012 has been restated to reflect the c For tier 1 process safety events see page nine notes to graph three g In 2010, we did not report on GHG emissions or flaring associated adoption of the new standard IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’. for more details. Tier 2 process safety events are those of lesser with the Deepwater Horizon incident or response. We have since k Includes employees who are group leaders, senior level leaders consequence. estimated the gross CO2 equivalent emissions from response or in other management positions. Oil spills are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release of more than, activities to be approximately 481,000 tonnes. We have estimated d l This excludes our share of those employed by joint operations in or equal to, one barrel (159 litres, equivalent to 42 US gallons). the gas flared during the response to be approximately legal entities. 56,000 tonnes. We have not restated our 2010 numbers since our practice is only to restate historical emissions for material inaccuracies. m Minor amendments have been made to 2012. 8 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Overview The symbol indicates those measures that are reflected in the annual bonus element of executive directors’ remuneration.  or the full list of key performance indicators see F bp.com/annualreport. 1. Recordable injury frequency 2. Loss of primary containment 3. Tier 1 process safety events 1 This measures the number of reported work-related incidents that result in a fatality (number) or injury (apart from minor first aid cases) Employees Contractors per 200,000 hours worked. 0.84 1.00 875 100 2 This includes unplanned or uncontrolled releases, excluding non-hazardous releases, 74 74 700 80 such as water from a tank, vessel, pipe, railcar 0.75 537 or equipment used for containment or transfer. 525 60 3 Tier 1 process safety events are losses of 0.43 0.43 418 0.41 43 0.36 361 primary containment from a process of greatest 0.50 0.31 292 consequence – causing harm to a member of 0.23 0.25 0.26 0.25 350 261 40 the workforce or costly damage to equipment 20 or exceeding defined quantities. 0.25 175 20 Data not collected 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 4. Greenhouse gas emissions 4 We report greenhouse gas emissions on a 100 carbon dioxide equivalent basis. This includes (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) CO2 and methane for direct emissions. . Our GHG reporting encompasses all BP’s 80 consolidated entities as well as our share of 65.0 64.9 61.8 59.8 equity-accounted entities other than BP’s share 60 49.2 of TNK-BP and Rosneft. Rosneft’s emissions data can be found on its website. 40 Two divestments account for 20 most of the decrease in direct greenhouse gas emissions. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5. Diversity and inclusion (%) 6. Group priorities index (%) 5 Each year we record the percentage of women and individuals from countries other than the UK Women Non UK/US and the US among BP’s group leaders. This 100 helps us track progress in building a diverse 30 and well-balanced leadership team. Minor 22 amendments have been made to our 2012 25 21 80 71 72 numbers. 20 67 19 19 20 17 18 6  e track how engaged our employees are with W 15 60 our strategic priorities for building long-term 14 14 15 value. The measure is derived from answers to 12 questions about BP as a company, and how 40 it is managed in terms of leadership and 10 standards. See page 21 for more information. 20 Data not 5 collected 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 129% $21.1bn Reserves replacement ratio, in net cash from operating showing our progress in activities. accessing, exploring and extracting resources. n These figures relate to non-retail employees only. In 2013 voluntary s Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, for this purpose, are calculated for all inventories of hydrocarbons turnover (resignations and retirements) was 5%. excluding acquisitions and disposals. except for those that are held as part of a trading position and certain o Any employee, contractor or other third party can contact our t Petrochemicals production reported within our Downstream segment. other temporary inventory positions. Replacement cost profit for the confidential helpline OpenTalk. group is a non-GAAP measure. u Replacement cost profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of p This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service supplies. The replacement cost profit or loss for the year is arrived at stations for incidents such as thefts of small amounts of money. by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses and their q This figure includes employee dismissals and is not directly associated tax effect. Inventory holding gains and losses represent comparable to data from previous years which grouped employee the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the and contractor dismissals together. average cost to BP of supplies acquired during the year and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out method, after adjusting r Information for 2009-2012 has been restated to reflect the adoption for any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the of the amended IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’. inventory is lower than its cost. Inventory holding gains and losses, BP Sustainability Review 2013 9 Update on the Gulf of Mexico We have made significant progress in completing the response to the Deepwater Horizon accident in 2010, and in supporting economic and environmental recovery efforts in affected areas. Atlantis is one of 10 drilling rigs that we operate in the Gulf of Mexico, where our focus is on deepwater exploration and development. 240+ initial and amended work plans developed since May 2010 to assess injury to natural resources. Restoring the environment Completing the response We continue to work with state and federal At the end of February 2014, fewer than 20 trustee agencies through the natural resource of the approximately 4,440 shoreline miles damage assessment (NRDA) process to originally in the area of response remained evaluate the potential for injury to wildlife active, all in Louisiana. The US Coast Guard and habitat, and the recreational use of ended active clean-up operations in Alabama, these resources. Florida and Mississippi in mid-2013. Approximately 230 people and 10 vessels were supporting the Since May 2010, more than 240 initial and response effort at the end of 2013. amended work plans have been developed to study resources and habitat by state and federal Restoring the economy trustees and BP. The study data will inform an Our Gulf Coast economic recovery efforts have assessment of injury to natural resources in the focused on paying all legitimate claims Gulf of Mexico and the development of a stemming from the accident and supporting two restoration plan to mitigate the identified injuries. of the region’s most vital industries – tourism Environmental data collected by federal and and seafood. state agencies and BP is being made available at BP is supporting Gulf Coast tourism in Alabama, BP’s payments related to Gulf Coast recovery gulfsciencedata.bp.com. The website includes Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi. Although (as at 31 December 2013) various data on oil and water column chemistry, opinions differ on the stage of Gulf recovery, offshore sediments, fish, birds and shoreline –­ Response and clean-up $14 billion+ many areas continue to experience record and BP plans to add more in 2014. tourism numbers. Claims, advances and $12.5 billion While the injury assessment is still ongoing, settlements The Gulf Coast is a rich breeding ground for fish, restoration work has begun. BP is funding early shrimp, oysters and crab, and accounts for about Funding for the natural $1 billion+ restoration projects designed to accelerate 18% of the US’s total commercial seafood resource damage efforts to restore natural resources in the Gulf of landings. Shrimp and oyster supplies, in assessment process Mexico that were injured as a result of the particular, are heavily concentrated in the Gulf, accident. BP and the trustees, as at December Early restoration projects $698 milliona making the seafood industry an important 2013, had reached agreement or agreement in component of the Gulf Coast economy. State-led tourism $178 million principle on a total of 54 early restoration campaigns projects. Work under way includes efforts to Although research and monitoring continues, restore and enhance wildlife, habitats and the many experts believe Gulf of Mexico seafood State-led seafood $47 million services provided by those habitats, as well as to has made a strong recovery. According to marketing programmes provide additional access for fishing, boating and government testing results and commercial State-led seafood testing $24 million related recreational uses. landings information, Gulf seafood is safe to consume and available in numbers comparable a Reflects projects that BP and the trustees have reached to pre-accident levels. agreement or agreement in principle. 10 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Overview Since May 2010, more than 10,000 seafood The process safety monitor has been retained for James Morris specimens have been collected by the US Food a period of up to four years from February 2014, and Drug Administration (FDA), National Oceanic and will review and provide recommendations Professor of Biology and Atmospheric Administration and state concerning BP Exploration & Production Inc’s University of South Carolina agencies. Levels of residues of oil contamination (BPXP) process safety and risk management in seafood have consistently tested 100 to 1,000 procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of “The natural recovery is far greater than times lower than the safety thresholds Mexico. BPXP is the BP group company that what anybody hoped when it happened. established by the FDA. conducts exploration and production operations The fears of most people – that there would in the Gulf of Mexico. Claims be a catastrophic collapse of the ecosystem BP began paying compensation for legitimate The ethics monitor will review and provide in the Gulf – never materialized.” claims for damages within weeks of the recommendations concerning BP’s ethics and Deepwater Horizon accident. From May 2010 to compliance programme, and has been retained the end of 2013, BP had paid a total of for a term of up to four years from 2013. approximately $11 billion to individuals and Multi-district litigation proceedings businesses through various claims processes, The multi-district litigation trial relating to liability, 2,300+ with $2.9 billion being paid in 2013. BP had paid almost $1.5 billion for claims, advances and limitation, exoneration and fault allocation began settlements with government entities. in the federal district court in New Orleans in employees in the February 2013. The first phase of the trial Gulf of Mexico. BP reached settlements in 2012 with the focused on the causes of the accident and the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee (PSC) to resolve allocation of fault among the defendants. the substantial majority of legitimate private The second phase focused on efforts to stop economic and property damage claims, and the flow of oil and the volume of oil spilled. medical claims stemming from the accident BP is not aware of the timing of the rulings for 10 and oil spill. The PSC acts on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in the multi-district litigation proceedings. these phases. In a subsequent trial phase, the per-barrel offshore rigs penalty rate to be applied in determining in operation. As part of its monitoring of payments made by applicable penalties under the Clean Water the court-supervised settlement programme for Act will be considered. There is significant the economic and property damages settlement, uncertainty about the amount of Clean Water BP identified and disputed claims that appeared Act penalties to be paid, and the timing of to result from an incorrect interpretation of the payment, as these will depend on the finding as settlement agreement by the claims administrator. to negligence or gross negligence, the volume There have been various court rulings on this, of oil spilled and the application of statutory including the meaning of the causation penalty factors. requirements of the agreement. In December Agreement with EPA 2013, the district court in New Orleans ruled that for the purposes of determining business Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, economic loss claims, revenues must be the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) matched with expenses incurred by claimants suspended or debarred various BP companies in conducting their business even where the from entering into new contracts with the US revenues and expenses were recorded at government or renewing existing ones. different times. BP entered into an agreement with the EPA More information online at The court also ruled that the settlement in March 2014, resolving all debarment and bp.com/gulfofmexico. agreement did not contain a causation suspension matters. Under this agreement, requirement beyond the revenue and related which will apply for five years, BP has agreed See quarterly updates on legal tests set out in an exhibit to that agreement. to a set of safety and operations, ethics and proceedings. BP appealed the district court’s ruling on causation compliance and corporate governance to the court of appeals, but the panel affirmed requirements, including those contained in the Read Q&As on the state of the the district court¹s ruling in March 2014. BP is 2012 criminal plea agreement and settlement economic recovery in the region. considering further appeal options. with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. View information on environmental Independent monitors studies. The agreement means that BP is once again The criminal plea agreement reached with the eligible to enter into new contracts with the US Read about the accident and the US government in 2012 to resolve all federal government, including deepwater drilling leases response effort. criminal claims arising out of the Deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. Horizon accident and oil spill, provides for the Find out about the completion of the US government to appoint two independent clean-up of shorelines. monitors. BP Sustainability Review 2013 11 The energy future Today’s challenge is to manage and meet growing worldwide demand for secure, affordable energy while addressing climate change and other socio-economic issues. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Assess long-term global and regional Extended forecasts for world energy Help meet the growing energy demand patterns of energy demand and supply. markets in BP Energy Outlook 2035. through a diverse mix of fuels and technologies. INDICATIVE CONTENT Investigate the effects of natural 15 universities took part in our Energy resource scarcities on patterns of Sustainability Challenge programme. Continue to engage with our energy supply and demand. stakeholders on climate change. $8.3 billion invested in alternative energy Fulfil the commitment we made in 2005 since 2005, meeting our commitment Further improve fuel efficiency to invest $8 billion in alternative energy two years ahead of schedule. through the use of our branded fuels by 2015. and engine oils. 12 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Meeting the energy challenge With population and income projected to rise, the global energy challenge is to manage and meet demand affordably, sustainably and securely. The energy future Population and economic growth are the main A diverse mix 41% drivers of global energy demand. The world’s population is projected to increase by 1.7 billion We believe a diverse mix of fuels and technologies can enhance national and global increase in demand from 2012 to 2035, with real income likely to energy security while supporting the transition for energy between more than double over the same period. to a lower-carbon economy. These are reasons 2012 and 2035. Therefore the overall trend is likely to be one why BP’s portfolio includes oil sands, shale gas, of increased energy demand, even with new deepwater oil and gas, and biofuels. climate policies and a shift towards less energy-intensive activities in fast-growing Oil and natural gas economies. Oil and natural gas are likely to play a significant 7% We expect world demand for energy to increase by as much as 41% between 2012 and 2035, part in meeting demand for several decades. We believe these energy sources will represent about 54% of total energy consumption in 2035. of global energy demand with nearly 95% of the growth to occur in non-OECD countries. While energy is available Even under the International Energy Agency’s will be met by renewable to meet growing demand, action is needed to most ambitious climate policy scenario (the 450 energy in 2035. limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases scenarioa), oil and gas would still make up 47% emitted through fossil fuel use. of the energy mix in 2035. Energy security represents a challenge in its We expect oil to remain the dominant source for own right. More than 60% of the world’s known transport fuels, accounting for as much as 87% reserves of natural gas are in just five countries, of demand in 2035. and more than 80% of global oil reserves are Natural gas, in particular, is likely to play an located in nine countries, most of which are increasingly strategic role. Shale gas is expected distant from the hubs of energy consumption. to contribute 47% of the growth in global natural Meeting growing demand for energy that is gas supplies between 2012 and 2035. The shale secure and sustainable will also present an gas revolution has already had a significant affordability challenge. Fossil fuels will become impact on gas prices and demand in the US. less easily accessible, and many low carbon It has also had an impact on the US’s carbon resources will remain costly to produce at scale. dioxide emissions, which have fallen below what they were 20 years ago. Effective policy New sources of hydrocarbons are more difficult We believe that governments must set a stable to reach, extract and process. BP, and others in and enduring framework for the private sector to our industry, are working to improve techniques invest and for consumers to choose wisely. This for maximizing recovery from existing and includes secure access for the exploration and currently inaccessible or undeveloped fields. In development of energy resources; mutual many cases, the extraction of these resources benefits for resource owners and development might be more energy-intensive, which means partners; and an appropriate legal and regulatory operating costs and greenhouse gas emissions environment, which includes an economy-wide from operations may also increase. Energy consumption by fuel price on carbon. (billion tonnes of oil equivalent) Renewables Renewables* Nuclear Gas Energy efficiency Renewables will play an increasingly important Hydro Coal Oil Greater efficiency addresses several aspects of role in addressing the challenges of energy 18 the energy challenge. It helps with affordability security and climate change over the long term. 16 – because less energy is needed. It helps with Renewables are already the fastest-growing 14 security – because it reduces dependence on energy source, but they are starting from a low 12 imports. And it helps with sustainability – base. By 2035, we estimate renewable energy, 10 because it reduces emissions. Innovation can excluding large-scale hydroelectricity, is likely to 8 play a key role in improving technology design, meet around 7% of total global energy demand. 6 process and use of materials, bringing down 4 Temporary policy support is needed to help cost and increasing efficiency. In transport, for commercialize lower-carbon options and 2 example, we believe that efficient powertrain technologies, but they will ultimately need to 1990 2000 2010 2020 2035 technologies and combustion engines that use become commercially self-sustaining, supported *Includes biofuels. Source: BP Energy Outlook 2035. biofuels could offer the most cost-effective only by a carbon price. pathway to a secure, lower-carbon future. a From World Energy Outlook 2013. ©OECD/International Energy Agency 2013, page 573. The IEA’s 450 policy scenario A view of an operator looking out at the assumes governments adopt commitments to limit the Mad Dog platform from a support vessel long-term concentration of greenhouse gases in the in the Gulf of Mexico. atmosphere to 450 parts-per-million of CO2 equivalent. BP Sustainability Review 2013 13 Climate change BP believes that climate change is an important long-term issue that justifies global action. The science Carbon policy Unburnable carbon According to the Intergovernmental Panel on The scale of this challenge is such that Climate Change (IPCC), warming of the climate governments must act by setting a clear, stable Investors in 2013 raised a concern about system is unequivocal, and is in large part due to and effective carbon policy framework. A clear unburnable carbon – the argument that the an increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions framework is necessary if energy companies carbon dioxide from burning all known fossil from human activities. The IPCC believes that are to limit GHGs while providing energy fuel reserves would raise global temperature warming of the climate will probably lead to competitively. Global economic challenges by more than 2°C – and that potential extreme weather events becoming more have reduced the focus of some governments greenhouse gas regulation to prevent this frequent and unpredictable. Its latest report on climate policy, at least in the short term. from happening could reduce the value of makes clear that limiting climate change will That said, carbon regulations continue to some of these reserves and the companies require substantial and sustained reductions be introduced and strengthened; and the that own them. of GHG emissions. commitment made in Durban in 2011 by both We agree that burning all known reserves developed and developing countries to negotiate The climate challenge an agreement by 2015 that requires action from would probably cause global temperatures to BP’s analysis suggests that global carbon all countries by 2020, suggests that an emphasis rise by more than 2°C – and that addressing dioxide (CO2) emissions from fossil fuels may on carbon policy may return. this issue will require the efforts of be 29% higher in 2035 than they were in 2012, governments, industry and individuals. We also believe that putting a price on carbon – partly as a consequence of coal use in rapidly However, we believe that the unburnable one that treats all carbon equally, whether it growing economies. This is a projection of what carbon approach to assessing the impact of comes out of a smokestack or a car exhaust – we think is likely to happen, not what we would potential climate regulation on a company’s will make energy efficiency and conservation like to see. value oversimplifies the complexity of the more attractive to businesses and individuals, issue and overstates the potential financial More aggressive energy policies and and lower-carbon energy sources more cost impact. technologies could lead to slower growth in CO2 competitive. A global carbon price should be emissions than expected but this would still not the long-term goal, but regional and national BP considers a wide range of factors that be enough to limit warming to no more than 2°C, approaches are a good first step, provided may affect the price and demand for our the threshold recognized by governments as temporary financial relief is given to sectors products when making investment decisions limiting the worst impacts of climate change. The that are exposed to international competition. including: International Energy Agency has acknowledged • Potential GHG regulation: We assess that its 450 scenario (see footnote on page 13), carbon policy at a regional level, and we which would put the world on a lower-carbon apply a carbon price to larger projects and trajectory, looks increasingly unlikely. Carbon capture and storage those for which emissions costs would be BP, in a joint venture partnership with There are several reasons, in addition to growing a material part of the project. Sonatrach and Statoil, has worked on a energy demand, why achieving substantial and • Changes in demand: We make regional rapid GHG emissions reductions will be large-scale direct carbon abatement and global assessments of energy supply challenging. Some potentially important technology: carbon capture and storage (CCS). and demand, and we undertake detailed lower-carbon technologies – including nuclear Over a seven-year period, the partners worked demand modelling for the transport sector, energy, carbon capture and storage, and electric alongside scientists from academic institutions to assess the risk of shifting demand for vehicles – still face significant technology, to execute and monitor a demonstration our products. logistical, political and cost challenges. And project in southern Algeria. In total, we worries about the cost of renewable injected 3.9 million tonnes of CO2 into the • Fluctuating oil prices: We use a range of deep saline reservoir of the Krechba gas field oil price sensitivities to manage commodity technologies have led some governments to reduce their levels of support. In the meantime, at the In Salah production facility, instead of price risk and we prioritize value over releasing this CO2 into the atmosphere. volume for new upstream projects. the GHG intensity of oil and gas extraction and production looks set to increase, with the move Progress on new projects of this kind has • Evolving technology: We undertake deep towards resources that are harder to access. been slower than anticipated in recent years dives into potential innovation in the amid uncertainty around the policy framework 2030-50 timeframe and we collaborate and funding models for CCS. While BP has with external technology-focused bodies. scaled back its activities in this area, we This approach enables us to optimize our continue to share the knowledge gained at In portfolio to meet the world’s energy needs Salah with governments, academia and others and to alter our investments to reflect in our industry. changing policy, market and technology conditions. See page 36 for information on BP’s greenhouse gas emissions. 14 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Our programme of action to manage carbon and climate risk We are taking steps to understand and address carbon and climate risk. The energy future Carbon risk assessment Efficiency in our operations To assess how carbon policy will affect our We seek to increase energy efficiency across businesses in the future, we closely monitor BP by requiring our existing operations to national and international climate and energy incorporate energy use considerations in their policy developments. We factor our conclusions business plans and to assess, prioritize and about future carbon policy risk into broader implement technologies and systems to improve assessments of global and regional patterns of energy usage. For example, our Tangguh energy demand and supply. BP Energy Outlook liquefied natural gas operation in Indonesia uses 2035, for example, summarizes BP’s view the heat generated in its liquefaction plant to of what the energy world might look like in reduce the amount of power needed to turn the the future. gas into liquid for transportation. We also look at the effects of natural resource Efficient fuels and engine oils for scarcities on patterns of energy supply and our customers consumption as part of our Energy Sustainability Challenge programme. This analysis, along with We work in partnership with vehicle and external assessments, such as IEA’s World equipment manufacturers to improve the overall Energy Outlook, helps us to decide what efficiency of use of our fuels and engine oils. resources we will seek to develop and where, For example, Ford’s ECOnetic cars – including Our specially formulated advanced Castrol engine the Fiesta, Focus and Mondeo models – are and what technologies we will need to develop oils can improve fuel efficiency and reduce carbon engineered with specially formulated advanced them safely and efficiently. dioxide emissions. Castrol engine oils, which improve fuel efficiency Lower-carbon energy and reduce CO2 emissions. We see natural gas as a key part of the Technology and policy research lower-carbon economy, as it is a plentiful resource that releases less CO2 than other fossil We deepen our understanding of future energy, fuels when burned. Most importantly, the technology and climate change trends through Helen Wildsmith in-house research and in partnership with technologies needed to produce and use it are Head of Ethical & Responsible widely available today. We are playing a major leading academics. For example, we review Investment, CCLA role in the growth of natural gas with production potential long-term energy and low-carbon in Algeria, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia, Oman, technology developments out to 2050 and we Trinidad & Tobago and the US. We are invest in the UK Energy Technologies Institute. “In the transition to a low-carbon future, oil We support energy and climate-related developing important supply chains to Europe, and gas companies will need to innovate technology and policy research at universities as well as to China and India, two countries that and have portfolios which are resilient to including Oxford, Cambridge, Princeton, are likely to account for more than half of the sudden changes in public policy or Tsinghua, Berkeley, Illinois, Harvard, San Diego, growth in global energy demand between 2012 technological breakthroughs. This is why MIT, Tufts and the University of Texas at Austin. and 2035. both companies in this sector, and their long-term investors, are increasingly We continue to invest in alternative energy Education and outreach engaging with policy makers whilst and are working to develop technologies that We engage with governments, noninnovating themselves. We encourage can reduce the overall carbon impact of oil and governmental organizations, industry these companies to publish information on gas production. organizations, universities and other companies future energy scenarios which highlight on issues relating to climate change. For critical uncertainties, while building a Internal carbon price example, through BP Target Neutral, we are coalition of the willing to bring carbon We require larger projects, and those for which working with the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth capture from gas to economic scale. BP’s emissions costs would be a material part of the Games to offset carbon emissions associated focus on value not volume is a welcome project, to apply a standard carbon cost to the with spectator travel and to raise awareness strategic discipline in this context.” projected GHG emissions over the life of the of the impact of carbon from travel. project. The standard cost is based on our estimate of the carbon price that might Climate change adaptation realistically be expected in particular parts of the Where climate change impacts are identified world. In industrialized countries, this standard as a risk for a new project, our engineers seek cost assumption is currently $40 per tonne of to address them in the project design like CO2 equivalent. We use this cost as a basis for any other physical and ecological hazard. We assessing the economic value of the investment periodically review and adjust existing design and as one consideration in optimizing the way criteria and engineering technology practices. the project is engineered with respect We have guidance for existing operations and to emissions. projects on how to assess potential risks and impacts from a changing climate to enable mitigation steps to be incorporated into project planning, design and operations. BP Sustainability Review 2013 15 Deepwater oil and gas BP’s technology is helping to extract oil and gas resources from deepwater environments safely and efficiently. 6% BP has deepwater drilling interests in Angola, Brazil, Egypt, the Gulf of Mexico, India, the South China Sea and the UK, and we are of global oil production pursuing further deepwater growth opportunities comes from deepwater oil in Australia, Canada, Libya, Morocco, Trinidad & and gas resources. Tobago and Uruguay. Producing oil and gas from deepwater reservoirs creates many engineering and technical 6,800ft challenges. The oil and gas reservoir itself can be as much as 35,000 feet (10,660 metres) below sea level, under layers of hard rock, thick We produce oil and gas from wells in water depths that can salt and tightly-packed sands. Once oil and gas be more than six times the are discovered in a deepwater field, massive height of the Eiffel Tower. production platforms and specially designed systems and pipelines are required to extract and transport the oil and gas to shore. New techniques can allow safe access to new The Na Kika platform in the Gulf of Mexico acts as sources of oil and gas. For example, we are a hub, gathering oil and gas from deep under the working with industry and universities to develop sea using over 100 miles of subsea pipes. technology to extract oil and gas from high pressure undersea reservoirs – a resource that is beyond the reach of current deepwater We are committed to sharing what we have drilling equipment. learned from the Deepwater Horizon accident Drilling operations in 2010, to advance safety capabilities and practices across the deepwater industry. Our global wells organization is responsible for For example, we worked with the Subsea Well planning and executing all our wells operations Response Project to create a new intervention across the world. We provide training to system for industry that aims to enhance employees working in our drilling operations international capabilities to respond to subsea through our global wells institute. See page 30. well incidents. This equipment was delivered in We use technology to help monitor conditions in 2013 to storage locations in Brazil, Norway, our wells. This technology is designed to help us Singapore and South Africa. make informed decisions, improving drilling We are also working with the International efficiency and enhancing operational safety and Association of Oil & Gas Producers to develop integrity. We have monitoring centres in Angola, a set of worldwide databases on industry-wide the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. incidents and well releases. Our deepwater drilling operations Deepwater drilling operations and future growth opportunities and opportunities Countries where we operate or have interests 16 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing Natural gas resources play an increasingly important role in supplying lower-carbon fuel to meet growing energy demand. The energy future By our estimates, natural gas will meet around Greenhouse gas emissions where hydraulic fracturing has caused seismic 26% of total global energy demand by 2035. events that could be detected at the surface. When used in place of coal for power, natural Unconventional gas is located in rocks with None of these cases resulted in surface damage gas can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by extremely low permeability, which makes and none occurred at BP locations. We evaluate about half. However, questions have been raised extracting it more difficult. New technology and industry-recommended guidance for avoiding about the greenhouse gas emissions associated enhanced applications of existing techniques are seismic activity and apply these practices with the life cycle of natural gas, particularly making it possible to extract unconventional gas to our operations. emissions of methane, which traps more heat resources safely, responsibly and economically. BP has unconventional gas operations in Algeria, than carbon dioxide, during development, Community impacts production and transportation to market. Indonesia, Oman and the US. The development of unconventional resources We have inventoried and managed methane is moving energy companies into new and often Hydraulic fracturing (sometimes referred to as and hydrocarbon emissions from our US onshore more populated areas. This may result in ‘fracking’) is the process of pumping water natural gas operations for more than a decade increased traffic, noise, dust, light and air underground, mixed with a small proportion of and, based on our experience, we believe that pollution, visual impacts, disruption of wildlife sand and chemicals, at a high enough pressure some studies overestimate methane emissions and habitat, and increased pressure on the local to create small cracks in the rock. These cracks from the natural gas supply chain, particularly infrastructure. We assess the potential impacts help to release natural gas that would otherwise from the development and production of of our operations on the local communities in not be accessible. shale gas. the early stages of development and seek to Some stakeholders have raised concerns about manage them where possible. We aim to minimize air pollutant and greenhouse the potential environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing. BP seeks to gas emissions by using responsible practices at Land use our operating sites. For example, at our drilling apply responsible well design and construction, To minimize land use and reduce the visibility sites in the US we use a process called green surface operation and fluid handling practices to of our production facilities, we use techniques completions, whenever possible, to manage mitigate these impacts. such as placing multiple wells on a single well methane emissions associated with well site. We minimize the surface footprint of the We support regulation that is designed to reduce completions following hydraulic fracturing. operations and work to restore the land potential risks to the environment from hydraulic This process recovers natural gas for sale and after construction. fracturing. We believe that such regulation is minimizes the amount of natural gas either flared most efficiently implemented at the local level or vented from our wells. and we encourage regulatory and industry efforts in this area. Seismic activity Hydraulic fracturing creates very small earth Chemicals tremors that are almost always too weak to be Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% detected at the surface. There has been only of the injection material. Some of the chemicals one documented case (near Blackpool in that are added to this mix, when used in certain northwest England) and three possible cases concentrations, are classified as hazardous by the relevant regulatory authorities. We list the chemicals we use in the fracturing process in material safety data sheets at each operational Hydraulic fracturing process Recovered water is Wastewater is recovered site. We submit data on chemicals used at our stored in lined pits for treatment, reuse hydraulically-fractured wells in the US, to the and/or tanks or disposal extent allowed by our suppliers who own the chemical formulas, at FracFocus.org or other state-designated websites. Water tankers Storage tanks Fracturing fluid is Water and other fluids pumped into the well head BP wells and facilities are designed, constructed and operated to mitigate the risk that natural gas and hydraulic fracturing fluids could enter 8,000 – 13,000ft underground aquifers, including drinking water sources. Large amounts of water are needed to drill and Water table fracture unconventional gas wells. BP is trialling a number of water-saving innovations including Well is technologies that could make it possible for us isolated to treat water used in fracturing for re-use in our with pipe and cement operations. For example, we sponsored research by Texas A&M University in 2013 to evaluate Fissure Gas flows along various treatment processes for the removal Well well from fractures of organic components from produced water. Shale BP Sustainability Review 2013 17 Oil sands BP is working with our partners to develop Canada’s oil sands responsibly. Impact on the landscape emissions, buying or generating offsets via a regulated carbon market or by paying into an BP and our partners plan to use a production Alberta emissions management fund at a current technology called steam assisted gravity rate of $15 Canadian a tonne of carbon dioxide drainage (SAGD), rather than open-cast mining, equivalent emissions. due to the depth of the oil sands. This production technique involves pumping steam into the oil BP has a technology plan to reduce emissions sand reservoir through a horizontal well to heat at our oil sands production facilities, and and extract the oil. This reduces land disturbance improve efficiency in both upstream and as the operations have a smaller physical downstream processes. We are also working footprint and, unlike mining, do not require with our partners to enhance current practices, tailings ponds. or to develop new ones, to reduce emissions. For example, we plan to develop further Throughout our exploratory work at the Terre de improvements through additional heat Grace lease we have promoted the regeneration integration and recovery techniques. of habitat at sites where we have completed our activity. This included planting about 13,000 Water trees in July 2013. Oil sands production is water intensive. In Greenhouse gas emissions planning our SAGD projects, BP is committed Members of BP’s safety, ethics and environment to maintaining a high level of water conservation. ‘Well-to-wheels’ studies measure greenhouse assurance committee visited our oil sands lease We plan to draw the water used to make steam gas emissions from producing the oil (well) areas in Canada in 2013. primarily from underground aquifers and, where through to combustion (wheels). A 2012 study possible, use non-potable water. For the first by the independent energy consultant IHS CERA phase of the Sunrise project, we aim to minimize found that crude produced from Canada’s oil Oil sands in Canada are the third-largest proven impact by recycling more than 90% of the water sands using SAGD technology, as in BP’s crude oil reserves in the world, after Saudi we will use. projects, is between 7% to 17% more Arabia and Venezuela. About half of the world’s greenhouse gas intensive than the average Local communities total oil reserves that are open to private sector crude refined in the US. investment are contained in Canada’s oil sands. We encourage aboriginal communities to The oil sands are a natural mix of sand, water, Regulatory agencies in the province of Alberta provide feedback on our activities, and have clay and bitumen. and the federal government of Canada have set been developing relationships with local people out comprehensive and rigorous requirements since committing in 2010 to being the operator Our projects for the full life cycle of oil sands developments. of the Terre de Grace project. Members of BP’s BP is involved in three oil sands lease areas in board met with a local First Nation during their In Alberta new facilities that emit more than Alberta. The Sunrise Energy Project, operated by visit to Alberta in 2013. 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent Husky Energy, is under construction with direct emissions a year, are required to Husky Energy, the operator of Sunrise, maintains production expected to start in late-2014. progressively reduce emissions intensity by a register to capture concerns, track responses The Pike and Terre de Grace lease areas are 12% once they have established a baseline for and implement mitigation actions to address under appraisal for development. Pike is their emissions over three years. Facilities can stakeholder issues. Likewise, Devon Energy, operated by Devon Energy Corporation and BP do this, for example, by cutting their own our partner for the Pike project, is committed to is the operator of Terre de Grace. meaningful consultation that seeks to address aboriginal community concerns during the planning process of the project. Steam assisted gravity drainage Commercial viability BP requires oil sands projects, like all of its investments, to be commercially viable over the life of the project. In gauging this, we factor in carbon regulation and potential policy changes by using an estimated carbon cost. We expect 300m the break-even price for oil from Canadian oil Horizontal injection well sands to be within the range we require from Horizontal production well Oil sands layer other types of crude oil investments. Steam 100 – 500m Bitumen 5m 500 – 1,000m 18 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Alternative energy We invest in alternative energies that complement our core skills as an oil and gas company. The energy future BP is investing in technologies that can make a Greenhouse gas emissions Q: Will BP set a new alternative energy difference to global energy supplies and help to The sugar cane ethanol that we produce at our target now that its $8 billion reduce carbon emissions levels. In 2005 we three mills in Brazil generates on average around commitment has been met? made a commitment to invest $8 billion in 72% fewer life cycle GHG emissions than alternative energy by 2015, and we achieved this conventional transport fuels. One reason for this A: BP hasn’t made a public commitment on two years ahead of schedule in 2013. is that the mills produce renewable electricity for future spending for alternative energy. operating the plants, with excess electricity Biofuels exported to the local power grid. Vivergo The financial commitment we made in 2005 has allowed us to cast a wide net We are focused on investing in and developing biofuels are expected to have GHG savings of in search of businesses that could be low-cost, low-carbon biofuels businesses that more than 50% compared to conventional fuels. financially self-sustaining, and a good fit are either financially self-sustaining now, or that we believe can be in the future. Biofuels are Water for BP. Our biofuels business fits the bill The Goiás region of Brazil is especially well on both counts. It’s an area where we available today and can be blended into gasoline or diesel without significant engine modifications suited to sugar cane agriculture because the believe BP can make a real impact and patterns of rainy and dry seasons typically will continue to invest where we see or major changes to existing fuel delivery systems. match the needs of the growing cycle of the high quality opportunities, both in our BP is expanding its biofuels operations in Brazil, cane. The water intensity of our Brazilian biofuels existing bioethanol activities and in where in 2013 we produced 492 million litres of operations averages at around 19 kilograms of advanced biofuels. We’ve also built up a sugar cane-based ethanol. By early 2015 we water per kilogram of sugar and ethanol, which profitable wind business in the US and expect to have doubled the processing capacity compares favourably to the water ratio of many are working to maximize its financial and at our largest mill, Tropical. Additionally, our UK commonly grown agricultural food crops. operating performance. joint venture, Vivergo, ramped up its operations Phil New in 2013, moving it towards an annual capacity of Wind energy CEO, BP Alternative Energy 420 million litres of wheat-based ethanol. BP has a profitable wind energy business in We are working towards commercializing the US, with interests in 16 wind farms in nine advanced biofuels, including cellulosic biofuels, states. BP’s net generating capacity from this by using alternative feedstocks ­– such as energy portfolio, based on our financial stake, is 1,558 grasses –­ that grow fast, are high yielding and megawatts of electricity. The total generating can be grown on land that is not suitable for capacity of these wind farms is enough to traditional agriculture. power 780,000 American homes. In 2013 we marketed our wind energy business How sustainable are biofuels? for sale. Despite receiving a number of bids, We believe that biofuels can be produced we determined it was not the right time to sell sustainably and can have positive impacts on the business. We did, however, decide to sell carbon emissions, rural development and the rights to the portfolio of additional wind energy security. farms that we had planned to build in the US. Food security Our focus is on optimizing performance at the Brazilian sugar cane is one of the most plentiful 16 owned and joint venture wind farms. and land-efficient feedstocks for producing ethanol. Less than 2% of the land used for crops Working with technology or pasture in Brazil is for ethanol production – entrepreneurs totalling around 4.5 million hectares. We keep track of the innovations of smaller, entrepreneurial companies. Our ventures team The wheat-based biofuel from our UK joint reviews around 1,000 companies each year, venture Vivergo is made from locally produced looking for opportunities to invest in feed wheat rather than milling wheat – the kind technologies that could benefit BP’s future used to make bread and pasta – which does not success by making our operations more grow well in the local region. Vivergo has created More information online at efficient or more sustainable. bp.com/energyfuture. a domestic route to market for feed wheat that was previously mostly being exported to View Q&As on biofuels and continental Europe. sustainability impacts. Read more about our sustainable energy developments at bp.com/sustainablesolutions. Download our hydraulic fracturing and oil sands issue briefings at bp.com/unconventionalgas and bp.com/oilsands. BP Sustainability Review 2013 19 Our people We value diversity of people and thought, and we aim to treat everyone at BP with respect and dignity. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Work for 25% of our group leaders to be 18% of group leaders are women. Further increase the number of women women by 2020. in leadership positions and build on 44% of our graduate intake recruited our work to encourage other forms Recruit 40% of our graduate intake from from outside the UK and US. of diversity. outside the UK and US in 2013. 12 percentage point increase in Focus on global graduates through the Further embed our values throughout employee understanding of BP values development of programmes to achieve the business. and how they relate to their work. a consistent approach around the world. Enhance how we manage ethics and compliance risks by targeting priority areas of our business. 20 BP Sustainability Review 2013 About our people BP’s performance depends on a highly-skilled, motivated and talented workforce that is representative of the societies in which we operate. BP employees by segment Diversity and inclusion Governance For our employees to be motivated and for BP The group people committee, chaired by the 4 to thrive, our people need to be treated with group chief executive, has overall responsibility 1 1. Upstream 24,700 respect and dignity, and without discrimination. for key policy decisions relating to employees. 3 2. Downstream 48,000 3. Other businesses We seek to treat all employees equally, The committee discussed longer-term people and corporate 11,100 irrespective of gender, age, sexual orientation, priorities, reward, progress in our diversity and 4. Gulf Coast ethnicity or disability. Our goal is to create an inclusion programme, recruitment priorities Our people Restoration Organization 100 environment of inclusion and acceptance. (including graduate recruitment), and 2 improvements to our learning and development We set diversity targets and policies to drive programmes in 2013. The committee also progress across the company. BP leaders are monitors key people metrics and progress made. expected to assess staffing decisions to check that there is no bias getting in the way of BP’s Employee engagement long-term diversity and inclusion strategy, and We conduct an annual employee engagement to analyse team composition for balance across BP employees by region survey. In 2013 approximately 37,000 employees different aspects of diversity. in around 70 countries gave their views on a 7 We are working towards our goal for 25% of wide range of business topics and to identify 6 1 1. Europe 32,600 group leaders and 30% of our senior level areas where we can improve. 5 2. US and Canada 19,800 leaders to be women by 2020. A total of 22% 4 We measure how engaged our employees are 3. Asia 16,200 of group leaders came from countries other than 4. South and Central with our strategic priorities. The group priorities the UK and the US in 2013. This was 14% in America 6,900 index is derived from 12 questions about 5. Middle East, 2000. For information abour gender diversity employee perceptions of BP and how it is North Africa 5,700 on our board see page 26. 3 6. Sub-Saharan Africa 2,400 managed in terms of leadership and standards. 2 7. Russia 300 Almost 5,000 group and senior level leaders We saw continued improvement in 2013 with have attended diversity and inclusion training a score of 72% (2012 71%, 2011 67%). programmes since we started the training in Business leadership teams review the results 2009. This is about three-quarters of the eligible of the survey and agree actions to address population and is consistent with our plans. We Diversity and inclusion – group leadershipa (%) identified issues. In 2013, safety scores intend to train the remaining senior managers remained strong and there was an increase in Women Non UK/US by the end of 2014. understanding of our operating management 30 We believe the structures and networks we system, an area of focus identified the previous 25 21 20 22 have to support our employees are just as year. While the survey showed an increase in 19 19 20 17 18 important as our focus on achieving diversity employee confidence in BP’s leadership, work 14 14 15 representation goals. We have established is needed to further strengthen this. 15 mentoring and sponsorship programmes for 10 women and minorities, and are introducing diversity principles that will help guide our 5 hiring and career development programmes. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We also encourage a number of employee networks that have formed around gender, a Minor amendments have been made to our 2012 numbers. sexual orientation and ethnicity. Diversity and inclusion ambitions Strategy Diversity and inclusion are explicit parts of our core values and strategic planning processes. Leadership Leaders are accountable for cultivating diversity and inclusion and aim to represent the diversity of the organization. Capability We are all responsible for growing, developing and retaining our diverse talent pool. Culture Our working culture enables different generational, cultural and personality styles to flourish. Improvement Consistent reporting mechanisms track progress toward diversity goals and BP employs about 83,900 people in around inform our decision making. 70 countries. BP Sustainability Review 2013 21 Managing our people We aim to develop the talents of our workforce and to attract the best people to improve our strengths and skills. 44% Rewarding performance We are focused on protecting the safety of our employees, engaging with them, and increasing Our employees are rewarded not just for the diversity of our workforce so that it reflects of our graduates were recruited what they deliver, but also for how they have the societies in which we operate. from universities outside the demonstrated behaviour that reflects our values. US and UK in 2013. Attracting and retaining our people As part of their individual performance review, employees set priorities regarding their BP’s businesses worldwide rely heavily on contribution to safety, compliance and risk highly-skilled people from diverse backgrounds. management; what they will deliver for the near Our business is complex, so we need and long term; and how they will do their job. employees with a wide range of specialist skills. These skills range from the capabilities needed Executive remuneration to explore for new sources of energy and to Executive remuneration is directly linked to develop our expertise in deep water, to strategy and performance, with particular transporting and distributing hydrocarbons emphasis on matching rewards to results over safely across the world. the long term. The structure of pay is designed Strategic recruitment to reflect the long-term nature of BP’s business We aim to develop the skills we need from our and the significance of safety and environmental existing workforce, complemented by selective risks. Performance measures for pay include external recruitment. Since 2009, we have safety measures on recordable injury frequency, recruited an average of 10,400 people a year tier 1 process safety events (see page 30) and (excluding retail staff). loss of primary containment. We run initiatives and awareness days with universities and colleges to attract the next generation of engineers, technicians and Our values scientists. Our graduate recruitment programmes aim to attract skilled candidates Safety from around the world. We recruit a significant proportion of our graduates – with a target of 40% – from outside the UK and US. In 2013, this Respect Rita Vanhauwenhuyse proportion was 44% (2012 46%, 2011 41%). Vice President of Talent and Our graduate intake has roughly doubled since Excellence Learning, BP 2009, with 814 new graduates in 2013. Building capability Courage “At BP we offer our people great We believe a culture of continual professional opportunities for professional development development meets the needs of our people and One Team and we want to provide them with high our business. We are working to integrate our quality and consistent learning experiences. programmes and have developed a learning This year we launched our vision of an management system, which has more than Our values express what we believe, how we integrated learning architecture – a five-year 90,000 users (including employees and selected aim to behave and what we aspire to be as programme that aims to spread best contractors), to help us deliver consistent and an organization. practice across the company in a effective development opportunities. The values are part of our recruitment, systematic way. I am confident that we promotion and individual performance We provide leading education opportunities have embarked on a path to drive learning assessment processes. They define what we through our internal academies and institutes excellence throughout our business as a expect from our employees and are reinforced that deliver leadership development, technical key means for business success.” by our remuneration structure, which connects learning and compliance programmes. how individuals are rewarded with how we Leadership development work at a group, team and individual level. We offer leadership development programmes for employees moving into management, Results from our annual employee engagement including those leading teams, departments and survey in 2013 showed a 12 percentage point functions. By the end of 2013, these had been increase from the previous year in employee attended by employees from 32 countries and understanding of BP values and how they relate were conducted in six different languages. to their work. See page 3 for more information on our values. 22 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Our code of conduct BP’s code of conduct defines our commitment to high ethical standards throughout our operations. OpenTalk cases Our code of conduct is based on our values and Anyone who in good faith seeks advice, raises a (by code chapter) clarifies the ethics and compliance expectations concern, reports misconduct or participates in an Operating safely, Our assets and for everyone who works at BP. investigation of an ethics and compliance issue responsibly and reliably financial integrity is following our code of conduct. Employees Our code applies to every employee and officer Governments and communities Our business partners are encouraged to discuss their questions or in every BP wholly-owned entity. In joint Our people concerns with their supervisor, their local ethics 1,500 ventures and entities over which BP does not and compliance leader, our legal, human have overall control, the code states that we will Our people resources, and ethics and compliance teams, do everything we reasonably can to make sure or BP’s helpline, OpenTalk. 1,125 our partners follow similar principles. In 2013, 1,121 cases were raised through We want to work with contractors who operate 750 OpenTalk (2012 1,295, 2011 796). The increase under principles that are similar to those in our in OpenTalk cases over the past few years is code. Where we have the right to do so, we due, in part, to initiatives to promote our code of 375 may consider terminating contracts where a conduct and speak-up culture. This is supported contractor has not complied with their by high scores in our employee engagement obligations, or not renewing a contract where survey relating to employee understanding of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 a contractor has acted in a manner that is not the importance of speaking up. consistent with our code. The most common issues raised in 2013 related Certifying to the code to the people section of the code. This includes We carry out code of conduct training and treating people fairly, with dignity and giving refresher sessions to explain to employees how everyone equal opportunity; creating a the code requirements and its principles apply to respectful, harassment-free workplace; and their work. Each year, we engage our employees protecting privacy and confidentiality. in code of conduct certification. Ethics monitor Code certification reminds individuals of their Following legal settlements with the US duty to uphold BP’s values, to do the right thing government, BP has retained an ethics monitor and to create an environment where people can for a term of up to four years. See page 11. confidently raise concerns. Dismissals We previously reported employee and contractor Anti-corruption training in Turkey dismissals and contracts terminated for Our code of conduct requires that we work non-compliance or unethical behaviour in our with businesses that operate under similar sustainability reporting. In 2013 we looked at principles to us. We recognize that when we ways to incorporate this information into our work with independent parties, such as fuel human resources and procurement processes. retailers who sell under the BP brand to our While we have information about our employee customers, they are seen to represent BP. dismissals, we are reviewing data collection processes to enable more complete recording of In Turkey we have been working to strengthen contractor dismissals and contracts terminated. the awareness of our ethical culture and values among our employees and BP-branded fuel In 2013, our businesses reported 113 employee retailers. Over the past two years we have dismissals for non-compliance or unethical provided anti-bribery and corruption training in behaviour. This excludes dismissals of staff sessions for these groups across the country. employed at our retail service stations for incidents such as thefts of small amounts of Richard Harding, Fuels Value Chain money. This figure is not directly comparable Country Manager in Turkey, said: “Sharing to data from previous years, which grouped the training with our business partners reduces employee and contractor dismissals together. potential bribery and corruption risks for BP, and enables our partners to protect their Speaking up businesses better.” BP is committed to providing an open Find more online at environment where our employees, contractors bp.com/people. and others with whom we come into contact, are comfortable speaking up whenever they Read our code of conduct. have a question about our code of conduct or think that it, or legal requirements, may have View our workforce profile – by age, been violated. gender and region. BP Sustainability Review 2013 23 How we operate We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Issue a policy to provide a consistent Non-operated joint ventures policy Assess how the non-operated joint framework for identifying and managing launched. ventures policy is being applied. BP’s exposure to risks associated with non-operated joint ventures. 91 projects completed the screening Evaluate our current screening process process from April 2010 to the end to help projects identify and assess Screen for environmental and social of 2013. socio-economic sensitivities and impacts in planning major projects. impacts. 37% increase on our spend under global Develop deeper, longer-term agreements with upstream contractors Look for opportunities to continue relationships with selected contractors and suppliers. to support a local supply chain. in our Upstream business. 24 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Our operating management system Our operating management system provides the foundation for a safe and strong BP. BP’s OMS is a group-wide framework designed We review and amend our group requirements Q: How do you identify potential to provide a basis for managing our operations in within OMS where we consider it appropriate environmental and social impacts a systematic way. Conformance to OMS is a to do so, for example to reflect the company’s when assessing new projects? dynamic process designed to help manage risk priorities and experience. and drive performance improvements. Our environmental and social A: We look at a wide range of possible What is it? practices impacts as part of our screening OMS integrates BP requirements on health, Our OMS includes environmental and social process. For example, in screening for safety, security, the environment, social practices that set out how our major projects the proposed Liberty project located in responsibility and operational reliability, as well identify and manage environmental and social nearshore waters in Alaska’s Arctic, as related issues, such as maintenance, impacts. The practices also apply to projects that which is in the conceptual planning contractor relations and organizational learning, involve new access, projects that could affect an stage, we identified potential impacts into a common management system. international protected area and some BP such as disturbance to marine mammals and impacts to the rare Boulder Patch OMS addresses eight elements of operating, acquisition negotiations. habitat located near the project. We are under the areas of people, plant, process In the early planning stages, projects that are looking at mitigation options such as and performance. subject to our environmental and social practices How we operate planning seasonal activities to minimize complete a screening process to identify the sound and activity during the migration Conformance and continuous potential environmental and social impacts of endangered bowhead whales, improvement associated with the project. Following screening, working with local indigenous All BP businesses covered by the OMS are projects are required to carry out impact communities to avoid impact on required to progressively align with this assessments, identify mitigation measures and subsistence hunting activities, and framework through an annual performance implement these in project design, construction planning the location of facilities to avoid improvement cycle. and operations. From April 2010 to the end of impacts to the Boulder Patch habitat. 2013, 91 projects had completed the screening Recently acquired operations need to transition Liz Rogers to the OMS as the initial step in this process. process and used outputs from the process to VP Environment, Social Responsibility The application of a comprehensive implement measures to reduce negative and HSSE Compliance, S&OR, BP management system such as OMS across a impacts. For more information see page 35. global company is an ongoing process. See page 27 for information about joint ventures. Conducting assessments on an annual basis as part of the performance improvement cycle is a means to identify opportunities for continuous improvement. Our operating management system BP’s OMS is a group-wide framework that Privi addresses eight elements of operating. le sult s oper ge to Re ate formance Per Leade rsh k Ris ip Proc ess People BP O rg a re s edu niz oc a ti Plant Pr on O pt im iz a t i ets on As s A driller on board the Valhall injection platform in the Norwegian North Sea. BP Sustainability Review 2013 25 Corporate governance and risk management BP’s risk management system is designed to enable risks to be identified, understood and managed so that we can deliver safe and strong operations. Our management systems, organizational The board structures, processes, standards, code of Certain risks are identified as being a high conduct and behaviours, together form a system priority for particular oversight by the board. of internal control that governs how we conduct For 2014, this includes risks associated with the business of BP and manage associated risks. the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, geopolitical risk, Risk management system security, ethical misconduct, legal and regulatory non-compliance, trading non-compliance, BP’s risk management system is designed to be cybersecurity, delivery of our 10-point plan a simple, consistent and clear framework for and incidents associated with the drilling of managing and reporting risks from the group’s wells, operating facilities and the transportation operations to the board. of hydrocarbons. Day-to-day risk management On 1 January 2014 the board was composed Management and staff at our facilities, assets and of the chairman, three executive directors and functions identify and manage risk, promoting 10 non-executive directors. safe, compliant and reliable operations. For example, our group-wide operating management We set a goal to have three women on the BP system (OMS) integrates BP requirements on board by the end of 2013. We have made some health, safety, security, environment, social progress, with two women on our board at the Members of BP’s board discussed how risks are responsibility, operational reliability and related end of 2013, but it is taking longer than expected managed with employees at BP’s Gelsenkirchen issues. These BP requirements, along with to find a third appropriate candidate. Board refinery in Germany in 2013. business needs and the applicable legal and diversity remains important to us and we regulatory requirements, underpin the practical continue to work for a quarter of our board plans developed to help reduce risk and deliver to be female by the end of 2015. strong, sustainable performance. Board committees Business and strategic risk management The board delegates some of its oversight and Our businesses and functions integrate risk monitoring activities to its committees, into key business processes such as strategy, composed entirely of non-executive directors. planning, performance management, resource One of the six committees – the safety, ethics and capital allocation, and project appraisal. and environment assurance committee (SEEAC) We do this by collating risk data, assessing monitors the management of non-financial risk. risk management activities, making further SEEAC received specific reports in 2013 on the improvements and planning new activities. By company’s management of risks in shipping, using a standardized risk management report, wells, pipelines, explosion or release at facilities we aim for a consistent view of risks across BP. containing hydrocarbons and non-operated joint Oversight and governance ventures. The committee reviewed these risks, The board, executive and functional leadership and their management and mitigation, in detail provide oversight to identify and understand with the relevant executive management. significant risks to BP. They also put in place Following the attack on our joint venture natural systems of risk management, compliance gas facility in Algeria in January 2013, our group and control to mitigate these risks. Executive security function presented SEEAC with a International advisory board committees set policy and oversee the number of reports on the security of our management of group risks, and dedicated facilities, including the consideration of revised BP’s international advisory board advises the board committees review and monitor certain security measures. chairman, group chief executive and the risks throughout the year. In 2013, members of SEEAC looked at risks board on geopolitical and strategic issues in, and environmental issues arising from, oil relating to the company. In 2013, these sands interests in Alberta, Canada. They also included events in the Middle East, the US visited operations at the Tangguh LNG facility budget deficit, and BP’s activities in in Indonesia, the North Slope in Alaska and Azerbaijan and North Africa. the Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany. Chaired by BP’s previous chairman, Peter The committee monitors BP’s global Sutherland, the group’s membership in 2013 implementation of the measures recommended included Kofi Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, in BP’s investigation after the Deepwater Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Horizon accident (the Bly Report). See page 30 Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana. for more information. The group meets twice a year, although its members are on hand to provide advice and counsel when needed. 26 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Working with our contractors, suppliers and partners BP, like its industry peers, rarely works in isolation – we need to work with suppliers, contractors and partners to carry out our operations. We seek to identify and manage risks in the Our joint venture partners supply chain relating to safety, corruption We seek to work with companies that share our and money laundering, and aim to have commitment to ethical, safe and sustainable sustainability-related provisions in our contracts working practices. However, we do not control with suppliers and contractors. For example, how our co-venturers and their employees our standard upstream contracts include approach these issues. anti-corruption provisions and health, safety, security and environmental requirements. Typically, our level of influence or control over a joint venture is linked to the size of our financial Bridging documents are necessary in some stake compared to other participants. In some cases to define how our safety management joint ventures we act as the operator. Our OMS system and that of our contractors co-exist to provides that where we are the operator, and manage risk on the work site. where legal and contractual arrangements Contractor management allow, OMS applies to the operations of that joint venture. In 2013, 54% of the 373 million hours worked by BP were carried out by contractors. Our OMS In other cases, one of our joint venture partners How we operate includes requirements and practices for working may be the designated operator, or the operator with contractors. We expect our contractors to may be an incorporated joint venture company A BP contractor measures the thickness of pipes comply with legal and regulatory requirements owned by BP and other companies. Around at the Cherry Point refinery in the US. and operate consistently with the principles 46% of our upstream production and 13% of of our code of conduct when they work our refining capacity in 2013 were from joint on our behalf. ventures where BP is not the operator. We have been working to drive deeper, In those cases, our OMS does not apply as the longer-term relationships with selected management system to be used by the operator, contractors in our Upstream business. We are but is available to our businesses as a reference working with fewer contractors, establishing point for their engagement with operators and global agreements, and actively managing co-venturers. Where BP does not have overall strategic suppliers. We have set up global control of a joint venture, our code of conduct agreements in areas such as engineered provides that we will do everything we equipment, well services and chemical managed reasonably can to make sure joint ventures services. These agreements help us manage follow similar principles. risks more effectively and leverage economies We introduced a group policy in 2013 to provide of scale. We also hold annual business reviews a consistent framework for identifying and to examine how we can work together to meet managing BP’s exposure related to safety and our long-term goals. operational risk, as well as bribery and corruption Local suppliers risk, from our participation in new and existing non-operated joint ventures. We run programmes to help build the skills of businesses and to develop the local supply chain. For example, in the Bird’s Head region A contractor checks a pump in the production of Papua, we provide one-on-one business module on the Thunder Horse platform in the consultancy and technical assistance to local Gulf of Mexico. businesses during tender processes. This helps 46% businesses to compete to supply goods and services associated with the construction and operation of liquefied natural gas plants. Since of our upstream 2006, we have held mentoring sessions and production is from joint workshops for more than 500 local businesses ventures where and enterprises. See page 42 for more BP is not the operator. information on local suppliers. 500+ local businesses and enterprises in Papua have taken part in our mentoring sessions and workshops since 2006. BP Sustainability Review 2013 27 Safety Everything BP aims to do as a company relies upon the safety of our operations, our workforce and the communities around us. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Continue to embed our operating Our reported tier 1 process safety Continue to use the performance management system (OMS). events are down from 43 to 20.a improvement cycle to align business practices with our OMS. Conduct self and independent 3 lines of defence to support safe and assurance that confirms our conduct reliable operations. Further develop the self verification of operating. capability of operations to carry out Independent expert, Carl Sandlin, health, safety, security and Appoint an independent expert to assessing progress in implementing the environment checks. provide an objective assessment of our Bly Report recommendations. progress in implementing the Bly Report Maintain our progress towards recommendations. completing the outstanding recommendations of the Bly Report. a Tier 1 process safety events are defined by the American Petroleum Institute as losses of primary containment from a process of greatest consequence – causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities. 28 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Managing safety Safety is our top priority – driven by our leadership and applied through our operating management system. We strive to create and maintain safe and Results, checks and balances healthy working environments and to apply 9,500 robust operating and maintenance practices at our facilities. Safety is one of our five values Within BP, our operating businesses are accountable for delivering safe, compliant and reliable operations. They have the responsibility attendees take part that guide us to act in a certain way. Additionally to identify and manage risks and bring together in our safety capability our code of conduct clarifies the basic rules that people with the right skills and competencies. development our people must follow including expectations They are also required to carry out self programmes each year. for operating safely, responsibly and reliably. verification. They work in collaboration with Our leaders reinforce the message that it is deployed safety specialists and are subject to not just ‘what’ we do, but ‘how’ we do it that is 15 independent scrutiny and assurance. important. Our operating management system (OMS) is a group-wide framework designed to Deployed safety and operational risk (S&OR) sites are taking part in our provide a basis for managing our operations in experts work alongside the business line. They Exemplar coaching programme. a systematic way. For more information on help businesses manage risk through our OMS, our OMS see page 25. including the application of relevant standards and practices and by providing tools, guidance Leadership inspections are conducted in all and support for conformance with OMS. They regions with BP-operated rig activity. Leaders report to the head of S&OR, independently of monitor, engage with, and listen to frontline the business line. employees and contractors to oversee the quality of operations. This is supported by Members of our group audit teams visit certain site visits by the board’s safety, ethics and sites, selected on a risk-prioritized basis, to environment assurance committee. provide independent consideration of the management of safety and operational risks. Developing our leaders They also carry out certain assessments prior We offer capability development programmes to rig start-up. Safety for leaders across all levels on topics including process safety, risk management and OMS. Learning from incidents Around 9,500 attendees take part in these We issue learning alerts to relevant operations each year and 356 have graduated from our to communicate information about safety issues Operations Academy at the Massachusetts that have arisen inside or outside the company Institute of Technology since 2007. Over which could highlight potentially unsafe working 8,000 employees also participated in our conditions or practices. These alerts include Operating Essentials programme in 2013. specific requirements or recommendations Also, through our Exemplar coaching for our operations to implement where programme, we use facilitators to help sites applicable, which aim to help prevent a similar work towards conformance with our OMS incident occurring. using a performance improvement cycle. This year we extended the pilot of our Exemplar coaching programme to 15 sites. From self verification to audit – Three lines of defence Third line of defence Group audit teams provide independent consideration of the management of safety and operational risks. Audit Bob Fryar, BP’s head of safety and operational risk, visits our Whiting refinery in the US. Second line of defence S&OR deployed teams provide businesses with tools, guidance and support for Assurance conformance with our OMS. First line of defence Sites work continuously to verify conformance with requirements to drive Self verification BP workers using powerful new technology to safe, compliant and reliable operations. test pipelines more safely and efficiently at the Sangachal Terminal in Azerbaijan. BP Sustainability Review 2013 29 Process safety: Preventing incidents at our operations BP works to prevent, mitigate and respond to accidents such as fires, explosions and oil spills. Loss of primary containment Process safety refers to how we manage the recommendations aimed at further reducing (number of incidents) integrity of hazardous operating systems and risk across our global drilling activities. By the processes to prevent accidents and spills. end of 2013, 15 recommendations had been Major incidents in process safety are infrequent completed and over 75% of the deliverables that 600 537 but can result in serious harm to people and are required to close out all 26 recommendations the environment. had been completed. A recommendation 418 450 is defined as complete when it has been 361 Tracking performance approved by senior management in our 292 To track our progress in process safety global wells organization and submitted for 300 261 management, we use leading indicators that internal verification. focus on the strength of controls to prevent The outstanding recommendations relate to 150 incidents. These include inspections and tests well control and well integrity, drilling and of equipment critical to process safety. We also competency, the management of risk and measure lagging indicators that record events 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 change, and blowout preventers. All 26 that have already happened­, such as oil spills and recommendations have been worked on in other losses of primary containment, and parallel, so progress has been made towards develop lessons learned from these events. each of them. The board’s safety, ethics and Process safety events environment assurance committee (SEEAC) We track the number of process safety events monitors BP’s global implementation of the 32 occurring across our upstream facilities and downstream process plants, including unplanned or uncontrolled releases of materials causing measures recommended in the Bly Report, and progress is tracked quarterly by executive management. technical courses harm to a member of the workforce or the More information about our progress is offered by our global environment, costly damage to equipment or available at bp.com/internalinvestigation. wells institute. exceeding threshold quantities. Independent assessment Tier 1 process safety events are those with the The BP board appointed Carl Sandlin as greatest consequence. There were 20 tier 1 independent expert to provide an objective process safety events reported in BP in 2013 assessment of BP’s global progress in (2012 43, 2011 74). implementing the deliverables from the Bly Loss of primary containment Report. Mr Sandlin also provides his views We track loss of primary containment (LOPC), on the organizational effectiveness and culture which includes those releases that did not reach of the global wells organization, and process the environment. These include unplanned or safety observations. uncontrolled releases from a tank, vessel, pipe, As part of his work, Mr Sandlin visited the railcar or equipment used for containment or regional wells teams with active operations transfer within our operational boundary, twice in 2013. During each visit, Mr Sandlin excluding non-hazardous releases such as water. conducted reviews with senior management, We seek to record all LOPCs regardless of the and held discussions with key wells personnel volume of the release and report on losses over and drilling contractors on site. As part of his a severity threshold. report to SEEAC in January 2014, Mr Sandlin Safer drilling reported that in every location he visited he found evidence that: Our global wells organization is responsible for planning and executing all our wells operations • The desire of BP to have safe operations is An employee checks a valve at our Toledo across the world. It brings wells expertise into well understood by contractors. refinery in the US. a single organization to drive standardization • BP practices are understood and are being and consistent implementation. We have been used, and that the rig personnel understand developing and finalizing OMS conformance their roles and responsibilities with respect to plans for activities that represent our highest risk both well control and well monitoring. areas in our wells operations. Our global wells • Written procedures are being used to test institute offers courses in areas such as applied both the blowout preventers and the deepwater well control, drilling engineering and accumulator system on a regular basis. well site leadership, with over 100 sessions • Relief wells are being planned properly and rig delivered in 2013. audit findings are being closed out promptly. Implementing the Bly Report Mr Sandlin has reported that the deliverables recommendations supporting the 15 completed Bly Report BP’s investigation into the accident in the recommendations are ingrained within regional Gulf of Mexico, the Bly Report, made 26 wells teams and that much progress has been made on the remaining 11 recommendations. 30 BP Sustainability Review 2013 He also identified areas for improvement and has, over the course of his engagement, made a number of recommendations addressing issues including personal safety, safety leader training and clarification of accountabilities. Our global wells and safety and operational risk organizations are reviewing his recommendations. The BP board and Mr Sandlin have agreed, in principle, that his engagement, initially scheduled to finish in June 2014, will be extended to June 2016. Process safety monitor Following the settlement with the US In Amenas government of all federal criminal claims related to the Deepwater Horizon incident, and consistent with the plea agreement, BP has In January 2013, the In Amenas gas plant in retained a process safety monitor for a term of up Algeria, which is run as a joint venture to four years from February 2014. See page 11. between BP, Sonatrach (the national oil company of Algeria) and Statoil, came under Safety in the Downstream business armed terrorist attack. This was followed by In our facilities across the Downstream Algerian military action to regain control of business, we focus on the safe storage, handling the site. A total of 40 people from 10 and processing of hydrocarbons. Construction of our third PTA plant at Zhuhai, countries and 10 organizations were killed in China is expected to be completed in late 2014. In seeking to manage the risks associated with the attack. Four BP employees and a former Safety these activities, BP takes measures to: employee lost their lives in the incident. This • Prevent loss of hydrocarbon containment Process safety expert for our was a tragic event, and BP continues to through well designed, maintained and Downstream business support impacted employees and their operated equipment. SEEAC appointed Duane Wilson in May 2012 as families. During the incident, BP mobilized • Reduce the likelihood of any hydrocarbon process safety expert, and assigned him to work our full emergency response system to releases and the possibility of ignition. in a global capacity with the Downstream assist the joint venture and local authorities • Provide safe locations, emergency procedures business. In his role as process safety expert, to evacuate 570 people over the course of and other mitigation measures in the event of Mr Wilson provides an independent perspective two days. Around 300 people across the a release, fire or explosion. on the progress that BP’s fuels, lubricants and company helped support the response. petrochemicals businesses are making globally Since the attack, BP and Statoil have jointly Some areas where we worked to manage risks toward becoming industry leaders in process carried out an extensive review of security in our refining and petrochemicals portfolio in safety performance. arrangements in Algeria and are working 2013 included: This followed his five-year board appointment with Sonatrach and the joint venture on • Corrosion: We are using industry benchmarks as independent expert to provide an objective implementing a programme of security and technology to improve the way we detect, assessment of BP’s progress in implementing enhancements. The focus of BP and our measure and monitor corrosion with the aim the recommendations of the BP US Refineries partners in the joint venture is to do all we of reducing the risk of leaks and increasing the Independent Safety Review Panel, which came can to prevent any such incident from reliability of our equipment. to an end in May 2012. happening again. • Coaching: Nine manufacturing facilities participated in the Exemplar programme Mr Wilson’s contract has been extended to which aims to help sites apply our OMS using April 2015. continuous improvement processes. Security and crisis management • Site occupied buildings: We moved workforce further away from higher risk processing areas BP aims to guard against hostile actions that at our petrochemicals plant in Zhuhai, China could cause harm to our people or disrupt our and installed an improved evacuation alert operations, and we monitor for emerging threats system at our chemical plant in Hull in the UK, and vulnerabilities. For example, we assess and as part of a multi-year programme. monitor potential threats, and maintain a range of cybersecurity defences to prevent and respond to cyberattacks. Our operating businesses identify potential crises and continuity risks on an annual basis and test how prepared their teams are to respond. BP Sustainability Review 2013 31 Health and personal safety We take the welfare of our staff seriously, and strive to create and maintain safe and healthy working environments. Recordable injury frequency – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) American Petroleum Institute US benchmark.a International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark.a 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employees 0.23 0.25 0.31 0.26 0.25 Contractors 0.43 0.84 0.41 0.43 0.36 Day away from work case frequency – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) A fast response vessel undertakes a drill exercise American Petroleum Institute US benchmark.a around the Skarv floating production storage and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark.a offloading unit in Norway. 0.3 Building a strong safety culture where everyone We participate in a number of health initiatives 0.2 who works for, or on behalf of, BP feels across the world and contribute to the responsible for their own safety as well as for development of industry good practice. the safety of those around them, is fundamental Our businesses continue to carry out local to keeping our people safe. We track both programmes to aid in the health of the 0.1 recordable injuries and the day away from work communities where we operate. case frequency, as these are industry-standard measures to help gauge how we are managing Transportation safety 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 our operations to prevent harm to our workforce. Some of the greater risks to our workforce, and in our industry, relate to transportation of people Employees In 2013, BP reported six fatalities. These were 0.069 0.086 0.101 0.078 0.074 and products. We take action to mitigate four employees in the terrorist attack at In Contractors transport-associated risks through our operating 0.069 0.264 0.080 0.074 0.066 Amenas, Algeria, and two contractors in heavy management system. a goods vehicle incidents, one in Brazil and one API and OGP data reports for 2013 are not available until May 2014. in South Africa. We deeply regret the loss of We rely on a variety of metrics to monitor our these lives. driving safety performance. For example, we track our severe vehicle accident rate, which Health and wellness includes accidents that result in death, injury, a We work to reduce exposure to occupational spill, a vehicle rollover or serious vehicle damage. risks such as noise, fatigue, stress and other We also track our total vehicle accident rate, health issues. Our health programmes consider which is the sum of all on-road and off-road Severe vehicle accident rate local factors affecting people at work, such motor vehicle accidents. In 2013, the total (per million kilometres driven) as the existence of hazardous conditions or number of reported vehicle accidents was 802 substances at certain operating sites, as well as (2012 998, 2011 1,091). global concerns, such as the possibility of an 0.2 We use a variety of aircraft and helicopters, influenza pandemic or other infectious disease. often in challenging conditions. We have A total of 73% of employees who completed defined roles and accountabilities for aviation our employee engagement survey in 2013 management and competencies within BP, responded positively to the statement that and detailed requirements for technical approval 0.1 “BP really cares about my health and wellbeing” of aviation operators, contracting for aviation (2012 71%, 2011 65%). The industry benchmark, services, and the safe management of any based on a selection of industry peers, was 62% aircraft operated on behalf of BP. We are in 2013. committed to working with the industry, the aviation community, and the authorities to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 respond to helicopter safety incidents. 32 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Contractor safety Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator depends in part on the capability and performance of our contractors. Contractors help us to deliver projects and carry Q: What is BP doing to prevent road out our operations. This requires rigorous accidents? selection processes and performance management systems. We seek to set out clear and consistent expectations of our contractors. A: My role involves managing driving safety Bridging documents are necessary in some risks throughout BP. It’s a challenging cases to define how our safety management job – our workforce travels, on average, system, and that of our contractors, co-exist approximately 800 million kilometres a to manage risk on the work site. year. The majority of these kilometres are driven by our Downstream business In our Upstream business, we are working with – in transporting fuel from refineries to our strategic contractors and suppliers to create petrol stations, for example. Over the standardized technical and quality requirements past 10 years we have seen a significant for certain equipment, initially focused on decline in the number of vehicle-related new projects. fatalities associated with our work. However, two countries where we have Potentially high-consequence activity seen workforce fatalities in recent years, Contracts that involve potentially highSouth Africa and Brazil, are places where consequence activity in our Upstream business, we are expanding our presence. Along such as for work on our rigs and offshore A tanker driver connects a tank to a loading hose with road safety awareness campaigns, installations, demand our highest scrutiny: at a BP service station in Turkey. we run defensive driving courses for our • Our selection process includes pre-contract workforce there. These types of quality, technical and health, safety, security initiatives, supported by group-wide and environment audits, which are carried out Self verification and audit requirements on driving safety, aim to on a risk-prioritized basis. We engage with key contractors to support their prevent road accidents and keep our self verification of their safety management Safety people safe. • Governance boards review and endorse the systems. This is in addition to any safety, sourcing of all significant potentially hightechnical and quality pre-contract award audits Albert Ploeg consequence activity contracts. Technical Authority Driving Safety, BP that we undertake. In certain cases, for instance • We are incorporating standard performance for subsea blowout preventers, we employ metrics into these contracts covering areas external verification. such as safety, quality and continuous improvement. These metrics are tracked Targeted interventions and discussed during regular performance Our approach is to work collaboratively with review meetings. contractors in a way that seeks to avoid the need for intervention. Where contractors do Developing capability not meet our requirements, they may be put on Our global wells institute includes a world-class a performance improvement plan. We may also well control simulator facility and an applied seek to shut down, pause, or delay contractor deepwater well control course in which BP operations until our requirements have been employees and contractor staff can work met. In one case in 2013, we put a rig on hold together and practice a variety of well for ten days until the contractor strengthened control situations. their procedures and retrained their rig team in the use of critical equipment. We are keen to learn from the experience of our contractors. For example, one of our key contractors in our shipping operations took part in an exercise to demonstrate how satellite imagery and remote sensing equipment can be More information online at used to carry out oil spill simulations. We also bp.com/safety. bring groups of contractors together to address common issues. In 2013, we hosted a workshop Find out more about the progress with rig and well service contractor executives we are making to complete the on applying safety management systems. recommendations made in the Bly Report. In the US, our petrochemicals operations trialled a driving safety programme with our partners Read about our approach to to help third-party freight drivers reduce transportation safety. driving risks. Two carriers have since asked to use the concept as a part of Filter and analyse data on BP’s health their driver training programmes. and safety performance using our HSE charting tool. BP Sustainability Review 2013 33 Environment BP is working to avoid, minimize and mitigate environmental impacts wherever we do business. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Assess which operations are in water We know around half our major Investigate future water management scarce areas to understand associated operating sites withdraw fresh water approaches taking into account our risks. in areas of water stress or scarcity. operations’ life cycle water demand and local water resources. Seek to work collaboratively with Lessons shared on oil spill response government regulators in planning for oil with regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil and Continue to develop modelling tools to spill response. Libya. better predict the consequences of an oil spill to land. Focus efforts on energy efficiency 8% improvement in energy intensity where it is relevant for local business index at our Toledo refinery in the US Share lessons learned at Toledo with our management. from 2010 to 2013. other refineries around the world. 34 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Managing our impact Throughout the life cycle of our projects and operations, we aim to manage environmental impacts and address any related impacts on local communities. We manage the environmental and social Every year businesses review their impacts of our operations and projects through environmental performance and set local our operating management system (OMS). improvement targets. These targets can include measures such as flaring reduction, pollution Material issues prevention, or reducing impact on biodiversity. At a group level, we annually review our Impacts on the environment vary from site to management of material issues such as site, and according to the nature of each greenhouse gas emissions, water, sensitive and operation. We consider environmental protected areas, and oil spill response. Our group sensitivities in determining which issues require operating risk committee, chaired by BP’s group the greatest focus for impact reduction. At a site chief executive, reviews our performance in close to populations, for example, the most each of these areas and examines emerging immediate concern may be air quality, whereas risks and actions taken to mitigate them. a remote desert site may require greater For example, water scarcity is a potential risk consideration of water management issues. for many of our operations, and we are working to develop tools and processes for our local Environmental remediation businesses to use to manage this risk. BP works to restore the environment when remediating a site. Our OMS provides a Impact assessment framework for helping projects to evaluate New units at our Whiting refinery, US, will We require that projects subject to our and select the most appropriate remediation improve how we manage wastewater. environmental and social practices (see page 25) approach. This includes consideration of carry out an early screening to evaluate the environmental and social aspects such as the potential environmental and socio-economic views of local communities, potential energy sensitivities in the area, and how our activities usage and waste production, biodiversity and might affect them. For example, before bidding employment opportunities. for exploration blocks in the Arafura Sea in Remediation can bring both environmental and Indonesia, we identified areas of potential risk. economic benefits to the local community. For These included challenges in getting oil spill example, a site in New Jersey, US, which once response teams and equipment to such a housed a large fuel and specialty chemicals remote area in the event of an oil spill, and terminal, is being transformed into a port that is the presence of up to 27 species of marine expected to generate revenue and jobs for the mammals, including four classed as threatened local community. or near threatened. We then developed actions to mitigate the risks, such as ways to reduce Complying with regulations disturbance to marine mammals during Environment With operations in around 80 countries, BP seismic activity. faces diverse and complex environmental laws Our operating sites can have a lifespan of several and regulations. We manage applicable legal decades and our operations are expected to and regulatory health, safety, security and work to continually reduce their impacts and environmental requirements through risks. In 2013 all of our major operating sites, our OMS. with the exception of recently-acquired operations, were certified to the environmental management system standard ISO 14001. Managing environmental and social impacts Our operating management system ISO 14001 applies Our environmental and social practices apply New access Major projects Operations Decommissioning projects and some and projects that acquisition plan to affect negotiations an international A drilling team working in the desert at the protected area Southern Rumaila oilfield, Iraq. BP Sustainability Review 2013 35 Environmental performance We report on key environmental issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, flaring, water and waste. Greenhouse gas emissions We provide performance data for each of these refinery’s operating units. We are sharing the (Mte CO2 equivalent) areas, as well as more information about the measures taken to improve energy efficiency at global context and how we manage these Toledo with our refineries around the world. 65 issues, at bp.com/environment. 59.8 +0.1 -11.5 Flaring 60 Greenhouse gas emissions Our operations seek to minimize flaring wherever BP aims to manage its operational GHG possible. At some BP operating sites where there 55 emissions through operational energy efficiency, is stranded gas, for example in Alaska, we have reductions in flaring and venting, and by factoring re-injected gas into the reservoir, storing it there +1.0 0.2 49.2 50 a carbon cost into our investment appraisals and rather than flaring it. At our unconventional gas the engineering design of new projects. Our production facilities in the US, we recover gas 45 direct GHG emissions were 49.2 million tonnes that previously would have been flared or vented (Mte) in 2013 (2012 59.8Mte, 2011 61.8Mte). when commissioning new wells. These techniques have been shared with industry and The decrease in emissions is primarily the result 2012 2013 regulators to help reduce venting and flaring. Acquisitions Divestments Operational Real sustainable of the sale of two refineries, Texas City and Carson in the US, as part of our divestment Oil spill preparedness and response changes programme. Actions taken by our businesses to reductions We issued new group-wide requirements for sustainably reduce their emissions amounted to oil spill preparedness and response planning, a reduction of 0.2Mte. We have been measuring and crisis management in July 2012. These such sustainable reductions in our operational incorporate what we have learned from GHG emissions every year since 2002, and the the Deepwater Horizon accident. All of our running total by the end of 2013 was Number of oil spills businesses that have the potential to spill oil have approximately 8.7Mte. (> _ one barrel) been updating oil spill planning scenarios and Oil spills to land Oil spills to water Contained oil spills BP is aware of the growing focus on reducing response strategies in line with the requirements. 400 emissions of substances that have a strong Meeting the requirements is a substantial piece warming effect on the climate but have relatively of work and we believe this work has already short lifetimes in the atmosphere (termed 300 resulted in a significant increase in our oil spill short-lived climate forcers), including methane. response capability. For example, this includes We are working to better understand our using specialized modelling techniques and the 200 emissions from these substances and the provision of response capabilities, such as potential for further reductions. stockpiles of dispersants and planning for major 100 Emissions target offshore recovery operations. A company’s GHG emissions can be influenced Oil spill modelling by a variety of factors that may result from shifts 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Improving our existing oil spill modelling tools in business activity, production or assets. This helps BP to better define different oil spill To land makes it difficult to establish an appropriate 112 126 88 88 51 scenarios and associated response plans for company-wide GHG target that can be cascaded To water both offshore and inland settings. For example, 10 16 14 14 23 throughout the organization with the objective of following modelling for exploration in the Omani Contained achieving cost-effective emission reductions. 112 119 126 102 111 desert, we modified the planned location of For these reasons, BP – like many of our peers pipeline sites to reduce the impact to – does not set enterprise-wide GHG targets but groundwater if a spill were to occur. instead requires performance management at a local level through our operating management Sensitivity mapping system (OMS). We consider the environmental and socioeconomic sensitivities of a region to help inform Energy efficiency oil spill response planning. Sensitivity mapping As part of our OMS, we require our operations helps us to identify the various types of habitats, to incorporate energy use considerations into resources and communities that could their business plans and to assess, prioritize and potentially be impacted by oil spills and develop implement technologies and systems to improve appropriate response strategies. Sensitivity energy use. In many of our refineries, we are mapping is conducted around the world and in improving our energy performance. For example, 2013 we updated sensitivity maps in Angola, at our Toledo refinery in the US, we improved Australia, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Libya, Trinidad & our Solomon Energy Intensity Index score, Tobago and the UK. the industry measure used to benchmark energy efficiencies, by 8% from 2011 to 2013. A number of factors contributed to this, including updating technologies and improving how we manage and measure energy use in the 36 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Dispersants wastewater from the ethanol refineries is Q: How do you manage water use The use of dispersants is an important option in reused as a source of irrigation water and given that a high proportion of oil spill response planning. We are examining fertilizer for the sugar cane crops. your operations are in water topics such as the effectiveness of dispersants We continue to look for opportunities to improve stressed areas? in the deep ocean and efficiency of naturallyefficiencies in water management in our occurring marine microbes to degrade dispersed operations. At our purified terephthalic acid oil in the Gulf of Mexico and in the seas of A: Our approach depends upon the (PTA) plant in Zhuhai, China, BP has invested in Australia, Azerbaijan and Egypt. location. In areas of water scarcity, technology to minimize fresh water and energy such as Oman, Algeria and Libya, we Sharing lessons use for the past 10 years. The third PTA plant is review regional water sources to We seek to work collaboratively with currently under construction and is expected to establish the risks and potential impacts government regulators in planning for oil spill be operational by the end of 2014. This uses a of our work. This includes developing response and sharing lessons learned, with the water recycling technique developed by BP, an understanding of how the water is aim of improving any potential future response. which will reduce water discharge by 75%, currently used, for example, by local For example, in 2013 we shared lessons on while reducing GHG emissions by 65% versus communities. This allows us to design dispersant use, controlled burning response other conventional technologies. our water withdrawals use and strategies and oil spill modelling with discharge systems in a way that Waste management government regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil minimizes impacts. Many of the areas and Libya. We generate a range of waste products during of water stress where we operate are the exploration and production of oil and gas, in mature regulatory environments – for Water management and the refining, manufacturing and marketing example in Europe, the US and Australia We use water in our drilling, hydraulic fracturing of our products. Hazardous and non-hazardous – where we work closely with regulators and oil sands operations. At our refining and waste generated at our operating sites is and other stakeholders to optimize water petrochemicals facilities, water is used for managed through our local operating consumption. cooling, steam and manufacturing processes. management systems. It is also used in our biofuels business for We evaluate opportunities to avoid, reduce, Alistair Wyness supplementary irrigation and the refining of and re-use the amount of waste that is created. Safety and Operational Risk Group biofuel energy crops. For example, at our LNG plant in Tangguh, Water Expert, BP We recognize the importance of access to fresh Indonesia, we are developing a process to water and the need to manage water discharges recycle waste cooking oil as biodiesel, which has at our operations. We use the Global Water tool the potential to reduce the volume of the plant’s developed by oil and gas industry association waste cooking oil by up to 90% and reduce IPIECA to help us identify potential quantity, diesel usage onsite by up to 30%. We are also quality and regulatory risks related to water use. looking at how best to manage waste on board Based on this tool, around half of our major the ships that we operate, and are trialling Environment operating sites withdraw fresh water in areas and installing new waste receptacles and where the availability of fresh water is pre-treatment technologies. considered stressed or scarce. These operations account for about 17% of our total freshwater withdrawal. We are continuing to manage the impacts and risks in these locations. We are investing in research with several universities in the US to help understand future risks in water management, such as the allocation and use of water in the Middle East and the impact of water policies and regulation around the world. Find more online at Water withdrawal bp.com/environment. Our operations are required to identify and manage environmental and social impacts View performance data on energy resulting from our water withdrawal or use, flaring, greenhouse gas discharges and assess potential ways to manage emissions, ozone-depleting them. At some locations, such as our Kwinana substances, emissions affecting air refinery in Australia, we use water sourced from quality, waste and water. municipal wastewater treatment plants after it has been specially treated, as an alternative Read about science and technology in freshwater source for industrial use. In our environmental protection. biofuels operations in Brazil, the nutrient-rich Filter and analyse environmental data using our HSE charting tool. BP Sustainability Review 2013 37 Biodiversity and sensitive areas We take steps to understand and manage the potential impacts of our operations on sensitive areas. BP operates in diverse environments around the Ecosystems provide many services to humans, world, from the desert to the deep sea. Some of from water and food, to pollination, climate these areas are particularly sensitive – they may regulation and water and air purification. We be home to protected or endangered species, require applicable projects to assess sensitivities contain an ecosystem with outstanding and potential impacts on ecosystem services, biological or geographical value, or the landscape including the dependence of local communities may be fragile or unique. on the ecosystem services that could be affected by our operations. Some of the world’s most sensitive areas, both environmentally and socially, have national Marine environments and international protected area status. The We continue to deepen our understanding of international protected areas classification we how our work may affect marine ecosystems – use includes those designated as protected from monitoring the potential effects of sound by the International Union for Conservation of from our offshore activities on marine life to Nature (IUCN) (categories I-IV), UNESCO World working with our industry to better understand Heritage Sites and sites designated under the the potential impacts of oil spills. Ramsar Convention, as well as areas proposed for international protected status. As part of our planning efforts related to exploring for oil and gas in the Great Australian We have reported on our operations in protected We work with local communities and others to Bight, we commissioned studies to understand areas, including IUCN designated areas I-VI, understand and manage the potential impacts how sound from our activities might interact since 2002. In 2013, no new BP projects sought of our work on Alaska’s North Slope. with the surrounding marine environment. The permission for entry into an international marine ecosystems of the Bight support globally protected area. important populations of seabirds and marine Projects subject to our environmental and social mammals. The studies helped us to assess practices (see page 25) are required to screen what mitigation actions may be required during against a range of indicators and determine operational activities to reduce potential risk to whether their activities could potentially affect marine mammals that may be in the area. We an international protected area. Where screening then recorded the actual sound levels of our indicates that a proposed project’s planned initial activities, including seismic surveys, and activities could affect, or will enter, a protected compared this with results from the modelling area, a high-level risk assessment is prepared work. This data was used to inform our planning and executive approval is required before any process for subsequent activities in the area. physical activities take place. We then proceed We work with the International Association of with a more detailed impact assessment and Oil & Gas Producers’ sound and marine life joint identify ways to first avoid, or secondly minimize industry programme, which aims to develop a any potential impacts. better understanding of the potential interactions Biodiversity and ecosystem services of sound from oil and gas operations with marine life. We also support research by some of the BP takes steps to understand and manage world’s leading academic institutions, such as the potential impacts of our operations on the University of St Andrews in Scotland, to biodiversity and ecosystem services. This may improve our understanding and knowledge in include consulting with relevant experts and this area. agencies, and compiling a wildlife or biodiversity management plan. We monitor our biodiversity Gulf of Mexico management throughout the life cycle of Through the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, a project. we are supporting research to improve For example, at our Cherry Point refinery in knowledge of the Gulf ecosystem, and to better Washington state, in the US, we have created understand and mitigate the potential impacts 220 acres of wetlands on unused areas of the of oil spills in the region and elsewhere. For site, which have become habitats for bird and example, a study of natural hydrocarbon amphibian species. To help understand the seepage found that active natural seepage is a ecological importance of these wetland habitats, persistent phenomenon in the region of the we are working with local communities to Northeast Mississippi Canyon of the Gulf of monitor amphibian species in the area, such Mexico, providing the scientific community with as the Northwestern salamander and the more information about the baseline physical Pacific chorus frog, and develop a baseline and chemical conditions in the region. for further research. 38 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Working in the Arctic BP operates 13 onshore and nearshore oilfields in Alaska. We have a largely non-operated position in the offshore Arctic. The Arctic offers significant opportunities to help Barents 2020 project, which examines standards Q: How does BP address the challenges meet the world’s growing energy needs, but for safe exploration, production and transportation of working in the Arctic in Alaska? there are also specific challenges due to its of oil and gas in the Barents sea in Norway unique nature. These range from environmental, and Russia. social and political to operational, technological A: We have decades of experience and commercial challenges. Detecting leaks working in the Arctic and have Alaska’s Northstar oilfield, which we have established routine practices and BP has operated in the US Arctic for several operated since 2001, is located just offshore. monitoring programmes to help us decades. Today we operate 13 oilfields on To detect and prevent spills from the subsea manage our impacts. For example, Alaska’s North Slope – 11 of these fields pipeline we use three systems that operate we schedule many of our construction are onshore and the other two are located independently of each other. They monitor: projects for the winter season. Working in the nearshore. from ice roads, which are built after the • The volume of oil moving through the pipe. In the offshore Arctic, BP has a largely non• Changes in pressure. ground is frozen and snow covered, operated position. We currently have limits damage to sensitive tundra. Also, • The presence of hydrocarbon molecules in the investments in areas including the Canadian most sensitive bird and mammal soil around the pipe, which is buried seven to Beaufort, the Barents seas and Greenland. For species migrate out of the oilfields nine feet below the ocean bottom. the next few years at least, our activity in the during winter. Other species, such as Arctic will be largely confined to exploration. We also carry out annual checks of the ocean polar bears, remain in the area, and we We will continue to assess other opportunities floor along the pipeline route looking for implement additional measures for in the Arctic, but only where we believe we evidence of erosion from water currents. If these species as needed. For example, understand and can manage associated risks. erosion is detected, we add gravel to maintain we locate polar bear dens using infrared a protective layer over the pipeline. scanners and do not work within We share our knowledge and experience in the 1.6 kilometres of these dens. The aim Arctic with our partners to help deliver safe and Working with local communities is to protect habitat and wildlife in the responsible operations in this sensitive Most Arctic communities depend on sensitive North Slope oilfields. environment and invest in developing Arctic Arctic natural environments for their subsistence capability within our industry. and cultural heritage. We acknowledge the Janet Platt Director, Regulatory Compliance and Rosneft importance of respecting the unique cultures Environment, HSE, BP Exploration and ways of life in Arctic communities, whether Through our shareholding in Rosneft, we have Alaska indigenous or non-indigenous. an indirect interest in exploration licences in the Russian Arctic. BP does not currently have We work with local communities to understand operations in the Russian Arctic and does not and manage the potential local impacts from our directly partner with Rosneft on any of its Arctic work. Our emphasis is on open and transparent licences. As a responsible shareholder, we seek dialogue, based on sound science and Environment to support Rosneft in its Arctic licences, knowledge sharing, and our response plans including its joint ventures with other partners. are enhanced through considering local and traditional knowledge. For example, we have Working safely worked with the North Slope Borough and Our operations in Alaska have governmentthe Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission to approved land, air and water use permits and oil incorporate local environmental knowledge spill response plans that target the risk of a spill into our mitigation plans for potential impacts and the sensitivity of the Arctic. We continue to to the local community and subsistence carry out research into construction, drilling and whaling activities. oil spill response in ice and cold water settings We also look for opportunities for local and share our experience and knowledge with communities to share in the long-term economic our partners. benefits of our presence. For example, BP has We participate in a number of Arctic research worked to support the long-term economic programmes with our industry peers. For development of our North Slope neighbouring example, we are a member of the International communities by investing in Ilisagvik College. Association of Oil & Gas Producers’ joint One of the aims of the college is to provide industry programme on Arctic oil spill response education and training to individuals to meet the technology. Research areas for 2013 included needs of North Slope employers. the effectiveness of dispersants in Arctic waters, oil spill modelling in ice and the use of remote sensors above and under water. We are also working with others to deploy consistent safety standards and technologies, such as the International Organization for Standardization’s Arctic standards and the BP Sustainability Review 2013 39 Society To BP, working responsibly means seeking to have positive impacts on the communities in which we operate. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Update our risk processes to better Socio-economic risk criteria developed Test the socio-economic risk criteria describe the potential socio-economic on topics such as workforce welfare and with our businesses. consequences from incidents. fresh water availability. Continue to support community $78.8m spent on community Update our framework for managing development programmes. investment. social investment. Develop human rights training, 21 human rights training events Deliver human rights workshops in other prioritizing specific businesses conducted. priority areas. and functions. 40 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Managing our impact on society We believe that societies and communities where we work should benefit from our presence. BP’s projects and operations have the potential We are working with oil and gas industry to positively impact local communities by association IPIECA to develop guidance on 62 creating jobs, generating tax revenues, providing opportunities for local suppliers and supporting community development initiatives. managing community grievances. This is expected to be finalized in 2014 and we plan to test its suitability for incorporation into our local community meetings held in Indonesia as part of training and capability development. Socio-economic impacts our Tangguh LNG Indigenous peoples We require projects that are subject to our expansion project. environmental and social practices (see page 25) Developing robust and mutually beneficial to evaluate the socio-economic sensitivities of relationships with indigenous peoples requires the area in which activities will take place and a shared understanding of their rights and how our operations might affect them. traditions, and where possible, agreement on the respective responsibilities of BP, the These may include issues such as corruption indigenous peoples, local and national and bribery, social tension, human rights, governments and other stakeholders. community health and safety, workforce welfare, local employment, cultural heritage, the physical BP projects subject to our environmental and economic aspects of involuntary and social practices are required to identify, resettlement, and potential impacts on understand and manage potential impacts indigenous peoples. Some environmental on indigenous peoples, including developing issues, such as freshwater resources and a consultation plan and impact mitigation ecosystem goods and services, are also relevant measures that take account of local from a socio-economic viewpoint. We have circumstances, customs and culture. The been evaluating how well our current screening practices include detailed recommendations process helps projects to identify and assess based on our long experience of indigenous socio-economic sensitivities and impacts, and relationships in locations such as Alaska, plan to introduce additional support or guidance Australia, Canada and Indonesia. where needed. The way our industry manages its socioeconomic impacts has consequences for Community consultation in Indonesia people’s health, wellbeing, culture and In planning the expansion of our Tangguh LNG livelihoods. For examples of what BP is doing to project, we sought the views of people in the manage potential impacts, see bp.com/society. local community. We held public consultation Community engagement meetings in 62 local villages and received more than 1,000 comments from community Our ability to operate safely and continuously members. We aided the attendance of depends not only on obtaining the necessary community-elected representatives at official permits from the authorities, but also on meetings where we shared our findings the informal permission or social licence to and discussed how community input would operate that communities in the surrounding be addressed. area can choose to give or withhold. Throughout the life cycle of projects and operations, we For example, some villagers were concerned consult with communities about potential that a route to a cultural heritage site would environmental and socio-economic impacts and be blocked by the construction of a new jetty. Society develop plans to manage these. As a result, we are creating an alternative route so that villagers can easily walk from Community grievances their homes to the site. Others asked us We believe that open dialogue helps to build about jobs. In our contracts we lay out our strong, mutually beneficial working relationships, preference for employing local people, where and enables both sides to work through any possible, and we are building the skills of local disagreements. Our operating managing system people through our workforce development requires our businesses to have a process programmes. We also aimed to be clear about for receiving communications from key the requests and comments that we could not communities and stakeholders, and to document address and why. For example, a request may responses. In 2013, most of the complaints require a resolution that we do not have the raised by communities living near our major authority to implement or approve. operating sites were related to operational Welding tubes to be used for the expansion of impacts such as odour and noise. Our BP’s Tropical sugar cane mill in Brazil, which has businesses are also required to record and achieved the international standard for social take action on any external commitments they accountability and human rights, SA8000. make to key communities and stakeholders. BP Sustainability Review 2013 41 Supporting development in societies where we work When managed properly, our presence in a region has the potential to contribute to local and national economies. When we move into a new area, we look for Tax Tim Langton opportunities to share the benefits of our The taxes that BP pays are a significant part of presence. This includes contributing to BP’s economic contribution to the countries in Group Deputy Ethics and economies through our core business activities which we operate. We believe that tax systems Compliance Officer, BP and community investment. should balance the generation of tax revenues with the encouragement of business investment Local workforce through simple and efficient systems designed “Our anti-bribery and corruption programme applies across BP globally. We have a single A number of our major operating sites are to allow competitiveness, while maintaining programme, which means that it must be working to improve local and national transparency and good governance in business flexible and designed to respond to representation in their workforce. For example, and government. whatever bribery risk has to be managed in approximately 70% of our total workforce based Worldwide, in 2013, BP paid $13.9 billion in any of our businesses, wherever they are in Angola are Angolan nationals and we are corporate income and production taxes. Since based. We work closely with the helping to develop the pool of skilled local 2012, there has been a decrease in the total businesses to gain a good understanding of labour. Since 2009, 32 people have joined BP in amount of taxes we have paid, which reflects how the programme is working for them Angola having graduated from our scholarship lower profits as a consequence of costs relating and the challenges they are facing. We also programme in chemical, electrical, mechanical, to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the impact of regularly engage with our contractors and structural and petroleum engineering fields from divestments. BP also bears other taxes, such as counterparts to discuss how they manage universities in Turkey, South Africa and the UK. import and export taxes, employers’ taxes, the risk and to share good practice.” withholding taxes and indirect taxes. In addition, Local suppliers BP collects and then pays to governments VAT In a number of locations, we run programmes to and sales taxes, and withholding taxes, which in help build the skills of businesses and to total are greater than taxes borne by BP. develop the local supply chain. For example, we have helped some local companies to reach the BP supports the statement of tax principles that standards needed to supply BP and other was published by the Confederation of British organizations through training and sharing of our Industry in May 2013, and is intended to standards in areas such as health and safety. promote and affirm responsible business tax management by UK businesses. BP’s Enterprise Development and Training Programme in Azerbaijan is designed to support Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative local companies’ efforts to achieve international As a member of the Extractive Industries standards, enhance their competitiveness in Transparency Initiative (EITI), we work with supplying the oil and gas sector of Azerbaijan governments, NGOs and international agencies and increase the use of local suppliers by BP’s to improve transparency and disclosure of contractors. Since 2007, the programme has payments to governments. BP is supporting assisted local companies in securing contracts several countries that are working towards valued in excess of $450 million, of which more becoming EITI compliant. than $275 million are with BP in Azerbaijan. For example, BP is an active member of the See page 27 for information on mentoring Trinidad & Tobago EITI steering committee. In provided to local businesses in Papua. countries that have achieved EITI compliance, such as Azerbaijan and Norway, BP submits an We seek to promote the use of local suppliers annual report on payments to their governments. where appropriate. For example, since 2012, BP and its partners have awarded more than Disclosure requirements Demand for trained mechanics is high in India. $2.4 billion in contracts to UK-based companies We have taken part in consultations in relation Castrol helps independent motorcycle mechanics to provide services and equipment for the to new or proposed financial transparency update their skills. redevelopment of the Schiehallion and Loyal reporting requirements in the US and EU for oilfields to the west of Shetland in Scotland. companies in the extractive industries. We are awaiting the publication of the revised rules of Good governance and transparency the Dodd-Frank legislation from the Securities We work with governments, non-governmental and Exchange Commission and are preparing to organizations (NGOs) and international agencies comply with the disclosure requirements. to foster good governance in the countries We are contributing to the consultation process where we operate, focusing on improving initiated by the UK government in preparation for transparency and eliminating corruption. Where the adoption of the EU accounting directive into possible, we support host governments in their UK law. efforts to introduce good practice and participate in the policy debate at an international level. 42 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Contribution to communities Anti-bribery and corruption businesses and for microfinance. For example, by region ($ million) in Turkey, we developed a co-funding agreement We operate in some of the world’s highest risk with Credit Guarantee Fund to help enterprises countries, as measured by Transparency 1 1. UK 13.7 along the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline to access International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. Our 2. Rest of Europe 2.5 bank credits. Since 2008, 74 SMEs have code of conduct requires that we do not engage 3. US 29.0 accessed almost $3.5 million. 2 4. Rest of world 33.6 in bribery or corruption in any form and our 3 group-wide anti-bribery and corruption standard Education applies to all BP employees and contractor staff. We often contribute to education initiatives in The standard requires annual bribery and the regions where we work. For example, in 4 corruption risk assessments; risk-based due India, we are helping to promote science, diligence on all parties with whom BP does technology, English and maths skills within business; appropriate anti-bribery and corruption secondary schools in and around Hyderabad. clauses in contracts; and the training of In the UK, we partnered with King’s College personnel in anti-bribery and corruption London and the Science Museum to create measures. Anyone who has a question or Enterprising Science, aimed at getting more concern about an ethical matter can contact young people interested in careers as scientists OpenTalk, a helpline operated by an independent and engineers, and addressing a shortfall in company (see page 23). graduate numbers. Q: Does BP quantify the benefits of its Engaging with governments Access to energy presence to the community? BP engages with governments on many fronts In several locations, we have helped and we aim to maintain dialogue with all relevant communities to access or conserve energy. For government agencies, ministries and regulatory example, in Georgia, we are working with the A: BP does not use a single methodology Energy Efficiency Centre to provide some public departments at every stage of our presence in a to quantify overall community benefits buildings, such as schools and hospitals, with country. Our code of conduct requires that our for all its sites. We do, however, collect energy-efficient solutions, such as replacing employees and contractors are honest and some data globally, for example, on single glazed windows and wooden doors with responsive in interactions they have with community investment. Each BP double glazed PVC, insulating roofs and replacing government agencies or regulators. We engage in location decides the extent to which it incandescent light bulbs with energy-saving policy debate on topics that are of legitimate will quantify overall benefits of its bulbs. The multi-year project aims to raise concern to the group, our staff and the presence to local communities. community awareness of energy efficiency and communities in which we operate, such as Countries where BP has a large energy-saving technologies by demonstrating financial transparency, human rights and security, upstream or refining presence, such as that these measures can reduce both carbon carbon policy, and diversity and inclusion. Australia, Azerbaijan and the US, emissions and energy bills. generally have more data on the overall Community investment community benefit of their presence Infrastructure and health BP’s community investments aim to create than smaller sites or those remote from In a few locations, we contribute to small meaningful and sustainable impacts. Community communities. Methodologies for community infrastructure programmes that engagement, impact assessments and specific quantifying overall community benefits promote local economic development and help challenges, such as health and safety issues or need to be sophisticated to take account people to improve their access to basic skills shortages, shape our approach to of different circumstances and types of resources such as drinking water, education, community investment. We work with local impact, and to balance negative and transport and health. For example, we helped to authorities, community groups and specialists to positive impacts. We will follow the develop a water sanitation project in the Huambo deliver the programmes. Our community development of these methodologies and Bie provinces in Angola, which supplies Society investment falls into several categories. with interest. clean water for more than 20,000 people and Enterprise development aids efforts to eradicate endemic diseases such Elizabeth Wild We contribute to the development of training as polio, cholera and malaria. Social Responsibility Director, BP and employment opportunities and help In Indonesia, a BP-initiated community health build capability in institutions and businesses. programme has helped to nearly eradicate In India, for example, we developed a training malaria in villages around our Tangguh LNG programme to help motorcycle mechanics plant. The prevalence of malaria in the affected working in small enterprises to keep up with villages has fallen from an average of 12% in technological advances. Since it began in 2003 to an average of 0.08% in 2013. 2010, the programme has trained more than 100,000 mechanics. Direct spending on community programmes Our direct spending on community programmes We help small and medium enterprises (SMEs) including disaster relief in 2013 was $78.8 in new or emerging sectors, such as tourism or million. This is in addition to $13.7 billion for agribusiness. In some countries we help local employee benefits and wages and $13.9 billion banks and business associations so that they are in taxes paid to governments. in a position to provide capital for loans to local BP Sustainability Review 2013 43 Human rights Our operations can bring about major changes to societies and communities, which can have significant impacts – both positive and negative – on people’s lives. Potential human rights impact areas BP is committed to respecting internationallyWe are a signatory to two voluntary agreements within the oil and gas industry recognized human rights, as set out in the with implications for specific aspects of human International Bill of Human Rights and the rights: the UN Global Compact, which includes International Labour Organization’s Declaration principles on protecting internationally on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. proclaimed human rights; and the Voluntary Workforce This means carefully managing issues such Principles on Security and Human Rights, which welfare as workforce welfare, safety and health, and define good practice for security operations in the potential impacts of our activities on the extractive industry. local communities. Livelihoods Health and safety United Nations Guiding Principles BP’s human rights policy, published in 2013, The United Nations Guiding Principles on elaborates on the requirement within our code Business and Human Rights outline specific Key impact of conduct to treat everyone at BP and everyone responsibilities for businesses in relation to areas with whom we come into contact, with fairness, human rights. respect and dignity. The policy applies to all employees and officers in BP wholly-owned We have created an action plan designed to Environmental damage Security entities and in joint ventures to the extent achieve closer alignment with the Guiding possible and reasonable given BP’s level Principles over a number of years using a of participation. risk-based approach and plan to monitor the Land acquisition effectiveness of these actions. Senior Managing human rights issues has implications representatives from key functions including for the way we manage our supply chains. We human resources, ethics and compliance, expect our contractors to act consistently with procurement, security and safety and operational our code of conduct, which outlines our risk oversee the implementation. Progress is requirements, for example, that no forced or reported to the group operations child labour will be used. Non-conformance risk committee, which is chaired by BP’s with this may ultimately result in termination group chief executive. of contract. Human rights action plan 400+ Planned actions for 2013 Develop and implement human rights What we did • Conducted 21 human rights training events for more than 400 people attended human training for high-priority businesses people, including workshops for senior leaders in Indonesia and the rights training events in and functions. Middle East, and awareness and sensitization training for people in 2013. priority job types and businesses. • Developed human rights material for use in existing training programmes. 2013 Develop guidance on community • Worked with oil and gas industry association IPIECA to help develop grievance processes and integrating industry guidance and tools for community grievance mechanisms, human rights into impact and for integration of human rights into environmental and social BP’s human rights assessments. impact assessments. policy published. • Included human rights in our impact assessment for the LNG expansion project in Tangguh, Indonesia. Embed human rights requirements • Developed a pre-qualification questionnaire for suppliers in our into our procurement and supply chain Downstream business that included aspects of human rights. management processes. • Participated in IPIECA’s supply chain taskforce on developing shared industry approaches to managing human rights risks in the supply chain. • Developed minimum standards for workforce welfare for our Oman Khazzan project that set requirements for our contractors to follow with respect to working and living conditions. 44 BP Sustainability Review 2013 We work with industry groups to help develop In 2013, using BP’s Voluntary Principles Q: How is BP approaching the UN and drive good practice guidance. For example, guidelines, we conducted an internal assurance Guiding Principles? we have helped lead the development of review of our LNG plant at Tangguh, Indonesia, IPIECA’s guidance on integrating human rights and found that it has a mature programme A: As a multinational oil and gas company, into environmental and social impact in implementing the Voluntary Principles. human rights are relevant to aspects of assessments. While BP has previously The review suggested a few adjustments, our business activities, so we are using conducted dedicated human rights impact including regular testing of the human rights a risk-based approach to achieve closer assessments and has considered human rights response procedure. alignment with the UN Guiding as part of other impact assessments, this is a We are addressing suggestions made in Principles. We are working with key complex topic and we hope that the new previous internal assurance reviews, including functions and selected priority guidance will make it easier for practitioners to introducing formal protocols to use horse businesses to raise awareness of bring a human rights lens to the process. patrols in Azerbaijan, and working with our potential human rights impacts and risks Security and human rights security contractor in Georgia to audit security and our responsibility to address these, personnel training on human rights principles Since 2000, BP and other companies from as outlined in BP’s human rights policy. and standards. our industry have worked alongside nonAt our training sessions this year, we governmental organizations and the US and UK BP reports on its progress in relation to security found that discussing human rights in governments on the Voluntary Principles on and human rights issues in an annual report to practical terms, such as workforce Security and Human Rights. The Voluntary the Voluntary Principles plenary. Our report is welfare, land acquisition and security, Principles provide a framework for companies to available at bp.com/humanrights. and analysing specific examples or assess whether human rights issues are likely to scenarios from business, helped arise as a result of security activities within local participants to better understand the operations, and to allow appropriate relationship between business and precautionary steps to be taken. Worker welfare in Brazil human rights. As BP prepared to expand its Tropical sugar BP is working with several other Voluntary Nili Safavi cane-to-biofuels mill in Brazil, doubling its Principles member companies to develop Human Rights Expert, BP processing capacity, a question arose: measurable key performance indicators for where to house the 600 construction Voluntary Principles implementation. We expect workers that will be working on the project. to test the indicators in 2014. Accommodation options around the work site We also participate in the IPIECA working group are limited, and BP was concerned about the on responsible security, sharing experience and potential strain such a large temporary best practice on implementing security and workforce might have on local resources. human rights programmes. In Iraq, we work with Transportation safety was also a concern, other oil companies on implementation of the with the construction site located at least Voluntary Principles within the Basra region. 16 kilometres away from the nearest town. We provide those employees accountable for BP decided to build a temporary housing the assessment and management of security complex near the site, aiming to achieve a risks with guidance explaining BP’s approach to higher standard than is typical of such facilities implementing the Voluntary Principles, including in Brazil. The complex, built in 2013, was the mechanisms we use for identifying and designed to provide comfort while minimizing mitigating risk, interaction with public security the environmental footprint. It comprises forces, engagement with private security dormitories, 24-hour medical care, recreation Society providers and evaluating progress. areas including an outdoor movie theatre, a cafeteria and a restaurant, and other facilities. We have been working to raise standards in relation to other aspects of worker welfare. For example, we implemented new grievance mechanisms for employees wishing to voice Find more online at concerns and designed a mechanized bp.com/society. harvesting process to replace manual View more examples of what BP harvesting where possible. The operation is doing to manage potential has achieved SA8000 certification, the socio-economic impacts. international standard for social accountability and human rights. Read BP’s human rights policy. Download BP’s Annual Report on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. BP Sustainability Review 2013 45 Our stakeholders and our reporting We engage with a wide range of stakeholders to understand society’s expectations of us. Our stakeholders are the many individuals and Governments and regulators Local communities organizations who are affected in some way by We engage with governments on many fronts, We engage with local communities through BP’s activities, whether it is in our role as an from consultation responses to direct public consultations, as well as regular energy provider, an employer, or as a company engagement with government representatives. and ad hoc meetings with community that generates revenues and helps to boost local Our code of conduct requires that we are honest representatives. Our relationships with economies. The primary audiences for this and responsive in any interactions we have with communities are important for all our activities, report are employees, shareholders and governments. In many countries where we but particularly for major new projects, where analysts, governments and regulators, business operate, lobbying activity is strictly regulated. our presence may bring about changes in the partners, non-governmental organizations local area, such as jobs and support for (NGOs), the local communities in which we Our industry community development, but also increased operate and industry associations. BP is working through business and industry road traffic, changes in landscapes and groups to help establish standards and address increased demand for fresh water. How we engage our stakeholders complex energy challenges. For example, BP is a member of the global oil and gas NGOs Employees association for environmental and social issues, For our new projects, we often consult with BP uses a range of internal communications IPIECA, and the American Petroleum Institute. relevant local and international NGOs, who may channels to keep our employees informed about We are also involved in industry partnerships on provide specialized expertise on managing the context within which they work. We specific issues such as deepwater drilling impacts. We also engage with NGOs at a group maintain regular communication with unions and oil sands. level. In 2013, we discussed biodiversity, climate at many BP sites around the world. change and energy policy, financial transparency, Contractors and partners Shareholders and analysts human rights and operating in sensitive areas in Like our industry peers, BP rarely works in We engage with shareholders and analysts these meetings. isolation. Safe and responsible operations through our annual general meeting and other depend on the capability and performance of our Customers events. We communicate via roadshows, suppliers, contractors and partners. To this end, About 90,000 consumers in more than 15 webcasts and one-to-one meetings. In 2013, we set operational standards through legallycountries participated in our global tracking this included a presentation on BP Energy binding agreements. Training and dialogue also research programmes in 2013, answering Outlook, an upstream exploration day help build the capability of our contractors. See questions ranging from how they rate BP and briefings on oil sands and our progress page 27. on customer satisfaction in relation to its against safety enhancements recommended competitors, to the degree to which they in the Bly Report. recognize our brand and use our products. Social media, focus groups and in-depth interviews with customers are rich sources Our stakeholder relationships of feedback for us. Working with communities Working with suppliers and around our major contractors to deliver safe and operating sites responsible operations Investors visit BP’s well capping and tooling package in Houston. Creating value Serving about for our 12 million customers shareholders a day BP Working with business Providing direct employment partners in joint for around 83,900 people ventures worldwide Engaging with governments and NGOs around the world 46 BP Sustainability Review 2013 Identifying the issues As our reporting takes shape each year, we What we heard from stakeholders We develop our reporting around the issues that seek feedback from a number of external stakeholders, whose input helps identify any we believe have the highest level of importance gaps in our reporting of material issues. Before We talked with a range of stakeholders in for our stakeholders and the greatest potential our reporting is published, BP’s senior leaders preparing for our 2013 sustainability impact on BP’s ability to deliver its strategy. review the content to check there are no reporting, including representatives from Materiality matrix significant omissions. industry associations, government, investors, NGOs and trade unions. These conversations In 2013, issues assessed as being of high took place in one-to-one meetings in London concern to stakeholders and of high significance and Washington DC, and in roundtable for our company included: discussions in Berlin and Brussels. Concern to stakeholders High The Gulf of Mexico • Environmental and economic restoration. “Articulate BP’s value to society more • Legal proceedings. clearly.” • Independent safety and ethics monitors. We detail the economic value generated and Medium distributed to society in our At a glance section, The energy future and include information on how we support • Climate change and carbon risk. the communities in which we work. See • The transition to a lower-carbon economy, pages 4-5 and page 43. Low including the role of renewables. “Provide information on how you are • Operating at the frontiers: deepwater drilling, managing human rights issues.” Significance to BP strategy oil sands and hydraulic fracturing. We provide information on how we are How we operate working towards aligning with the UN • Board/executive governance and oversight. Guiding Principles on Business and Human We take account of external developments and Rights and outcomes of this work. examine issues in their wider context. • Risk management. See page 44. • Financial sustainability of BP. Our approach to materiality “Describe how BP is managing issues Our people and safety at a local level.” Internal priorities External concerns • Employee and contractor safety. We include case studies from around the • Recruitment and retention. world to show how our policies are working • Performance and reward. on the ground. See bp.com/casestudies. • Diversity and inclusion. “Explain how you assess what issues Environment and society to report on.” • GHG emissions, water and other We provide information on our process for environmental performance. identifying issues to report as well as detail • Our contribution to society. on which issues are most important to our stakeholders and our business. • Human rights. • Transparency of payments. “Show data trends.” Input from internal experts External reporting trends • Geopolitical context. We include five-year data and key Risk register Audience research performance indicators for non-financial We have attempted to cover these topics in Business priorities Industry benchmarking performance. See page 8. and peer review our Sustainability Review 2013 as well as on our website, and to address them within our International media review “Report back on what you said you would Annual Report and Form 20-F. do last year and where you see the company going.” Material issues judged as those that represent significant external concerns Scope of this report that also match internal priorities This Sustainability Review and bp.com/ We are introducing a summary of what we Our reporting sustainability concentrate on performance and said we would do, what we have done and In addition to the conversations we had with activities from 1 January to 31 December 2013. what we plan to do next in Our progress in stakeholders about our reporting, around 200 We aim to report on all aspects of our business, 2013. See page 6. people took part in an online survey about including joint ventures where we are the BP Sustainability Review 2012. They commented operator. Where appropriate, we also seek to on how they thought the report and our online provide an overview of joint venture activities content measured up against their expectations. where we are not the operator, but where we have significant influence on our partners. BP Sustainability Review 2013 47 Find more online Our website, bp.com/sustainability, is an integral part of our sustainability reporting, covering a wide set of issues, data and case studies. The energy future Safety • O  ur energy projections in • P rogress updates on the implementation of BP Energy Outlook 2035. the internal investigation into the Deepwater Horizon accident. bp.com/energyoutlook • Sharing lessons learned with the industry on • Effects of natural resource scarcities on deepwater drilling. patterns of energy supply and demand. bp.com/safety bp.com/energysustainabilitychallenge Our people Environment Case studies • E  mployee numbers by gender and what • G reenhouse gas intensity data, View examples of how we are managing issues we are doing to create a diverse and as well as energy use, flaring, water locally from around the world. inclusive workplace. and waste performance data. bp.com/casestudies bp.com/people bp.com/environment Society Reporting standards • Examples of potential human rights • We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s challenges and BP’s approach to managing G3.1 guidelines and we use guidance from these risks. our industry association IPIECA. • Our approach to anti-bribery and corruption. • We report against the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, bp.com/society environment and anti-corruption. bp.com/aboutourreporting HSE charting tool Filter and analyse information on the group’s health, safety and environmental Translations Country and site reporting performance. Data for the past decade is Summaries of BP Sustainability Review 2013 We publish country reports on our operations available, and can be viewed in a variety of are available in Arabic, German, Mandarin in Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. chart formats. Chinese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish. We also maintain a library of site reports. bp.com/hsechartingtool bp.com/srtranslations bp.com/countryreports  and bp.com/sitereports 48 BP Sustainability Review 2013  Independent assurance statement BP’s Sustainability Review 2013 (the Report) has been Level of assurance • BP discusses the processes in place to help manage prepared by the management of BP p.l.c., who are the impacts from water withdrawal and discharge responsible for the collection and presentation of Our evidence gathering procedures were designed to but does not quantify the impact that this is having. information within it. Our responsibility, in accordance obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set out in For example, BP has unconventional gas operations with BP management’s instructions, is to carry out a ISAE3000) on which to base our conclusions. The in both Algeria and Oman and acknowledges the ‘limited level’ assurance engagement on the Report. extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is large amounts of water required in these types of We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any less than that of a reasonable assurance engagement operation; however, it is not clear from BP’s other purpose or to any other person or organisation. (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of reporting whether businesses are successfully Any reliance any such third party may place on the assurance is provided. reducing the impacts in these water stressed areas. Report is entirely at its own risk. The limitations of our review • BP participates across the group in joint ventures What we did to form our conclusions Our work did not include physical inspections of any of in which it is not the operator, including nearly half BP’s operating assets. of upstream production. Successful adoption of the Our assurance engagement has been planned and new group policy, covering the assessment and performed in accordance with ISAE3000.1 Our conclusions management of certain risks to BP posed by those The Report has been evaluated against the joint ventures, will be of particular interest to Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are following criteria: stakeholder groups. It will be helpful for BP to outlined below: report in future on the extent to which the policy • Whether the Report covers the key sustainability has been implemented. Materiality issues relevant to BP in 2013 which were raised in Has BP provided a balanced representation of material • The Report provides commentary from BP, in the the media, BP’s own review of material issues concerning BP’s sustainability performance? form of a series of seven Q&As. This has been used sustainability issues, and selected internal documentation. • We are not aware of any material aspects within the Report by BP to respond to several of the concerning BP’s sustainability performance which challenging topics that have been raised during BP’s • Whether the health, safety and environment (HSE) wide stakeholder engagement programme. This have been excluded from the Report. data presented in the Report are consistent with approach has helped BP to address some of these BP’s Environmental Performance Group Reporting • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to issues more explicitly than in previous reporting. Requirements and HSE Reporting Definitions. believe that BP management has not applied its processes for determining material issues to be • BP has sought to report more clearly on what it said • Whether sustainability claims made in the Report it would do, what has been done and its future plans. included in the Report. are consistent with the explanation and evidence The updates on 2013 include quantification of the provided by relevant BP managers. Completeness and accuracy of progress made but ‘what we plan to do next’ is In order to form our conclusions we undertook the performance information phrased in fairly broad terms and does not set out steps outlined below: How complete and accurate is the HSE data in specific improvements. This helps to provide the Report? stakeholders with an indication of the future direction 1. Interviewed a selection of BP’s senior managers to but does not provide targets against which progress understand the current status of safety, social, • With the exception of the limitations identified in can be measured. ethical and environmental activities, and progress the report on pages 8-9 we are not aware of any made during the reporting period. material reporting units that have been excluded • BP includes reference to the multiple studies that are from the group-wide HSE data. continuing to investigate potential impacts on 2. Reviewed selected group level documents relating resources and habitat in the Gulf of Mexico. to safety, social, ethical and environmental aspects • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to However, the analysis of many studies is pending of BP’s performance to understand progress made believe that the data relating to the above topics and it remains difficult to gain a clear understanding across the organisation and test the coverage of has not been collated properly from group-wide of what the results have revealed to date. topics within the Report. systems. 3. Carried out the following activities to review HSE • We are not aware of any errors that would Our independence data samples and processes: materially affect the data as presented in the As auditors to BP p.l.c., Ernst & Young are required to Report. comply with the requirements set out in the Auditing a. Reviewed disaggregated HSE data reported by Practices Board’s (APB) Ethical Standards for Auditors. a sample of five businesses to assess whether How plausible are the statements and claims within Ernst & Young’s independence policies apply to the firm, the data had been collected, consolidated and the Report? partners and professional staff. These policies prohibit reported accurately. • We have reviewed information or explanation on any financial interests in our clients that would or might b. Reviewed and challenged supporting evidence selected statements on BP’s sustainability activities be seen to impair independence. Each year, partners from the sample of businesses. presented in the Report and we are not aware of and staff are required to confirm their compliance with any misstatements in the assertions made. the firm’s policies. c. Tested whether HSE data had been collected, consolidated and reported appropriately at Observations and areas for We confirm annually to BP whether there have been group level. any events including the provision of prohibited improvement services that could impair our independence or 4. Reviewed the coverage of material issues within Our observations and areas for improvement will be objectivity. There were no such events or services the Report against the key sustainability issues raised in a report to BP management. Selected in 2013. raised in external media reports and the outputs observations are provided below. These observations do from BP’s processes for determining material not affect our conclusions on the Report set out above. Our assurance team sustainability issues. • The ongoing increase in demand for energy Our assurance team has been drawn from our global 5. Reviewed information or explanations about continues to take BP and its partners into challenging Climate Change and Sustainability Services Practice, selected data, statements and assertions within the environments. This includes both operated and which undertakes engagements similar to this with a Report regarding BP’s sustainability performance. non-operated positions in the Arctic. The specific number of significant UK and international businesses. challenges of operating in this environment are of increasing concern to stakeholders and serve to Ernst & Young LLP, London re-emphasise the importance of effectively 19 March 2014 influencing partners and reporting on progress, particularly in regions where regulation may be perceived to be less stringent. 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000). BP’s corporate reporting suite includes information about our financial and operating performance, sustainability performance and also on global energy trends and projections. Annual Report and Strategic Report 2013 Energy Outlook 2035 Form 20-F 2013 A summary of our financial Projections for world energy Details of our financial and operating performance markets, considering the and operating performance in print or online. potential evolution of global in print or online. Published in March. economy, population, policy Published in March. bp.com/annualreport and technology. bp.com/annualreport Published in January. bp.com/energyoutlook Sustainability Review 2013 Financial and Operating Statistical Review of A summary of our Information 2009-2013 World Energy 2014 sustainability reporting with Five-year financial and An objective review of key additional information online. operating data in PDF global energy trends. Published in March. or Excel format. Published in June. bp.com/sustainability Published in April. bp.com/statisticalreview bp.com/financialandoperating You can order BP’s US and Canada Feedback You can also telephone printed publications free Precision IR Your feedback is important to us. +44 (0)20 7496 4000 of charge from: Toll-free: +1 888 301 2505 You can email the corporate reporting Fax: +1 804 327 7549 team at corporatereporting@bp.com or write to: bpreports@precisionir.com Corporate reporting BP p.l.c. UK and rest of world 1 St James’s Square BP Distribution Services London SW1Y 4PD Tel: +44 (0)870 241 3269 UK Fax: +44 (0)870 240 5753 bpdistributionservices@bp.com Acknowledgements Paper © BP p.l.c. 2014 Design Salterbaxter This document is printed on Oxygen paper and board. Oxygen is made using 100% Typesetting Salterbaxter recycled pulp, a large percentage of which is de-inked. It is manufactured at a mill with Printing Pureprint Group Limited, UK, ISO 9001 and 14001 accreditation and is FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certified. ISO 14001, FSC® certified and This document has been printed using vegetable inks. CarbonNeutral® Photography Shahin Abasaliyev, Giles Barnard, Mehmet Binay, Moritz Brilo, Kiko Cabral, Jon Challicom, Stuart Conway, Richard Davies, Joshua Drake, Rocky Kneten, Kate Kunz, Richard Lewisohn, Marc Morrison, Aaron Tait, Graham Trott, Rob van de Vlierd Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their and printing technology.
