Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Project by apprentices Apprentices design workpieces for the Corporate Responsibility Report At voestalpine, training and continuing education have always had a high priority as a basis for excellent qualifications and secure jobs. Currently, 1,350 apprentices are being trained Group-wide. The idea of connecting corporate responsibility to the content and individual chapters of the with our apprentices–the future of our compareport. ny–was the basis for the layout concept of this report. Currently eleven boys and one girl are in The apprentices were responsible for all the the second year of their apprenticeship for metal creative suggestions with regard to drafting technology / civil engineering technology. the drawings and ideas about materials and Before starting their apprenticeship, they had the appropriate production technology; the to prevail against 100 other young people who actual implementation of the projects was had also applied to train for this apprenticecarried out in the apprentice training facility ship occupation. under the guidance of the foreman and the apprentice trainer. The completed workpieces– On the one hand, the twelve apprentices were each one a work of art–and the photographic selected to engage with the topics of sustainlayout were presented to the CEO and Chairability, environmental protection, and social man of the Management Board of voestalpine responsibility. On the other, the young people Dr. Wolfgang Eder at a breakfast meeting. The were encouraged to create workpieces accordresults can be seen in the large-scale pictures ing to their own ideas and designs that relate throughout this report. 2 Project by apprentices 3 Project by apprentices Mathias Denkmeir Marco Gabriel Lukas Hölzl Page 79 Page 9 Page 47 Martin Lagler Alexander Lang Andreas Langer Page 21 Page 39 Page 63 Lukas Mayrhofer Manuel Mayrhofer Philip Prantner Page 49 Page 13 Page 27 Alexander Sonnberger Markus Süß Romana Tondl Page 75 Page 33 Cover photograph 5 Table of contents Table of contents Page Project by apprentices 2 1. Preface by the CEO 8 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 10 2.1 Development of the key figures 12 2.2 Business model 15 2.3 Divisions 16 2.3.1 Steel Division 16 2.3.2 Special Steel Division 17 2.3.3 Metal Engineering Division 18 2.3.4 Metal Forming Division 19 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 20 3.1 Steel cycle 22 3.2 Conservation of resources 24 3.3 Climate protection 25 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report 26 4.1 voestalpine Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee 28 4.2 Communication with stakeholders 29 4.2.1 Employees 29 4.2.2 Investors 30 4.2.3 Customers and suppliers 30 4.2.4 Advocacy and special interest groups, platforms, and networks 30 4.3 voestalpine’s materiality matrix 31 5. Ethical corporate management 32 5.1 Compliance 32 5.1.1 Code of Conduct 32 5.1.2 Human rights 34 5.1.3 Compliance system 35 5.2 Corporate Governance 37 6. Research and development 38 6.1 Research expenses in the voestalpine Group 40 6.2 Organization 41 6.3 Resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly processes and facilities 42 6.4 Materials development and product innovations 44 6.4.1 Automotive applications 44 6.4.2 Rails and turnouts applications 45 6.4.3 Energy production applications 46 6.5 Prizes and awards received 47 6 Table of contents Page 7. Ecology 48 7.1 Environmental management and Group-wide knowledge transfer 50 7.2 Environmental standards 51 7.2.1 Compliance with environmental standards 51 7.3 Specific CO2 emissions caused by voestalpine 52 7.4 Clean air management 53 7.4.1 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) 53 7.4.2 Nitrous oxide (NOX) 54 7.4.3 Dust 55 7.5 Water management 55 7.6 Conservation of resources and reusability/recyclability 56 7.7 Waste management 57 7.8 Energy 58 7.9 Biodiversity 60 7.10 Prizes and awards received 61 8. Employees 62 8.1 Employment by countries 64 8.2 voestalpine as employer 66 8.2.1 Employee survey 66 8.2.2 Job tenure and age structure of the employees 66 8.3 Equal treatment 67 8.3.1 Persons with disabilities 67 8.3.2 Women at voestalpine 67 8.4 Training and continuing education 68 8.5 Occupational safety 69 8.6 Apprentices 70 8.7 Employee shareholding 71 8.8 The Stahlstiftung (Steel Foundation) in Austria 72 8.9 Prizes and awards received 73 9. Society 74 9.1 Culture 74 9.2 Community engagement 76 9.3 Education and science 77 9.4 Sports 78 9.5 Prizes and awards received 78 10. Appendix 80 10.1 GRI-Index 80 10.2 Memberships 84 10.3 Glossary 86 Contact & Imprint 88 7 1. Preface by the CEO 1. Preface by the CEO Ladies and Gentlemen: its employees outside of Europe, places growing demands on our company with regard to corpoIn this report, we are presenting for the first time a rate responsibility that are increasingly complex comprehensive survey of corporate responsibility and time-consuming. This applies all the more as in the voestalpine Group in accordance with the we continue to advance consistently on the path guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). of globalization in the most sophisticated product With this publication, we wish to document how and technology segments within the framework we interpret the concept of “responsibility” visof our Group strategy “voestalpine 2020,” fully à-vis our stakeholders that has always been of aware that this not only opens up economic opintrinsic value in our corporate culture and how portunities but also presents risk potential in some we have been practicing it consistently for a sectors. long time—in some aspects going far beyond the purely statutory requirements. Furthermore, In the give-and-take between decentralized operthis information, which is as comprehensive and ations and strategic management, we have been objective as possible, provides the basis for serious focused for quite some time on the conceptual and and fact-based shaping of public opinion and structural challenges that result from the internadecision making processes, be they in the pubtionalization process that has affected all sectors of lic square, in politics, or in the media. From now the Group and on developing and implementing on, we will be contributing to information and the appropriate responses. In addition to a comdialogue by publishing our CR Report every two prehensive planning process of possible scenarios years with the same transparency and openness regarding long-term economic, industrial, and that we have always endeavored to achieve, for socio-political framework conditions, an important example, in our environmental communications question is at the center of our deliberations: in our that have received a number of awards. global environment, how can we uphold—or where it is possible even further improve—our standards As a steel-based technology and capital goods (particularly with regard to environmental compatgroup, voestalpine is naturally affected by issues ibility, resource efficiency, and our relationships that are perceived as sensitive by some parties with our employees and business partners) that and whose substance, effects, and underlying are in many sectors already far above the avproblems are often difficult to convey and certainly erage and much higher than is mandated by law. cannot be conveyed by way of strident communications. This does not only affect “classic” secWe are well aware that, overall, the voestalpine tors such as energy and ecology; particularly for a Group is very well positioned for future challenges, corporation that operates worldwide, it is increasand we are proud of our employees all over the ingly a priority to engage in all forms of mutual world who have made the success of our company interaction with employees, business partners, possible. Therefore, our intention is that—in shareholders, and all other stakeholders. For this addition its purely informative nature—the prereason, we support not only national CSR netsent report should provide you with insight into works but also the UN Global Compact, whose ten the “world of voestalpine” and the people who principles we are fully committed to. inhabit and shape it. The progressing internationalization of the This authenticity is an essential aspect of this CR voestalpine Group, which already generates Report not only as far as content is concerned, but almost 30% of its revenue and has just over 20% of in its design as well. Twelve apprentices, who are 8 completing their training at the Linz site, have designed part of creating this first Corporate Responsibility Report on individual symbols for each of the topics of this report and “their” voestalpine and whose commitment and expertise have created the workpieces themselves. This symbolizes made it possible. an attribute that is particularly essential for corporate responsibility: responsibility that provides that crucial quantum above and beyond what is necessary must be assumed, embraced, and made part of their lives by all our employees on a daily basis. This identification with the company and its values is characteristic for our Group across all locations and all national Dr. Wolfgang Eder borders. I would like to especially thank all those who were CEO and Chairman of the Management Board of voestalpine AG Marco Gabriel, Metalltechniker/Maschinenbautechnik, 2. Lehrjahr 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures voestalpine AG is a Group that operates worldwide and consists of many specialized companies that manufacture, process, and develop high-quality steel products. The Group has more than 46,000 employees, and its more than 500 Group companies and locations can be found in more than 50 countries on five continents. The company is headquartered in Linz, Austria. voestalpine AG has been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since 1995. 10 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 11 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.1 Development of the key figures Key figures In millions of euros 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Revenue 11,724.9 8,550.0 10,953.7 12,058.2 11,524.4 EBITDA 1,710.1 1,004.3 1,605.6 1,301.9 1,441.8 EBITDA margin 14.6% 11.7% 14.7% 10.8% 12.5% EBIT 988.7 352.0 984.8 704.2 853.6 EBIT margin 8.4% 4.1% 9.0% 5.8% 7.4% Employees (full-time equivalent) 44,004 42,021 45,260 46,473 46,351 Research expenses (in millions of 112.0 108.8 109.0 116.7 125.6 euros) Operating expenses for 225.0 193.0 194.0 212.0 213.0 environmental protection systems (in millions of euros) in Austria Crude steel production (in millions 6.807 6.075 7.717 7.572 7.529 of tons) CO2 emissions per ton of crude 1.73 1.56 1.51 1.56 1.52 steel (in tons)* * Figures collected per calendar year Shareholder structure 2% 1% France Asia 7% 14% Scandinavia Employee shareholding scheme 54% 9% Largest individual shareholders Austria North America Raiffeisenlandesbank <15% Oberösterreich Invest 7% GmbH & Co OG UK, Ireland voestalpine Employee 14.4% 3% shareholding scheme Germany Oberbank AG 7.9% 3% Norges Bank > 4% Other Europe 12 Manuel Mayrhofer, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures Revenue by divisions As percentage of total divisional revenue Business year 2012/13 25% 33% Metal Engineering Steel 19% 23% Metal Forming Special Steel Revenue by industries As percentage of Group revenue Business year 2012/13 13% Other 29% 13% Automotive Railway infrastructure 5% 16% White goods/consumer goods Energy industry 2% 2% Storage technology Aviation industry 9% 11% Building & construction subsuppliers Civil & mechanical engineering Revenue by regions As percentage of Group revenue Business year 2012/13 72% European Union 6% (of which Austria: 10%) Asia 5% 5% Other Europe Brazil 4% 8% Rest of world North America 14 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.2 Business model voestalpine is a group that operates worldwide; from the production of steel to the manufacturing of capital goods, it covers a wide range of the industrial value chain. voestalpine produces and processes steel and manon processing and component production, thus ufactures steel parts and components for market initiating voestalpine’s shift away from being a segments that place extraordinarily high demands “classic” steel company to a technology and capion the utilized materials. In addition to the autotal goods corporation. The organizational structure motive industry, these segments include the enerwas adapted to this strategy and the Group divided gy and aviation industries as well as the European into four divisions; since then, the divisions and U.S. space programs. have been continuously expanded and today, they all have leading positions in their markets. While materials production is focused on steel, the Group has developed a broader approach in the The strength of the voestalpine Group is in the area of downstream processing and component interconnection and collaboration of the Group production and processes other metallic materials companies and the fact that the processing divias well, such as aluminum for the automotive insions have access to their own steel production dustry and titanium for the aviation industry. that enables them to develop unique solutions. voestalpine views itself as the company of choice After the strategic realignment of the Group in for solution concepts that involve high-tech steel 2001, the focus of its growth activities was placed and metallic high-performance materials. voestalpine AG Steel Special Steel Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Division Division Division Steel strip Tool steel Rails Downstream metal processing solutions Heavy plate High-speed steel Turnout technology Special sections Foundry products Special forgings Complete railway systems Precision steel strip Powder-metallurgical steels Specially treated wire Special components for the Welding consumables automotive industry Seamless tubes 15 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.3 Divisions The voestalpine Group is divided into four divisions. Their product portfolios make them leading providers in their markets. 2.3.1 Steel Division The history of the Steel Division As part of the war preparations by the National The Steel Division is the largest business unit Socialist regime, the Linz plant was established in of voestalpine and generates about one third 1938 under the name „Hermann Goering Werke“ of the Group’s revenue. In the integrated steel in order to produce steel for the arms industry. plant in Linz, Austria, the division produces around 5.5 million tons of crude steel per year During World War II, much of the work was done and processes it to steel strip that is hotand by Austrian and foreign forced laborers and pricold-rolled, electrogalvanized, hot-dip galsoners from Nazi concentration camps. It is very vanized, and organically coated. Its other acimportant for voestalpine to deal with its history in tivities include electrical steel strip, heavy an open and transparent manner. The Documenplate production, a foundry, and a number of tation Center, which was established in 2001, has downstream sectors, such as the Steel Service been working with the Steel History Club to come Center and pre-processing. The products of to terms with this part of the past and to contribute the Steel Division are mainly supplied to the to the public’s understanding of this period by way European automotive and automotive supply of publications, exhibits, and a works museum. industries, the white goods industry, the civil engineering sector, and the energy industry. In After the end of World War II, the plant was exthese industrial sectors, voestalpine is among propriated by the Allies and reestablished as the Europe’s leading suppliers. state-owned “Vereinigte Österreichische Eisenund Stahlwerke AG” (VÖEST) in 1946. In the early 1950s, the LD (Linz-Donawitz) proKey figures of the Steel Division cess was developed in Linz. In 1952, the first steel Figures in millions of euros, as of: business year 2012/13 plant that used the LD process was commissioned in Linz. This was a groundbreaking steelmaking process and even today, more than two thirds of Revenue 3,921.7 the steel produced worldwide is based on this proEBITDA 449.8 cess. After the investment program “Linz 2010” EBITDA margin 11.5% was decided upon in 2002, capacity was expanded EBIT 218.4 by just over 50% and the production facilities were consistently upgraded to position them in the top EBIT margin 5.6% quality segment of steel production. Employees (FTE) 10,676 16 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.3.2 Special Steel Division In 2007/08, the exchange-listed Böhler-UddeKey figures of the Special Steel Division holm Group was acquired and integrated into Figures in millions of euros, as of: business year 2012/13 the voestalpine Group as the Special Steel Division; it comprises special steel and materials companies that are global leaders. The division Revenue 2,748.4 operates steel plants in Austria, Germany, SweEBITDA 368.7 den, and Brazil. The division has its own global EBITDA margin 13.4% sales and service center network that provides customers with special heat and surface treatEBIT 223.6 ment for product optimization and supplies all EBIT margin 8.1% of the major industrial regions worldwide. Employees (FTE) 12,721 The Special Steel Division produces high-alloy special steels, also known as high performance The history of the Special Steel Division metals, which have specifically developed charThe roots of the Special Steel Division are in the acteristics with regard to resistance to wear, Austrian town of Kapfenberg, where a hammer grinding ability, and toughness, as well as spemill was mentioned in official records as early as cial forgings. 1446. In the 19th century, the steel foundry plant in Kapfenberg belonging to the Österreichische The largest customer groups in the tool steel Alpine Montan Gesellschaft passed into the possector are the automotive and consumer goods session of the Böhler brothers who were already industries. Special materials are supplied to the focusing on the production of special steels. power plant construction industry and the oil Later, the company became the Böhler-Uddeholm and natural gas industries. The aviation and Group, which went public successfully in 1995 energy generation industries purchase mainly and became the world market leader in the tool closed die-forged parts. The Special Steel Divisteel and special steel sectors through continued sion is the world market leader in tool steel and investments and global acquisitions. special alloys. The Group is in the number two In 2007/08, voestalpine AG acquired 100% of the position worldwide with regard to high-speed shares of Böhler-Uddeholm AG by way of a public steel and valve steel. takeover bid. 17 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.3.3 Metal Engineering Division The history of the Metal Engineering Division The roots of the present-day steel plant in The Metal Engineering Division integrates the Donawitz (Styria), Austria, go back to the first voestalpine Group‘s operations in the rail, turnout, hammer mills that were mentioned in official rerailway infrastructure and services, wire, seamcords in 1436. In 1881, the iron and steel works less tube, and welding technology segments. In located throughout the region were merged into the railway systems segment, in addition to the the Österreichische Alpine Montangesellschaft ultra long, head-hardened HSH rails and ready(ÖAMG). At the end of the 19th century, Donawitz to-install turnout systems, it provides a complete was the center of steel production and processing range of service packages for railway construcin the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. tion, including planning, transport, logistics, and system installation. The development of its own In 1939, Alpine Montangesellschaft was merged track-based monitoring equipment, for example to with the factories in Linz, however, after World monitor axle temperatures, rounds out the range War II, they again became separate companies. of this full-service provider. In the sector of railOn May 22, 1953, the second LD steel plant was way systems, the Metal Engineering Division is commissioned in Donawitz, following the Linz both the market and the technology leader. plant that had begun operations in 1952. In 1973, Alpine Montangesellschaft merged with VÖEST Furthermore, the division produces high-quality in Linz, and the name was changed to VÖESTwire, for example for the automotive industry, ALPINE AG. voestalpine Stahl Donawitz GmbH seamless tubes for the oil and natural gas industry was expanded in 2000 at a cost of around EUR 165 as well as welding consumables. The Metal Engimillion, becoming THE state-of-the-art compact neering Division has its own steel production faciLD steel plant worldwide. lity in Donawitz, Austria, a major advantage when developing product innovations. As a result of numerous investments and acquisitions, the Metal Engineering Division became a player in all of its high-tech segments and the global market leader in the railway sector. Key figures of the Metal Engineering Division Figures in millions of euros, as of: business year 2012/13 Revenue 2,913.6 EBITDA 434.6 EBITDA margin 14.9% EBIT 319.6 EBIT margin 11.0% Employees (FTE) 11,374 18 2. voestalpine AG – facts & figures 2.3.4 Metal Forming Division The history of the Metal Forming Division Within the scope of the strategic realignment of the The Metal Forming Division is a leading provider Group in 2001 and its shift to becoming a highly of high-quality downstream metal processing sodiversified technology Group, the Krems metallutions in the segments of tubes and sections as lurgical plant became the Profilform Division, well as pressed parts and components. It produces and the motion Division, which later became the custom-tailored special and precision sections as Automotive Division, was established. When the well as welded tubes for construction applications, Group’s structure was streamlined in 2012, these cab construction for commercial vehicles, and two divisions were merged to form today‘s Metal components for the aviation industry. The division Forming Division. Processing operations were supplies the automobile industry with a full range reorganized and bundled and extensively of pressed components for the body-in-white expanded through investments and acquisitions. segment as well as highly innovative structural parts and safety components. The division also produces cold-rolled, special, precision thin strips and provides one-stop solutions in the segment of high-bay racking systems. Throughout its history, none of the activities of the Metal Forming Division have been associated with steel production. The division has a high level of competence relating to all of the materials– both metallic and non-metallic–that it utilizes, for example, in aluminum forming for the automotive industry, in the forming of titanium components for the aviation industry, and in the processing of plastic and carbon fibers. Key figures of the Metal Forming Division Figures in millions of euros, as of: business year 2012/13 Revenue 2,310.2 EBITDA 257.6 EBITDA margin 11.1% EBIT 167.6 EBIT margin 7.3% Employees (FTE) 10,853 19 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability Steel plays an important role in all areas of human life: people are surrounded on a daily basis by products that are either made completely of steel or that have a steel core. Around 1,500 million tons of steel are produced and processed annually worldwide, with 7.5 million tons thereof produced by voestalpine. The material steel not only has a wealth of voestalpine‘s products and services are needed in applications but has high potential in the area of a host of applications in daily lives. The company sustainability–with complete recyclability being is taking product responsibility seriously by expeits greatest strength. Steel production is resourcediting the development of products and solutions intensive, and its specific processes impact the enthat further safe mobility and alternative energies. vironment: high levels of emissions, large amounts Within the scope of international bodies, voestalof waste, and sometimes high water consumption. pine is actively working on standards for recycling voestalpine actively endeavors to prevent and and life cycle assessments. voestalpine is reseminimize these environmental impacts by developarching products that indirectly reduce CO2; the ing and using processes that conserve resources, material steel is definitively part of the solution to implementing measures to manage waste, and carbon issues. adopting active climate protection policies. All of the sustainability measures voestalpine imSteel production is also very labor-intensive. As is plements must take the company’s economic sucthe case in all areas of heavy industry, it is characcess into consideration. Sustainable action begets terized by a great deal of shift work and a workbusiness success, and voestalpine is prepared to force that has a high percentage of male workers. bear short-term burdens to achieve its goal. What voestalpine takes its social responsibility very serithe company does not accept, however, are poliously by implementing comprehensive safety meastical policies–whether on the national, the EU, or ures, maintaining a Group-wide health managethe international level–that distort fair competition ment system, and offering diverse opportunities and dramatically threaten the competitiveness of for training and continuing education; it also prothe products manufactured at the Group‘s main vides programs to stimulate the interest of women sites in Austria and Western Europe. It is because in technical professions. For years, voestalpine voestalpine takes its social responsibility seriously has had a generation management program that that is actively fighting for good framework responds actively to the changing demographic conditions that will help preserve jobs in those situation in society. regions where people have been melting steel for 600 years. 20 Martin Lagler, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 3.1 Steel cycle Steel is 100 percent recyclable and can be recycled an infinite number of times, enabling it to have many lives instead of just one. 9 8 7 22 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 2 1 1 Steel works: steel Roughly 250 kg of scrap are used in the production of one ton of crude steel. 2 Steel works: special steel Single tapping in the steel mill 4 contains 60 tons of tool steel. 3 Coils 4 Special steel block: tool steel It takes 1,500 different tools to 3 produce a new car model. 5 Pressing plant About 30 kg of flat steel is needed for one tailgate. 5 6 Tailgate One tailgate is split over about ten different pressed parts. 7 Spare part: tailgate Production of components for the latest car models as well as spare parts for the next 10 to 15 years. 8 Recycling/crushing: tool steel 6 Those machines have 50 to 100 special steel knives depending on the product. Illustration: Rafael Varona 9 Scrap cube 23 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 3.2 Conservation of resources Careful use of resources is an important issue for voestalpine both from an economic and an ecological standpoint. First of all, the primary raw materials that are utilization phase, and finally, to disposal or recyused (especially ore, metals, and fossil fuel) are cling of the product. This approach shifts away finite and secondly, they are subject to major from a selective assessment of the social, econoprice fluctuations on the world market. Theremic, and ecological impacts of a product to an obfore, voestalpine aims to reduce raw materials jective one. use, using resources cyclically, or recycling byproducts and waste. Additionally, steel has the In the steel industry, the LCA approach has a pargreat advantage that, after being used, it can be ticularly high priority as it is helpful in finding a recycled back into the production process in the holistic view and balanced, sustainable solutions. form of scrap: today, steel is the most recycled LCA contributes to the optimization of materimaterial worldwide. al flows, thus improving the conservation of raw materials and advancing recycling efforts. Finally, Ongoing optimization of processes in the voestalpine LCA supports the development and improvement production facilities increases material efficiency of products and processes at all points of the value and helps to find new and better recycling chain. voestalpine has nominated a team that is opportunities for by-products and waste. In order specifically targeting this topic in order to advance to make these efforts to conserve resources ecothe Group’s LCA strategy. For voestalpine, being nomically sustainable, it is necessary to have proactive in the LCA approach means advancement per statutory framework conditions. voestalpine is of a sustainable, ecological process management, committed to ensuring that recyclable materials get identification of optimization potential, optimum preferential treatment, that recycling-friendly utilization of by-products in the material cycle in design of products is a basic requirement of adorder to conserve valuable primary raw materials, mission to the market, that life cycle consideraand the development of products that are durable tions are an important part of the selection process and recyclable. of products and materials, and that the use of secondary raw materials (by-products) is simplified. Beyond the confines of the company, voestalpine is a competent partner for all customers with regard to all issues associated with LCA. Life cycle assessment (LCA) Today, the assessment of the environmental imvoestalpine has committed itself to the LCA Popact of a material cannot be limited to its produclicy Statement of the World Steel Association. tion. Rather, life cycle assessment focuses on the www.worldsteel.com entire product life cycle–from production to the 24 3. How voestalpine defines sustainability 3.3 Climate protection As an industrial group that operates worldwide, voestalpine is acutely aware of its responsibility regarding climate protection, an issue that the company is vigorously confronting. Besides aiming to reduce emissions in its own pro“2050 Roadmaps,” namely pricing CO2 by way of duction processes by recycling steel or undertaemission certificates. The company‘s viewpoint is king measures to achieve greater energy efficienthat the climate goals cannot be achieved with the cy, the company also sees possibilities for action measures that are currently being recommended. by raising awareness regarding LCA throughout Instead of intervening in existing emissions the entire product life cycle. The savings potential trading as a way to monitor and control the achieved through the use of steel is higher than price of CO2, voestalpine recommends pursuing a the emissions resulting from steel production itpolitical course that enables a technology-oriented self. Therefore, the availability of numerous highclimate policy for the material-producing industry ly developed steel qualities makes a major contriafter 2020. bution to climate protection and the conservation of resources. Many examples from R&D activities Such a policy would regulate the industry as far can be found in the “Research and Development” as emissions are concerned by way of technolochapter of this report. gy-based emission levels, support investments in and the development of technology, and spur voestalpine is critical of the central idea behind the use of recyclable materials and recyclingthe European climate policy expressed in the friendly design. Decrease of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU by 80 % (1990=100 %) in percent Source: European Commission, Brussels 2011, COM (2011) 112 final Roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 Current policies Electricity sector Residential use and services Industry Traffic Non-CO2 agricultural emissions Non-CO2 emissions – other sectors 100 80 60 40 20 0 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 25 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report This is the first sustainability report of voestalpine AG. The report contains information about the key activities with regard to sustainability and what has already been undertaken. At voestalpine, activities associated with the the depiction of the economic key figures and emcompany’s sustainability approach have long been ployee data; the reporting period for the economic established in the areas of the environment, society, key figures and employee data comprises the last employees, and economy. Many individual projects five business years. As much of the environmenhave received awards and have garnered recognital data must be reported to public agencies on a tion and approval from peers. With this report, the regular basis, they are compiled for the calendar company would like to show what has already been year and are also quoted as such in this report. achieved and what the goals with regard to corporate The reporting period for environmental data comresponsibility are. prises the last five calendar years. The significant deviations of the figures listed for Report parameters 2009 are due to the global economic crisis and the associated temporary decline in the Group’s proAll the information provided refers to the entire duction. Group. When compiling the environmental performance indicators, all voestalpine Group production In the future, voestalpine plans to publish a suscompanies in which voestalpine has a stake greater tainability report every two years with a two-year than 50 %, i.e., companies that process, convert, or reporting period in order to ensure seamless retreat a product, were included. This simplification porting of sustainability performance. enables a Group-wide presentation without compromising data quality. Sustainability impacts along the value chain that occur outside of voestalpine‘s Standard premises and beyond its direct sphere of influence are only partially addressed in this report. In accordance with voestalpine‘s internal assessment, the present Corporate Responsibility Report meets the requirements of GRI Application Level Reporting period C (version G3.0). The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was launched The voestalpine business year is from April 1 to in 1997 and has established itself as the standard March 31. The business year is the parameter for for the preparation of sustainability reports. 26 Philip Prantner, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed OUTPUT 1.1 for Level C plus: G3 Profile Same as requirement 2.1 2.10 1.2 Disclosures for Level B 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Management Management OUTPUT G3 Management Approach Approach Approach Not Required Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Report on each core G3 G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of and Sector Supplement* 20 Performance Indicators, OUTPUT Indicators & 10 Performance Indicators, Indicator with due regard to the at least one from each of Sector Supplement including at least one from Economic, Environmental, Materiality Principle by either: Performance each of: Economic, Social and a) reporting on the Indicator or Human rights, Labor, Society, Environmental b) explaining the reason for its Indicators Product Reponsibility omission. *Sector supplement in final version 4.1 voestalpine Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee voestalpine has taken its ecological and social responsibility very seriously for many years. In the past, many of the goals and measures have already been in line with the principles of sustainable corporate management. In mid-2011, the Management Board decided to sysCompliance, Communications, Human Resources, tematically coordinate and measure these activities. International Business Relations, and Investor RelaTo this end, Corporate Responsibility (CR) was estions Departments are represented by the respective tablished at the Group level as a management apheads of the respective units. Furthermore, the proach. The fall of 2011 saw the CR management function of a Corporate Responsibility Manager was launch event, which was presided over by Dr. Wolfestablished as the contact person for all members gang Eder, Chairman of the Management Board. At of the Steering Committee. The responsibility of the same time, a Corporate Responsibility Steering the Steering Committee is to bundle the various CR Committee was established, in which the Environmeasures and guide them in a joint direction and to ment, Research and Development, Legal, ensure that CR communications are well-structured. 28 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report 4.2 Communication with stakeholders During its workshops, the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee has defined voestalpine‘s most important stakeholders. These include, for example, employees, competitors, customers, suppliers, investors, analysts, public agencies, and NGOs (see graphic). Customers Employees Stakeholders are those groups of persons who are Suppliers Management impacted directly or indirectly by the company’s Competitors Supervisory Board activities and which, therefore, have a justified inResearch facilities Works Council terest in these activities. voestalpine is in regular contact with many of its stakeholders. For example, discussions with local communities, representatives of public agencies Special interest groups and associations, and other organizations are part NGOs Investors of daily business for the responsible departments. Professional associations Analysts Legislators Banks Communication with other stakeholder groups is Local government Shareholders structured and takes place in regular intervals, as deagencies scribed below. 4.2.1 Employees Worldwide, more than 46,000 employees are Direct communication with members working for voestalpine in around 500 companies of the Management Board on five continents. They represent a central stakeIn regular intervals, members of the Manageholder group of the Group. ment Board hold discussions with employees at production sites throughout the entire Group. Employee survey The topics range from ongoing projects and new Every three years, voestalpine employees particieconomic developments to occupational safety. pate in a survey about their job satisfaction and also their commitment. The last survey took place Steel Evening in October 2013. It included 42,000 persons in 21 The so-called Steel Evenings take place once a countries and was conducted in 13 languages. month in Linz. Various topics are discussed at these The employees were informed of the results of the events, ranging from occupational safety and emsurveys. Points of criticism, suggestions, and ployee health to environmentally-friendly and proposed improvements were gathered and iminnovative products. Interested employees can plemented to the extent possible. dialogue with the speakers (members of the Management Board and executives), ask questions, and participate in discussions. 29 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report 4.2.2 Investors This enables the company to develop products that not only fulfill customers’ requirements but As equity holders and opinion leaders on the capisurpass them. voestalpine takes advantage of tal markets, investors and analysts are important its dialogue with customers and suppliers to fredialogue partners for an exchange-listed company quently emphasize the importance of its Code of such as voestalpine. The CEO, the other memConduct and to acquaint them with the company‘s bers of the Management Board, and the Investor requirements with regard to human rights and Relations Department are constantly engaging in compliance (see chapter “Ethical corporate mana dialogue with these stakeholders, for example, agement”). at investor conferences, road shows, or during plant tours. At regular intervals, voestalpine holds a “Capital Markets Day” in order to provide 4.2.4 Advocacy and special interest concentrated information to analysts and invesgroups, platforms, and networks tors about the newest developments and trends. voestalpine also offers this target group special voestalpine is a member of numerous industrial tours through production facilities and product and professional associations, such as, the World presentations. Steel Association, EUROFER, the German Steel voestalpine also informs private shareholders Institute (VDEh), ASMET (Austrian Society for within the scope of numerous events, particularly Metallurgy and Materials), the Austrian Chamber at the Annual General Meeting, but also during of Commerce, and the Federation of Austrian plant tours, informational events, and investor Industries. It is active in these associations and fairs, such as the “Gewinn” trade fair or “Money bodies in order to actively support joint objectives World.” and to ensure that the positions and the expertise of voestalpine are heard during legislative proceedIn addition to personal contacts, the company ings that are relevant for the company. informs institutional investors and private shareholders by way of quarterly reports and the Annual voestalpine is a regular participant in the preparaReport, which can be downloaded from the tion of the sustainability report of the World Steel voestalpine website. Association. The steelmaking companies who participate in the annual preparation of this report, provide current data on sustainability indicators. 4.2.3 Customers and suppliers voestalpine is in an ongoing dialogue with its voestalpine is committed to engaging in a transcustomers and suppliers. In addition to commuparent dialogue on topics relating to sustainability nications required by day-to-day business, these and takes issues relevant to both institutions and stakeholder groups are integrated into the reprivate individuals very seriously. Therefore, the search-and-development network. voestalpine is company is open to all queries. Contact informatialso in a continuing dialogue with customers in on for the relevant contact persons is available on order to be able to recognize their needs and rep.88 and at: www.voestalpine.com quirements early on. 30 4. voestalpine’s first Corporate Responsibility Report 4.3 voestalpine’s materiality matrix Both voestalpine management and the CR Steerof these contacts and of the described stakeholder ing Committee cultivate an intensive dialogue communication. This materiality matrix provided with everyone in the company who is in contact the focal points for this report. A systematization with stakeholders. of stakeholder communications is planned in the Headed by the reporting team, a matrix of the refuture; this will also include preparation of the malevant CR topics was generated using an analysis trix as a direct participatory process. Ethical corporate conduct high Fair competition Economic success Human rights Supply chain management Stakeholder communication Transparency Environmental management Social commitment Climate protection Energy efficiency Cultural sponsoring Research & development Relevance for external stakeholders Education projects Process innovation Conservation of resources and recycling Research collaborations Water management Waste management Prevention of air pollution Biodiversity Training and continuing education Apprentice training Health and safety Employee satisfaction History Equal treatment low Relevance for internal stakeholders 31 5. Ethical corporate management 5. Ethical corporate management The main objective of ethical corporate management is corporate governance that is geared to creating sustainable, long-term value and to ensuring that the conduct of all employees of the Group complies with statutory provisions and internal guidelines as well as fundamental moral and ethical values. 5.1 Compliance voestalpine requires that all of its companies and 5.1.1 Code of Conduct its employees in all countries, where voestalpine operates, comply with all laws. This is explicitly stated in the Code of Conduct. voestalpine likeThe voestalpine Code of Conduct was set forth in wise requires that its suppliers fully comply with all written form in 2009. It is based on the Group‘s applicable laws in their respective countries. This corporate values and provides the foundation for regulation also applies to international sanctions ethically and legally sound conduct by all of the or sanctions imposed by the European Union. For Group’s employees. The Code of Conduct is also voestalpine, however, compliance is more than directed to voestalpine customers, suppliers, and merely acting in accordance with the laws. It is the other business partners. expression of a corporate culture built on ethical and moral principles. The Code of Conduct is available in German, English, and eleven additional languages and can be downloaded from the company website: http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/ Since December 2011, voestalpine has no longer compliance/ supplied products to Syria and Iran (existing contracts are still being fulfilled until they expire). Prior to December 2011, only those products were The Code of Conduct covers the following areas: supplied to these countries that did not fall under Compliance with laws and other external the UN sanctions. and internal regulations Fair competition Corruption, bribery, and acceptance of gifts Respect and integrity Conflicts of interest Handling of corporate information/confidentiality Corporate communications Use of the Internet and IT Insider information Reporting of misconduct 32 Markus Süß, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 33 5. Ethical corporate management The Code of Conduct is binding for all members of Dealings with business intermediaries/brokers the Management Board, managing directors, and and consultants employees of all companies in which voestalpine AG This guideline is an expansion and concretization has a direct or indirect stake of at least 50% or of the Code of Conduct with regard to the subjects which it controls in any other way. With regard to of corruption/bribery/acceptance of gifts. They all other companies, in which voestalpine AG has define the procedure to be complied with prior to a direct or indirect stake of at least 25%, but which contracting or engaging sales representatives, reit does not control, the Code of Conduct is brought presentatives, or other sales consultants. An objecto their attention and they are requested to enforce tive analysis of the prospective business partner’s it by way of independent recognition thereof business environment and scope of activities by their decision-making bodies that are govprior to establishing business relations is reerned by corporate law. In the event of a violation quired to ensure that the business partner can comagainst statutory provisions, internal guidelines, ply with all applicable laws and the voestalpine regulations, and directives or against provisions of Code of Conduct. the voestalpine Code of Conduct, employees will be subject to disciplinary measures. Furthermore, As is the case with the Code of Conduct, these guideviolations can have consequences under criminal lines also apply to all members of the Management and/or civil law, e.g., recourse claims and claims Board, managing directors, and employees of the for compensatory damages. voestalpine Group as defined above. voestalpine is pursuing the goal of having the Code of Conduct applied throughout its sphere of 5.1.2 Human rights influence. Suppliers and consultants are required to comply with the Code of Conduct for Business voestalpine is committed to respecting and upholdPartners. Additionally, Group companies are urged ing human rights throughout the Group; should to bring the Code of Conduct to the attention any violations occur in this regard, Group manof their customers and to strongly encourage agement would react promptly. All voestalpine them to commit to compliance therewith. All of suppliers must sign the Code of Conduct for Busivoestalpine’s business partners are also requested ness Partners, which stipulates respecting and to promote compliance with the Code of Conduct upholding human rights as mandatory. Customers among their own business partners along the enare also strongly requested to respect and uphold tire supply chain. human rights. voestalpine AG has adopted the following Group Child and forced labor guidelines to serve as a helpful tool in applying Child and forced labor are not tolerated. There are the Code of Conduct: no known cases of child labor or forced/compulsory labor across the Group. The Code of Conduct Business conduct for Business Partners obliges suppliers explicitly This guideline is an expansion and concretization to comply with the prohibition of child and forced of the Code of Conduct with regard to the sublabor. jects of corruption/bribery/acceptance of gifts and conflicts of interest and regulate, for example, perRights of indigenous peoples missibility of gifts, invitations and other benefits, voestalpine and its facilities operate solely in dedonations, sponsoring, ancillary activities, and the veloped industrial regions; therefore, the rights of private purchase of goods and services by employaboriginal peoples are not restricted in any way by ees of customers and suppliers. voestalpine’s business operations. 34 5. Ethical corporate management Human rights training management places great value on maintaining a Worldwide security personnel attached to good basis for communication with the unions and plant security services is comprised largely of the members of the Works Councils. voestalpine employees. All of these employees receive training regarding compliance with human rights. Security personnel that is provided 5.1.3 Compliance system by external contractors must commit to compliance with the Code of Conduct and therefore to The management of the respective Group comcompliance with human rights. The respective pany is responsible for adherence to the comemployers of this security personnel are respliance regulations. A compliance system was ponsible for their training. put in place in the voestalpine Group during the business year 2011/12 to support management in Collective bargaining and the right to freedom of meeting this responsibility and to set up the neassociation cessary processes. Collective agreements are applied in all employIn addition to a Group compliance officer, a comment agreements in countries where such agreepliance officer was appointed in each division; ments exist. Around 80 % of the voestalpine furthermore, additional compliance officers were workforce is in an employment relationship that appointed in certain divisional sub-units. is regulated by a collective agreement. At all voestalpine locations, each employee has the funThe Group compliance officer reports directly to damental right and freedom to become a memthe Chairman of the Management Board and is ber of a union; works councils can be set up at all independent and not bound by directives. The voestalpine locations. There is a Group Works divisional compliance officers report to the Group Council and a European Works Council in the compliance officer and to the respective heads of voestalpine Group. Traditionally, the voestalpine the divisions. voestalpine AG Group Compliance Officer Steel Special Steel Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Division Division Division Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officers Compliance Officers Compliance Officers Compliance Officers in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / major equity holdings major equity holdings major equity holdings major equity holdings 35 5. Ethical corporate management The compliance officers are responsible for the Compliance training is mandatory for young exfollowing areas: ecutives: there are six to seven training sessions Antitrust law each year for around 20 employees. Corruption In addition to e-learning courses, there is also Capital market compliance face-to-face instruction on the issues of antitrust Fraud (internal cases of theft, fraud, law and corruption, especially for sales employembezzlement, or breach of trust) ees. Face-to-face training is also provided for Conflicts of interest capital market compliance issues, primarily for Special issues that are assigned to the voestalpine AG employees. compliance officers by the Management Board of voestalpine AG (e.g., in connection with UN Furthermore, compliance is a regular topic in or EU sanctions) Group communications and is often mentioned– including by top management–at major employee All other compliance issues, e.g., environmental events at both the Group and the divisional level. law, taxes, accounting, labor law, protection of employees, or data protection and privacy are not Reporting of compliance violations part of the compliance officer’s area of responsibilReports of compliance violations should be ity. These compliance issues are handled by the primarily made openly, that is, providing the respective specialist departments. whistleblower’s name. According to the Code of Conduct, such reports can be made to the direct Preventive measures supervisor, the appropriate legal or HR departWithin the scope of its compliance efforts, voestalpine ment, management of the respective Group complaces particular importance on preventive measpany, the audit department of voestalpine AG, ures, including training and communication. or one of the Group’s compliance offices. Upon Since 2002, managing directors, sales personnel, request, whistleblowers are ensured of absolute and other employees have undergone face-to-face confidentiality. training with regard to antitrust law. In 2009, more than 4,500 voestalpine Group emIn 2012, a web-based whistleblower system was ployees received training on this issue in e-learnlaunched that enables employees to file anonying courses; in 2012, the same employees commous reports about violations. Reports using this pleted a refresher course. Additionally, in the system can be made in the areas of antitrust law, business year 2012/13, an online course on the corruption, fraud, and conflicts of interest, in other Code of Conduct was rolled out Group-wide. This words, only reports on these issues are processed training focused on compliance with the law and through this system. The system enables compliinternal guidelines as well as corruption and antiance officers to communicate with whistleblowers trust law. Around 18,000 employees have particiwhile maintaining absolute anonymity. pated in this training. 36 5. Ethical corporate management 5.2 Corporate Governance The Management Board and the Supervisory Board of voestalpine AG recognized the Austrian Corporate Governance Code in 2003 and have also implemented all the amendments introduced since that date. In addition to the mandatory “L rules” (legal reThe Code aims to establish a system of management quirements), voestalpine AG voluntarily comand control of companies and groups that is responplies with all of the “C rules” (comply or explain) sible and geared to creating sustainable, long-term and the “R rules” (recommendation) of the Code. value. By voluntarily undertaking to adhere to the The Austrian Corporate Governance Code proCode, voestalpine backs these objectives and commits vides Austrian stock corporations with a frameto providing a high degree of transparency for all of work for management and monitoring of their the company’s stakeholders. company. The Code is based on the provisions Business transactions with associated companies or of Austrian stock corporation, stock exchange, and parties are reported on in the quarterly reports and capital market law as well as the OECD Principles in the Annual Report of voestalpine AG. Furtherof Corporate Governance. The last amendment was more, the quarterly reports and the Annual Report of made in July 2012. The Code achieves validity when voestalpine AG list any pending proceedings (e.g., companies voluntarily undertake to adhere to it. antitrust proceedings). Antitrust proceedings relative to railway superand local customers. From today’s perspective, it structure material is still too early to estimate when we can count on a final decision regarding these additional issues. In the antitrust proceedings relative to railway suAfter very intensive negotiations with Deutsche perstructure material, in early July, the German Bahn, in late April 2013, we succeeded in reaching Federal Cartel Office (Bundeskartellamt) imposed an agreement with regard to payment of compenfines totaling EUR 124.5 million on four manufacsation for damages for direct deliveries made unturers and suppliers of rails for having entered into der the rail cartel; it was agreed to keep the details anti-competitive agreements to the detriment of regarding the actual amount confidential. This Deutsche Bahn AG. EUR 8.5 million of these fines means that the first – and large – portion of the were levied against companies belonging to the antitrust proceedings has now been concluded for voestalpine Group. voestalpine AG. Furthermore, this should enable us to restore the foundation for a continuing longThis means that the German Federal Cartel Office term, stable collaboration with Deutsche Bahn. has thus confirmed voestalpine’s status of cooperating witness for the major part of the proceedings The provisions created for the antitrust proceedand the comparatively small fine concerns marginings and associated actions and costs as well as al segments only. Therefore, the antitrust proceedfor the closure of TSTG Schienentechnik GmbH & ings involving for the most part Deutsche Bahn Co KG in the annual financial statements 2011/12 have now been resolved. At a later date, the Gerin the amount of EUR 205.0 million are still conman Federal Cartel Office will examine the deliversidered to be appropriate in view of the current ies of railway superstructure material to regional estimate of EUR 204.4 million. Additional information about the Austrian Corporate Governance Code is available at: http://www.corporate-governance.at/ 37 6. Research and development 6. Research and development Research and development (R&D) is a core By maintaining and expanding voestalpine‘s element of voestalpine’s sustainable business technology leadership and utilizing synergy strategy. The Group’s R&D activities focuse on soopportunities and cost savings, R&D makes an lutions in the areas of energy efficiency, mobility, essential contribution to the sustainable succost reduction, and raw materials efficiency. cess of the company. R&D maintains open communication both within the unit and vis-à-vis Innovations are necessary for a technology-driven internal and external customers. Customers, company such as voestalpine in order to develop suppliers, universities, cooperative research new products and production processes that will facilities, and–for certain projects–even comenable it to differentiate itself from the competipetitors are integrated into the voestalpine tion and survive on the market long-term. InnovaR&D network. tions ensure the survival of our company. R&D activities contribute to sustainability by optiCustomer priorities with regard to R&D activities are mizing or developing products and processes that lightweight automobile construction, where further conserve resources. Cost savings can be achieved development of materials enables substantially loby way of decreased use of primary energy and wer carbon emissions due to the significant reducraw materials or substituting residual or recycled tion in weight; construction of rails and turnouts that materials for raw materials and even going as far offer increased longevity and safety; and the energy as a zero waste process. Another focal point is resector, where products developed by voestalpine imsearch activities aimed at increasing energy and prove the effectiveness of conventional facilities and raw materials efficiency and an even greater decontribute to the expansion of alternative energies. crease in emissions. voestalpine views its ecological responsibility as The voestalpine Group currently has around 150 not being limited to production processes but as R&D cooperation projects in 21 countries. The a holistic approach as offered by the life cycle ascompany works with 36 universities, 35 university sessment model, namely, of assessing the impact research facilities, ten competence centers, and of products over their entire life cycle–from raw twelve Christian Doppler Laboratories. materials to production and, finally, recycling. By Scientists profit from these partnerships as they developing new steel grades and improving existenable them to distinguish themselves in their ing ones on an ongoing basis, the voestalpine specialist areas, and voestalpine profits from Group is striving to achieve a sustainable increase them as well, as expertise from fundamental in energy efficiency and greater longevity of the research is useful for industrial applications. finished products. 38 Alexander Lang, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 39 6. Research and development 6.1 Research expenses in the voestalpine Group In recent years, research expenses have been rising continuously; in the business year 2012/13, they reached a record level of EUR 125.6 million. voestalpine’s expenditures for research and dedecade. According to EU statistics, voestalpine velopment have remained at a very high level, not only spends more money on research and despite the difficult economic environment. Dedevelopment than any other Austrian company, spite economic crises and cost-cutting programs, but it is among those high-leverage innovators expenditures for this key sector have risen on that have a higher-than-average innovative outaverage by 11 percent every year for the past put due to efficient use of resources and funds. Gross R&D expenses (without R&D capital investments) per business year, in millions of euros 61.5 66.0 93.0 112.0 108.8 109.0 116.7 125.6 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 40 6. Research and development 6.2 Organization voestalpine R&D activities are decentralized and are located close to production sites. 65% of all Group companies have their own research and development departments. At the voestalpine participates in various consortia in Group level, the persons responsible for R&D order to find solutions to various issues involvwithin the individual divisions are networked by ing process and product development. It is way of a Research Committee and the “Synergy represented in all steel-related professional asPlatforms,” Group-wide researcher meetings that sociations and bodies both in Europe (e.g., EUtake place on a regular basis. Communication ROFER, German Steel Institute – VDEh) and with the Management Board is conducted through worldwide (e.g., World Steel Association). the Research Board that meets twice a year. As an active member of ESTEP (European Steel Technology Platform), voestalpine is a participant in all of its working groups in order to play a role in the environmentally-friendly and sustainable development of steel production. Within the scope of its membership in EUROFER, voestalpine is working on the issue of energy efficiency. voestalpine AG Steel Special Steel Metal Engineering Metal Forming Research Board Division Division Division Division Research Committee Research Coordination 41 6. Research and development 6.3 Resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly processes and facilities voestalpine has actively assumed its responsibility as a Group that operates worldwide and is driving forward research for production processes that both conserve resources and are environmentally-friendly. Improved efficiency of production facilities makes a significant contribution to the sustainable utilization of raw materials, energy, and other resources. Reducing agents in the blast furnace process conservation and cost optimization. Instead of the In the last ten years, the blast furnace process at commonly used alloy ferromolybdenum, molybboth Austrian sites (Linz and Donawitz) underdenum trioxide and mill scale, which occurs in went significant further development. By expandthe plant as waste material, are used to retain the ing the injection technology, up to seven alterdesired characteristics of steel. Molybdenum trinative reducing agents can now be used in the oxide is an upstream product in the manufacture blast furnace; this represents a global benchmark. of ferromolybdenum. Valuable primary resources, such as coking coal and oil are conserved and replaced by secondary Uddeholms has developed a completely new proraw materials, such as, crude tar, coke gas, or used cess in which one step in the production of moplastic. lybdenum can be omitted. This newly developed process protects the environment along the entire The blast furnace process offers substantial poproduction chain through energy and raw matetential with regard to conservation of primary raw rials savings and is also economically attractive. materials on one hand and, on the other, in the recycling of used materials, as is demonstrated by upcop – upgrading coal and powder injection the utilization of shredded used plastic. Besides, In the Group’s upcop project, a special sifting prothe diverse mix of input materials enables us to cess has been developed for inferior-quality coal. react flexibly to the fluctuating availability of inThis process extracts good-quality coal, which is put materials and to changing statutory provisions used in the coking plant in Linz. The sifted portion with regard to utilization of scrap material recyof the coal has been used as injection coal in the cling and CO2 emissions. blast furnace in Donawitz; from the end of 2014 on, it will also be used in the blast furnace in Linz. Replacement of the alloy ferromolybdenum This process makes a significant contribution to A process developed in the steel mill in Uddethe efficient use of raw materials, as it enables holms, Sweden, provides a contribution to resource inferior-quality coal to be utilized completely. 42 6. Research and development ULCOS: Ultra-low carbon dioxide steelmaking Recovery of metals from slag The objective of ULCOS is to significantly lower Growing environmental awareness and the rising the CO2 emissions generated during the produccost of metal make the efficient recovery of metals tion of steel compared to the most effective techfrom slag both important and prudent. In collabonologies available today. New processes are being ration with institutes at the Leoben University of developed to this end, however, they will only Mining and Metallurgy, voestalpine is pursuing reach industrial maturity in the future. 48 compathe development and optimization of processes nies and organizations from 15 European counfor the recycling of metalliferous by-products. Bytries, including voestalpine and other leading EU products containing significant quantities of valsteel companies have formed a consortium. uable metals, such as zinc, lead, and copper, are (www.ulcos.org) especially promising. Production of iron oxide Chrome (VI)-free pretreatment of steel strip Each year, approximately 90,000 m3 of pickling By the year 2000, voestalpine was already shiftproducts accumulate from the hydrochloric acid ing to chrome-free production processes for coilpickling processes conducted by voestalpine coated plates; since 2005, the surface treatment of Stahl GmbH. Two regeneration plants that employ hot-dip galvanized plate is also chrome (VI)-free. spray roasting technology recycle more than 99% of the hydrochloric acid; iron oxide is generated as voestalpine is the first steel manufacturer in the a by-product of this operation. The regeneration world whose entire product portfolio is free of process was enhanced to the point that over 85% coatings containing chrome-(VI) and whose of the iron oxide is of high purity–a form suitable production completely dispenses with a range of for the production of ferrites, which are used in the problematic materials. electronics industry. Any regenerated hydrochloric acid is returned to the pickling process. With annual production of approximately 18,000 tons, voestalpine Stahl GmbH is Europe’s largest manufacturer of high purity iron oxide. 43 6. Research and development 6.4 Materials development and product innovations The R&D departments of all divisions continue minimal use of materials, and increased safety. to advance the development of steel, design new Lightweight construction, safety, and comfort play materials such as hybrids, and create components a major role for the user of the end product. that guarantee durability, lightweight structure, 6.4.1 Automotive applications enable automotive engineers to achieve up to 60% better forming properties. This results in a considOne focus of voestalpine’s company strategy is the erable leap in stability in cold forming processes development of innovative products for automoand ultimately, a higher level of safety. The higher tive engineering. The trend here is toward lightstrength AHSS HD steels, as well as phs-ultraform weight construction, in order to reduce vehicle (see below), are intended for use in the strengthfuel consumption and CO2 emissions. At the same related zones of doors and hatches as well as the time, improved safety is absolutely required. More visible exterior skin components (e.g., side walls). complex components necessitate new materials and processing methods. In response to these rephs-ultraform (press hardening steel) quirements, voestalpine is engineering ultra-high phs-ultraform is a hot-dip galvanized auto body tensile steels and safety-related components, such steel developed by voestalpine. On top of the lightas seamless tubes for seat belt tighteners, rotationweight design, phs-ultraform components feature ally-formed containers for airbags, and powerful an array of advantages, such as the highest tensile guardrail systems, which keep trucks from falling strength (up to 1,800 megapascals), cathode coroff bridges in case of accidents. rosion protection, and the ability to manufacture “tailored property parts”–blanks with the widFuture Steel Vehicle project est range of combinations in tensile strength and Since its inception, voestalpine has devoted itself thickness. phs-ultraform contributes significantly to the “Future Steel Vehicle” project, initiated in to lightweight construction, and it also has great 2008 as part of WorldAutoSteel. Working in colrelevance to applications in electromobility. laboration, 17 steel producers aim to demonstrate the potential for lightweight construction inherent The first series of tests took place as early as in contemporary steel materials. The group is also 2003; by 2008, the voestalpine development team addressing the effect of new drive concepts on had achieved the breakthrough, and the first orstructural design options. In this project, they have ders from the automotive industry started to aralready been able to prove that, through the oprive. There are 21 patent families to safeguard timal use of modern steel grades and processing voestalpine’s unique expertise in the manufacture technologies, automotive designers can lower the of this innovative material. phs-ultraform made its weight of an auto body by 35%–which leads to debut in front of a wider public audience at the substantial CO2 savings. 2012 Geneva Motor Show. AHSS HD steel Steel-aluminum hybrid blanks (Advanced High Strength Steels / High Ductility) Lightweight construction is accomplished by The recently developed multiphase steels for the composite (hybrid) construction methods, among next generation of auto bodies (AHSS/HD steel) others. voestalpine succeeded in developing a 44 6. Research and development steel-aluminum compound, as well as corrosion also developed the DOBAIN high-speed rail, protection adapted to these various materials. This which is manufactured from special heat-treated, achievement now enables voestalpine to produce high-performance steel that features a unique misteel-aluminum hybrid blanks. croscopic structure (“bainitic framework”). These efforts will ultimately result in a longer lifespan for Electrical steel strip the rails–as well as lower maintenance costs–and Electrical steel strip is a functional material that thereby improve track safety on the whole. is used for constructing magnet cores in electric motors, among other uses. Essential product feaSeveral of voestalpine’s developments ensure tures include the best possible electromagnetic shorter maintenance times, fewer malfunctionproperties and superior punchability. By continrelated shutdowns, and as a result, greater availually enhancing steel quality, voestalpine aims ability and safety in rail transport: thanks to its to increase the efficiency of the motor by further design, the low-maintenance Spherolock turnout reducing magnetization losses–which manifest in locking device works quite reliably, requires mithe undesirable form of heat within the magnet nimal inspection, and can be installed swiftly and core. The insulating varnishes used in the produceasily. Ready-to-install turnouts are used both in tion of electric steel strip packages are completely railway and tram/light rail construction, and the free of toxic ingredients and comply with all reimproved measurement and inspection equiplevant environmental guidelines–thanks to steady ment in the turnouts and on the rails are equally development efforts in collaboration with the reliable, even at the highest speeds. paint producers. Lightweight construction in rail transport Zinc-magnesium coating of steel strip In the summer of 2011, voestalpine started “Innoand sections vative Market Entry into the Freight Car Market,” The corrosion resistance of zinc surfaces markeda project that involves a collaboration of the Steel ly improves by the addition of magnesium by alDivision, the Metal Engineering Division, and loying. This also makes it possible to reduce the the Metal Forming Division. The objective was to thickness of the coating, without compromising its build and test the prototype of a scrap container protective effect: in other words, the use of materirail car, made of high tensile-strength steel, that als is reduced. voestalpine is working on a further could achieve a higher load capacity due to the enhancement to this coating–which is already weight reduction, and thereby lower costs and commonplace in the construction industry–so that CO2 emissions. it can be used in automobiles. Upon building a prototype of the “lightweight scrap container rail car,” the team had succeeded 6.4.2 Rails and turnouts applications in lowering the weight of the rail car by 3,000 kilograms. The load capacity of the rail car can voestalpine’s development efforts in the rails and be raised by precisely this amount, thus making turnouts sectors aim at achieving top passenger transporation of goods significantly more efficient. comfort with the highest degree of railway safety. From the pre-materials to the welding seams, all It starts with developing rail materials that elevate of the prototype’s materials and components come wear resistance and fracture resistance. So in addition from the voestalpine Group. to head-hardened high-speed rails, voestalpine 45 6. Research and development 6.4.3 Energy production applications 50plus power plant Steel is playing an integral role in the implementation of the energy transition from fossil fuels to The efficiency of steam power plants can be greatrenewable sources of energy. The use of steel is just ly increased by raising the operating temperature as integral to the towers of wind turbine systems and the pressure: a rise of 10%–for example, from as it is to the supporting elements for photovoltaic 42% to 52%–for a 750 MW power plant leads to systems or solar power plants. In geothermal powa reduction of its CO2 emissions by 700,000 tons/ er plants and conventional hydroelectric systems, year; this corresponds to the output from 350,000 steel is also indispensable. Furthermore, by condiesel-powered, mid-sized cars driving 15,000 km/ tinuing its materials development, voestalpine is year. making a contribution to the energy transition, as it increases the degree of efficiency of conventional New, improved materials and components that power plants, such as steam power plants. can tolerate the higher loads are essential to raising the plants’ degree of efficiency. As part of the Wind energy Group project “Power Plant 50plus,” voestalpine A series of new developments for wind power is has been working with the Graz University of being advanced in “voestalpine Future Markets,” Technology on related developments since the fall the cross-divisional project for identifying and emof 2010. For example, hot-dip galvanized highploying innovative technologies along the Group’s tensile steels as well as nickel-based alloys were entire value creation chain. In cooperation with developed for use at temperatures above 700°C. renowned external partners and research insti(By comparison: today, the most modern systems tutions, voestalpine engineered the prototype of operate at around 600°C). a low-maintenance lattice tower for wind power plants. Eight companies from three divisions are working on optimizing turbine housing, generator shafts, The use of new types of joining methods and the pipe conduits, and turbine shafts. voestalpine is application of innovative special sections should already capable of manufacturing this high-temreduce the high volume of maintenance requireperature steel with assured process reliability. The ments that previously put lattice towers at a material has already passed the welding process disadvantage when compared to other building test. 600 MW generator and low-pressure shafts methods. The new construction kit concept is proare currently in production. viding remarkable benefits in transportation and logistics, as well as considerable reductions in materials, extreme lightness, improved stability, and an altogether significant increase in the degree of efficiency. Photovoltaics Following intensive development efforts and the successful completion of the test phase, voestalpine Polynorm launched the iFIX photovoltaic system for flat roofs in the solar market in 2012. The system stands out for its innovative construction–and for having the lowest installation cost on the construction site. 46 6. Research and development 6.5 Prizes and awards received 2013 Regional Award “Upper Austrian Female Researchers Award 2013” goes to an employee of voestalpine Stahl GmbH. 2012 Stanley Black & Decker bestows the Quality Award on BÖHLER-UDDEHOLM Precision Strip for innovation and production, technical performance, and reliability. 2012 voestalpine VAE receives the Middle East Rail Award in the category “Most Innovative Use of Technology.” 2012 Innovation award of the region East Württemberg for voestalpine Polynorm in Schwäbisch-Gmünd, Germany. 2011 Airbus presents Böhler Schmiedetechnik with the Gold Award as “Best Improver.” 2011 Böhler Edelstahl receives the “Golden K” business award for especially innovative companies in the Kapfenberg area. 2011 The EU Scoreboard “Industrial R&D Investment” ranks voestalpine as the top Austrian company in research. 2011 The Middle East Rail Awards honor voestalpine VAE as “Best Service Provider of the Rail Industry 2011.” 2011 Two voestalpine employees receive the “Hans Malzacher Award” for outstanding achievement by young engineers Lukas Hölzl, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice in the field of metallurgical engineering. 47 7. Ecology 7. Ecology Active environmental protection and conservation of finite resources are core elements of the corporate philosophy of voestalpine. Within the organization, voestalpine endeavors to create the necessary prerequisites for continuous improvements in the area of environmental protection and has defined principles in this regard: Comprehensive responsibility panies. The core of these management systems is for all products compliance with environmental provisions and continuous improvement programs. voestalpine produces and develops products and system solutions in close collaboration with its customers and suppliers and takes ecological reEmployee involvement quirements, such as a long useful life, conservation of resources, and optimum reusability/revoestalpine sees environmental protection and cyclability/recoverability into consideration. continuous improvement as the responsibility of each individual employee at all levels and in all business sectors. Responsible and expert employOptimization of production processes ees ensure that technical facilities are operated at an optimum level and contribute to continuous In operating its plants and facilities, voestalpine improvement through environmentally conscious applies state-of-the-art technology as far as ecobehavior. nomically reasonable and minimizes the environmental impact of its production sites. Efficient use of raw materials and energy is of primary imporOpen and objective dialogue tance to voestalpine. As a basis for shared, sustainable solutions, voestalpine maintains an open and objective diImplementation of environmental alogue with internal and external interest groups management systems regarding all environmental issues relevant to the Group. voestalpine particularly encourages a voestalpine facilitates the development of enviGroup-wide exchange of knowledge among all ronmental management systems in its Group comthe production sites. 48 Lukas Mayrhofer, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 49 7. Ecology 7.1 Environmental management and Group-wide knowledge transfer Individual environmental policies based on Group-wide voestalpine environmental principles are the foundation for the existing environmental management systems of the voestalpine companies. The setting of concrete targets, the establishment of packages of measures, and regular monitoring of the progress being made are part of the management responsibilities of each Group company. In order to ensure effective environmental manObjectives agement, it is essential that the entire workforce Establish a central environmental database of all develop a thorough awareness of environmental production companies by the end of 2014. concerns. Therefore, awareness-building measures complement the existing management sysReinforcing the environmental network: efficient tems. It is especially important to us that regular knowledge and information transfer between the and target-group oriented information transfer Group‘s central environmental department and and open dialogue take place both within the the individual divisions and companies. company and with external partners. As far as the Group’s development is concerned with regard to environmental technology and environmental legislation, it is necessary to have an open and objective dialogue not only within the Group but also with external stakeholders in order to be able to identify and ensure expert action that demonstrates a high degree of awareness when dealing with environmental issues. An exchange of knowledge between all production sites with regard to environmental protection supports the company in developing and implementing sustainable solutions. In order to ensure that this knowledge transfer takes place, voestalpine has implemented target-group oriented communication measures on various environmental topics, such as regular “jour fixe” events, specific content on the internet and intranet sites, folders, and Group meetings. 50 7. Ecology 7.2 Environmental standards Standardized environmental management systems, such as ISO 14001 or EMAS, ensure improvement and standardization of a company’s environmental performance. The certified companies undergo a comprehensive environmental assessment within the scope of an annual audit by independent, external environmental experts. 55% of the voestalpine production sites have an 7.2.1 Compliance with environmental environmental management system based on ISO standards 14001. 14 Group companies have an environmental management system that has been validated At around EUR 213 million, ongoing expenses for the according to EMAS. In the environmental stateoperation and maintenance of environmental protecments required by EMAS, voestalpine discloses tion systems at the Austrian production sites in the the environmentally-relevant facts and figures business year 2012/13 remained at almost the same of the respective Group companies. This creates level as in the previous year. transparency both for the company internally and for external stakeholders. Environmental expenditures include all costs incurred by measures to keep the environment clean by avoiding, removing, preventing, or reducing emisObjective sions, pollution, and noise, such as internal recycling, To increase the number of voestalpine production removal of waste, emissions testing, depreciation, companies certified under ISO 14001 by 10 % by personnel costs, recycling of materials, and the costs 2015. incurred by switching to more environmentallyfriendly production processes. Operating expenses for environmental protection systems in millions of EUR 82 89 93 94 96 103 97 95 114 128 148 163 169 189 206 225 193 194 212 213 250 200 150 100 50 0 93 94 95 96 97 98 99/00 00/01 01/02 02/03 03/04 04/05 05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 This is based on the Austrian production sites as it is here that the greatest portion of the CY/BY from BY 07/09 on, includes Special Steel Division (Austria) Group‘s environmentally sensitive emissions accrue. 51 7. Ecology 7.3 Specific CO2 emissions caused by voestalpine Steel production in general depends on the use of carbon as a reducing agent; the resulting CO2 emissions are technically unavoidable. Specific CO2 emissions caused by voestalpine reported in The currently available technology used in the accordance with the Austrian Emissions Allowances Act (EZG) production of high-quality steel products using in tons/ton of crude steel the blast furnace route has been highly optimized; the same applies to the facilities and processes of 1.73 1.56 1.51 1.56 1.52 voestalpine. 2 Improvements have already been made in the past so that the required carbon input and the resulting CO2 emissions are now close to the the1 oretic minimum. In the 2012 calendar year, the voestalpine Group emitted 1.5 tons of CO2 per ton of crude steel. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Figures refer to CO2 emissions pursuant to the Austrian Emissions Certificate Act (Emissionszertifikategesetz, EZG) Measures to prevent and reduce CO2 emissions Strict monitoring of emissions A strict and technically mature monitoring system Steel as an environmentally-friendly product enables the voestalpine engineers to operate voestalpine develops those materials that enable complex production facilities cost-effectively and vehicles, airplanes, and energy producers to prosustainably, using environmentally sound technovide mobility, heat, and energy efficiently with logies. This enables voestalpine to achieve prolow emissions. In many of these applications, the duction processes that are energyand raw maemissions saved by using new steel components terials-efficient, resulting in a decrease in carbon exceed by far the emissions caused by the producemissions. tion of these steel components. Active research efforts with regard to environThe greatest savings potential can be found in the mental technologies overhaul of fossil-fuel power plants, the expanvoestalpine participates in EU-wide research prosion of wind energy, the reduction of passenger jects by the entire steel industry whose objective car weight, the increased use of combined heat is the development of low carbon steel production and power generation, and of other renewable processes. energy sources, such as geothermal, biomass, and hydroelectric power. Steel plays a key role in Development toward energy recovery achieving ambitious climate targets. An efficient and the highest possible energy efficiency steel industry that can supply the necessary innoBy exploring and realizing energy efficiency vative steel products is an important contribution potential on an ongoing basis, voestalpine is toward a successful climate policy. achieving commensurate reductions in CO2. 52 7. Ecology voestalpine supports the EU-initiative toward a or photovoltaics. This is the prerequisite to a reparadigm shift in energy policies, in other words, duction of the carbon emissions intensity in the EU switching to renewable energies, such as biomass in the long term. 7.4 Clean air management voestalpine is striving to prevent and/or reduce air pollutants created during the production process in order to mitigate the impact on humans, animals, and the environment as minimal as possible. The highest priority in this effort is to utilize state-of-the-art technologies. The most serious air pollutants are dust, sulfur tion facilities were significantly reduced. First dioxide (SO2), and nitrous oxide (NOX). Our primary of all, voestalpine endeavors to prevent emisobjective is to comply with the statutory threshold sions to the greatest extent possible by way of limits for all pollutants. process optimization and, secondly, the company aims to reduce the remaining emissions By implementing numerous measures to ensure through end-of-pipe measures utilizing stategood air quality, the emissions of the producof-the-art technology. Monitoring at the Linz site threshold limits are complied with. The other emissions are analyzed by accredited At the Linz site, two-thirds of the major emissions measurement institutes in accordance with the of the integrated steel mill are being continuously measurement intervals required by law and tested measured, reported online to the local environto ensure that the statutory threshold limits are mental agency, and analyzed to ensure that the complied with. 7.4.1 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Specific sulfur dioxide SO2 emissions In kg/ton of crude steel During certain processing steps and when utilizing by-products (coke oven gas and blast furnace 0.68 0.65 0.62 0.64 0.68 gas) for energy generation, the sulfur that is intro1 duced into the production process through the raw materials is released as sulfur dioxide (SO2). As content of sulfur in by-products used varies, 0.5 the SO2 emissions vary accordingly in the period under review. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 53 7. Ecology Specific nitrous oxide (NOX) emissions 7.4.2 Nitrous oxide (NOX) In kg/ton of crude steel Nitrous oxides (NOX) are gaseous nitrogen com0.77 0.73 0.67 0.64 0.61 pounds that are generally created during com1 bustion processes; they are also created in the soil through microbiological decomposition processes. At voestalpine, nitrous oxides are created during the production process in various industrial facilities. During the reporting period, voestalpine was 0.5 able to reduce the emissions of NOX by roughly 20%. This was achieved by way of denitrification systems and improved combustion technologies. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Innovative environmental technologies that can filter out numerous pollutants using additives (e.g., activated carbon). This MEROS system In late 2012, a DeNOX system for the denitrificais an innovative dry exhaust gas cleaning system tion of sintering exhaust gas was put into operafor sintering exhaust gas that redefines state-oftion at the Linz site, a unique installation in Europe. the-art technology. It enables the reduction of In the future, NOX emissions will be reduced by heavy metals, dust, SO2, and organic compounds around 400 tons annually. This measure ensures a to a minimum. long-term improvement of the NOX situation at the Linz site and guarantees that voestalpine will be The exhaust gases that have already been cleaned able to comply with the statutory provisions in the in the MEROS system are injected into the DeNOX future. system. The exhaust gas is warmed up in a heat exchanger and is then denitrified in a catalytic By the early 1990s, a highly efficient wet gas unit using ammonia (NH3). Then the gas is routed cleaning system (AIR-FINE) for sintering exhaust through the heat exchanger into the chimney; exgas had been installed in addition to the existing cess heat is recovered and returned to the system dry electrostatic precipitator. In 2007, voestalpine process and reused to heat up the exhaust gas switched to a dry electrostatic precipitator system from the sintering facility. 54 7. Ecology Specific captured dust emissions 7.4.3 Dust In kg/ton of crude steel By taking state-of-the-art precautions, voestalpine 0.083 0.063 0.063 0.065 0.057 ensures that dust-laden exhaust gases and emis0.1 sions that occur during production are captured and routed to a dedusting system. The reasons for the reduction by more than 20% from the 2008 calendar year to the 2009 calendar year included 0.05 measures taken with regard to the 8m blast furnace group at the Linz site. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fuel conversion and improved utilization of The furnace was rebuilt for the new regenerative heat at Uddeholms in Sweden combustion technology; this improved both heat utilization and maintenance efforts significantly. The Special Steel Division site in Hagfors, SweBy switching to the significantly more environmenden, replaced heavy oil with natural gas, which tally-friendly liquid gas, specific emissions, such is more environmentally friendly, thus combining as CO2 and NOX, are being reduced and energy both ecological and economic benefits. efficiency is being optimized. 7.5 Water management Water is one of the most important consumables and auxiliary materials in the production of pig iron and steel as it is needed for cooling and for the generation of steam. Conservation of water resources, which takes discharged around 89 m³ of water per ton of crude local circumstances into particular consideration, steel. The figures are within the naturally occuris a core principle for voestalpine. Closed circuit ring fluctuation range of the production process. systems and modern production facilities and processes enable multiple use of process water and a The total volume of water consumed represents decreased need for industrial water, respectively. the water volume that is routed into discharge In the 2012 calendar year, the production comsystems or into the public sewer system after panies of the voestalpine Group consumed and state-of-the-art treatment. 55 7. Ecology Specific total volume of water consumed in m³/ton of crude steel CO2-neutral hydropower combined with economic profitability and energy efficiency 94 92 91 92 89 100 The site in Zeltweg, Austria (voestalpine turnout systems) participated in the expansion of a small hydropower plant on the Pöls River. The objective was to supply the site with electricity 50 from clean, CO2-neutral hydropower as self-sufficiently as possible. Economic profitability and attention to aspects related to water law and environmental issues during construction and 0 operation of the power plant were major plan2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ning factors. A significant part of the electricity production is being utilized for a new induction heating system for forging of rails, which replaced the previous natural gas-operated furnace; this enables a reduction of 340 tons of CO2 emissions annually. The facility also ensures voestalpine’s technological market leadership, thus helping to secure the approximately 50 jobs at this site. An expert opinion provided by the University of Technology in Graz confirmed that the construction of this power plant created added value for Austria of more than EUR 10 million, thus producing a high benefit for both the regional and the national economy. 7.6 Conservation of resources and reusability/recyclability voestalpine places great importance on the conservation of resources both during the production process and within the scope of development of new products and solutions with a long useful life and a high degree of reusability/recyclability/recoverability. Due to their ingredients, many of the by-products ducts). Some by-products can be utilized directly generated by the production and downstream as a product due to their particular physical and processing of pig iron and steel can be utilized chemical characteristics. either internally as recycled materials or in other industrial branches (e.g., steel mill dust in the Process management in the integrated metallurzinc industry) as secondary raw materials (by-progical facilities is optimized on an ongoing basis in 56 7. Ecology order to ensure a high degree of internal recycling and external utilization of by-products that accrue voestalpine makes every effort to find confrom both production facilities and downstream tinuous improvements with regard to material machinery, including filter dust and mill scale. efficiency and new recycling possibilities in Additionally, products, residual materials, and order to make a long-term contribution to a waste that accrue in external production facilities resource-conserving future. are also utilized in voestalpine production facilities, for example, scrap, plastic pellets, used oil, and used grease. Percentage of recycled materials of total materials used By using plastic in the blast furnace process (e.g., in % processed shredder residue, small-scale industry, production, packaging, and household waste), 17.1 14.8 16.6 16.7 17.2 primary resources can be conserved. 20 The percentage of recycled scrap and other ferrous materials of all materials used (with the exception of raw materials that are energy sources, such as coal) is in the range of around 17 %. 10 The figures in the chart refer to steel production sites in Austria, Sweden, and Brazil. Sources of energy are taken into account under the chapter 0 “Energy.” 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7.7 Waste management Waste that accrues in the production process is categorized as hazardous and as non-hazardous waste. All waste must be sent to a landfill, utilized externally, or disposed of. Hazardous waste is all waste that requires special Specific volume of non-hazardous waste handling, utilization/recycling, or disposal due to in kg/ton of crude steel particular characteristics, which are defined by statutory provisions under waste legislation. 60.0 44.2 46.4 55.9 51.7 100 The charts present the amount of waste that accrues in the voestalpine Group, broken down into hazardous and non-hazardous waste. 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 57 7. Ecology Specific volume of hazardous waste The deviations in the figures in recent years are in kg/ton of crude steel due, on one hand, to the naturally occurring fluctuations in the logistics of the management of in20.3 16.8 19.7 22.5 21.7 terim storage facilities and, on the other, to the 30 modified methodology with regard to how waste products and by-products are calculated. 15 Due to economic crisis in 2009, less hazardous waste was utilized/disposed of externally; it was instead increasingly stored in an interim storage 0 facility. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7.8 Energy Energy efficiency in the steel industry is a constant challenge that voestalpine confronts with complex programs and new technologies for efficient energy management as well as process innovations. Specific total energy consumption Especially in the integrated metallurgical facilin MWh/ton of crude steel ities, improved energy efficiency is achieved through optimization of process gases, increased 5.5 4.9 4.8 5.1 5.1 thermal recycling of these gases, and utilization of 10 waste heat potential. Numerous smaller projects are also being implemented at the individual locations, for example, switching to LED lighting or using electrically operated forklifts. 5 Group-wide, total specific energy consumption by voestalpine in the 2012 calendar year was 5.1 MWh/ton of crude steel. This corresponds to a reduction of around 10 % compared to the 2008 0 calendar year. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The absolute energy requirement in 2012 was at around 38 TWh for the entire Group. After a number of expansions and renovations of their own power plants at the Linz und Donawitz sites, these sites are practically independent with regard to generation of electricity. 58 7. Ecology City heating network for the City of Leoben Leoben with district heating. By way of low pressure steam extraction by the two new steam turLarge amounts of process gas, such as blast furbines and using heat recovered from various thernace gas and steel mill converter gas, are genermal processes, voestalpine Stahl Donawitz has ated during the production of pig iron and steel by been able to supply the City of Leoben with waste voestalpine Stahl Donawitz. In the past, only part heat of up to 50 MW thermal since 2009. of these gases could be used for the generation of electricity. It was also not possible to completely utiThis generated the following ecological and ecolize the waste heat from the rolling mill’s furnaces. nomic benefits: better utilization of the blast furnace gas and steel mill converter gas, which are In 2008/09, the existing power plant was modernby-products created by the production of steel. ized and a new power plant unit was built, which Provision of cost-effective heat for the city and reis operated with process gases. At the same time, duction of the CO2 emissions in Leoben by about recovery facilities were built to supply the City of 30,000 tons per year. Energy concept of the Zeltweg site consisting of materials that cannot be recycled In order to reduce energy consumption and, in or otherwise utilized, for example, tree bark and turn, to lower CO2 emissions, voestalpine VAE, debris such as branches and treetops. voestalpine Weichensysteme, and voestalpine HYTRONICS have taken joint measures to effect Additionally, a small hydropower plant was erected a total CO2 reduction by 1,200 tons/year. The cenon the Pöls River that supplies the Zeltweg site tral electronic energy and building management with carbon-free electricity generated by hydrosystem that manages and monitors electricity, power. Electricity not needed by voestalpine is fed heating, and compressed air made a significant into the grid. contribution to this achievement. Furthermore, 75% of the energy needed for heating was conThe site had a positive carbon footprint for the first verted from natural gas to district heating. The intime in 2010. New investments will continue to tegrated city heating system is fueled by biomass improve the energy mix at the Zeltweg site. 59 7. Ecology 7.9 Biodiversity At all of its production sites, voestalpine respects the environment and treats natural resources responsibly. All planned measures and projects, such as new mapping and other ecological studies. In order to construction, renovations, or decommissioning of make the plant grounds attractive for rare animal production facilities, are carefully analyzed with species, 64 nesting boxes were installed to improve regard to their impact on the eco-system or on the availability of nesting sites for bird species that areas requiring particular protection. Mitigation nest in or on buildings, such as swifts, kestrels, and compensatory measures are taken when and peregrine falcons. necessary. voestalpine Stahl Donawitz is also planning to Within the scope of the expansion projects at the build a fish ladder in the Vordernbergerbach Linz site, the impact of steel production on biodiwithin the scope of its flood protection measures. versity was examined by way of an environmental This measure will ensure the passability of the impact assessment, and measures to preserve bioVordernbergerbach on the voestalpine premises diversity were developed and implemented. and will create a near-natural state. At the Linz site, most of the grounds are paved or The impact of emissions on all environmental medeveloped with industrial buildings. Nevertheless, dia is being evaluated quantitatively using sitea remarkable number of animal species were specific propagation models; this complements found and described within the scope of habitat emissions monitoring. 60 7. Ecology 7.10 Prizes and awards received 2013 EMAS award for voestalpine Tubulars GmbH. 2012 EMAS award for “Best Environmental Team” goes to voestalpine Schienen GmbH. 2012 voestalpine Tubulars is certified by TÜV Austria in accordance with ÖNORM EN ISO 50001 (“Optimum utilization of energy resources”). 2012 voestalpine ROTEC, USA, is certified as a “Clear-Blue-Green” business. 2011 voestalpine Meincol, Brazil, achieves ISO/TS 16949 certification. 2011 EMAS award for the “Best Environmental Manager 2011” goes to the head of Strategic Environmental Management of voestalpine. 2011 The Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management names the voestalpine Steel Service Center a “klima:aktiv mobil project partner” for reducing CO2 by 370 tons / year by switching to electric forklifts and a new inventory management system. 61 8. Employees 8. Employees The voestalpine Group had 46,351 employees, including 3,816 temporary employees, 1,350 apprentices, and 2,649 part-time workers as of the reporting date of March 31, 2013. Even in economically challenging times (especially in 2009), voestalpine has been able to keep Corporate HR handles personnel issues that are the number of employees almost constant by relevant for multiple companies, divisions, and implementing flexible working time models, reregions, for example, contract law, management duced working hours, utilization of flex-time development, personnel marketing, employee credits and vacation accruals, educational leave, surveys, agreements on objectives, remuneration early retirement models, and part-time work for management for executives, and travel safety. employees nearing retirement age. Development of employee numbers Personnel headcount (excl. apprentices) per business year 41,915 39,406 40,700 41,649 42,078 50,000 25,000 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 voestalpine employees according to employment relationship per business year Temporary employees (FTE) Apprentices (headcount) Part-time employees (headcount) 2,327 1,506 1,482 2,951 1,472 1,795 4,036 1,330 2,137 4,305 1,263 2,285 3,816 1,350 2,649 5,000 2,500 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 62 Andreas Langer, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 8. Employees 8.1 Employment by countries voestalpine is a Group that operates internationally and has around 500 Group companies and locations on five continents. As the largest production sites are in Austria, the majority of the employees–more than 19,500 or 46%–work in Austria as well. Another 18% of employees work at sites in Germany. However, as the Group’s activities become more and more international, the percentage of employees in non-German-speaking countries continues to grow. All employees at voestalpine sites have the opportunity to organize Work Councils or to unionize. Many internal and external voestalpine publications are provided in various languages. In addition to German and English, Dutch, Swedish, and Portuguese and, to some extent, Russian and Mandarin, are the most important languages for communications with internal and external stakeholders. Examples for publications that are generated in multiple languages are the Code of Conduct and the employee magazine mm, which is sent to each voestalpine employee worldwide and which is also available as a download via the intranet. 4% 5% 10% USA Brazil other countries 64 8. Employees 46% 18% 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% 1% Austria Germany Netherlands Sweden France Great Britain Belgium China South Africa 65 8. Employees 8.2 voestalpine as employer A high number of job applications, the low fluctuation rate, and the long average job tenure are proof of the attractiveness of voestalpine as an employer. In the business year 2012/13, there were an average of 24 applications for each job vacancy; this was an increase of 20 % compared to the previous year. The fluctuation rate, which has been low for ployee commitment, and identification with years–4.8% in the business year 2012/13–attests the company were above the industry benchto the high degree of loyalty demonstrated by mark. The responses from the employee survey voestalpine’s employees. Regular rankings and are integrated into a structured dialogue awards testify to voestalpine’s attractiveness as an between management and employees to look employer among entry-level job applicants. for and implement joint solutions wherever possible. A tool was developed to ensure the implementation of the solutions. 8.2.1 Employee survey Every three years, voestalpine conducts an 8.2.2 Job tenure and age structure employee survey with the assistance of exterof the employees nal consultants. The divisions nominate those companies that are to be included in the surAs voestalpine has hired an increasing number of vey. The criteria require that the number of new employees in recent years, the percentage of employees is high enough to guarantee anonemployees that have worked in the company for ymity when the results are analyzed. The last five years or less has increased commensurately. survey was conducted in October 2013: around At the same time, however, the number of employ42,000 employees from 153 Group companies ees who have worked for voestalpine for more in 21 countries were surveyed, with materials than 25 years increased as well, attesting to the being translated into 13 languages. The anonhigh degree of loyalty of voestalpine employees. ymous analysis of the results was carried out by an independent institute. The responses In the business year 2012/13, the average age of regarding employee satisfaction, loyalty, emall employees was 41. Age structure of the employees As of March 31, 2013 30 years old or less 30 – 50 years old More than 50 years old Women 3.1% 6.9% 2.6% } 100% Men 18.0% 46.8% 22.6% Laborers 14.9% 32.2% 15.4% } 100% Salaried employees 6.1% 21.6% 9.8% 66 8. Employees 8.3 Equal treatment More than 46,000 people from more than 50 countries work for voestalpine. voestalpine’s corporate culture recognizes that each person is unique, valuable, and must be respected for his/her individual capabilities. Therefore, the voestalpine Group does not toler12.6%. This percentage is low compared to other ate any form of discrimination whatsoever. Rather, business sectors for industry-specific, historical, the company sees it as an important responsibility and cultural reasons. In the perception of the pubto promote and benefit from the diversity of our lic, work in a steel and industrial goods Group is employees. still often equated with a high degree of physical exertion or other work conditions that women At voestalpine, all employees are treated equally find unappealing. Therefore, it is commensurately regardless of their gender, age, ethnic origin, difficult to achieve a balanced recruitment of men religion, sexual orientation, or any disabilities. and women. The chapter titled “Respect and Integrity” of the voestalpine Code of Conduct defines human rights The percentage of female executives, i.e., salaried as fundamental values, based on the principles of employees who hold positions with staff responsithe UN Charter and the European Convention on bility, including forepersons but excluding memHuman Rights, that are to be complied with by all bers of the Management Board, was 10.1 % in the employees. business year 2012/13. Within the scope of internal leadership development efforts, great importance is being placed on continuing to expand the 8.3.1 Persons with disabilities percentage of female participants. In the business year 2012/13, there were 22 women of a total of In Austria, companies with more than 25 em146 participants (15.0 %). In the meantime, due to ployees are required to make jobs available for targeted efforts, women are employed in top leadpersons with disabilities. For reasons relating to ership positions, for example, as managing direcdata protection and privacy, information about tors or in technical sectors that have traditionally the number of employees with disabilities is not been dominated by men (e.g., hot-dip galvanizing collected outside of Austria. voestalpine fulfills or wire production facilities). the statutory obligations required by the countries Women are also in executive positions in financial where the respective sites are located. and legal departments of various Group companies. voestalpine is striving to take appropriate measvoestalpine rules out any discrimination of emures in order to sustainably increase the percentployees with disabilities. age of women in the Group at all levels. However, there is no female quota in any of the Group companies or at the Group level. Measures include advancement of women in apprentices occupations 8.3.2 Women at voestalpine and increased hiring of female graduates of technical schools and universities. Additionally, Group The percentage of women in the voestalpine companies are undertaking activities in this Group overall in the business year 2012/13 was regard, some of which are country-specific. 67 8. Employees Women working at voestalpine 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Women total 5,211 4,953 5,093 5,183 5,285 Salaried employees 4,326 4,139 4,201 4,294 4,366 Laborers 885 814 892 889 919 Female apprentices 201 181 186 185 210 Family-work balance Since 1995, the largest voestalpine site in Linz has Within the scope of the “Vacation at work” project, had a company kindergarten for employees’ chilwhich is available at the Linz site, employee dren. 90 children between the ages of one and six family members aged six to sixteen can participate are cared for here in nursery and kindergarten in various activities and workshops for a week. groups. This facility in the proximity of their workAdditionally, during the summer vacation, the place makes it easier for parents to balance work company organizes summer camps for employees’ and family and assists many employees in reenterchildren offering various activities. ing the workforce. 8.4 Training and continuing education Ongoing training and continuing education of the employees is an important instrument at voestalpine to keep the qualifications of the staff at the top level. In the area of management training and develop“vision stage” module; it was also nominated for ment, voestalpine is focusing on the multi-phase the European Human Resources Award. “value:program”; in the business year 2012/13, 146 executives from 16 countries participated in voestalpine also runs the “High Mobility Pool” this program across the entire Group. 39 % of the development program for university graduates participants came from subsidiaries outside of with a few years of professional experience. After Austria. The percentage of women was at 15 %. the successful Europe-wide recruitment of participants for the class of 2011, the internationalizaIn 2011, voestalpine received the Austrian Human tion of the program was continued. For the class Resources Award from the Austrian Productivity of 2013, participants were recrueted from Brazil, and Efficiency Center (ÖPWZ) for creating the China, Canada, and Mexico. 68 8. Employees The total cost for personnel development in the continuing education. Group-wide, voestalpine business year 2012/13 was EUR 45.9 million. employees underwent a total of 749,274 hours of In the business year 2012/13, more than half of training, an average of 31.9 hours per trained emall employees participated in either training or ployee. 8.5 Occupational safety Occupational safety is a core issue for voestalpine, with the prevention of work-related accidents taking top priority. The majority of voestalpine companies has certiDue to various measures and systematic safety fied occupational safety and health management management, the number of accidents and the systems. For example, in 2012, Villares Metals, associated time lost has been falling continually Brazil, successfully completed the OHSAS 18001 in recent years. In the business year 2012/13, certification. time lost due to work-related accidents was 1.8 % A key measure undertaken to improve occupationbelow the previous year’s figure. al safety is increasing awareness and providing regular training and continuing education for all employees. Ongoing training and supervision are Work-related accidents per million work hours integrated into day-to-day work in all Group companies. In addition to providing information, the in the respective business year objective of the training is primarily to motivate 25.7 25.2 22.5 employees to practice safe behavior. For example, 30 this training involves the correct use of personal protective gear. voestalpine also endeavors to ensure that life and health of employees of independent contractors are protected. The relevant guidelines are binding 15 for external companies. Recording and analyzing work-related accidents and near misses is essential for accident preven0 tion. 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 voestalpine endeavors to eliminate any risks for a security team was put in place; it has develits employees in all areas relevant to occupationoped appropriate safety guidelines and emeral safety. The growing internationalization of gency plans. In addition to general recommenthe voestalpine Group also results in increasing dations, they contain numerous, concrete tips travel and longer stays abroad by employees. In about the subject of safety and behavior in order to protect employees who are traveling, emergencies. 69 8. Employees 8.6 Apprentices As of the reporting date of March 31, 2013, voestalpine was training 1,350 apprentices Group-wide. 85.6% of the young people were being trained in technical skilled trades. voestalpine has one of the largest apprentice training programs in the industrial sector in Austria. At the Linz site, voestalpine Stahl’s 13,000th apprentice was celebrated in early September 2012. In its concept for the training of apprentices, voestalpine is pursuing a Group-wide strategy; Steel sounds currently, 36.3% of the apprentices are being trained at sites outside of Austria. Another imporThe locations in Austria and Germany that train tant aspect is the promotion of internationality by apprentices implemented the “Steel Sounds” way of an informal Group exchange program. campaign aimed at apprentices. In this creative competition, the young people were able to In the fall of 2012, a website was created for apexplore the world of steel and submit videos, in prentices; information about all of the offered apwhich they created sounds using everyday steel prenticeship occupations and all of the locations products. in Austria and Germany that provide apprenticeThe best sounds were selected online and inteship training can be downloaded from this site grated into a song that had been composed for (www.voestalpine.com/lehre). Additionally, the voestalpine. Due to the target group, the camHR online presence was again expanded with a paign was conducted on the Internet. “Steel greater emphasis on social media like Facebook, Sounds” was chosen from among 500 submissions where voestalpine has a career page. for the German Award for Online Communication in the “Recruiting Campaign” category. Post-apprenticeship employment At voestalpine, 100% of all apprentices who complete their training are given employment contracts. This proves how efficiently the training is geared to Objective company-internal requirements and illustrates what An important objective for voestalpine is the adan attractive employer voestalpine is among entryvancement of women in the apprenticeship occulevel employees. pations as well, particularly in the technical skilled trades. One of the measures being undertaken in this regard is voestalpine’s regular participation in Girls’ Day, a project that introduces young women to various professions. As of the reporting date of March 31, 2013, 210 voestalpine apprentices were female; half of them were being trained in the technical skilled trades. 70 8. Employees 8.7 Employee shareholding The voestalpine employee shareholding scheme developed in Austria was launched in 2001 and has now been expanded to Group companies in Germany, Great Britain, Poland, Belgium, and the Netherlands. About 100 Group companies are included in the scheme. As of the end of the business year 2012/13, 22,400 employees hold 23 million shares of the company Employee participation can mean different through the voestalpine “Mitarbeiterbeteiligung things Privatstiftung.“ With a holding of 13.35% of the share capital, due to the general bundling of In 2000, the term “employee participation“ genevoting rights, employees are the second largest rally meant merely profit-sharing in the form of core shareholder of voestalpine AG. cash payment by way of bonuses (and not much has changed since then). Employee participation The “Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung“ also at voestalpine, however, is “employee sharemanages 1.8 million private shares held by former holding”–true equity participation, where employand active Group employees; this corresponds to ees share in the company’s assets. around 1.05% of the voting shares. Thus, currently 14.4% of voestalpine AG’s share capital is owned by its employees. The principle of sustainability In order to ensure that employee shareholding remains stable in the long term, employees, as coowners of the voestalpine Group, commit themselves to retain their voestalpine shares during the entire duration of their employment by the Group. They can sell their shares only after they have left voestalpine. In recent years, a good two thirds of all employees who left the company permitted their voestalpine shares to remain in the Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung, the foundation that manages employee shares. Source: voestalpine Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung: We have played a part in this. Pages 25 – 26 71 8. Employees 8.8 The Stahlstiftung (Steel Foundation) in Austria In the 1980s, the crisis in the nationalized industries in Austria led to the establishment of the voestalpine Stahlstiftung. On November 5, 2012, it celebrated its 25th anniversary. Since its establishment, around 6,600 persons have become members of the Stahlstiftung and received assistance in their search for new jobs. Within the scope of the Stahlstiftung, former empants who were looking for work were able to find ployees of the voestalpine Group companies have a new job with the help of the Stahlstiftung. The up to four years to complete training and continuStahlstiftung can also be utilized by other coming education to upgrade their skills or to start a panies; most recently, the percentage of external new career path. These measures support former participants was at around 37%. employees to the greatest possible degree in their Group companies outside of Austria provide forsearch for a new job. mer employees with assistance, which is utilized as needed–in Germany, for example, by way of As of March 31, 2013, 453 persons were being asso-called transfer companies. sisted by the Stahlstiftung. This corresponds to a reduction of 10.6 % compared to the previous year. Since it was established in 1987, 85 % of particiMore detailed information is available online at www.stahlstiftung.at Sequence of assistance provided by the Stahlstiftung Termination of employment by mutual agreement Entry into the Stahlstiftung Vocational orientation Establishment of a company Active job search Training 3 or 4 years up to 3 years New job Active job search Self-employment New job 72 8. Employees 8.9 Prizes and awards received 2013 European Good Practice Award for voestalpine Rotec. The award was presented for the “Rotec Production System” projects for the improvement of work stations, occupational safety, and definition of standards for the entire Rotec Group. 2012/13 Career’s Best Recruiters: Gold seal and first place for the iron/metal industry. 2012 Villares Metals, Brazil, successfully completed the OHSAS 18001 certification. 2012 Styrian Integration Award 2012: Honorary award for sustainability for voestalpine Tubulars, Kindberg site. 2012 trendence Graduate Barometer 2012: Top ten placement as one of Austria’s most popular employers (ranking by IT/engineering graduates). 2011/12 Career’s Best Recruiters: Gold seal and first place for the iron/metal industry. 2011 Austrian Human Resources Award of the ÖPWZ (Austrian Productivity and Efficiency Center) for creating the “vision stage” module and nomination for the European Human Resources Award. 2010/11 European Good Practice Award in Safety and Health at Work for the 2011 trendence Graduate Barometer 2011: Zeltweg site (voestalpine WeichenAustria’s most popular employer (ranksysteme GmbH and voestalpine ing by IT/engineering graduates). HYTRONICS GmbH). 2011 Universum Top 50 Ideal Employer, 2010/11 Career’s Best Recruiters, gold seal and 2011 Student Survey. first place for the iron/metal industry. 73 9. Society 9. Society As a company that operates on five continents and at around 500 Group companies and locations, voestalpine also has a responsibility to society. The company actively fulfills this responsibility and supports social, cultural, and educational activities in many different ways. voestalpine demonstrates this commitment by way of projects of various sizes within the scope In April 2012, the German translation of the Handof long-term sponsoring partnerships or collabobook of Prejudice: Origins, Impact, Relevance was rations. Each year, the Group and its companies published by the Sir Peter Ustinov Institute in receive a host of suggestions and inquiries for Vienna. In this collection of essays, internationsponsorships and assistance. al experts write about major groups of prejudice, such as anti-Semitism, sexism, racism, religious When selecting those projects that will receive prejudice, and class prejudice as well as prejudice support, it is a particular priority for voestalpine based on age, illness, and disabilities. The publithat they are in line with corporate values and gecation of this book was subsidized by voestalpine. nerate a sustainable benefit for society. 9.1 Culture voestalpine has had a longstanding partnership with the Ars Electronica Festival in Linz. The voestalpine Art and Technology Grant, also known as [the next idea] primarily selects sustainable projects that voestalpine sponsors within the scope of this partnership. Project ideas with suggestions on improvements the Linz Bruckner Festival and the Ars Electronica relative to the future-oriented topics of energy, moFestival, and its popularity brings in 100,000 visitors. bility, and access can be submitted. “Project 80+1” During the period under review, various longstandalso addressed future-oriented issues; this project ing collaborations and sponsorship projects were was a significant part of voestalpine’s activities as carried out in Austria, for example, “Kulturwerk,” a the main sponsor of the events surrounding “Linz media collaboration with ORF, participation in the the 2009 Cultural Capital of Europe.“ “Long Night of the Museums,” and support for the new “Musiktheater” in Linz. From September 2012, the company has been also the main sponsor for the “voestalpine Klangwolke” Additionally, voestalpine supports regional cultural event, an open-air performance that has been takinstitutions and events in the towns and cities, where ing place since 1979. This event is a bridge between its companies are located. 74 Alexander Sonnberger, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 9. Society 9.2 Community engagement Community engagement has been a longstanding tradition for most of the voestalpine companies. Support for concrete projects takes place in the form of the collection of donations in kind, financial contributions, or volunteering by voestalpine employees. Some examples of typical projects: Böhler Bleche GmbH & Co KG, Mürzzuschlag, Austria Böhler Uddeholm Deutschland GmbH For the last 20 years, a collection has been made In 2011, a Christmas celebration was organized for a charitiable cause at the traditional Christjointly with partner companies for children with mas concert by the works band. The collections an immigrant background. The CEOs of the support employees who are in financial distress participating companies read Christmas stories through no fault of their own and other recipients. to the children and then distributed small gifts. voestalpine Stamptec Dettingen, Germany voestalpine Meincol S.A., Brazil Once a week, apprentices visit persons with physiThe company supports the “Casa do Adolescente,” cal and intellectual disabilities and spend several a youth center run by the Franciscan Order, where hours going on walks with them, playing games, 60 needy children receive a warm lunch every day or reading aloud to them. at their school. Böhler Edelstahl GmbH & Co KG, Kapfenberg, Böhler Schmiedetechnik GmbH & Co KG, Austria Kapfenberg, Austria For more than 15 years, the company has sponIn collaboration with “Jugend am Werk,” an orsored an SOS Children’s Village; the Works Counganization for people with disabilities, each year, cil bodies sponsor the Children’s Village with the the company produces a limited edition of gifts for same amount. The Children’s Village receives fiNew Year’s. Apprentices in the Kapfenberg plant nancial support, and several of the young people produce the metal parts; the clients of “Jugend am living in the Children’s Village have been trained Werk” make the packaging in their workshop. as apprentices at Böhler Edelstahl. ZAO voestalpine Arkada Profil, Russia The orphanage in Sofrino, 50 kilometers northIn addition to projects in the proximity of the west of Moscow, received financial support from individual sites, voestalpine is also a major donor the company; employees donated clothing and to projects worldwide, for example, after the magames. jor earthquakes in Pakistan (in collaboration with the “Licht ins Dunkel” charity organization), and Japan (construction of an orphanage in collaboration with Caritas, an Austrian charity organization). 76 9. Society 9.3 Education and science In the sector of education and science, voestalpine supports a broad range of projects. For many years, the company has participated regional kindergartens spanning several years, in “Girls’ Day,” a day-long event where girls are provides early technical education to the children. given a better understanding of technical proApprentices designed a truck completely on their fessions, and in the “Long Night of Research.” own and assembled it together with the kindervoestalpine supports and organizes the school garten kids. events “Mini Physics Olympics” and “Mini Mathematics Olympics” throughout the entire State of Upper Austria. Additionally, voestalpine voestalpine has had research partnerships with provides support to the children’s academy around 80 universities and research institutions “SchlauFuchsAkademie” (literally, cunning fox worldwide for years. academy) in Linz as well as the “KinderUni” As one of the donors of this institution, voestalpine (children’s university), which is associated with supports the Institute of Science and Technology the University of Applied Sciences in Steyr. (IST Austria) in Klosterneuburg, Austria, an institute for fundamental research in the areas of voestalpine Stamptec Böhmenkirch GmbH & Co KG, the natural sciences, mathematics, and computer Germany science. The “Technolino” project, a collaboration with Stahlwelt (Steel World) – The fascinating world of steel Since 2009, visitors have been able to learn insteel production and processing as well as new interesting facts about steel and the innumerable sights into voestalpine. The itinerary through the ways it can be used and processed in a permanent exhibition passes through the areas presenting exhibition about steel at the Linz site as well as in steel production, steel processing, steel products, changing exhibitions, such as “60 Years LD Proand the successes achieved by steel; the uppercess.” Special guided tours for families, children, most level is dedicated to the voestalpine Group. youth, and school groups introduce the interested guests and potential employees to voestalpine as A hands-on approach to steel an attractive employer and an innovative, futureThe crucible is adjoined structurally by the “tower,” oriented company. which houses impressive exhibits and a number of interactive stations where, for example, visitors Experience and knowledge can mix their own steel grade on a mixing console. An enormous steel rotunda, modeled after a steel The itinerary takes visitors upward level by level plant crucible, hangs inside the voestalpine Stahluntil they reach the top, accompanied all the while welt. The crucible–the world of discovery and cenby music of the spheres echoing the sounds of steel tral hub–features 80 large, chrome-plated spheres production and breathtaking lighting effects from measuring up to 2.5 meters in diameter that serve the 700 square-meter LED surface that covers the as brilliant points of reference. Individual, truninside wall of the crucible. The voestalpine Stahlcated spheres are integrated throughout the exwelt has received many honors and awards inhibition, including a number of walk-in spheres; ternationally for various categories, for example, they offer fascinating glimpses into the world of product design, design, and communications. 77 9. Society 9.4 Sports Jointly with the Austrian Skiing Association, voestalpine erected the voestalpine skygate, an arch made of 130 tons of steel that was the towering gate to the finish line in the ski stadium at the FIS Alpine Skiing World Championship 2013 in Schladming, Austria. This structure placed the possibilities of steel in Tickets for the Skiing World Championship the spotlight of a major, international event, such were distributed among the employees. With the as the Skiing World Championship. voestalpine Employee World Championship, an Including employees in such major events is an event has been created to promote an international integral part of the Group‘s sponsorship strategy. exchange among employees. 9.5 Prizes and awards received 2012 Maecenas Lower Austria: Böhler Uddeholm Precision Strip is recognized for cultural sponsorship. 2010 Maecenas Category III “Best Cultural Sponsorship – LongTerm Sponsorship Commitment” for the sponsorship of the Prix Ars Electronica. 78 9.4 Sport Mathias Denkmeir, Metal technology/Civil engineering technology, second-year apprentice 79 10. Appendix 10. Appendix 10.1 GRI-Index GRI G3 Code Description Reported Reference/Explanation Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker p. 8 of the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, p. 20 and opportunities 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization p. 10 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p. 15 2.3 Operational structure of the organization pp. 15-19 AR pp. 179-194 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters p. 10 2.5 Number of countries where the organization pp. 10, 14, 64-65 operates /group/en/group/locations/#type/map 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form pp. 10-12 2.7 Markets served p. 14 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization pp. 10-14 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period p. 19, 35 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period pp. 47, 61, 73, 78 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided p. 26 3.2 Date of most recent previous report p. 26 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 26 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its p. 88 contents 3.5 Process for defining report content p. 31 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 26 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the p. 26 report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, p. 26 subsidiaries, etc. 80 10. Appendix 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases voestalpine internal enviromental data of calculations base, all other data from ERP systems 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements n.a. First CR Report of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods n.a. First CR Report 3.12 GRI Content Index pp. 80-84 4. Governance, Obligations and Commitment 4.1 Governance structure of the organization pp. 32-37 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body p. 26 4.3 Unitary board structure: number of independent The organization has a and/or non-executive members of the highest n.a. Supervisory Board. governance body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees pp. 29-30, 35, 66, 71 to provide recommendations 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest p. 32 are avoided 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of pp. 32-35, 48 conduct, and principles of sustainability 4.11 Precautionary approach or principle addressed AR pp. 54-58 by the organization 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy pp. 85-86 organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the p. 29 organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection p. 29 of stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement pp. 29-30 4.17 Stakeholders’ key topics and concerns p. 31 Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed pp. 12, 14, AR pp. 34-39 EC2 Financial implications and other risks p. 25 and opportunities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit AR pp. 146-150 plan obligations EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily p. 76 for public benefit 81 10. Appendix Environmental Performance Indicators EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled pp. 56-57 input materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 58 source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 58 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or pp. 44-46 renewable energy-based products and services EN8 Total water withdrawal by source pp. 55-56 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, No voestalpine production companies are or managed in protected areas located in protected areas EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for p. 60 managing impacts on biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas p. 52 emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions pp. 52, 59 and reductions achieved EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions pp. 53-54 by type and weight EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal pp. 57-58 method EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts pp. 42-46, 54-56 of products and services EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and p. 51 investments by type Social Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region pp. 62-65 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover p. 66 by age group, gender, and region LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective p. 35 bargaining agreements 82 10. Appendix LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, p. 69 and absenteeism LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee pp. 68-70 by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued pp. 62, 72 employability of employees LA13 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pp. 66-68 /group/en/group/management/ /group/en/group/supervisory-board/ HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and p. 35 collective bargaining HR6 Risk for incidents of child labor p. 34 HR7 Risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor p. 34 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in p. 35 aspects of human rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving p. 35 rights of indigenous people and actions taken SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and p. 36 procedures SO5 Public policy positions and participation in p. 25 public policy development and lobbying SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive p. 37 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Legend EC1 Key performance Indicators When reference is made to the voestalpine-website, EN6 Additional Indicators only the corresponding sub-pages are listed. Fully reported Partly reported n.a. Not applicable AR Annual Report 2012/13 83 10. Appendix 10.2 Memberships voestalpine AG and/or the individual Group companies are members of the following associations either directly or through their employees, and they are participating in the listed working groups: ARA Association (Altstoff Recycling Austria Verein) Associations of Friends and Alumni of the University of Technology, Vienna, Austria (Verband der Freunde und Absolventen der TU Wien, Österreich) Association for the Promotion of the Institute for Environmental Law, Austria (Verein zur Förderung des Instituts für Umweltrecht, Österreich) Association for the Support of the Cistercian Abbey Hohenfurth, Austria (Verein zur Förderung des Zisterzienserstiftes Hohenfurth, Österreich) Association of Women in the Metal Industries (AWMI), USA Associacao Serrana de Recursos Humanos (ARH Serrana), Brazil Austrian Chamber of Commerce (Wirtschaftskammer Österreich, WKO) Austrian Museum & Tourist Railway Association (Verband Österreichischer Museumsund Touristikbahnen, ÖMT) Austrian Research Promotion Agency (Österreichische Forschungsförderungsgesellschaft, FFG) Austrian Society for Environment and Technology (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik, ÖGUT) Austrian Society for the History of Mining and Metallurgy (Montanhistorischer Verein Österreich) Austrian Society of Occupational Medicine (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Arbeitsmedizin, ÖGA) Austrian Society of Tropical Medicine, Parasitology and Migration Medicine (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Tropenmedizin, Parasitologie und Migrationsmedizin) Austrian Water and Waste Management Association (Österreichischer Wasserund Abfallwirtschaftsverband, ÖWAV) Belgian Federation for the Technology Industry (WTCM) (Forschungsgesellschaft für die technologische Industrie, Belgien) Donors' Association for the Promotion of the Sciences and Humanities in Germany (Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e.V.) Employers Association of the Matraalia Area, Hungary EUROFER (European Steel Association) European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP), Belgium 84 10. Appendix Federation of Austrian Industries Future Academy of the Mostviertel region of Lower Austria (Zukunftsakademie Mostviertel, Österreich) German Association for People Management (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung e.V., DGFP) German Steel Institute (Stahlinstitut VDEh, Germany) Holland Solar Platform International Chamber of Commerce Austria (ICC) Informal Platform of Austrian Labor Foundations (Informelle Plattform österreichischer Arbeitsstiftungen) ISACA Austria LIMAK Austrian Business School National Association of Railway Business Women, USA National Employers Organization of South Africa Pro-Rail Alliance (Allianz pro Schiene e.V.) Photovoltaic Austria Federal Association (Photovoltaic Austria) Platform for Innovation Management, Austria (Plattform für Innovationsmanagement, PFI) PRO Danube AUSTRIA Regional Club Upper Austria of the Austrian Automobile, Motorcycle and Touring Club (ÖAMTC Landesclubzentrale OÖ) respACT – Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM), USA Society of Friends of the Academy of Sciences (Förderverein der Akademie der Wissenschaften) Sustainable Process Industry through Resource and Energy Efficiency SPIRE), Belgium The Austrian Society for Metallurgy and Materials (ASMET) The Women Secretaries & Administrative Professionals Association of Thailand Umbrella Association of the Occupational Medicine Centers of Austria (Dachverband der arbeitsmedizinischen Zentren Österreichs), Leoben UN Global Compact Working Group of the Upper Austrian Labor Foundations, Austria (ARGE OÖ Arbeitsstiftungen) World Steel Association, Belgium 85 10. Appendix 10.3 Glossary By-products Are generated simultaneously during a production process Capital market compliance Measures to prevent misuse or disclosure of insider information Chromium VI Chromium with a valence of positive six, oxidizes very rapidly and is categorized as a carcinogen Corporate Governance: Rule categories pursuant to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code: L rules C rules L rule (Legal Requirement): The rule is based on mandatory statutory R rules provisions C rule (Comply or Explain): Rule should be complied with; any deviation must be explained and a reason provided in order to be in compliance with the Code R rule (Recommendation): Rule that is in the nature of a recommendation; non-compliance need not be disclosed or explained (Source: Austrian Corporate Governance Code, version July 2012, Austrian Working Group for Corporate Governance, www.corporate-governance.at) EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization Eco balance sheet/Life Cycle Systematic analysis of the environmental impact of products during their Assessment (LCA) entire life cycle, taking economic, social, and technical aspects into account, in order to achieve an objective assessment EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme. Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on the voluntary participation of organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme 86 10. Appendix EZG Austrian Emissions Certificate Act (Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme) Ferromolybdenum Material used in the production of acid-resistant special steels Fraud Theft, fraud, embezzlement, breach of trust FTE Full-time equivalent; a full-time employee corresponds to a full-time equivalent of one, part-time employees are taken into account on a pro-rata basis corresponding to their working hours Integrated metallurgical facilities Several stages of steel production at one site ISO 14001 International environmental standard to standardize a company’s processes and methods and to effectively implement environmental policies and objectives Joint venture A business partnership between two or more companies, which remain independent but which pool capital to pursue a commercial goal Martensitic steels Special steel grade Megapascal Pressure unit Molybdenum trioxide An upstream product in the manufacture of ferromolybdenum MW Megawatt OHSAS 18001 Certifiable occupational safety management system Powder-metallurgical production Production and processing of powdered metal WorldAutoSteel Working Group of the World Steel Association www.worldautosteel.org 87 Contact & Imprint Contact & Imprint Contact voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility T. +43/50304/15-6599, F. +43/50304/55-5581 cr@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Investor Relations T. +43/50304/15-3152, F. +43/50304/55-5581 ir@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Corporate Communications T. +43/50304/15-2090, F. +43/50304/55-8981 presse@voestalpine.com www.voestalpine.com Imprint Owner and media proprietor: voestalpine AG, voestalpine-Strasse 1, 4020 Linz Senior editor and editorial staff: voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility, T. +43/50304/15-6599, F. +43/50304/55-5581, cr@voestalpine.com, www.voestalpine.com Design and implementation: THEREDBOX Werbegesellschaft m.b.H., www.theredbox.at Printed by: Kontext Druckerei GmbH, www.kontextdruck.at 88 89 voestalpine AG voestalpine-Strasse 1 4020 Linz, Austria T. +43/50304/15-0 F. +43/50304/55-0 www.voestalpine.com
