July 8, 2014 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations 3 United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 Re: Communication on Progress (COP) report for July 2013 through July 2014 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, DigiCert hereby pledges its continued support of the United Nations’ Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This letter provides our annual Communication on Progress (COP) in the following four areas of the Global Compact for this past year as follows: I. Implementation of Principles on Human Rights DigiCert and its employees remain engaged in humanitarian efforts to curb homelessness as we will be contributing time to Habitat for Humanity for our fifth consecutive year in September 2014. DigiCert also encourages its employees to donate time and money to assist the less-fortunate through our annual “Pay It Forward” program, wherein we provide employees with $200 to donate to an individual in need or a charitable organization of their choice. As always, DigiCert encourages our business partners, suppliers, and customers to respect the internationally recognized human rights of all persons. II. Implementation of Labor Principles Here in Utah, we continue to provide a safe and healthy working environment for our employees. We have also provided employee training on the prevention of sexual harassment and other kinds of discrimination in the workplace. DigiCert also complies with all U.S. laws regarding the posting of notices concerning the workplace rights of its employees. III. Implementation of Environmental Principles DigiCert continues to promote recycling and environmental sustainability throughout our office. We remain committed to maintaining paperless operations, and we encourage our business partners and customers to also run paperless operations. By cycling systems off during non-business hours and conserving energy through modern building techniques, our facilities are environmentally efficient and mitigate global climate change. We also continue to upgrade our systems in conjunction with the US EPA’s Energy Star program. IV. Implementation of and Adherence to the Anti‐Corruption Principles DigiCert is aware that corruption, in all its forms, including extortion, bribery, terrorism, undermines the stability of governments, the economy, and the respect for the rule of law. DigiCert requires that its customers provide truthful and accurate information in their dealings with DigiCert and third parties, and we always prohibit the practice of bribery in our negotiations with customers. DigiCert’s customers remain contractually required to comply with applicable laws. We also support efforts to prevent denied persons and entities from engaging in terrorism, money-laundering, and other corrupt behavior. Sincerely yours, Nicholas E. Hales, President and CEO
