Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 aia.gr / 3 Contents Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Contents 05 01. Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO 06 02. Corporate Identity 10 03. Our Business 20 04. Our Environment 36 05. Our People 46 06. Our Citizenship 52 07. Sustainability Framework and Commitment 58 aia.gr / 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO In Greece the continuing difficult situation of the Greek economy was a key factor which determined growth of air traffic at AIA. With the Greek GDP contracting by 3.9% and the private consumption index by 6.0%, the Greeks’ propensity to objectives of this study were to identify and measure the impact from the operation of the airport to the Greek economy and to the Mesogheia region in terms of job creation and economic value added. The results of the study clearly demonstrate that AIA improvements in the Main Terminal Building and the improvements in e-facilities. Furthermore, an increase in satisfaction level was noted with respect to ground assistance services to persons with disability and/or reduced mobility (PRM), as travel continued to be negatively remains a substantial contributor to the PRM passengers rated their overall influenced. On top of the unfavourable socioeconomic output of the country satisfaction very high (4.92 for 2013 vs. economic environment in the country, in terms of economic value creation 4.85 for 2012 on a scale of 1= poor to the foreign carriers’ restructuring (annual added value at national level: 5= excellent). and network rationalisation were €5.1 billion or 2.63% of the Greek GDP) Our efforts for actively engaging the additional drivers to adversely affect and in terms of job creation (operation Cargo Community continued in 2013. the aviation market. On the other side, of the airport yields 99,987 jobs at In June the AIA cargo community team Dear Stakeholders, macroeconomic environment, the aviation industry proved resilient to the favourable development of incoming national level). was fully represented for the fifth time Airport Company continued to post relatively slow global economic growth tourism in Greece and gradual In 2013 we maintained safe, orderly at the biennial international exhibition Being responsible for the operation healthy profits maintaining profit and the high fuel costs, supported by resurgence of Athens as a popular and efficient aviation operations, “Air Cargo Europe”. Representatives and development of an airport city margins above the average airport improvements in the industry structure tourism destination counterbalanced offering high-quality services to of the handlers, airlines, forwarders, of 300 entities and 13,000 people, industry and other major Greek and efficiency gains which included other negative factors. The emerging aircraft operators, ground-handlers general sales agents and the airport our sustaining success at Athens companies. Our targeted efforts airline consolidations, enhanced airline recovery trend presented a limited and passengers. Close cooperation promoted under the same roof the International Airport is about running directly protected traffic volumes ancillary revenues, improved aircraft reduction (-3.2%) in terms of with all stakeholders ensured the airports’ traffic potential. a good business, i.e. acknowledging and revenue streams by significantly utilisation and further cost management passenger volumes in 2013. expected safety and passenger Climate change remains a priority and responding to diverse stakeholder enhancing our incentive policy towards actions. European airports saw an A significant development for the convenience level. element of AIA’s sustainability strategy. interests, attaining productivity while both aeronautical and non-aeronautical overall modest passenger traffic Airport Company in 2013 was the AIA’s crisis planning and aviation In 2013 AIA received the “Ecocontrolling risks, attaining growth business and by providing savings on increase, as the performance gap of completion of the Transaction for safety management ensures efficient Innovation Award” from ACI Europe in while respecting the environment and the cost side, without compromising EU airports compared to their non-EU the transfer of shares of Hochtief daily operations with high safety recognition of the importance given by constraining costs while delivering a our value-for-money strategy and our counterparts narrowed during the Airport GmbH from AIA’s founding awareness and engagement of all the Airport Company to protecting the positive socio-economic impact. sustainability commitments. second half of 2013, when EU airports Ultimate Parent Hochtief AG to the airport key stakeholders. The intensive environment and adopting innovative Despite the severely unfavourable 2013 was a year that the global started to experience recovery signs. Public Sector Pension Investment training activities for airside safety initiatives. Despite economic Board (PSP Investments) of Canada. awareness along with workshops and pressures, AIA continues to seek and Consideration of Environmental Social committee meetings within airport deliver environmental management Governance (ESG) risks were part of community stakeholders, contributed systems that go well beyond regulatory the due diligence process with respect to this performance. In 2013, following requirements. In addition, AIA’s Airport to the undertaken investment and the ICAO stipulations, an external safety Carbon Accreditation was recently assessment of AIA’s management audit took place for the first time (early 2014) upgraded to Level 3 practices. by a specialized organization with (Optimisation) following the expansion Athens International Airport aims vast experience and international of its carbon footprint to include at consistently demonstrating an recognition. The audit confirmed that indirect emission sources and its exemplary balancing of sound financial AIA’s Safety Management System is work to engage other members of the performance and a sustainable in accordance with the international airport community in the fight against approach to business. The Airport standards. climate change. Company recorded in 2013 Profit Passenger satisfaction showed Since 2005 AIA has managed to Before Tax (PBT) of €93.9 million. a significant improvement in 2013, reduce its electricity consumption by The valuation of our corporate as derived from the service quality 20% (13.4 MWh) through a number responsibility activities was sustained surveys and the analysis of passenger of energy-saving initiatives, which in at 2.44% of the total operating complaints. The key attributes to combination with additional measures expense, while the total valuation of passenger satisfaction, i.e. staff to reduce emissions from other AIA’s social product yield reached courtesy, cleanliness, ambience sources have resulted in approximately €91.5 million. and e-facilities, demonstrated an a 25% reduction AIA’s carbon footprint In order to reassess the overall improvement versus the previous (17,000 tonnes of CO2) over the same economic and social value of Athens year. AIA’s standings in comparison period. As an additional energy-saving airport following 5 years of recession with other European airports measure aiming at improving AIA’s in Greece and to develop a common (through the Airport Service Quality carbon footprint, the Power Quality understanding with our stakeholders, survey conducted under ACI) also Optimization System in the Main in 2013 we reassigned to the Athens showed an improved performance. Terminal Building was put in operation University of Economics and Business The key contributing factors for in September 2013. the update of the Economic Impact this improvement of the overall We remain committed to our active Study carried out in 2009. The satisfaction were the ambience role as social partner and key driver for 6 / aia.gr aia.gr / 7 01 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 local development. Beyond the applied number of hours being provided to regulatory framework, the Airport employees on training is the equivalent Company values the engagement of 22.2 hours per Full Time Equivalent of local stakeholders which further Employee (FTE). In order to promote contributes to a balanced and thorough awareness of the revised fruitful co-existence. In 2013 we Code of Business Conduct, an online effectively responded to requests for learning programme was completed infrastructure projects and contributed by all employees. Furthermore, in order to diverse social, cultural, ecological to monitor the working environment, an and sporting activities. employee opinion survey was carried On a broader citizenship perspective, out in 2013 in order to elicit the views of we consistently promote our country’s all employees. The survey results were cultural heritage and contemporary art, processed by an external, specialized while connecting social contribution organization. with our business objectives by The 2013 Corporate Responsibility promoting the city of Athens as a Report is a facts-based presentation tourist destination. During the 1st of our sustainability performance, Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium validating our corporate commitments (ACES) which was held in Athens in as they are materialised in a consistent October 2013, an important “Cityand controlled manner. In accordance Pair” initiative was launched. Under with the recently introduced GRI a scheme of cooperation and mutual G4 reporting guidelines, focus is support, eighteen fellow airports placed on the materiality aspect of from around the world committed our disclosures. The Report was to promote Athens as a destination submitted for limited assurance by an with the campaign “Perhaψ you’re independent third party and contains an Aθenian, too!”. The campaign our Communication on Progress addresses a potential market of nearly report in line with our sustaining 170,000,000 passengers. commitment to the United Nations On the humanitarian front, we Global Compact. Our CR reporting remained committed to support process supports our commitment for numerous organisations for children transparency and facilitates alignment and social groups in need. In 2013, with globally acknowledged best AIA made a significant contribution practices. towards the Association of Friends of We believe that there is a strong Children with Cancer “ELPIDA”. business case for corporate In 2013, AIA enhanced its digital responsibility and accountability, footprint by launching the new for respecting globally recognised corporate website and introducing its principles as part of our day-to-day Facebook and Twitter accounts. In operation. Even more so in the midst of these rapidly changing times, our aim a turbulent business environment the is to increase digital touch points and business case becomes stronger for reinforce the airport’s presence within sustaining our corporate reputation of the ever-growing digital ecosystem, a prudent, respectful and responsible always through an honest and operator that nurtures employee engaging dialogue with the public. loyalty, secures our dependability We aim to be an employer of choice, towards business partners and drives attracting a committed workforce public confidence in us. At the bottom and offering a safe and modern work line, we believe that good business is environment. We have a long-standing good for the business itself. commitment to creating a workplace culture that encourages development and makes the best use of the knowledge and skills of our people. The Training Plan in 2013 involved a Professor total of 15,131 hours of training, while Nickolaos G. Travlos Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Professor Nickolaos G Travlos Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Chairman of the CEO 87% of the employees attended Chairman of the Board of Directors CEO Board of Directors at least one training session. The 8 / aia.gr aia.gr / 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 2 Corporate Identity Shareholder Structure The shareholder structure of Athens International Airport, according to the relevant Books of Shares and Shareholders, is: Shareholder Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) AviAlliance GmbH* Number of Shares 9,000,000 8,000,004 % 30 26.667 “Athens International Airport S.A.” (“AIA” or the “Company”) was Greek State 7,500,000 25 established in 1996 and functions as a private company under the Airport AviAlliance Capital GmbH & Co. KGaA** 4,000,002 13.333 Development Agreement and the Articles of Association (Law 2338/1995) on the basis of a public-private partnership. The Company’s registered Copelouzos Dimitrios 599,997 2 office is situated in the Municipality of Spata, in the regional unit of East Copelouzou Kiriaki 299,999 1 Attica, Greece. AIA operates the Athens International Airport “Eleftherios Copelouzos Christos 299,999 1 Venizelos”, under the supervision of the Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority Copelouzou Eleni-Asimina 299,999 1 (HCAA). Total 30,000,000 100 * Hochtief AirPort GmbH was renamed to AviAlliance GmbH as of October 30, 2013 ** Hochtief AirPort Capital GmbH and Co, KGaA was renamed to AviAlliance GmbH and Co, KGaA as of November 29, 2013 The mission of Athens International services, in line with a two-fold business and services, the exploitation and Airport is to be a dynamic and best strategy: development of the airport’s assets and practice enterprise, for managing and • The aeronautical strategy pursuing real-estate, as well as the integration, developing diverse airport activities to sustain and grow current traffic management and advancement of and creating sustainable value for its and expand customer base, and the IT&T systems together with exporting stakeholders and society in the Greek focused development of regional of know-how to targeted markets. and international arena. hubbing and low-cost-carriers The Company operates in a socially The company’s objective to create traffic, with an aim to outperform and environmentally responsible way sustainable value for all identified macroeconomic trends. providing stakeholders an operating stakeholders and offer value-for-money • The non-aeronautical strategy and working environment that meets services to customers is attained entailing the development of highthe increasing demands on safety and through the company’s primary quality consumer-related products security. Governance Structure The Company abides by the provisions Agreement. The Board bears the corporate responsibility related issues of the law on Sociétés Anonymes (S.A.) responsibility for the management are brought to the attention of the Board (Law 2190/1920), as applicable, the and administration of all corporate of Directors. The Annual Ordinary provisions of the Airport Development matters and affairs and has in this General Meeting of the Shareholders Agreement and Law 2338/1995 respect delegated specific authorities approves the actions and decisions (Government Gazette A’ 202/14.9.1995) to the Chief Executive Officer and the of the Board of Directors during the which defines, among others, the members of Management respectively. previous corporate fiscal year and relations between shareholders. Management informs the Board of releases the Board of Directors from The Board of Directors, consisting of Directors through regular meetings and any responsibility from that year, in nine non-Executive members, acts in the reports. Specific Board Committees accordance with the Law 2190/1920 and best interest of the Airport Company, by convene on issues related to investment, the Company’s Articles of Association. promoting its business, in accordance budget and financial management, More information about AIA’s Board with art. 8.2.e as well as art. 12.1 of the personnel, corporate planning and audit. of Directors is available in the Annual Company’s Articles of Association and Within this framework, environmental, Report. art. 37.2 of the Airport Development safety, human resources, and other The Audit Committee, in line with the 10 / aia.gr aia.gr / 11 02 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 internationally-accepted corporate Company, controlling and monitoring the parties engaged by Management to Furthermore, the Company invests Continuity System relates to various the alignment of AIA’s Policies and governance framework, assists the the Internal and External audit systems provide CR Assurance services. in management systems that enhance failure scenarios and corresponding Procedures with external compliance Company’s Board of Directors in the and the internal controls system, in The Company is structured around four controls and serve its commitment for recovery measures which are in requirements as well as the response exercise of the latter’s supervisory accordance with applicable provisions. Business Units, serving the relevant activity providing high-quality, state-of-theturn foreseen in related operational to compliance violations with remedial responsibilities by monitoring the In this respect, the Audit Committee sectors, which are in turn supported by art services. Where necessary, these procedures. actions in a prompt and effective financial information published by the reviews the independence and quality of various corporate functions. systems are certified in accordance manner. Compliance with prevailing standards. In this By integrating and applying the respect, AIA maintains the certification AIA applies a Legal & Regulatory Corporate Compliance Policy, AIA against the ISO9001:2008 standard for Compliance where relevant duties Management aims to ensure that legal, AIA Organisational Structure its IT&T Business Unit and certification are assigned to the members of operational and reputational risks are against the ISO 14001 standard management respectively responsible minimised, scrutiny from regulators is Commu(release 2004 + Cor1:2009) for its for the following areas of activity: effectively dealt with and stakeholders nications & Marketing Environmental Services department. Aerodrome Operations, Ground are provided with the comfort of Handling Services, Environment, effective compliance practices. Precautionary approach / Board Security, Information Technology, Risk Management Accounting & Tax, Procurement, Information of Directors Legal Affairs The Company’s objectives and the Labour, Fire Safety and Design & On an annual basis AIA issues and environment in which it operates are Construction and Airport Charges publicly discloses a number of reports Internal Audit continually evolving; hence it faces Policy. This management structure that cover all aspects of activities continually changing risks. Therefore, is an integral part of AIA’s Corporate and performance. These include Corporate a sound system of internal control Governance framework. Coordination the Annual Report, the Corporate Chief Planning Executive depends on a thorough and regular and consultation is provided centrally Responsibility Report, the Care for the Officer CEO evaluation of the nature and extent by the Corporate Compliance Environment bulletin and the Aerostat of the risks to which the Company Coordinator. Report, which present key figures and Corporate is exposed. Risk identification A new Corporate Compliance Policy trends relating to our operations and Control and assessment is implemented was prepared in 2013 outlining the market. periodically at Unit level and at commitment of AIA Management for Furthermore, AIA has developed Chief corporate level, in line with relevant ensuring compliance with the Legal a reporting system which not Chief Chief Finance & Operations Development corporate Policy and Procedures. & Regulatory Framework. The Policy only supports Management in its Administration Officer Officer Corporate Officer The Corporate Risk Management identifies the roles and responsibilities strategic decision-making but also (COO) (CDO) Security (CFO) process is a proactive and structured of AIA Management and personnel fosters effective communication on-going approach to manage arising from this commitment, as within the Company as well as with Security uncertainty. It provides a framework these are implemented during daily external parties (e.g. customers, Information Operations Technical whereby threats to AIA are identified, execution of their tasks. This Policy concessionaires, suppliers, regulators Aviation Technology Consumers Property Services Corporate Business Unit & Telecommunications Business Unit Business Unit Finance Unit evaluated, managed, monitored, and is an integral part of AIA’s Corporate and shareholders). Business Human integrated across all airport disciplines. Governance framework that consists Unit Resources This methodology supports the of practices and policies which ensure Monitoring EnvironManagement top-down holistic assessment of that corporate objectives are set mental Business AIA is practicing continuous monitoring Services Control risk exposures from a perspective and attained. Under this Policy, AIA in order to provide assurance that that recognises that risks are often expresses its indisputable respect controls and other planned actions Corporate Quality correlated and unpredictable. towards the applicable Legal and are carried out properly and to identify Business A Risk Management Committee Regulatory Framework (national and key exceptions which necessitate Control updates on a regular basis the international) and its requirement review and management action quickly Corporate Risk Portfolio, ensuring of its employees and business and effectively. Scheduled periodic that all significant risks affecting partners to do likewise. AIA develops audits performed both by external Company’s objectives are identified, and implements the Policy for auditors and the Company’s internal assessed and prioritised based on a ensuring continuous and unwavering audit department aim to further assure number of predefined parameters. The compliance and adherence within the the adequacy of the Internal Control Control Environment Committee continuously interfaces full spectrum of Applicable Laws, while System. Furthermore, enhanced IT with members of different AIA promoting incorporation of generally solutions that AIA has developed, such AIA applies corporate governance Company’s assets. to add value (in terms of improved departments, aiming at identifying accepted contemporary business as data measurement techniques practices across its operations. The Airport Company sets a series of efficiency and effectiveness) and current and emerging risks while practices beyond the minimum applied to the compilation of indicators In response to its commitment policies and procedures to ensure that to provide a systematic disciplined providing updated information on acceptable threshold of compliance for corporate use, facilitate the to support and advance a sound Management directives are carried out approach to evaluating the the corporate risk landscape to the with legal obligations. continuous monitoring process. governance culture, Management and corporate objectives are achieved. effectiveness of risk management, Management, the Audit Committee In order to attain compliance, AIA Continuous monitoring supports has established an Internal Control The Company regularly seeks control and governance processes. and the Board of Directors. Management is committed to ensure AIA’s “Value Based Management” System, aiming to shelter both the assurance from internal and external Another key structural element of AIA compliments its corporate that all aspects of AIA’s operational (VBM) that measures value created Company and its employees from any auditors to ensure that control activities the Company’s control environment risk management framework with and developmental activities are in on a company and business unit level conflicting interests. The efficiency are functioning effectively. Under the is the Business Control function the implementation of a Business full compliance with the Legal and taking into account both financial and and effectiveness of the related relevant Charter, the Internal Audit established in every Unit, supporting Continuity System, in line with Regulatory Framework applicable non-financial metrics. controls contribute to safeguarding department provides independent the embedding of controls in the dayapplicable standards as well as at the time these activities occur. the shareholders’ interests and the and objective audit services, designed to-day operation of the company. industry best practices. The Business The Compliance process foresees 12 / aia.gr aia.gr / 13 02 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 CR Governance Structure CR Perspectives •• Environmental Responsibility •• Strategic level – identification of •• Airport Operator’s Responsibility Undertaking initiatives and Business Conduct material issues and compilation of the CR Action Plan Running the airport efficiently, fostering an airport community culture commitments to minimise impact from airport operation and development AIA aims at being acknowledged as a interfacing with our partners abide by a occurrence of legal, regulatory, •• Reporting level – alignment with and acting on public interest with as well as communicating and raising role model responsible Company within strict framework of principles and rules. reputational and/or financial risks arising prevailing sustainability standards and respect to safety and service quality. awareness regarding environmental the markets it operates and to influence Both Codes are under the responsibility from fraudulent activity. The policy also guidelines and coordination of the •• Corporate Citizenship issues. others in their effort to follow a path of of Director Human Resources. provides a mechanism for employees corporate-wide process for quantifying •• Focusing on good neighbourly relations •• Employer’s Responsibility sustainability. Our corporate values In 2013, the Code of Business Conduct to report suspected irregularities and and reporting performance with local communities, advancing Developing, compensating and (Accountability, Team Spirit, Respect, and the Code of Relations with Business has developed a mechanism for the •• Implementation level – embedding social partnership and prosperity in engaging our human capital while Effectiveness, Customer Focus) Partners were revised in order to update investigation and management of such responsibility in operational and the region, promoting of wider cultural maintaining a committed workforce are embedded in all aspects of our the alignment with associated Policies events, i.e. Fraud Detection. developmental activities across all AIA activities and supporting humanitarian in a safe, productive and fair work operation and development. and Procedures. The established Code AIA aims to protect its employees, Units and Departments. causes for society at large environment. AIA applies a Code of Business Acceptance & Reconfirmation process financial interests, clients, providers Conduct, developed in line with global was integrated in the relevant online and the people who live and act at the best practices, which urges employees awareness programme and and is being airport community by carrying out a to conduct business activities in completed on an annual basis by all fair and balanced policy that develops accordance with corporate values, thus employees. and maintains an anti-fraud culture. AIA Implementing Corporate Responsibility aiming to maintain the company’s good will deter, prevent and investigate fraud reputation and trust and to reinforce Anti-Fraud and corruption, and apply appropriate their requirements and expectations regular workshops, customer Inclusivity: accounting for stakeholders’ confidence. The Code Prevention of fraud is a crucial element corrective and/or disciplinary measures stakeholders’ expectations and integrating this input in its strategy surveys & complaint management, is a management tool that safeguards of AIA’s Policies and strict compliance as required. It will work in a collaborative development and deployment. telephone line for local community an all-embracing work environment to the relevant rules must be secured way to seek remediation wherever AIA is committed to engaging The Company has established etc.) and evaluates and responds to where no discrimination, victimisation by involved employees, Management possible. stakeholders in a balanced and mechanisms to capture stakeholder the feedback through management and harassment may occur. The Code members and members of the Board of Our corporate Anti-Fraud Policy respectful manner, comprehending feedback (such as joint committees, actions. These actions are described in provides a framework that allows Directors. aims to ensure that a system of internal employees to express their concerns on Management and employees are controls is in place for securing adequate possible violations in good faith, while expected to behave in an honest and containment of fraud risk, an internal AIA Stakeholder Map protecting them from any retaliation. fair way, in line with the provisions of framework is provided for all employees ployees The Code promotes Management AIA’s Code of Business Conduct for to report suspected acts of fraud or Em Responsibility with respect to corporate compliance, integrity and avoidance of other similar irregularities and that a Labour standards of conduct through an annual conflict of interest, thus promoting fraud mechanism is in place for undertaking Relations ers Promoting Busines old reconfirmation process. Integral to the avoidance. formal investigation of such irregularities Code of Business Conduct, a Code AIA has also established an Antiand designing specific actions to rectify Dialogue s Shar Employee rtners of Relations with Business Partners Fraud Policy which sets out a regular identified control gaps. eh Surveys Day-to-day Pa ensures that suppliers are treated with risk assessment exercise aiming Board Meetings work / Bilateral fairness and integrity and that employees at preventing/avoiding the risk of Governance Meetings Businnes Structure Community Joint activities Corporate Responsibility Governance Lo AIA approaches corporate on Social Responsibility), namely Through the CR Report, AIA ca stomers Day-to-day-work l Communiti responsibility in an integrated Accountability, Transparency, Ethical enhances the transparency and Meetings with Cu Operator, User way, aiming at promoting the Behaviour, Respect for Stakeholder disclosure practices related to Representatives Committees Customer sustainability of all aspects of our Interests, Respect for the rule of law, governance, environmental, social Joint Initiatives Satisfaction Surveys operation and development. This Respect for international norms of and employee related initiatives. AIA’s approach is reflected in the Corporate behaviour and Respect for human CR Report conforms to contemporary Responsibility Policy and deployed as rights. international sustainability reporting es a cross-departmental effort, through a The implementation of the annual guidelines, such as the Global contemporary 3-level CR governance CR Action Plan fosters stakeholder Reporting Initiative GRI-G4 (2013) Passenger Memberships / structure. engagement, enhances corporate including the G4 ‘Airport Operators Surveys Networking Activities AIA applies a Corporate reputation and brand image and Sector Disclosures’, based on the Passenger Cooperation with Responsibility Policy that provides secures AIA’s “social license to ‘GRI AOSS’ (2011 G3.1 Guidelines). ciety Comment Educational Cultural for the development, update and operate”. The development and AIA was a major contributor for the Management Pas Institutions & NGOs implementation of a CR Strategy and continuous update of AIA’s CR Strategy development of the latter through HCAA / Ministry So the preparation of an annual CR Report is based on continuous redefinition a 2-year international project. se ng Committees Crisis r in line with prevailing international and prioritisation of the material issues, Furthermore, the CR Report fulfils ers te standards. Within this policy, AIA i.e. those of significant impact on the ongoing commitments made towards Management G re a Regulatory Audits adopts fundamental principles in line company and its stakeholders. The CR the United Nations Global Compact with the internationally-acknowledged Strategy is implemented across AIA’s (UNGC) for Communication on St ti e s ate ISO 26000:2010 standard (Guidance CR Perspectives. Progress (CoP). A u t h o ri 14 / aia.gr aia.gr / 15 02 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 the following chapters of this Report. joint activities etc.) further to the daymechanisms, aiming at the compilation representing Management across CR Assurance Engagement process • Human Resources development The stakeholder map reflects to-day interfaces. of evaluation data used for planning various disciplines: Corporate focuses on those issues. (expressed as training hours per on the diversity of the Company’s On a local community level, the improvement actions. Planning, Aviation Services, Through the chapters of this Report FTE) stakeholders, based on the effect of constant dialogue that AIA has initiated Communications & Marketing, Human material issues are marked with this All targets related to the specific our operational and business activities, with authorities and representatives Materiality: establishing Resources, Environmental and symbol: areas were attained in 2013. Charts within and outside the boundaries of facilitates recognition of material sustainability context Quality. The Materiality Analysis is a and tables with performance specifics the airport community. sustainability issues and prioritisation Every two years, AIA’s CR Committee management tool that facilitates the of the above are found in the following AIA’s operational success is of challenges and opportunities, performs an analysis of material evaluation of diverse group of subjects chapters of this report. based on stakeholder cooperation. through a perspective of mutual trust issues with respect to the impact of based on a common sustainability We measure and report on Cooperation with our customers and and understanding. these issues on the Company and perspective. our sustainability activities and business partners is facilitated through On a wider society level, AIA the perceived level of concern for our The Materiality exercise of 2013 performance in a regular, structured a structure of engagement practices engages passengers and other stakeholders. The exercise involves was carried out in line with the and transparent manner. The 2013 (committees, exercises, workshops, consumers through various feedback all members of the CR Committee provisions of the GRI G4 Sustainability Corporate Responsibility Report is Reporting Guidelines, taking into AIA’s eleventh consecutive annual account the G4 revision of the Airport edition. In order to maximise the added Operators Sector Supplement value of the CR reporting process, (AOSS) which aims at a more AIA engages in external assurance AIA’s Materiality Map pragmatic and business-specific of its disclosures. This year’s report is approach. The revised materiality assured against adherence to specific Ranking of applicable aspects (GRI G4 & AOSS G4) based on impact on the company vs. concern to stakeholders Responsiveness: managing exercise process was based on guidelines and standards, as well as the identification of those aspects sustainability performance data accuracy and completeness, Material Aspects Aspect Boundaries: AIA Airport Community Outside Airport associated with GRI Specific Standard The Airport Company develops and through the engagement of an Low Impact / High Concern High Impact / High Concern Disclosures that are material for implements appropriate responses independent audit firm. The outcome AIA and its stakeholders. Evaluation to sustainability challenges, of this process is included as a of materiality is based on two considering stakeholder views. In separate Assurance Statement at the Customer Safety (inc. aviation & security) parameters: “Significance of Impact 2013, our annual corporate scorecard end of this Report. for AIA” (affecting our ability to deliver included sustainability-related The CR report is distributed to on strategy) and the “Concern of objectives for measuring Company’s a large audience of constituents Operational Readiness / Emergency Preparedness Impact for Stakeholders” (influencing performance. The attainment of these varying among AIA employees, airport Market Presense (Traffic) their assessment of AIA and their objectives is linked to evaluation of community, business partners and Economic Performance decisions). Identification of aspect AIA Management and employees’ various other stakeholders, while Indirect Economic Impact Noise boundaries took under consideration performance. In particular, the areas being available to all interested parties Local Communities the unique characteristics of an airport in which non-financial performance through the corporate website. Emissions & Climate Change environment and boundaries were objectives were set on a corporate Our active membership in business defined in three categories: Within AIA, level, as part of the Operational associations and our presence in Effluents & Waste Within Airport Community, Outside various sustainability networking Scorecard for 2013 were: Concern of Impact for Stakeholders Energy the Airport Community. The exercise • Efficiency of critical systems events enable us to expose our yields a validated consensus among (expressed as system availability practices and share expertise. Among Water Environ. compliance Environ. grievances Customer privacy CR Committee members, expressed and maximum duration of failures others, Athens International Airport Biodiversity Employee Health & safety Anti-corruption practices as the average of votes. The outcome for critical systems including: is a member of the Board of the Inter-Modality Service compliance Environ. Mgmt of the exercise depicting the material Baggage Handling, Medium Voltage, Hellenic CSR Network and actively Service Quality aspects of our operation that are both Passenger Boarding Bridges, Airfield participates in the Greek Business Environ. effect on services Service information significant and relevant to the Airport Lighting and IT&T systems) Council for Sustainable Development Services for PRMs Company’s sustainability is shown in • Aviation safety (expressed as which operates under the auspices Human rights for security practices the Materiality Map. occurring incidents / events) of the Greek Federation of Industries, Human rights assessment Training & Development The CR Report 2013 covers • Airport Service Quality (expressed the local UNGC network, the Hellenic Employment Practices information from a broad spectrum of as the outcome of relevant surveys) Management Association Institute for Non-Discrimination activities across AIA’s four Corporate • Climate Change Action Plan Corporate Affairs and the ACI-Europe Environ. effect on supply chain Responsibility perspectives. Emphasis (expressed as completed actions) Environmental Strategy Committee. Diversity Freedom of Association is placed on the aspects identified • Local Communities Action Plan as “material” and consequently the (expressed as completed actions) Human rights effect on agreements Low Impact / Low Concern Significance of Impact for AIA High Impact / Low Concern 16 / aia.gr aia.gr / 17 02 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 or 1.01% of the Greek GDP), Indirect economy and to local economy of the implementation of the business Impacts (including employment and region. The study becomes a useful tool and operational model of Athens Corporate Responsibility Action Plan overall economic value generated by for measuring the overall effectiveness International Airport. business outside the airport but directly and performance of the airport. The communication of this study to linked to its operation mostly related The updated study proves that all interested parties and to financial, The following outcome of the CR Committee is a tabulation of planned activities related to AIA’s material aspects, as these to the effects on transport), Induced/ despite the reduced output due to social and other stakeholders of the are projected for implementation in 2014. Multiplier Impacts (including multiplier the economic situation, the airport airport will help develop a common effects caused by successive rounds of remains a very important – perhaps understanding of the overall economic Aspect Description of planned activities spending throughout the economy as a the most important hub of economic and social value of Athens airport for result of an airport’s direct and indirect value added and job creation in the Greece. Useful conclusions drawn in • Incentives Plan effects) and the Tourism Impact. country. At the same time, the relevant relation to the AIA’s business model Market Presence • Destination Marketing activities In this context, the present study comparison with other European could be used in the future planning of measures total economic impact of the airports is indisputably positive the transport and infrastructure sectors. Operational Readiness • Efficiency of Critical Systems Athens International Airport to Greek which demonstrates the successful Aviation Safety Emergency Preparedness • Emergency Crisis Planning training / workshops / exercises plan Energy • Energy management system targeting conservation and exploitation of renewable energy Total economic impact (at national level): 2.63% of Greek GDP Emissions & Climate Change • Carbon emissions reduction through Climate Change Corporate Action Plan Added Value of Effluents & Waste • Water and waste management programmes targeting reuse and recycling €5,100,000,000 / Noise • Noise Abatement Procedures in collaboration with HCAA; Complaint management total job creation for 2.5% of Greek Employee health & safety • Health & Safety training and awareness sessions Local Communities • Multidimensional Local Communities Action Plan 99,987 people / employment. Customer Safety • Health & Safety inspections in public areas Total economic impact (at regional level): Added Value of €716,000,000 / 43.5% of the total value generated in the area Socio-Economic Impact total airport-related employment of the region 11,041 people Airports are increasingly considered as community towards job creation and AIA requested a scientific team from an important driver of socioeconomic economic development, both at a Athens University of Economics and growth for both the national economy regional and at a national level. At the Business to undertake a relevant study. and the local communities in which same time, through actions of corporate Considering that socio-economic they operate. Their contribution is not responsibility, there have been impact bears increased significance limited to the direct impacts generated significant benefits from the operation in the current economic climate, an by their operation, but instead spans of Athens International Airport in update of the study was undertaken in much bigger benefits created for local the fields of quality and safety of 2013 by the same group of experts. Assurance Comment on: Socio-Economic Impact companies, associated state entities transport, environment, labour peace, The study uses a novel econometric and the wider community, which all gain etc. The Airport Company itself has a input-output approach to estimate During interviews with corporate representatives, we reviewed evidence supporting AIA’s role as access to the generally high level of diversified and lasting impact on the impacts from the airport’s operation. the “orchestrator” of the airport community and discussed the direct correlation between GDP and services and products developed at the prosperity of the region by supporting The Input-Output model measured passenger traffic. In this context, we elaborated on how the Airport Company identified the need international airports. the development of infrastructures and total economic impact of AIA as the to reconfirm that the airport community, especially during the adverse economic environment, In that sense, Athens International various social, humanitarian and cultural sum of separate but interrelated remains a strong business center and employer. To this end, we reviewed the 2013 Economic Airport has a considerable yield causes as well as to Greek society categories: Direct Impacts (including Impact Study, which quantifies AIA’s economic benefits to the Greek economy, and discussed that goes beyond the financial value at large through its sponsorships employment/wages and overall income with AIA representatives the econometric input-output followed approach. We would suggest that created for shareholders and the programme. generated directly by the operation Greek State in particular. There is In order to quantify the socioof the entire airport community of AIA continues to place emphasis on communicating the study results to the airport community substantial contribution by the airport economic value created, in 2009 13,160 people amounted to €1.9bn stakeholders and renews the study in due time intervals. 18 / aia.gr aia.gr / 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 3 Our Athens International Airport “Eleftherios AIA, is ideally positioned in the southgroups with airlines, ground handling Venizelos” extends in an area of east of Europe, is the main gateway companies, cargo operators, tenants approximately 16,000km2 and has of the country, ensuring world-class and concessionaires. Business two runways in compliance with ICAO infrastructure and high quality of We also participate in several Aerodrome Reference Code “4E”, services. It is therefore our primary committees and working groups in (03L/21R: 3,800x60m and 03L/21R: goal to run the airport business with Greece and abroad, which are related 4,000x60m – incl. shoulders on both operational effectiveness and business to airport operations and business sides with a width of 7.5m). The Airport excellence. development in general. We share Terminal Complex consists of the Further to our core aviation business, knowledge and expertise with other Main Terminal Building (MTB) and the we have developed our Airport City, European airports and contribute Satellite Terminal Building (STB) which focusing on retail services, real estate to initiatives that enhance airport AIA is the airport operator of Athens International Airport “Eleftherios are connected through an underground investment and IT service provision. operations. Our commercial business tunnel, as well as a separate General Within the airport community we activities are represented in retail Venizelos”. We operate in an airport business community of 13,000 employees Aviation Facility (GAF). participate in committees and working councils and business forums. from about 300 different business entities. Since airport opening, we uphold the role as an “orchestrator” who aims to successfully meet operational challenges above and beyond all legal obligations. We have developed AIRLINES a common culture where we all strive to establish win-win collaborations. AIA S.A. 707 2,603 We are responsible for operating terminal buildings, monitoring airside E M P LOY E E S E M P LOY E E S operations and undertaking airport development, while ensuring safe and efficient airport operations. COMMERCIAL PARK 1,246 E M P LOY E E S USERS & HANDLERS Airport Community 2,447 E M P LOY E E S 13,160 E M P LOY E E S OUTSOURCED SERVICES 1,662 E M P LOY E E S CONCESSIONAIRES STATE ENTITIES & OTHER SUPPORT 2,374 E M P LOY E E S SERVICES 2,121 E M P LOY E E S Note: Figures from AIA’s Socio-Economic Impact Study, refers to 2012 data. The effectiveness of our role as the airport operator relies on our strong engagement with involved airport community stakeholders. 20 / aia.gr aia.gr / 21 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Revenues Structure 2013 Business Overview Financial Performance airport charges recorded a decrease with traffic development. Revenues The continuing unfavourable (-8.7%) compared to prior year from commercial activities dropped 39.9 17.8 17.4 11.6 10.7 2.4 0.3 macroeconomic environment in the reflecting the traffic decline in terms of (-7.2%), also impacted by traffic decline, country has remained a determining passengers and aircraft movements reduced spending per passenger and factor of the traffic evolution and overall of (-3.2% and -8.4% respectively). overall unfavourable market trends. business performance in 2013. As such, For a fifth consecutive year all airport Property revenues are also negatively our efforts were directed towards both charges remained unchanged, without affected by adverse market conditions protecting traffic volumes and revenue any inflation adjustments. AIA’s share and showed a decrease (-17.7%) which streams, as well as achieving savings of the Airport Development Fund (ADF) is mainly attributed to the termination of on the cost side, without however slightly decreased (-1.7%) compared the lease agreement between Olympic compromising our value-for-money to prior year, reflecting a passenger Engineering and AIA regarding the strategy. Therefore, despite adverse traffic drop that was partially offset Technical base. Lastly, Information conditions, we have demonstrated by the more favourable passenger Technology & Telecommunications a high level of resilience that led to mix (countries under the European revenues decreased (-3.6%). Aeronautical ADF Consumers Property Groundhandling IT&T Other healthy profits, as well as profit margins Economic Area (EEA) agreement vs. With respect to operating costs, Charges & Airside above the average airport industry. countries that are not included). continuous efforts to achieve further Concessions With regard to revenues, the Revenues from non-aeronautical savings within the year have been Aeronautical income (including AIA’s segments performed overall lower successful, while the AIA’s valueshare of the Airport Development than the previous year by (-9.7%). for-money strategy has not been Fund-ADF) contributes the highest In specific, revenues from ground compromised. In particular, total Operating Expenses Structure 2013 portion of total income representing handling services and airside operating expenses for 2013 were 58% of total turnover. Revenue from concessions decreased (-3.1%), in line lower (-10.2%) compared to 2012. 44.2 Economic Figures 36.2 2013 2012 Total Revenues & ADF 311.8 338.8 Stated in €mio. Total Operating Expenses 108.4 120.7 Stated in €mio 8.6 8.3 EBITDA including ADF 203.4 218.1 2.7 Stated in €mio. EBITDA margin % 65.2% 64.4% Stated in €mio. EBITDA plus ADF / Total revenues including ADF Personnel Related Outsourcing Services P.R. & Marketing Utilities Other Operating Expenses & Other Professional Activities Expenses Total Assets 1,226.1 1,287.6 Expenses Stated in €mio Added Value on Assets 28.9 51.1 Sustainable Procurement rights, operate in an environmentally relationships with suppliers, providing Stated in €mio. AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value responsible and effective manner and added benefits associated thereto. Practices Dividends 79.5 111.0 abide by all health and safety rules. We have cooperated with more Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. Supply chain plays a vital role and We promote competition and than 2,200 suppliers since 2001 Increase in Retained Earnings consists an essential element to our principles of transparency, equal ensuring beneficial partnerships in all -23.5 -38.2 Stated in €mio efficiency, both inside our organisation treatment, non-discrimination and purchasing areas concerning airport as well as outside through cooperation proportionality, which apply to all technical works, services and supplies. Income & Other Taxes 17.4 27.8 with our suppliers. procurement phases in compliance Through our corporate procurement Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. We pursue mutually beneficial with our Procurement Procedure procedure, a suppliers’ evaluation Social Product 91.5 106.7 relations with companies committed and Code of Relations with Business process aims to secure the best Stated in €mio. Social Product is the total valuation of amounts paid for AIA payroll, contracted services payroll, to acting fairly and with integrity Partners. possible performance, while a social security contribution, income/municipality/other tax, corporate responsibility opex, environmental and safety-related capex. Includes provisions towards our stakeholders, which We award contracts which integrate measurement system for contract share our commitment to sustainable green procurement guidelines and performance management has been Corporate Responsibility % OpEx 2.44% 2.50% practices. Our suppliers are required implement energy efficient supplies developed for a significant number Corporate Responsibility as % of total OpEx. Corporate Responsibility is the total valuation of activities relating to environmental, local community, art&culture, other social contribution, employee benefits & engagement, to comply with all applicable laws and projects, combating climate of contractual agreements related to safety and CR management. and regulations, conform to the change and improving AIA’s CO 2 airport critical infrastructure, technical highest standards of ethical conduct emissions footprint. and environmental management respecting and supporting human We aim to develop long-term systems. Note: Figures for 2012 have been restated according to International Accounting Standard (IAS) 19 22 / aia.gr aia.gr / 23 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Quarterly Passenger Traffic Development 2013 Aeronautical Business Growth 2013/2012 Domestic International Total Aviation Market Overview in incoming tourism in Greece, as well noting and indicative of an air travel The continuing difficult situation of as the gradual resurgence of Athens demand recovery. As a result, airline 0 0 -2 2 -2 2 the Greek economy was for one as a popular tourist destination per se, load factors significantly increased, more year a key factor determining both counterbalanced to some extent reaching the overall impressive figure -4 -8.5 4 -4 -5.8 4 air traffic at Athens International negative influential factors. of 74%, which is a record-breaking Airport. With the Greek GDP and Within this challenging and changing figure for the airport. At 4.3 million, -6 -7.4 6 -6 -4.9 6 the private consumption index environment our traffic amounted to domestic passengers presented a -7.8 -5.2 contracting, the Greeks’ propensity 140 thousand flights and 12.54 million decline (-4.6%), whereas international -8 8 -8 8 to travel was severely impacted. On passengers presenting a decline passengers, at 8.24 million, illustrated top of the unfavourable economic compared to the corresponding only small overall losses (-2.4%). This environment in the country, the foreign prior-year levels (-8.4% and -3.2% result was formulated by the overall -10 1 ST 10 -10 2 ND 10 carriers’ restructuring and network respectively). The fact that passenger reduced travelling demand by the rationalisation were additional drivers demand achieved only a limited Greek residents (-9.1%) as compared 0 0 -2 2 -2 2 adversely affecting the aviation market. reduction despite the sharp drop of with the upward trend of the foreign On the other hand, favourable trends the offered airline services is worth residents (+2.7%). -4 -3.2 4 -4 -1.5 4 -6 -1.7 6 -6 6 Passenger Traffic (mio) -2.2 +4 +2 -8 8 -8 .1 .0 8 Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. 2013 2012 -10 3 RD 10 -10 4 TH 10 -4.6% -2.4% -3.2% 15 Traffic evolution during the year in 41 countries, operated by a total of a potential revival of the market. 12 indicates that although 2013 started 55 carriers. Domestic sector presented a marginal with considerable traffic losses, a With global air cargo traffic yet positive result (+0.4%), mainly 9 clear recovery trend emerged in presenting a notable pick-up in growth resulting from growth in domestic mail, 6 the second quarter and continued during the second half of the year and while international sector declined by 3 4.3 4.5 8.2 8.4 12.5 12.9 in the second half of the year, with sings of recovery also emerging in 2.4% compared to the previous year, 0 passenger traffic returning to growth the Greek aviation market, airfreight demonstrating the smallest decline in the last three months of the year. volumes at Athens International since the beginning of the unfavourable Domestic International Total Overall in 2013 Athens was directly Airport exhibited a minimal 2% economic climate, most probably a connected with scheduled services decrease managing a throughput of sign of a gradual stabilisation of the with 101 destinations (68 international) almost 75,000 tonnes, thus signalling specific market segment. Aircraft Movements (thousands, take-offs and landings) Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. 2013 2012 Cargo traffic 2013 Cargo traffic -8.4% 160,000 Thousand tonnes inbound cargo outbound cargo Thousand tonnes 2013 2012 153.3 Cargo aircraft Cargo aircraft 140,000 -2.0% 140.4 80 120,000 17.52 11.45 -2.4% 74.87 76.42 70 65.62 67.20 100,000 -7.2% 60 -9.8% 80,000 50 Total 81.4 60,000 64.9 71.9 75.6 36.02 74.87 38.85 40 30 40,000 20 +0.4% 20,000 10 27.40 9.25 9.21 18.50 0 Domestic International Total 0 Domestic International Total Passenger aircraft Passenger aircraft Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. 24 / aia.gr aia.gr / 25 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Airline Community Culture ‘Low Fares’ aiming to encourage continue to verify that the incentives significantly expedite the clearance with representatives from ground Finally, support to our airline clients Aeronautical pricing and offering airlines to increase the volume of Low implemented managed to successfully of third country cargo. This, along handlers, airlines, forwarders, general was reaffirmed through the supportive of comprehensive development Fares and thus to stimulate traffic, deal with the particular issues for which with the recent extension of Customs sales agents, we promoted the schemes offered to both domestic and programmes for airlines, including throughout 2013 we also extended they were introduced. In particular, working hours in the cargo area until airports’ traffic potential. international cargo operators. Aiming incentives and marketing support three significant Targeted Incentives in implementation of the Targeted 21:00 hrs. for both import and export In regards to cargo traffic to further assist airlines operating packages, constitute the cornerstone order to sustain and protect flights and Incentives in 2013 helped sustain traffic, procedures, will serve as a further development, advantages of air pure cargo flights to sustain their of our aeronautical strategy for growth. traffic levels during those challenging avoid further loses and encouraged means to facilitate business and transport were also communicated business, AIA offered for the second Airlines expect us to be attentive times. In particular, the ‘Sustainability airlines to pursuit better results. This especially Greek exports. and promoted through our active year an incentive programme for new to their needs and to provide highIncentive’ aimed to sustain the same became apparent after the first half of In June 2013 our cargo community participation at the Hellenic Institute or additional domestic cargo flights level airport services for our shared level of operated flights as the previous the year whereas the performance of team was fully represented for a of Logistics Management and the in addition to the new traditional flight customers, the passengers. corresponding period, the ‘Transfer the operating carriers started to signify fifth time at the biennial international Transport Committee of the Hellenicincentives applicable to international During 2013, amid the continuing Incentive’ aimed to defend transfer a positive change in traffic. exhibition “Air Cargo Europe”. Together Russian Chamber of Commerce. cargo flights. adverse economic condition in traffic levels and the ‘Load Factor In recognition of our creativity and Greece and the respective impact Incentive’ targeted to encourage continuous dynamic support to our on the aviation industry, we aimed at airlines to achieve high load factors. airline partners, especially in light of Assurance Comment on: Cargo Community Engagement defending traffic volumes, containing The newly established the extremely adverse conditions that traffic losses and assisting airlines to developmental scheme ‘Niche Routes Greek economy has been facing, the From interviews with corporate representatives, we reviewed evidence supporting AIA’s role as the sustain their operations at the extent Incentive’ became permanent and airline industry once more rewarded “orchestrator” of the airport community, in relation to among others the establishment of a cargo possible. To do so we not only kept was enriched in order to attract new AIA in 2013. “Routes Europe 2013”, all charges unchanged without any direct services from niche markets Europe’s largest airline and airport community culture. We discussed AIA’s role as the coordinator and facilitator of initiatives that aim to inflation adjustments for the fifth that are currently not operated to/ networking route development forum, bring together the on and off airport stakeholders of the cargo supply chain. More specifically, we consecutive year, but in addition we from Athens. During 2013 thirteen was concluded with one more award reviewed evidence of the Airport Cargo Community Committee’s rules of operations and minutes of extended the already existing Targeted different incentives aiming towards for AIA, its 12th in 9 years, namely the meetings, as well as evidence of its role regarding the ICISnet (Integrated Customs Information System) Incentives and introduced even sustainability and even development award in the 4 – 20 million passengers’ implementation. We would suggest that AIA continues to place emphasis on promoting its efforts stronger Targeted Schemes for the were in place. category. Having received airline towards the establishment of a cargo community culture outside the airport community boundaries. airlines throughout the year. More than 80% of the operating recognition for ten consecutive years, Our Traditional Growth Incentive carriers took advantage of one or more we are the most awarded airport for our Scheme was amplified by a series of of our targeted incentives which were airport marketing performance. targeted measures – firstly introduced in effect during 2013. Furthermore, We acknowledge the contribution Provision of Ground In April 2013 we contributed to OFC refuelling system concession and back in 2012 clearly demonstrating more than 40 of our airline partners of our airline partners to airport’s Aviation Fuel Services hosting of the have been obligatory thereafter to Handling Services our active engagement in supporting were significantly benefited by AIA’s performance. During our 14th Airline IATA Fuel Quality Pool (IFQP) training all arrangements related to the fuel our airline partners during these traditional developmental incentives Marketing Workshop, the major airline AIA, being the airport operator, sets for the seventh consecutive year. The supply chain. JIG is the international critical times, while helping them and marketing support. networking event, we rewarded airlines the quality standards and monitors the training process was dedicated to a forum formed by oil companies which reduce their operating costs. Further Previous year’s results and an initial for the most successful passenger operational performance of ground group of 20 inspectors. The IATA Fuel standards have effectively become the to the special winter only incentive assessment of the current schemes traffic development during 2013. handling services provided by third Quality Pool (IFQP) is a group of airlines global benchmark currently applied parties, while treating both aircraft that actively share fuel inspection at about 180 of the world’s major operators and ground handlers reports and workload at locations airports and some 2,500 locations Assurance Comment on: Inventive Schemes as partners towards the common worldwide. around the world. Approximately 40% objective of customers’ satisfaction. In December 2013, all parts of Athens of the world’s aviation fuel is supplied We discussed, with corporate representatives, the airline targeted incentive schemes that In March 2013 the IATA Drinkingairport aviation fuel supply chain (i.e. through facilities operating to the JIG the aeronautical growth strategy is based on and elaborated on how and to what extent the Water Quality Pool (IDQP) Steering the HELPE refineries, the AAFPC standards. Group Meeting was organised and pipeline company, the OFC hydrant In regards to passenger e-services success and efficiency of these schemes is dependent on timely engagement with the airlines. hosted by AIA for the third time. It refuelling system and SAFCO the intodevelopments, we agreed with We reviewed evidence of formal and ad-hoc engagement with airlines, regarding schemes’ was sponsored by International Air plane company) received the Award of SkyTeam (an alliance of 20 airline development purposes, as well as applicability criteria, based on the different needs among homeTransport Association (IATA) with the Excellence from the Joint Inspection members) to proceed with a joint based, visiting, and low-fare carriers. We would suggest that AIA continues to uphold the five year participation of 20 airline delegates, Group (JIG). It is the first time worldwide feasibility study for implementing application period of its Traditional Growth Incentives Scheme. aiming to share audits on drinkingthat all parties comprising the fuel a common Fast Bag Drop zone for water provided to aircrafts (airport supply chain of an airport achieve such Sky Team member airlines (both installations, safe transportation recognition, all in the same year. agent-assisted and fully automated process by Ground Handlers, quality JIG standards have been introduced drop-off). The study is scheduled to be cargo traffic, while maintaining the facilitation, following consultations control etc.). by AIA since 1998, for the hydrant concluded within March 2014. Cargo Community Culture same high quality operational level. with both the cargo community and To address the continuing adverse Towards this goal, during 2013 we Customs at all levels of hierarchy, the economic trade environment, we upheld close cooperation with our second stage of the new e-Customs have decided to deploy synergy and cargo handlers and provided them platform was established towards extroversion, engaging involved airport with constant support and feedback. year-end, covering additional services. Non-Aeronautical Business cargo stakeholders. In this context, our As a result, according to our annual Furthermore, ICISnet (Integrated communication platform, the Airport Cargo Key Performance Index Customs Information System) Our Airport City provides an ideal Airport Retail Park bolstered its reputation as one of the Cargo Community Committee (ACCC), measurements, our business partners application initiated in 2009 through environment for passengers and In 2013, despite the continuing top regional shopping destinations in brings together the onand off-airport managed to preserve their operational the electronic clearance of exports, visitors to spend time at the airport, adverse financial situation, the Airport Athens. With 54,000 m 2 retail space stakeholders of the cargo supply chain excellence. will soon be covering the full range shop and dine. Retail Park welcomed approximately and 2,500 parking spaces, the park and focuses on retaining the existing Under our coordination and of Customs procedures and thus 2.7 million visitors, a number that accommodates four major retail brands 26 / aia.gr aia.gr / 27 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 namely IKEA, KOTSOVOLOS, LEROY December 2013 hiring residents of the Information Technology MERLIN and FACTORY OUTLET airport’s surrounding municipalities as & Telecommunications AIA’s IT&T External Business in 2013 offering more than 300,000 products temporary employees. for home furniture and decoration, Services electric appliances and electronics, as Airport Shopping Centre IT&T Management System is certified well as fashion apparel. As part of our as per EN ISO 9001:2008 for airport Albania marketing strategy, the Airport Retail In 2013, the Airport’s Shopping Centre related operations and services. Tirana Park provided the airport community carried out a number of activities to 2013 was another year of services Jordan with a series of special offers and enhance passenger satisfaction and provided for business efficiency while Amman added value buys throughout the offer value for money propositions innovative projects were completed year. Consistent to its commitment within the challenging economic successfully. to support children in need, Factory environment. The Community Airport Portal (CAP) Outlet implemented a donation In order to meet consumer needs was completed in the context of the programme in the aid of the “Children’s and respond to market trends, variety Research and Development project village SOS” and “Perivolaki”, a home of the retail offer was expanded of the Ministry of Education Lifelong dedicated to autistic children. through a number of brand changes Learning and Religious Affairs. CAP that were implemented within the year. was a unique opportunity for us to Airport Hotel The opening of the second Victoria’s capitalise on experience and knowSecret Beauty & Accessories store how under the three following major Based on the annual ACCOR’s in the Departures Schengen area areas: Australia worldwide internal “Guest Satisfaction was a change that stood out and 1) Our ability to successfully lead a Sydney Survey 2013” conducted by a strengthened the presence of this multiple and complex partner scheme marketing research house, our 5-star well established brand at the airport. involving both private and university airport hotel Sofitel earned an overall In addition, adopting the same design groups, rate of 8.9 on a scale 1 to 10 for a elements as with the “ambience 2) The chance to take advantage of EU project named “INTERACTION” services to airlines, ground handlers, event which was named “The IT&T second year, with an increased number improvement” project implemented last Hellenic-EU funds in order to develop and (INnovative TEchnologies and concessionaires, state authorities and Business Evolution” our IT&T Business of the respondents (73.6% vs 69.1 year, a new sponsored “network” island present real innovative products, and Researches for a new Airport Concept the travelling public, AIA embraces the Automation Team was introduced in 2012) being “extremely satisfied” was added to the existing seating 3) Knowledge acquired from exploring towards Turnaround coordinatION). airport community. to the audience with a very positive from the service and accommodation passenger amenities at the departures the complex and bureaucratic This project focuses on airport In late 2013 a purposeful agreement feedback from all participants. experience. Similarly, Sofitel retained level of the Main Terminal Building administration of running a NSRF process optimisation and data with telecom providers was concluded its rating on an overall high satisfaction (MTB) offering wireless internet, mobile (National Strategic Reference integration for enhancing time efficient which as of January 2014 will Energy and Grids’ score of 88 out of 100 according to the chargers, TV screens and tablets to all Framework) project. turnaround operations in the airport, favour the airport community with Management annual “Social Media Web Analysis” travellers. Furthermore, provision of consulting innovative solutions to increase significantly lower prices. benchmarking among users of wellFurthermore, a series of marketing services for the “Business Process passenger experience, efficiency Our Service Portfolio was also Since January 2011, AIA is a licensed established internet sites like Booking. activities related to increasing sales Documentation Review” to Sydney of the air freight transport and new improved through the following new Electricity Grid Manager that owns com, Tripadvisor, Hotels.com, Expedia, and enhancing customer loyalty were Airport was completed. The scope of technologies to reduce greenhouse bundled services: and operates the airport electricity Travelocity, etc. provided by TrustYou implemented in 2013, including among this project included the necessary gas, pollutant and noise emissions of • “Business 2 Play”, a bundled service grid/network, supplying the airport specialised agency. Committed to help others the on-going food & beverage documentation in order to facilitate the apron operations. that composes of a full IT&T working community with medium and low preserve the environment, Sofitel also “deals” and the “Christmas@Airport” commencement of the replacement Additionally, we were awarded position (data, voice port and internet voltage electricity. As such, we actively participated at a “tree planting” Shopping Centre promotional activity process of Sydney Airport’s ERP another EU project; titled connection) bear overall responsibility including event at Marathon on the “Earth Day” that was communicated exclusively (finance/projects/property) system. “E-VACUATE”. This programme is • “Wireless Access at Gates”, a consumption data reporting, of April 2013. through our corporate Facebook Following its completion, AIA was a holistic, scenario-independent, wireless access bundled service which development, maintenance, account. awarded a new consulting project situation-awareness and guidance provides wireless internet access at upgrade and mostly safe operation. Exhibition Centre directly from Sydney Airport system for sustaining the Active the Gates area. Furthermore, we ensure that all Airport Car Parking Services Corporation Ltd. for the upgrade of Evacuation Route for crowd public • “Managed Internet“ bundled airport users have fair and equal Since its opening in January 2009, Sydney airport’s Enterprise Resource areas. The project focuses on following services: the newly launched access to electricity supply, based Athens Metropolitan Expo, the airport’s There are 7,160 parking spaces for Planning system (specifically the providing a valuable tool that will Managed Security Services (MSS), on a transparent method, in line with exhibition and conference centre, short, long-term or executive valet finance, projects and property guarantee total situational awareness addressing the business need for the current legislation of the national has been established as the leading parking. Parking at short-term parking modules). The project includes two both to crowds involved during a secure communication over the energy market. venue for many notable exhibitions areas (P1 & P2) is free of charge for up phases, one within 2013 and the other crisis, but also to crews operating internet, Internet PORT2AIR and public In addition, as included by the Sales and conferences organised in Athens. to 20 minutes while frequent shuttle in the first quarter of 2014. on-site as well as in remote locations IP address services. Agreement signed with the respective Twenty events took place during 2013 bus transportation to/from long term Provision of consulting services for (security crews, first responders, crisis A brand new Self-Service Portal suppliers, we are responsible for the gathering more than 320,000 visitors, parking area (P3) from/to Main Terminal IT&T systems at Amman International managers). was also launched as part of our IT&T distribution of natural gas and water with HORECA, the leading trade show Building (MTB) is offered. Baggage Airport was also successfully Service Desk platform through which to users/consumers connected to for the hospitality and foodservice trolleys are available at all parking lots completed. The scope of this Information Technology all customers may electronically airport grids, while assuring the grids’ industry, taking place for the second and in case of a vehicle breakdown a consultancy project signifies a new choose an IT&T service from our development, maintenance, upgrade Community Culture year following its 2012 success and courtesy road assistance programme product line for IT&T in the area of portfolio of services and place their and safe operation. EHRA, a major European cardiological is available on a 24hour basis to testing and commissioning of airport AIA is the infrastructure owner, order. As such, we are responsible for conference, hosted for the first time, assist with minor repairs. The new IT systems. operator and integrator of IT, providing Finally, every year we organise consumption measurement and among them. As part of its strategy electronic service “e-parking” assists As a member of a consortium headed reliable, state-of-the-art, costan annual event where we present reporting of the said commodities to bind its ties even closer with local in a fast and smooth way for parking by Airbus, with the participation of effective and innovative information our new services and offers and for all consumers including our own communities, Metropolitan Expo space reservation, while also offering Aegean Airlines, INDRA and other technology services to its customers. discuss potential requirements needs. hosted the “Christmas World” event in significant discounts and promotions. partners, AIA was awarded a new Being a licensed Provider to offer IT&T with our customers. In this year’s 28 / aia.gr aia.gr / 29 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 During 2013, the Airport Services implemented, namely airside safety Crisis Planning Safeguarding our Operation We aim to take all necessary safety Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC) served 3,638 cases (28.67% were meetings (Safety Action Group, Safety Review Board and Airside Safety and emergency planning measures for passengers and 71.37% were visitors Committee), runway safety meetings, Our Commitments Transportation Association (IATA) Audit, audits by the Hellenic Authority dealing with aviation hazards, preventing and employees). Of those only 5% were safety-related workshops (e.g. Wildlife & We respect applicable legal and Airport Handling Manual and other for the Protection of Privacy & Secrecy accidents and eliminating or mitigating finally dispatched to hospitals while Landscaping) and training sessions. regulatory framework, both national related Greek / EU legislation (PD (ADAE) and ad-hoc audits by other impact should they occur. We engage the rest were treated in-house, thus Furthermore, within the framework and international and require our 285/1998, EU Directive 96/67). entities, as well as by internal audits. operational stakeholders and promote connotating our significant social service of our annual aviation safety audit employees and business partners Compliance is attained through related • Technical Services: Compliance global best practices of the aviation and support to airline operations. programme, both AIA’s departments to do likewise. We aim to ensure corporate procedures, as well as with the related provisions of ADA, the business sector. The Airport Emergency as well as its stakeholders’ associated continuous and unwavering internal audits. applicable Building Standards and Law Plan (AEP) serves as the basic functions were evaluated in order to Aviation Safety compliance and adherence within • Security Services: Compliance 2338/1995, as well as Applicable Laws framework for the operation in times identify areas that may require further the full spectrum of applicable laws, with ADA provisions (Article 18), which is attained through corporate of an emergency or crisis. Its seventh Involving our airport stakeholders improvement, thus ensuring that the while promoting the incorporation of the National Civil Aviation Security procedures for design, construction edition was issued and approved by is our way to enhance and develop airport remains a safe environment generally accepted contemporary Regulation (NCASR) and all relevant and maintenance and verified the HCAA Governor in December operational effectiveness. We have set a for both passengers and personnel. business practices beyond the EU/ Greek legislation. Compliance is externally by HCAA and competent 2013. We collaborate with all airport Key Performance Indicator (KPI) and are During 2013, an external safety audit minimum acceptable threshold of attained through the HCAA-approved state authorities or by internal audits. community members and take human committed to continuously improve it. according to ICAO requirements on compliance with legal obligation: Airport Security Programme (ASP) and All airport users must conform to factors principles into account when airside operations was carried our by • Aerodrome Operations: Compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) is verified either externally by ad-hoc audits by EU / US / HCAA / Hellenic Police and other entities or by internal airport rules and regulations and any instructions provided by AIA for their enforcement. planning for crisis, in order to maintain an effective and professional emergency management capability: transparent 41.29 100,000 serious airside aircraft/helicopter a specialised organisation. The audit report certified that AIA’s SMS function is in accordance with the international standards and recommended audits. communications to achieve shared incidents per movements standards. practices, relevant EU/Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority (HCAA) regulations • Fire Life Safety: Compliance with ADA provisions, Greek and EU Fire Operational Readiness & Business Continuity situational awareness, large participation, regular testing of procedures and ( 2013 42 Target incidents for outstanding performance ) Further progress was also made in the development and update of major and Airport Development Agreement Safety legislation and regulations performance. During 2013, our During the year, a number of airside airport operational procedures, the (ADA) provisions. Compliance is which is attained through Fire System AIA ensures uninterrupted and emergency response system was safety awareness sessions and airside most important being the Aerodrome attained through the Aerodrome audits and verified externally by the efficient airport operations having extensively tested in 219 mobilisations. safety promotion activities were Operations Manual (Vol. 1. Aviation Operations Manual (AOM), the Aviation Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC). the highest regard to customers’ and Safety Management System (ASMS), • Information Technology & employees’ health and safety, as well the Airport Emergency Plan (AEP) and Telecommunications Services: as to the preservation of property and all corresponding contracts, as well as Compliance with legislation the environment. In this respect, we Emergency-crisis management training and workshops operational manuals and procedures relating to Intellectual Property have developed our airport operational • “Removal of Disabled Aircraft” classroom training and is verified by external audits, Rights, Communication Security & readiness Business Continuity System • “Aircraft Recovery Dolly” hands-on training to airport staff exercises as well as internal audits. Privacy, Data Protection as well as (BCS) which provides a framework • “Airport Emergency Planning” refresher training to airport staff • Ground Handling Services: regulations applicable to the provision for building organisational resilience • “Emergency Management System” presentation to Qatar Airways Compliance with ICAO standards of telecommunication services, ensuring that critical functions will • “Airport Emergency Planning” presentation to third parties (as per Basic Ground Handling Regulation framework) and recommended practices, the EU radiation protection and other IT&Tcontinue to operate in case of serious • “TRIAGE” support training (the process of determining the priority of patients’ treatments based on the severity of their condition) to and national regulatory framework, related activities. Compliance is incidents or if affected to operate our volunteer personnel engaged in the Baggage Handling System. (e.g. Basic and the Local Ground attained through corporate policies with alternative ways of working and Handling Regulations), with European and procedures and verified both effectively restore critical business Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC) externally by the Statutory Audit, IT processes within set timeframes. guidelines and International Aviation System Audits, ISO9001 Certification Practising Emergency Exercises • January 2013: “Earthquake disaster” table-top exercise in the US Embassy of Athens Participants: AIA, senior US mission officers and Civil Protection, Airport Police, Airport Fire Corps, Coast Guard etc. Critical Systems Availability • March 2013: “Fire and explosion at OFC Jet A-1 no 4 tank” exercise at OFC premises. Participants: AIA, Airport Fire Corps (AHFC), Police (AHP), Airport Services of Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC), HCAA and OFC. • March 2013: Table-top exercise in the US Embassy of Athens where AIA Emergency Management System was presented. 2013 2012 2013 target • April 2013: Emergency table-top exercise with EMIRATES to review their local emergency procedures within the Survivors Reception Centre. Baggage Handling System 99.85% 99.85% 99.67%≤x<99.73% • April 2013: Unannounced exercise at the airport (SAFCO & OIC Building 21B) simulating an accident during fuel loading and involving all Medium Voltage 100% 100% 99.60%≤x<99.80% facility personnel. • May 2013: Dangerous goods-radioactive material spill emergency exercise took place in Ground Handler’s (Swissport) warehouse that Airfiled Lighting 100% 99.99% 99.70%≤x<99.90% fully mobilised involved personnel and resources. Participants: Airport Rescue & Fire Fighting Services (RFFS) and Greek Atomic Energy Commission. Passenger Boarding Bridges 99.97% 99.97% 99.65%≤x<99.72% • May 2013: Table-top exercise with an aircraft crash scenario. Participants: AIA, KLM, Air France and Delta Airlines. Average of UFIS/FIDS, CUTE, Voice & Data Networks 100% 99.99% 99.65%≤x<99.75% • September 2013: “Removal of Disabled Aircraft” exercise and practical training conducted by AIA personnel. • October 2013: Functional Emergency Exercise in Survivors Reception Area. Emirates and ground handling staff and Airport Police tested Note: Calculated based on the failures down time of these systems. Figures are rounded at the third decimal. their readiness and the adequacy of the facility for service provision. • November 2013: “Aircraft accident on the airport” partial scale emergency exercise that took place at limited access planning with no prior notification. The scenario involved an aircraft that during landing experienced a malfunction that resulted in a runway excursion and a lowimpact crash. Airport RFFS extinguished the fire and rescued the entrapped aircraft occupants, while ASEMC treated them (TRIAGE system). 30 / aia.gr aia.gr / 31 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 SMS Manual, Vol2. Operational Airport Fire Life Safety safety regulations are properly Service parameters Procedures & Ancillary Information implemented, AIA incorporates and Vol. 3. Airport Emergency Plan). AIA’s fire prevention regulations pertinent clauses in all its contracts 2013 2012 We participate in PROSPERO comply with the ADA provisions, with third parties. These mostly relate Call Center Service Level (% calls answered in under 60 sec) 97.66% 97.96% (PROactive Safety PERformance as well as with Greek and EU to legislative requirements, relevant to for Operations) which is a European legal requirements on transport, the activities carried out by the third Call Center Efficiency (% calls answered / total calls received) 99.26% 99.24% project (7th framework) that runs construction and fire prevention. party, and pertinent documentation Avg Waiting Time for Check-in (min) 3.4 3.7 from 2012 through 2015 and involves Furthermore, specific procedures that must be available in order to verify Avg Waiting Time for Security Screening (min) 3.0 2.4 14 partner organisations across apply for all airport infrastructure compliance. Avg Response Time to Passenger Comments (days) 5.4 5.0 7 countries, including end-users, including buildings, systems, In 2013, 174 health and safety plans industry, SMEs and academic equipment and operational flows (e.g. and 24 Safety Management Systems Baggage Handling Shortshipped Bags (per mio bags handled) 20 31 partners. The PROSPERO project’s technical works). of third parties were reviewed and Baggage Handling Average time for First Bag reclaim (min:sec) 11:47 12:07 aim is to reach EU safety targets by Compliance is attained through 18 audits took place in companies 2020, namely accident rate reduction intensive training and purposeengaged in security, maintenance, by 80% and recovery from and specific exercises and verified ground handling, cargo, landscaping Service Responsibility passengers even during emergency at improving travellers’ experience by elimination of human error, producing internally by fire system audits and and cleaning. Over a million airport users interacted situations, AIA provided “Emergency providing videos or information related an integrated risk framework for the externally by the Airport Hellenic Fire Potable water is considered of with our terminal services staff for Response Training” to almost 200 staff to travel destination, as well as weather Air Traffic System which includes Corps (AHFC). vital importance and is continuously flight details, terminal particulars and of the ground handling companies to forecasting. proactive ways to anticipate complex During 2013 eleven training sessions, monitored for its quality by accredited airport information. The Airport Call foster collaboration and efficiency in risks that have the potential to cause three evacuation drills and one large laboratories. Centre received more than 550,000 serving travellers in all circumstances. On-ground assistance crises thus allowing for more effective scale exercise at the MTB were inquiries with 97.66% of them being Furthermore, in compliance with EU services to PRM passengers management of situations where risks conducted. Our technical facilities answered within 60 seconds. Almost Schengen Committee requirements cannot be eliminated. operational readiness along with the 2,500 electronic queries were also further measures were implemented at Within the scope of the provision of on training level of involved employees for administered via the “airport-info” email Passport Control checkpoints on both ground assistance services to persons Airport Security emergency evacuation of public are service. the Departures and Arrivals to ensure with disability and/or reduced mobility, duly tested on a semi-annual/ annual AIA’s commitment to providing passenger data confidentiality and AIA has served 102.891 people in total In accordance with the National basis. a modern and comfortable travel national border protection. during 2013. Even though the total Civil Aviation Security Regulation experience to passengers was realised E-services constitute a significant airport’s traffic for the period of 2009 to (NCASR, Government Gazette in 2014 with the continuation of the comfort element of today’s airports. In 2013 has been decreasing yearly, the Airport Health, Potable 1485 B’/17/06/2011) and the “Ambience Improvement” project the Arrivals level, a new “e-lounge” was Airport’s PRM traffic has been increasing. Security Technical Directive No.1 Safety & Hygiene launched in 2013. New service constructed, catered to comfortably Furthermore, an increase in satisfaction water (STD 1, Government Gazette 1580 We make all efforts in order to enhancements include the Airport accommodate electronic users. level was noted with respect to related B’/30/06/2011), all employees ensure that all applicable Health and Information Services Counter centrally This contemporary seating area services, as PRM passengers rated their testing working at the airport community Safety regulations are implemented located at Entrance 3 of the Arrivals level. features a laptop bar, two big screen overall satisfaction very high (4.92 for must undergo security awareness effectively within the areas of our This one-stop shop provides 24 hour televisions and a complimentary 2013 vs. 4.85 for 2012). 2013: training before they are issued an responsibility. Full compliance with service related to airport and terminal multi-functional machine for printing In 2013, the 16th International airport identification card. Within all applicable Health and Safety facilities, airline and flight information, boarding passes, travel visas and other Conference and the General Assembly this framework, we provided related legislative requirements is of top ground transportation schedules through documents. Moreover, a new sitting of the International Paralympic training to 1,938 persons (383 priority. display monitors, as well as courtesy area at MTB Departures level was Committee (IPC) was hosted in AIA staff and 1,555 third parties) In 2013 101 health and safety phones for liaising with the ground created, sponsored by the Hellenic Athens. As part of this event, AIA focusing on raising awareness for inspections were carried out within handling companies. In its first year of Telecommunications Organisation signed a Memorandum of Cooperation the importance of security in the airport environment and particularly AIA premises and the subsequent recommendations for corrective • daily free operation, it served more than 355,000 airport users, including PRM passengers OTE. This area provides 60’ free wireless fast access to Internet to all Framework with the IPC and both parties closely collaborated and implemented for the appropriate use of the Airport actions were communicated to chlorine tests, with disability and/or reduced mobility passengers / visitors though 6 high-tech the relevant business plan for the Identification Card. relevant departments and monitored who were expedited from a dedicated tablets, as well as the viewing of sports facilitation of the arrival and departure of We are committed to provide high level of security while acknowledging for implementation. Furthermore, regular inspections in technical and • tests for PRM workstation. Enhancements were also made to directional signage channel via OTE-TV. Aiming to further enhance web the delegates with the use of all required services and infrastructures. human rights issues and the airport security personnel receive periodic public areas ensure that both AIA’s and contractors’ personnel comply chemical agents in the terminal with the installation of supplementary signage primarily experience at AIA, the new “ATH Airport” mobile application was released Finally, AIA hosted the 2nd session of the “Train the Trainer” programme training in this regard. with corporate health and safety rules. from 22 sampling targeted at improving the movement of in all three mobile platforms (IOS, addressed to internal trainers on PRM Our target is to obtain zero incidents points and passengers with connecting flights, gate Android and Windows Phone). issues. The said training was provided by 9,995 for either employees or the public re-assignments and floor changes. Finally, three new video-walls were a certified training company by European and most of our efforts and available In order to ensure quality service to installed at departures’ gates, aiming Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC). resources are directed towards this • microbiological prohibited items handled goal. We are responsible for the health tests on 151 PRM Assistance Services during security screening process in 2013, as per and safety performance of third parties which operate at our premises. samples from 95 2013 2012 aviation security regulations In order to ensure that health and sampling points Total PRM Passengers 102,891 96,1 91 Pre-notified PRM Passengers 42.0% 37% Non Pre-notified PRM Passengers 58.0% 63.0% 32 / aia.gr aia.gr / 33 03 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Measuring passenger Passenger Survey 2013: satisfaction AIA highly appreciates passenger Satisfaction Respecting Human Rights perception; therefore a daily monitor score 4.28 survey, entitled Passenger Survey, We comply with the applicable national the use of the close-circuit monitoring and procedures regarding airport is carried out addressing 40,000 legislation and international regulations security system. Furthermore, customers’ telephone and Internet passengers, on an annual basis to with reference to human rights. In this initiatives for adapting the most data are regularly audited by the evaluate airport performance and (on a 5 point scale). context, we have officially notified the recent directives referring to the Hellenic Authority for the Protection of express their expectations and needs. Data Protection Authority regarding human rights, by safeguarding airport Privacy and Secrecy (ADAE), proving For more in-depth analysis, AIA the Airport Call Centre voice recorder users’ personal data, were taken. our commitment to respecting the law, undertakes a Quality Monitor Survey with our customers’ messages, and Accordingly, all corporate policies human rights and ethical standards. that monitors performance trends screening. Data analysis enables AIA 2013 there were 2,354 comments and passengers’ drivers. Quality departments and business partners to from 1,177 passengers. In an average Monitor Survey findings remain a main assess and further enhance the level response time of 5.4 days, 740 reply passenger satisfaction measurement of offered service. letters dispatched, of which 86.2% tool for AIA and its business partners. AIA also operates a passenger were customised case-specific letters. Service is also evaluated through comment management service. Two hundred and forty-five complaint specific monitoring of the passenger “Your Opinion Counts” brochures are cases required thorough crossqueues in critical operational airport available at various locations within departmental cooperation, in order services, such as ticketing, checkthe airport as well as electronically to investigate and provide a precise in, passport control and security through our corporate website. During response. Passenger Complaints Analysis 2013 2012 Customization rate of Responses (custom / total responses) % 86.2 85.5 Distribution of Complaints % PEOPLE WITH REDUCED MOBILITY (PRM) 1.25 1.06 WAY FINDING / SIGNAGE 1.25 1.54 SECURITY SERVICES 10.43 12.93 SEATING / REST FACILITIES 2.74 2.1 7 RETAIL & SERVICES 5.74 4.71 PARKING SERVICES 8.05 6.09 IT PUBLIC SYSTEMS 3.56 3.97 INFORMATION SERVICES 4.49 4.34 INFORMATION SCREENS 1.1 2 1.1 7 FOOD & BEVERAGE 4.74 6.04 FACILITY MAINTENANCE 1.62 1.96 CLEANING SERVICES 1.69 2.86 BAGGAGE TROLLEYS 1.87 0.90 AVIATION SERVICES 16.79 28.1 8 34 / aia.gr aia.gr / 35 04 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 4 Our Environment Our Commitment Environmental protection is a top priority not only for us but also for third parties operating at the airport. We responsibly and effectively monitor all environmental aspects and aim to minimise or prevent, where possible, the airport’s environmental impact on the Mesogeia region through initiatives that go well regulatory framework [International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Annex 16, our Airport Development Agreement (ADA) and Article 8 of the Ratifying Law 2338/1995]. All possible compliance risks are identified and efficiently addressed while remedial actions are performed is a key driver for the successful implementation of all our action plans. Furthermore, sharing of information at all levels and with all employees, business partners, state authorities and the public in general, is highly encouraged. beyond regulatory requirements. in a prompt and effective manner Raising Awareness in 2013: Our Corporate Environmental when necessary. We provide regular Policy focuses on our commitment and accurate information on our level Ten presentations on for continuous improvement of our of compliance and our efforts for environmental management environmental performance and excellence to the Board of Directors’ issues were made to a total initiatives for reducing emissions while Audit Committee. of 41 persons representing maximising energy efficiency in our The Environmental Services major third parties, which infrastructure and airport operations. Department reports to AIA’s Chief operate at the airport. Principles of sustainable development Operations Officer who has the are incorporated in our corporate responsibility to ensure that the We regularly review and update procedures. Company adapts to all current legal and our environmental objectives and regulatory requirements, proactively targets while our performance and responds to possible corporate achievements are regularly disclosed In accordance with our corporate environmental risks and whenever to the public. Compliance Policy, we are committed required implements remedial actions. During 2013, there was no legal to ensure that all aspects of our Environmental awareness amongst action taken against AIA nor any fine or activities are in full compliance with employees, members of the airport monetary sanction imposed related to the current environmental legal and community and local municipalities environmental aspects. Environmental Management System Our efforts are focused on effectively our certification remaining valid until companies of the airport community addressing all environmental January 2016. have been certified. Furthermore, challenges through our Environmental All AIA contractual agreements with environmental audits of third parties Management System (EMS), which third parties operating at the airport are conducted on a regular basis in has been certified according to the entail environmental requirements. order to assess compliance with the international standard ISO 14001 For example, all major third parties applicable national and European since 2000. In 2013, the first annual must establish an EMS and certify it in environmental legislation, Airport assessment audit of the EMS was accordance with ISO 14001 and/or the guidelines and regulations as well successfully conducted by an Eco-Management and Audit Scheme as their approved Environmental independent certification body with (EMAS) regulation. To date, thirty-nine Management Plans. Climate Change Addressing our contribution to Since this is a serious global concern, managing greenhouse gas emissions climate change is a central element we acknowledge the necessity to under our direct control, we guide and of our sustainability strategy, though respond to any challenge related to our influence organisations operating at there is no applicable national or business area. the airport community towards the international related framework. In addition to measuring and same direction. Airport Carbon Accreditation: AIA participates in a voluntary initiative led by the European region of Airports Council International (ACI Europe) aimed at managing greenhouse gas emissions under the control of airport operators. AIA is currently accredited at Level 3 (Optimisation) of Airport Carbon Accreditation and has set the following long-term goal: a 25% reduction in CO 2 emissions under AIA’s direct control by 2020 using 2005 as a baseline year 36 / aia.gr aia.gr / 37 04 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 To date, we have demonstrated a planting 2.7 million trees. AIA’s Airport emission sources and its work to 25% reduction in our carbon footprint Carbon Accreditation was recently engage (through workshops, training between 2005 and 2013, corresponding to a reduction of approximately 16,800 (in early 2014) upgraded to Level 3 (Optimisation) following the expansion sessions etc.) other members of the airport community in the fight against Energy tonnes of CO2, the equivalent of of its carbon footprint to include indirect climate change. Since January 2011, we are a licensed such, we have overall responsibility for Furthermore, we ensure that all airport Electricity Grid Manager that owns and all aspects of the airport’s electricity users have fair and equal access to operates an electricity grid/ network, grid, including consumption data electricity, based on structural and supplying the airport community with reporting, development, maintenance, transparent methods. AIA’s 2013 Carbon Footprint medium and low voltage electricity. As upgrade and safe operation. 2013 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) Grid Electricity 51,969,919 kWh 46,497 (*/**) Electricity Consumption Natural Gas 1,035,546 Nm 3 2,148 171,807 lt of gasoline 390 2013 2012 var % Vehicle Fleet 397,956 lt of diesel 1,065 Total Airport (MWh) (Refers to the entire airport community) 107,897 117,315 -8.0 16,265 lt of LPG 26 AIA only (MWh) (Refers to the company only) 51,970 56,443 -7.9 18,185 lt of diesel 49 Total Airport consumption per passenger (kWh / pax) 8.61 9.06 -5.0 Stationary Sources 8,343 lt of heating oil 21 Total 50,196 Under the Sales Agreement signed to the users/ consumers connected is responsible for the consumption * 2013 Total scope 1 emissions: 3,699 tonnes / 2013 Total scope 2 emissions: 46,497 tonnes ** Conversion assumption: 0.8947 kg C02 per kWh. has been calculated based on input from Hellenic Transmission System Operator (HTSO) and with the respective suppliers, we are to the grids, while assuring the grids’ measurement and reporting of the the Community Independent Transaction Log (CITL), which contains verified emissions from Greek facilities participating in the European Union’s responsible for the distribution and development, maintenance, upgrade said commodities for all consumers Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS). Emissions data from 2013 have not yet been published, therefore the best available estimate of the grid electricity recharging of Natural Gas and Water and safe operation. Furthermore, AIA including AIA’s own needs. emission factor (2012) is used. In 2013, its sixth year of physical servers with virtual ones. Our environmental performance Natural Gas Consumption implementation, our Climate Change • Initiation of the replacement of throughout the years motivates us to Corporate Action Plan had the telephone and data networks as part further improve the energy efficiency following results: of the airport-wide Next Generation of our company and to aid the airport 2013 2012 var % • Installation of harmonic filters in Network (NGN) upgrade project. community to do the same. Natural Gas Consumption the Main Terminal Building (MTB) to • Verification of AIA’s carbon footprint We continue to actively participate Total Airport (Nm 3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 2,220 2,685 -17.3 further reduce electricity consumption. by an external auditor in order for AIA in the global initiative “Earth Hour” by AIA only (Nm 3 x 1000) (Refers to the company only) 1,036 1,330 -22.1 • Installation of sensors to stop people to upgrade its participation in Airport shutting down one of the two airport Total Airport consumption per passenger (Nm 3 / pax) 0.18 0.21 -14.3 movers at the train station when Carbon Accreditation to Level 3 runways and reducing lighting in all not being used in order to reduce (Optimisation). buildings, staff parking areas and other Water Consumption electricity consumption. • Progress toward AIA’s long-term airport areas for one hour (March 23, Total Airport (m 3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 538 544 -1.1 • Completion of the study for the target of achieving a recycling rate of 2013). These symbolic actions were AIA only (m 3 x 1000) (Refers to the company only) 311 309 0.6 replacement of several existing Air 60% by 2016 (55% in 2013). also accompanied by informative Total Airport consumption per passenger (m 3 / pax) 0.043 0.042 2.4 Cooled Chillers with more energy • Finally, continued conversion of public announcements. efficient Water Cooled Chillers. paper-based corporate forms and • Continued replacement of AIA’s procedures to electronic format. Energy Conservation Measures 2013 2012 var % Assurance Comment on: Climate Change Energy Conservation Measures (Refers to the electricity consumption thoughout entire airport community) (vs previous year) Total Airport Savings (MWh) 9,418 3,040 209.8 We consider AIA’s recent Airport Carbon Accreditation upgrade to Level 3 (Optimisation) as Total Airport Savings CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 8,426 2,662 216.5 evidence of how the airport company continues to place great emphasis on addressing the AIA Savings (MWh) 4,473 783 471.3 challenge of Climate Change. Through our corporate interviews and document reviews, we Total Energy Conservation CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 4,002 685.80 483.6 have gathered evidence of AIA’s initiatives (workshops, training sessions etc.) to engage airport community third parties, as well as have performed focused interviews and evidence requests on AIA’s 2013 Climate Change Corporate Action Plan. Finally, we have reviewed AIA’s 2013 Carbon AIA holds an energy production 160,000m 2 that produces electricity at 0.2% higher than 2012 as a result of Footprint and Air Quality data, and while we found no errors in the calculations, we have suggested licence that permits the production Medium Voltage, feeding the national the favourable weather conditions, and that AIA enhances the presentation of data to better align with the relevant GRI G4 Airport and sale of renewable energy from its electricity system through AIA’s own 9.5% higher than initially anticipated 8,05MWp Photovoltaic Plant (PVP) grid. for the said year. Energy produced Operators Sector Disclosure requirements. These disclosures cover key aspects of sustainability which was commissioned in July 2011. Summarizing the 2013 annual during 2013 is equivalent to 12.6% of the performance that are meaningful and relevant to the Airport Operators sector. The PVP is located south–east of the operations, AIA’s PVP produced more airport’s total electricity consumption eastern runway, covering an area of than 13,600 MWh of clean energy, or 26.2% of AIA’s own electricity needs. 38 / aia.gr aia.gr / 39 04 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 PV Plant Operation Map of Flights Paths and NMTs 2013 2012 var % Total Energy Production (MWh) 13,634 13,604 0.2 Rafina Total PVP CO 2 emissions savings equivalent (tonnes) 12,198 11,823 3.2 Gerakas Pallini 7 Pikermi 4 6 Air Quality Glyka Nera AIA continuously monitors air quality Absorption Spectroscopy system before the airport began operating. and meteorological conditions both (DOAS), a SOnic Detection and Ground-level concentrations of the 10 5 Spata Artemis inside the airport fence and within the Ranging system (SODAR), a Radio major pollutants (NOx, O 3 , PM10, PM 2.5 , 3 surrounding communities. In addition, Acoustic Sounding System (RASS) SO 2 , CO and HCs), as well as basic 2 emissions of air pollutants from all and a Meteorological Station. meteorological parameters (wind 1 relevant airport sources are assessed The AQMN which consists of five speed and direction, temperature, while measures are taken to reduce permanent monitoring stations relative humidity, precipitation, total these emissions where possible. installed in the Municipalities of Glyka solar radiation and atmospheric Koropi AIA’s monitoring equipment includes Nera, Koropi, Markopoulo, Pallini and pressure), are measured. an Air Quality Monitoring Network Spata and of one mobile station has (AQMN), a Differential Optical been in operation since 1998, well 9 8 Limin Mesogaias Markopoulo Mean Concentrations of Monitored Pollutants at the AQMN Stations Reference to Government Gazette, section B, issue No 488, dated 30/3/2011 decision with protocol No H.Π. 14122/549/E.103 NO2 (μg/m3) O3 (μg/m3) PM10 (μg/m3) PM2.5 (μg/m3) SO2 (μg/m3) CO (mg/m3) HCs (ppm) Kalivia Thorikou 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Glyka Nera 17.1 18.1 89.0 87.4 29.0 27.2 n/m n/m 6.1 6.5 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Koropi 13.3 12.7 81.4 80.5 n/m n/m 24.0 23.3 n/m n/m n/m n/m 2.1 2.0 Markopoulo 13.9 14.7 83.9 84.8 45.3 41.4 n/m n/m n/m n/m 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Pallini 11.0 10.2 88.9 86.7 n/m n/m 16.0 15.8 6.7 5.7 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Spata 17.1 16.5 76.4 82.2 29.6 22.6 n/m n/m 3.5 3.7 0.3 0.3 2.2 2.1 Arrival routes Departure routes Noise Monitoring Terminal Legend AQMN: Air Quality Monitoring Network n/m: The pollutant is not measured at the specific station. Preferential Runway Use System Results Runway 2013 2012 Noise Take-offs representatives from the local Percentage of take-offs to the north from 23:00 to 07:00 03R 7% 5% Aircraft noise is one of the main mobile Noise Monitoring Terminals environmental challenges associated (NMTs) which provide a detailed profile communities in order to reduce noise Percentage of take-offs to the north from 15:00 to 18:00 03R 6% 3% with airport operations; hence, noise of the noise pattern in the residential levels in the residential areas around Landings abatement is an essential element of areas along flight routes. This system the airport (Koropi, Markopoulo, our corporate environmental strategy. is connected with the HCAA radar so Spata-Artemida, Rafina-Pikermi) Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 21L 14% 8% We address noise issues responsibly that correlations can be made based and along flight paths. The Strategic Percentage of landings to the south from 15:00 to 18:00 21L 3% 1% by taking measures aiming to reduce on the actual flight track information. Noise Map (SNM) for our airport was annoyance to our neighbours to a Since the airport opening, Noise revised in 2012 in accordance with the By avoiding take-offs to the north on Runway 03R and landings to the south on Runway 21L, we are able to reduce the noise nuisance for inhabitants of the region of Artemis during the afternoon and night. minimum. Abatement Procedures have requirements of the relevant national We have installed a NOise been defined and implemented and European legislation, the results of MOnitoring System (NOMOS) in collaboration with HCAA and which indicated that no revision of the consisting of 10 permanent and 1 other state entities, airlines and relevant action plan was required. 40 / aia.gr aia.gr / 41 04 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Average Noise Levels per Noise Monitoring Terminal (NMT) Water 2013 2012 We systematically monitor water implement a number of water-saving accepts wastewater primarily from NMT L den dB(A) L Night dB(A) L den dB(A) L Night dB(A) consumption (potable and irrigation), measures, such as the use of treated the technical bases of airlines but also 2 36.3 18.5 44.6 25.5 as well as the quality of surface and wastewater from our own Sewage from other sources. 3 58.3 42.9 59.1 40.4 groundwater. The water supply Treatment Plant (STP) for irrigation of In order to raise awareness, AIA network is closely monitored so non-public green areas at the airport. encourages all airport users to limit 4 59.0 49.7 57.5 48.4 possible leaks may be identified and An Industrial Wastewater Treatment their water consumption when using 5 49.7 31.8 54.5 34.3 promptly addressed. In addition, we Facility (IWTF) operating on site restrooms and kitchen facilities. 6 55.7 49.2 52.3 43.3 7 51.1 42.9 51.2 43.1 8 48.7 36.6 49.7 37.7 Wastewater Treatment (Refers to the entire airport community) 9 53.1 39.1 50.8 36.5 2013 2012 var % 10 31.2 18.4 30.0 19.9 Processed through Sewage Treatment Plant (m3 x 1000) 282 263 7.2 LEGEND: Lden and Lnight are calculated as defined in Government Decision 13586/724 (GGG 384B, 28/3/2006). Noise levels are measured in dB(A), a unit that denotes the human ear’s response to sound. The data for 2012 refer to noise levels Processed through Industrial Wastewater Treatment Facility (m x 1000) 3 3.2 2.5 28.0 generated from a/c flights only as required by the relevant new Joint Ministerial Decision (JMD 210474/2012) whereas in former years the total noise level was presented. Refers to AIA + airport community. The treated effluent from the Airport’s STP is used for irrigation of non-public green areas at the airport. The quality of surface water is vehicles. An approved Spillage Response in accordance with ICAO and IATA Since noise exposure is one of local authorities and citizen groups. site where concerned citizens may monitored regularly through ad hoc Plan is in place and is implemented each standards based on our Local Ground the primary environmental aspects Furthermore, we have established register their complaints or request sampling and analyses following rain time a spillage occurs. Handling Regulation and the respective impacting residents in the vicinity and operate – on a 24-hour basis a clarifications on noise related issues. In events as well as continuously by Due to the local climate, aircraft/ concession agreements with the airlines of the airport, we hold regular dedicated telephone line (“We Listen”) 2013, 25 complaints were handled. an Online Water Monitoring System helicopter ground anti/de-icing operations and ground handling companies. The meetings with representatives from and host a form on our corporate web (OWMS) installed prior to the airport’s are limited. Nevertheless, we set the total amount of aircraft and pavement main discharging point. Possible guidelines for the relevant procedures de/anti icing material applied for 2013 hydrocarbon spillages are immediately implemented by the ground handling was not exceeding 36m3 (MIX). During managed using bioremediating companies, which have the responsibility 2013, as per our Corporate Procedure, no Noise Complaints substances and appropriate sweeping for the provision of these services, treatment actions were required. Number of citizen broken down by origin complaints received (neighboring communities) 2013 2012 Waste & Recycling Artemis 16 8 Koropi 1 2 In line with our commitment to comply the airport. For 2013, the amount of food Ag. Kiriaki 0 0 with environmental regulations, waste from international flights was 974 Recycling: standards and best practices, we have tonnes. The amount of waste recycled has Other areas 8 10 developed a comprehensive waste Since 2005, we have established increased from 174 tonnes (3% of 25 20 management system based on “The cooperation with Alternative total solid non-hazardous waste) in Polluter Pays” principle that promotes Management Systems for the final 2001 to 5,024 tonnes in 2013 (55% separation at source and recycling. Solid disposal of hazardous waste. 34% of of total solid non-hazardous waste). Non-Hazardous Waste, Hazardous hazardous waste produced onsite in Comparative Noise Levels Waste and Medical/Clinical Waste are 2013 was transferred to Alternative the major types of waste generated at Management Systems, while the use and corporate correspondence). dB(A) remaining 66% was transferred to In parallel, various corporate tasks other licensed management facilities. (contract review, expense claims, annual Pain Limit 130 Waste: Moreover, all liquid industrial wastewater leave forms etc.) are administered Night Club 115 9,245 tonnes of waste were produced at the airport is treated onsite electronically. Our efforts to encourage Car horn 110 produced in 2013, of which at the Industrial Wastewater Treatment airport employees to recycle resulted in Bus 82.5 9,055 tonnes were Solid NonFacility (IWTF). the collection of 8 tonnes of recyclable Boeing 737-400 in NMT 3 80 Hazardous Waste, 189.7 tonnes Our commitment to recycling is materials at our Recycling Centre. were Hazardous Waste and 166 complemented by our use of recycled Furthermore, we encourage our partners Normal conversation 75 kg were Medical/Clinical Waste. materials for daily administrative tasks to develop similar environmentallyCar in residential area 75 (e.g. recycled paper for stationery friendly business practices. Boeing 737-400 in NMT 5 74 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 2 73 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 2 & 3 72.5 Hazardous Waste Processing 2013 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 5 70 2013 2012 Quiet residential area 50 Managed by Alternative Management Systems 34% 38% Whisper 30 Transferred to licensed Management facilities 66% 62% 42 / aia.gr aia.gr / 43 04 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Breakdown of solid Non-Hazardous Waste (tonnes) Biodiversity & Wildlife Control 2013 2012 We implement a comprehensive bioairport, while taking measures to as 15 habitat types as defined within Municipal Waste 4,029 4,185 monitoring programme of ecosystems control and reduce wildlife hazards for the relevant legislation. Recyclables 5,024 4,678 in the vicinity of the airport aiming to aircraft. The programme of trapping The following actions were Special Waste 2 1 protect of the region’s biodiversity by and relocating raptors launched implemented in 2013 for the applying international best practices. in 2009 continues to bear positive conservation and promotion of the site: The number of species of birds spotted results. • Clean-up of the wetland, especially at the airport has risen in recent years, We continue our successful the coastal zone. Recycling Breakdown of Non-Hazardous Waste in 2013 thus indicating the health of the local partnership with the Hellenic • Maintenance of existing footpaths, (tonnes) ecosystem. Ornithological Society to protect and signage, vegetation and fencing. 2013 2012 promote the Vravrona Wetland and • Monitoring of bird populations in the Adjacent Coastal Zone, a local site of wetland. Biodiversity: unique ecological value that belongs • Publication of a leaflet with The number of bird species to the Natura 2000 Network and has information about the wetland for recorded at the airport rose to 196 been identified as a Special Area of visitors. in 2013. Conservation (SAC). In addition, environmental According to information collected so presentations and guided tours are far, the biodiversity of this site includes arranged for schools, conservation Paper 2,041 2,182 Metal 268 229 Glass 150 130 Additionally, a team of specialists 100 plant taxa, 200 bird taxa, 27 taxa groups and cultural organisations. monitors and records wildlife at the of other terrestrial vertebrates as well 40.6% 5.3% 3.0% Plastic 1,080 827 Wood 330 360 21.5% 6.6% Tetra Pak 28 16 Aluminium 33 42 Tyres 7 0 0.6% 0.7% 0.1% Edible Oils 46 26 Bio-waste 334 364 0.9% 6.6% Construction Other Sludge STP 560 449 & demolition 147 42 recyclables 0 11 waste 11.1% 2.9% 0.0% Total 2013 Total 2012 5,024 4,678 Legend: AIA began recycling sludge from the STP to create compost in mid-2011, while recycling of construction and demolition waste started in 2012. 44 / aia.gr aia.gr / 45 05 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 5 Our People Presenting our Team At the end of 2013 our headcount was 635 people under open-ended contracts and 42 people seasonally employed. A significant part of our personnel was at 1.1% for 2013. AIA supports equal treatment of both genders and offers equal opportunities without discrimination. However, while among Management women made up 16.2% of the total. Considerable importance is given to the educational level of our workforce resides at the local communities, which due to the nature of airport business and our aim is to attract, develop Our people are a valuable resource and a key business differentiator for only reflects our unbreakable bond and particularly the nature of most and retain suitable and competent with the Mesogeia area. The entire AIA technical jobs the ratio of women to employees. Our workforce is highly our Company. AIA’s success depends on the success of our individual management resides in the Attika region. men is relatively low. Thus, in 2013, educated and with a significant Turnover ratio excluding fixed term staff 33% of all employees were female, percentage with post-graduate studies. employees and at all times we aim to treat them equitably, to provide them with a safe and sustainable working environment and to help them further 31% develop their individual skills. of our people reside at the local communities 15% of the total AIA workforce has a Master’s or PhD degree Employment by Gender 2013 2012 Number of employees 33% 67% 677 33% 67% 686 46 / aia.gr aia.gr / 47 05 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Employment by type of contract (all AIA employees are full-time employees) Providing a safe workplace 2013 Men Women Recognising the importance of regarding employee health and safety. effectiveness of incident reporting Open-end contacts 423 212 employees’ overall wellness, AIA As part of our accident prevention processes. Especially, first-aid and Seasonally employed 26 13 takes particular care to provide a programme, we encourage employees near-misses records are important as Apprenticeships 2 1 contemporary, healthy and safe working to report all incidents regardless to assess the effectiveness of existing Total 451 226 environment, by keeping health and of their severity (including first-aid controls, to identify whether new trends safety risks to a minimum. At the same incidents and near misses) and we have are developing and to implement new time, AIA complies with national and developed procedures and e-tools in procedures, to avoid future serious international regulations and standards order to improve the efficiency and incidents. Female Managers Diversity in Management of total management 20 Occupational Accidents 16.2% 16.2% 14.3% 2013 2012 var 15 Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) 9 12 -25.0% 10 Accident Frequency Rate 0.29 0 5 Frequency Rate: Number of lost work day cases x 200,000 / total workhours 0 2013 2012 2011 In 2013, Management accounts for the 5.4% of the total workforce. Women managers account for 16.2% of the Management. Breakdown of Accidents 12 2013 2012 Age Distribution 12 10 150 men women 8 7 121 120 111 6 5 4 88 90 2 90 2 2 72 0 0 0 58 0 60 Lost workday cases First Aid Cases Accidents to / from work Fatal accidents 32 33 30 21 20 12 Employees occupied in hazardous Equipment is provided. health and safety, AIA Management 6 7 5 1 0 tasks or hazardous areas are given AIA cooperates with the occupational together with the Health and Safety 0 special attention. Training sessions doctor who keeps all employees’ Committee which is elected by 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45-50 50-55 >55 specialised for their activities’ hazards medical records, in order to ensure that the employees and represents all are organised in order to inform but also AIA staff is in good health to respond employees holds meetings on a to increase awareness level. For risks to job-related duties. This process is regular basis. During those meetings Educational Status that cannot be otherwise eliminated, periodical and bound by confidentiality. working conditions are evaluated and (open-end contract employees) appropriate Personal Protective Being responsible for occupational suggestions for improvement are raised. 150 men women 125 120 Investing in Employee Training and Development 90 84 80 72 In a highly specialised industry such as During implementation of AIA’s 56 59 aviation, implementing our business training plan and in order to design AIA’s Training Plan in 2013: 60 50 • 15,131 hours of training, strategy is closely linked with developing the most effective training solutions, 35 37 our people’s skills and capabilities. Thus, we use a variety of interactive training • 86.8% of the employees attended 30 continuous professional and personal methods as to develop employees’ at least one training session 18 • 22.2 hours of training per full 11 training is of vital importance and abilities, such as in-class training, 7 1 0 significant resources are allocated to on-the-job training, workshops, job time equivalent employee (FTE). 0 pertinent activities. assignments as well as e-learning. PHD Master’s University TEI College Lyceum Basic 48 / aia.gr aia.gr / 49 05 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The pension programme has to reduce the gap between the Training Subjects AIA Group Life & Medical been established since 2003 for State pension and the salary before (in hours) Insurance Programme 2013: all employees with open-ended retirement. The pension scheme is • 1,854 persons covered employment contracts in order to highly appreciated by the eligible (AIA employees and dependants) supplement the State retirement employees, 94.2% of which have • 2,787 insurance claims served income. It is based on the philosophy selected to participate with their own (reimbursed) of matching contribution (a shared contribution. responsibility approach), aiming 77% 15% 8% Work Life Balance Job-related Training Compliance Training Developmental Training We recognise that balance between athletic league at a European level, is an idea created by the Airport quality of life and quality of work is since more than 100 corporate teams Company, with the main objective Note: Training figures relate to all AIA employees participating in training courses (including separations and fixed-term employees). essential to maintaining a healthy, and 1,000 athletes participate despite to bring people from the airport Outlines the distribution of training categories vs related training hours. satisfying and productive workforce. the recent financial crisis. AIA’s team, community together. The tournament We aim to get our employees fully supported by our administration, has been taking place for 13 involved, creating a real “esprit de has already completed the first phase consecutive years so far involving Training Categories corps”, integrating management and of the games and was qualified for various teams from the airport (in hours) workforce at every level. We also the A2 class of the championship. community. In the football period 2013 2012 promote engagement of our people in Although next year’s goal is to improve 2012-2013, AIA’s team ranked second, Compliance Training 2,213 1,994 sporting activities, therefore support ranking, what really matters is that however succeeded to win the gold Developmental Training 1,186 2,774 football and basketball activities. colleagues from different departments medal at the Champions League, Job-related Training 11,732 8,340 For the 8th consecutive year AIA’s and levels come together on the court where participation was also open to basketball team took part in the “Nikos and have fun with their favourite sport other companies. Note: Corporate training: no data in 2012 & 2013 Galis” championship for companies, every week. the oldest and largest corporate The 5x5 Airport football tournament During 2013 a management and successfully completed two courses: an annual basis by the Employee development programme was • Global Safety Network II Airport Performance Appraisal System, implemented, linked to our performance Operations and Safety (15 participants) which takes into account his/her management system. The aim of the • Developing a Customer Centric position, responsibilities and tasks. programme was to reinforce the skills of Culture at Airport (16 participants) The performance appraisal procedure Involving, informing and engaging people all managers in setting goals and giving AIA considers third parties as an ensures guidance of employees by their feedback – benefiting both employees important part for the airport smooth managers and creates the framework Maintaining peace in the workplace, Blood Donation Bank. The resulting on the Intranet. However, the most and managers. Moreover, in order to operation; therefore we seek to also for recognising individual contribution. where the presence of Union blood reserves are used to cover the important internal communication promote thorough awareness of our involve their personnel in the training Similarly, during the performance representatives is strong, has always increased blood demands of children tool that AIA possesses is its Intranet. revised Code of Business Conduct, activities, aiming to maintain a win-win appraisal meeting employees are been our priority. We recognise the suffering from leukaemia and other It enables employees to get prompt, we worked closely with an external partnership. given the opportunity to review their importance of staff engagement and types of cancer, as well as the needs complete and interactive information training provider and launched an evaluation and openly express their continue encouraging a better flow of the blood donors themselves, their on all key matters regarding AIA’s online learning programme which was views prior to finalising the procedure. of communication. We are fully aware families or close relatives, in the event developments and operations, news completed by all employees. Training for 3rd Parties 2013: A human resource management of our responsibility as an employer of an emergency. Our employees are and information about workplace AIA has launched a strategic • Environmental Awareness Training: information system is under and strive to maintain good relations encouraged to participate in the blood services and benefits. partnership with ACI on 2007 and 41 training hours implementation to replace our existing with our employees’ representatives: donation programme and during 2013 To monitor the working environment since then operates as an official and • Safety & Security Training: system aiming to cover the entire AIA Employees’ Union and the Health 41 units of blood were donated. and other factors important in attaining recognised ACI Global Training Hub 6,468 training hours employee life cycle. This integrated & Safety Committee (the Health & For one more year, Santa Claus AIA’s strategic goals, an employee Center (GTH). Through this partnership system will provide information used Safety Committee is an employeekept his promise, visited the annual opinion survey was carried out to elicit AIA has the opportunity to exchange in HR decision-making such as elected body aiming at consulting AIA Christmas party that AIA organises for the views of the employees. The survey views and ideas with other experts With the aim to further develop the payroll, time and labour management, Management in order to locate, record, its employees’ children and gave away was conducted and results processed from the aviation industry. Under this appropriate skills and competencies, recruiting, employee benefits, training elaborate on, analyse and research presents. by an external company. The decision partnership, during 2013, we organised each employee is evaluated on and performance analysis. harmful elements and/or conditions Our success greatly depends to commission the project to a and measures, which need to be taken upon all employees’ understanding specialised, independent organisation to improve occupational health & of how their work contributes to the was made in order to ensure the safety). Company’s overall vision and business most efficient possible approach to An open and honest dialogue has strategy; therefore we use information the task and to guarantee the fullest Caring for our people been well-established for many tools such as the Corporate Intranet possible objectivity in relation to the years and takes place mainly through and AIA’s magazine to disseminate findings and conclusions. The survey AIA’s approach to healthcare focuses programmes are an integral part of the coverage for all permanent AIA established meetings on an annual and information to employees. Our overall was addressed to all employees and on providing comprehensive plan total compensation policy and strategy employees and their dependent family regular basis. goal is to ensure that employees although most of the questions were of coverage to employees and their and are aligned with market practices. members are highly appreciated by all In cooperation with the Blood receive valid information on a timely the closed type, those interested could families to ensure a healthy, productive The group life and medical insurance eligible employees. Transfusion Centre of Aglaia Kyriakou basis. “WeRAIA”, AIA’s magazine, is also take advantage of open type and engaged workforce. Our benefit programme as well as the medical Children Hospital, AIA has created a published quarterly and also posted questions to express their views. 50 / aia.gr aia.gr / 51 06 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 6 Our Citizenship Our Commitment We undertake an active role as a social partner in the local communities in which we operate. In line with our Corporate Responsibility Policy, we focus on delivering sustainable added value to the adjacent communities as to advance social partnership and prosperity in the region. Considering that Athens International Airport is more than a transportation hub, we support and promote the attractiveness of the city of Athens as a tourist destination; we promote wider cultural activities but also we support a number of humanitarian causes thus enhancing our social commitment. Local Communities The Airport Company has a diversified Through a continuous dialogue with the Stakeholder Engagement: and lasting impact on the local region authorities and associations of the local In 2013, a total of 207 meetings by supporting the development of communities on issues of common took place with representatives infrastructure and various social, concern, we aim to sustain a peaceful from local authorities, associations, humanitarian and cultural causes. co-existence with our neighbours. schools and individuals. Engaging Local Entities (breakdown of meetings) 2013 2012 Municipalities 112 130 Associations 42 71 Schools 29 36 Individuals 24 38 Total 207 275 In close cooperation with local of education, culture and athletics, Action Plan focused on the emerging authorities and associations each transportation, society and the social needs of the community while year we develop our Corporate Local environment. Taking into account the responding to requests from the Communities Action Plan which current economic situation in Greece, Municipalities of Spata-Artemis, Koropi, addresses needs related to the fields our 2013 Corporate Local Communities Markopoulo and Rafina-Pikermi. Local Community Investment* 2013 2012 Local Community Investment(€ x 1,000) (* including provisions) 205.1 186.3 Silver Medal Local Community Investment (breakdown of projects/activities) cat. Travel & Tourism Education 2013 112,820 2012 75,1 85 % of total investment 83.8 Culture & Athletics 7,800 25,359 5.8 Society 13,837 38,063 10.3 Environment 245 47,642 0.2 Total 134,702 186,249 100.0 52 / aia.gr aia.gr / 53 06 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The actions implemented in 2013 are Culture and Athletics Do It Greece’ clean-up of a coastal Athenspotlighted City Card atmosphere of Athens through ideal 130,000 card holders. Each ASP card described below: area in Artemis. deals. The ASP programme is related holder enjoys big discounts, special Education • Financial support was offered • Financial support was provided to We continued the “athenspotlighted” with the “athenspotlighted” city card offers and extra benefits at a great to major local cultural and athletic animal welfare associations in Spataprogramme (ASP) which enables the first city card for Athens which has variety of selected Athenian spots. • Financial rewards were offered to 14 associations from Spata-Artemis Artemis, Koropi, Markopoulo and travellers to discover the unique been offered to arriving passengers. high school students in Spata-Artemis, for their annual cultural and athletic Rafina-Pikermi. character, history and cosmopolitan Currently the programme counts Koropi and Markopoulo who excelled events. Environment academically and were admitted to • A heavy-duty storage system and higher educational institutions. other equipment as well as antiquities • The Vravrona Wetland Protection Assurance Comment on: Destination Marketing • Electronic equipment, air conditioning maintenance services were donated to and Promotion Programme was units, furnishings, domestic the Vravrona Museum. implemented in collaboration with the During our interviews with corporate representatives, we discussed how the airport company has long appliances, sports equipment and Society Hellenic Ornithological Society (HOS) been promoting the city of Athens, and elaborated on how the concept of destination marketing has other infrastructure were provided and the Municipality of Markopoulo been formally incorporated into AIA’s marketing plan. Through our review of the GRI G4 Principles for to schools in the neighbouring • Medicine was supplied to the Mesogaia. Defining Report Content, AIA’s corporate representatives explained that further enhancing the company’s communities. municipal infirmaries of Spata-Artemis • The Prasinos Lofos area in Artemis destination marketing is linked to the overall sustainability context need to restore the city of Athens’ • All 27 public schools in the to cover operational needs and the was cleaned up for the seventh Municipality of Spata-Artemis were “Help at Home” programme. consecutive year as a precautionary image. To this end, we reviewed evidence of the “City Pair Initiative” and how it is based on stakeholder rewarded for their participation in our • Supermarket vouchers were measure against forest fires. engagement between airports and other third parties. We consider that AIA could further enhance the recycling programme. distributed to 303 families in need • Maintenance and planting took place initiative by promoting the “Perhaψ You’re an Aθenian too” campaign within the city of Athens. • Christmas presents were distributed during the Easter and Christmas in the coastal park of Artemis on the to 128 kindergartners in Artemis. periods in collaboration with social occasion of World Environment Day. • Two scholarships were awarded services of the Municipality of Spata• Financial support was provided to to postgraduate students studying Artemis. the wildlife welfare association ANIMA environmental science at University of • Financial support was provided to a within the frame of our cooperation on AIA’s Art & Cultural Programme the Aegean. local volunteer association for a ‘Let’s the raptor release programme. During the 12 years since the Stratis Vogiatzis, “Caldera” by Dimitris photographers, visitors and travellers commencement of its operations, Kleanthis, “Salt” by Kostas Masseras had the opportunity to come closer Athens International Airport has and “Aegeanscapes” by Sokratis to the world of the birds of the Greek proved that apart from its operational Baltagiannis,as well as a video-trilogy nature. excellence and successful business from the series Living Postcards of Together with the culture platform Promoting the city of Athens model, it has also become a cultural Emmanouil Papadopoulos. “ελculture” we also introduced a new hub for travellers and visitors. Furthermore, we cooperated with entertainment and cultural programme During the last three years we have of airport CEOs and top industry announced a new initiative called the As a crossroads of cultures, we ANAPLOUS-Cultural & Educational named «Fly me to the Moon». This supported and enhanced Athens’ officials in Athens in October 2013. “City Pair Initiative”. actively participate in the cultural life Projects, and presented the exhibition was a festive “journey”, with concerts, attractiveness as a tourist destination The aim of the event was the synthesis Under the scheme of cooperation of the city of Athens. Approximately “My Own Iliad”, created by the performances and happenings and assisted in the recovery of of ideas and opinions on addressing and mutual support between 18 250,000 visitors per year visit the Cypriot painter George Koumouros occurring throughout the year. Many the city’s image through strategic challenges, trends and issues of fellow airports from around the permanent airport exhibitions, namely and dedicated to Homer’s Iliad. The cultural activities by popular musicians, cooperation and synergies with today’s aviation. world, we signed Memoranda of the exhibition of Archaeological exhibition aimed to promote the dancers and actors took place at the tourism organisations and associations The Symposium included speeches Understanding with the respective Findings, the “Acropolis Museum” Hellenic culture and civilisation to airport premises and managed to (Ministry of Tourism, Association of and panel discussions conducted by airport representatives, who committed exhibition and the new interactive visitors travelling to Athens. enhance passenger and visitor airport Tourism enterprises, GNTO, Marketing high-level executives of the industry, to promote “Destination-Athens” with all exhibition dedicated to Eleftherios In the airport’s “Art & Environment” experience. Vanilla Swing, The Bet, Greece, etc.) as well as a series of including CEOs, representatives from their available means, on a reciprocity Venizelos, which has been refurbished exhibition area we hosted, in Belleville, World of Mouth, Abovo and actions and initiatives through our ACI World / Europe, the Tourism and basis. Official airport magazines, with the support of the National cooperation with Medecins Sans Opera Chaotique were the bands and “Destination Marketing” programme. Transport industry, while the opening websites, social media accounts and Research Foundation “Eleftherios K. Frontieres (MSF), the “Urban Survivors artists who p articipated. On the 21st speech was held by the Minister of airport grounds in Canada, the USA, Venizelos” and the Region of Crete. – A journey into the margins of June we celebrated the International 1st Airport Chief Executives’ Tourism, Mrs. Olga Kefalogianni. Latin America, the European Union and Regarding temporary exhibitions, contemporary cities” exhibition Music Day by organising the “Play Aimed to boost the attractiveness Russia already participate in the “City we cooperated with Ileana Tounta which revealed urban survivors’ daily me – the Piano Project” and hosting for Symposium “City Pair and the dynamics of the city of Athens Pair Initiative” with the key message Contemporary Art Centre and hosted lives, through the lens of famous three days a lot of musical happenings Initiative” as a destination, especially during “Perhaψ You’re an Aθenian too” at our premises a video Art Projection photographers of NOOR / Apeiron at the Main Terminal Building (MTB). We initiated the annual, international a period impacted by the adverse in a promotional campaign that by Swiss artist Yves Ackermann under Agency. Following the “Play-methe Piano Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium macroeconomic conditions, during addresses a market of more than the title “My Love Soon”. The imagery Regarding art and environment project”, the three pianos were (ACES), by hosting the first gathering the works of the Symposium, we 170,000,000 passengers. of this video extended to painting with awareness, we continued our offered to the Children Non-profit references to symbolism and realism. cooperation with MEDASSET with Organisations: “The Smile of the Child”, In cooperation with the art and the exhibition “Inspired by the marine “The Ergastiri” and the “SOS Children’s history enthusiasm harmony culture platform Aegeanale, we presented the video art projection environment”, by presenting 25 posters in order to raise awareness for our own Villages in Vari”. In addition, we continued to support Perhaψ You’re an Aθenian too titled “Aegean Experienced”. The Mediterranean Sea. Greek cultural entities such as the exhibition hosted 15 icons from the Furthermore, in cooperation with Athens Concert Hall Megaron, the works of seven artists who were the Hellenic Ornithological Society Greek National Theatre, the Greek inspired by the Greek archipelago: we hosted the exhibition “Birds and Theatre International, the Nomismatic paradise tragedy philoxenia comedy “Mare Liberum” by Georgis aircraft in parallel flights”. Through Museum, the Byzantine and Christian Gerolympos, “Caravan Project” by 30 snapshots of birds and aircraft Museum and the Athens Video Art & Thekla Malamou, “Blind Fisherman” by captured by Greek and foreign Festival Production. 54 / aia.gr aia.gr / 55 06 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Art & Culture Investment to the Voluntary group “Forest Business School for their Scholarship a scholarship to a candidate from the (€ x 1,000) Protection & Fire Prevention” at Vari Fund Raising Programme. Aiming Balkans. and to the UNESCO department of at inspiring students to use new We continued our support for 2013 2012 Piraeus and Islands. technologies and introduce them in initiatives related with education Cultural sponsorships 12.2 89.7 Aiming to raise public awareness a creative way in the magical world and training of unemployed youth. towards the safe recovery of lost of science and applications we Under this new pillar of our corporate Art Exhibitions / Events 64.5 93.3 children and the elderly, we participate supported the Avgoulea-Linardatou citizenship commitment we supported in the “Amber Alert” and “Silver Alert” School. Furthermore, we supported the “Entrepreneurship & Career programme, a volunteer partnership the association of the Graduates of Panorama 2013” organised by the between law enforcement agencies, the German School of Athens and Research Centre of Strategic Business Sponsorship Program 2013 broadcasters, transportation related participated for the 5th consecutive Management of the Athens University (€ x 1,000) (breakdown) parties and the wireless industry. year in the MBA International of Economics and Business, focusing Regarding educational institutions, Programme of the Athens University of on business start–up seminars for we supported the ALBA Graduate Economics and Business by offering unemployed youth. 4.1 82.2 9.7 8.8 104.9 21.8 AIA’s Digital Engagement In 2013 we established our digital well as Responsive Web Design the unique and resonant nature of the Business Social Various Social footprint by launching our new (RWD). Easy to use extras which European digital community as well as Sports Business General Aviation Sector Humanitarian Children/ Youth Science corporate website while introducing include a flight tracker, parking prethe Greek: Gold Ermis Award 2013”. our Facebook and Twitter accounts. booking, information on live traffic Following the launch of the new The newly developed corporate incidents, predefined routes with map corporate website, last October we website is a customised approach rendering and even an application entered Facebook and Twitter, aiming upon information architecture and for uploading photos, make the site to increase digital touch points and content development based on the ideal companion for all visitors reinforce our presence within the digital A welcoming airport for children travellers specific needs, enhanced who love travelling, whether they ecosystem. Our social media activity with highly attractive design. www. are at the airport or in Athens. It has complements corporate website • Airport Visitors Service In this context, in 2013 we welcomed • Airport Children’s Play Area aia.gr boosts the traveler / visitor been awarded with the Silver Medal operation. We remain committed to in total 2,000 school visitors from 8 perspective offering accurate in the Travel & Tourism category at enhance the airport’s friendly and We host educational visits to the airport kindergarten schools, 10 elementary The Airport’s Children Play Area information and advanced tools and the European “Lovie Awards 2013”, human image through a constant and premises so that school-children can schools, 14 high schools, 3 Public welcomed 5,542 young visitors and applications of high technology as which were focused on recognising engaging dialogue with the public. broaden their horizons through a “virtual or Private Vocational Schools, the their families during 2013. The facility travelling” at the airport facilities and University of Athens and Piraeus, as is operated by personnel of the operational procedures. The visit lasts well as 18 specialised educational Association “The Smile of the Child”. 2½ hours and includes a presentation institutions. Travelling public applauds the care of the Main Terminal Building (MTB), We also hosted specialised visits services provided over the years of Archaeological Museum, Cultural of Hellenic Association of Travel and its operation more than 54,250 young exhibitions, Baggage Reclaim Area, Tourism Agencies (HATTA) for students visitors and their families have enjoyed etc. and a visit to the airport fire station with disabilities and “Perivolaki”, a nonthis innovative service. where the unique fire trucks “Panthers” profitable association for children with are located. special needs. Enhancing Social Commitment An important milestone of our “I.O.A.S. – Panos Mylonas“ Institute” significant amount to “ELPIDA”, the corporate responsibility strategy is for the promotion of the campaign Association of Friends of Children with to strengthen our social commitment “Travelling Greece in comfort and Cancer, in order to partially cover the by supporting children and social safety”. cost of the guest house used by the groups in need. In this aspect, we We continued to support various families of children with neoplasmatic continued our multi-dimensional social organisations with special focus diseases. programme by contributing to national on children issues such as “MakeIn addition, in order to facilitate and international non-governmental A-Wish”, “The Smile of the Child” schoolchildren’ education, we donated humanitarian activities such as and UNICEF, all children welfare 26 used personal computers and ActionAid, Special Olympics-Hellas and organizations. We also donated a printers to Greek elementary schools, 56 / aia.gr aia.gr / 57 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 7 Sustainability Framework and Commitment UN Global Compact / Communication On Progress (COP) Since June 2008, AIA committed through its Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ioannis N. Paraschis, to embed the UN Global Compact ten ethical principles and accountability within its sphere of influence. AIA is a company-member of the Global Compact Network Hellas In order to enhance credibility towards its commitment to the UNGC principles, AIA reports its continuous improvement per principle area, on an annual basis. UNGC COP is a communication tool towards the UNGC Headquarters and AIA’s and participates in multi-stakeholder stakeholder groups. engagement activities that promote Here under is the reference of the initiative’s character and the company’s practices related to the company’s support to deepen its UNGC principles: commitment and actions. AIA has adopted a structured reporting framework in order to reinforce credibility in disclosing sustainability information. Area UNGC Principles Page 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights p. 14, 23, 31, 32, Human Rights 33, 35, 49, 50, 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses 51, 56, 57 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Labour Standards 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour p. 14, 23, 49 5: Business should uphold effective abolition of child labour 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility p. 12, 13, 37-45 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Anti-corruption 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery p. 9, 12, 13, 14, 23, 50 58 / aia.gr aia.gr / 59 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance GRI G4 Content Index for “In accordance” Core Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) answer This Content Index provides an overview of the G4 Standard Disclosures based on the selections made, Describe the organization’s supply including Airport Operators Sector Disclosures. G4-12 chain. p.23 √ GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External G4-13 the organization’s size, structure, p.6, 11 √ Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance ownership, or its supply chain Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) answer Report whether and how the STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-14 precautionary approach or principle is p.12-13 √ addressed by the organization. Provide a statement from the List externally developed economic, most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, environmental and social charters, G4-1 or equivalent senior position) about p.6-9 √ G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which p.37 √ the relevance of sustainability to the the organization subscribes or which organization and the organization’s it endorses. strategy for addressing sustainability. List memberships of associations ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (such as industry associations) and G4-16 national or international advocacy p.21 √ G4-3 Report the name of the organization. p.10 √ organizations Report the primary brands, products, G4-4 and services. p.10, 20-21 √ IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES List all entities included in the Report the location of the G4-5 organization’s headquarters. p.10, 68 √ organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents, Report the number of countries report whether any entity included where the organization operates, G4-17 in the organization’s consolidated p.10 √ and names of countries where either financial statements or equivalent G4-6 the organization has significant p.10, 68 √ documents is not covered by the operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics report. covered in the report. Explain the process for defining Report the nature of ownership and the report content and the Aspect G4-7 legal form. p.10 √ G4-18 Boundaries and how the organization p.15-17 √ has implemented the Reporting Report the markets served (including Principles for Defining Report Content. geographic breakdown, sectors p.24 / G4-8 served, and types of customers and aerostat* √ List all the material Aspects identified beneficiaries). G4-19 in the process for defining report p.15-17 √ p.20-21, 47 content. G4-9 Report the scale of the organization / financial √ For each material Aspect, report statements** G4-20 the Aspect Boundary within the p.15-17 √ Report the total number of employees organization. by employment contract and For each material Aspect, report gender,the total number of permanent G4-21 the Aspect Boundary outside the p.15-17 √ employees by employment type organization. and gender, the total workforce Report the effect of any restatements by employees and supervised of information provided in previous workers and by gender, the total G4-22 reports, and the reasons for such p.68 √ workforce by region and gender, whether a substantial portion of the restatements. G4-10 organization’s work is performed by p.47 √ Report significant changes from workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals G4-23 previous reporting periods in the p.68 √ Scope and Aspect Boundaries. other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT supervised employees of contractors Provide a list of stakeholder groups and any significant variations in G4-24 engaged by the organization. p.15 √ employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in Report the basis for identification and the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom p.15 √ to engage. All AIA employees Report the organization’s approach are covered to stakeholder engagement, by the including frequency of engagement Report the percentage of total minimum by type and by stakeholder group, G4-11 employees covered by collective requirements √ G4-26 and an indication of whether any of p.15-17 √ bargaining agreements. of the the engagement was undertaken National Collective specifically as part of the report labor preparation process. Agreement. *http://www.aia.gr/company-and-business/the-company/Corporate-Publications/aerostat **http://www.aia.gr/userfiles/675393df-ab1a-4b77-826c-f3096a3d7f12/2013_Financial_Statements.pdf 60 / aia.gr aia.gr / 61 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance answer Link / Direct Report key topics and concerns that answer have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the CATEGORY: ECONOMIC organization has responded to those G4-27 key topics and concerns, including p.15-17 √ MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE through its reporting. Report the p.22-23 / stakeholder groups that raised each Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA financial of the key topics and concerns. Approach statements** REPORT PROFILE Direct economic value generated and p.10, 17, 36-37, G4-EC1 Reporting period (such as fiscal distributed 45 G4-28 or calendar year) for information p.68 √ p.50-51 / provided. Coverage of the organization’s G4-EC3 financial defined benefit plan obligations Date of most recent previous report statements** G4-29 (if any). p.68 √ MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE (TRAFFIC) Reporting cycle (such as annual, G4-30 biennial). p.68 √ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management p.24-25, 46√ Approach 47 / aerostat* Provide the contact point for Proportion of senior management G4-31 questions regarding the report or its p.73 √ G4-EC6 hired from the local community at p.47 √ contents. significant locations of operation Report the ‘in accordance’ option p.25 / the organization has chosen, the AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage. aerostat* √ GRI Content Index for the chosen option and the reference to the MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT External Assurance Report, if the p.60-65, 68, Generic Disclosures on Management p.18-19, 20-21 G4-32 report has been externally assured. 69-72 √ G4-DMA Approach / study*** √ GRI recommends the use of external Significant indirect economic impacts, p.18-19, 20-21 assurance but it is not a requirement G4-EC8 including the extent of impacts / study*** √ to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY to seeking external assurance for Generic Disclosures on Management p.37, 39 / the report, if not included in the G4-DMA Approach environment**** assurance report accompanying the Energy consumption within the sustainability report, report the scope G4-EN3 p.39 organization and basis of any external assurance G4-33 provided, report the relationship p.69-72 √ Energy consumption outside of the G4-EN4 p.39 between the organization and the organization assurance providers and whether the G4-EN5 Energy intensity p.39 highest governance body or senior MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS & CLIMATE CHANGE executives are involved in seeking Generic Disclosures on Management p.37-38, 40/ assurance for the organization’s G4-DMA Approach environment**** √ sustainability report. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) GOVERNANCE G4-EN15 emissions (Scope 1) p.38 √ Report the governance structure Energy indirect greenhouse gas of the organization, including G4-EN16 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p.38 √ committees of the highest G4-34 governance body. Identify any p.11-12, 73 √ Ambient air quality levers according committees responsible for decisionto poppulant concentrations in making on economic, environmental AO5 microgram per cubic meter(μg/m3) or p.40 √ and social impacts. parts per million(PPM) by regulatory rejime. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Generic Disclosures on Management p.37, 43-44/ G4-56 p.14 √ G4-DMA Approach environment**** √ behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Total weight of waste by type and G4-EN23 disposal method p.43-44 √ Aircraft and pavement de-icing/antAO6 icing fluid used and treated by m3 p.43 √ and/or metric tonnes. *http://www.aia.gr/company-and-business/the-company/Corporate-Publications/aerostat **http://www.aia.gr/userfiles/675393df-ab1a-4b77-826c-f3096a3d7f12/2013_Financial_Statements.pdf ***http://www.aia.gr/ebooks/EUAStudyEN/index.html **** http://www.aia.gr/company-and-business/the-company/Corporate-Publications/enviroment 62 / aia.gr aia.gr / 63 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance Link / Direct Link / Direct answer answer MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management p.37 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER SAFETY (INCLUDING AVIATION & SECURITY) Approach Generic Disclosures on Management Monetary value of significant fines G4-DMA Approach p.30-32 √ and total number of non-monetary Health G4-EN29 p.37 sanctions for non-compliance with and safety environmental laws and regulations impacts are Percentage of significant product and MATERIAL ASPECT: NOISE service categories for which health assessed G4-PR1 and safety impacts are assessed for for both √ Report on defining any noise targets aviation and or limits applicable to the airport, improvement non-aviation stating whether they are voluntary service or legally binding, and provide an categories indication of progress, details of noise p.40-41/ Wildlife strike G4-DMA measurement and monitoring system; environment**** √ data cannot operational measures to minimize be disclosed noise impact, flight restrictions and but is reported noise protection schemes offered by to the relevant The information authority the airport. is subject Total number of wildlife strikes per (Hellenic Wildlife Strike According to AO9 10,000 aircraft movements Data to specific Civil Aviation √ the results of confidentiality Authority) in the Airport constraints accordance with Strategic all requirements Noise Map, arising from inhabited national and areas European included are legislation. not exposed Percentage to noise levels change of MATERIAL ASPECT: OPERATIONAL READINESS & EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Number and percentage change of The information above the people residing Missing census Report policies /programs on AO7 people residing in areas affected by limits set by in areas is currently data √ business continuity in the event of an noise. unavailable authorities. affected by emergency, any policy for mitigating Still, it is not noise risk that is reviewed and revised possible regularly should be included. Report to disclose certain G4-DMA on management of events affecting p.30-31 √ required service quality, on procedures/ information process for quality control of service due to and on programs /procedures for missing facilities which are used by person census data. with special needs. AIA SPECIFIC CATEGORY: SOCIAL INDICATOR Critical Systems Availability p.30 √ SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Approach p.49 √ Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and G4-LA5 safety committees that help monitor p.49 √ and advise on occupational health and saftey programs SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA p.53-54 Approach Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 p.53-54 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs **** http://www.aia.gr/company-and-business/the-company/Corporate-Publications/enviroment 64 / aia.gr aia.gr / 65 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES Linkage table between ISO 26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Within the framework of the alignment of AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Policy with ISO26000, the following table summarizes the representation Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health of adherence to the standard through the application of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. G4-PR1 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Principles of social responsibility 4 Fair operating practices 6.6 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organisation’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Guidelines provides AIA with a tool for accounting for and Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Transparency 4.3 being transparent in its impacts on the economy, the environment and society. G4-EC6 significant locations of operation Ethical behaviour 4.4 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle G4-PR1 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Guidance on integrating social responsibility Respect for the rule of law 4.6 G4-EN29 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 7 throughout an organisation Sustainability Context Principle The relationship of an organisation’s Respect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 7.2 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis characteristics to social responsibility Due diligence 7.3.1 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Respect for human rights 4.8 Ch.3: ‘Safeguarding our Operation’ & ‘Respecting Human Rights’ Determining relevance and significance of Recognizing social responsibility 7.3.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 5 core subjects and issues to an organisation and engaging stakeholders An organisation’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Stakeholder Engagement Setting the direction of an organisation for 7.4.2 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) AIA uses the Generic social responsibility Guidance on social responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) to report its approach to managing 6 each of the ISO 26000 social responsibility core subjects and issues and the related Building social responsibility into an General Standard Disclosures: Governance core subjects actions and expectations organisation’s governance, systems and 7.4.3 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis procedures Organisational governance 6.2 Types of communication on social General Standard Disclosures: Governance 7.5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile responsibility General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile Enhancing the credibility of reports and 7.6.2 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile Ch.3: ‘Safeguarding our Operation’ & ‘Respecting Human Rights’ claims about social responsibility Human rights 6.3 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Reviewing an organisation’s progress and 7.7.3 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Percentage of operations with implemented local community performance on social responsibility G4-SO1 General Standard Disclosures: Governance engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Improving performance 7.7.5 General Standard Disclosures: organisational Profile Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile: Commitments to External Labor Practices and Decent Work sub-Category Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 Initiatives Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Labour practices 6.4 G4-EC6 significant locations of operation Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– G4-LA5 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs AO5 (Sector Ambient air quality levels Supplement) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 The environment 6.5 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 66 / aia.gr aia.gr / 67 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 11th Km National Road Athens-Lamia ey.com About this Report 144 51 Athens, Greece This is the 11h edition of the annual information on sustainability issues, (www.aia.gr), the GRI portal (www. Corporate Responsibility Report of In order to cover comparability globalreporting.org) as well as in Athens International Airport S.A. (AIA) of information disclosed, previous the UNGC CoP Directory (www. which aims to provide all stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Reports are unglobalcompact.org/participants). INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT with consistent and thorough available on the company’s website To the management of Athens International Airport S.A. Purpose & Scope The Athens International Airport 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report (“the Report”) has been prepared This Report focuses on AIA’s The Report refers to the period of Venizelos” in the Spata region of by the management of Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA”), which is responsible for the collection management constant commitment January through December 2013 Athens, Greece. The Report further and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility, in accordance with AIA on the sustainable and socially through certain data repeated from discloses information within the management’s instructions, is to carry out a “limited level” assurance engagement on the English version responsible operation and previous editions, necessary for wider sphere of influence – related to of the Report, and to include assurance comments from our work in relevant sections of the Report. development of Athens International comprehending the text. It covers the companies operating in our airport Airport. Through this edition AIA aims full spectrum of AIA’s programmes business community – in the context Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of AIA and in to increase stakeholders’ interest and activities under the direct control of AIA’s role as the community accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any through accurate and validated of AIA operating within the Athens “orchestrator”. responsibility and for any other purpose, to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party information. International Airport “Eleftherios may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk and responsibility. Work scope and criteria Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement, as defined by AA1000AS, in order to provide a limited Methodology level assurance opinion on: 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against The Report elaborates on corporate document is based on the `GRI was not in effect with the GRI G3.1 the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. targets, management practices and Airport Operators Sector Supplement’ Guidelines, used in our 2012 Report, key performance indicators for 2013 (AOSS), issued in 2011 and developed and consequently we have no relevant 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to in a simple, comprehensive way, with based on the G3.1 Guidelines (2011). changes to mention. the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the a flowing content. Report content Additionally, the Report content The responsibility for preparing, GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), against the “In accordance – Core” has been set as defined by AA1000 is based on the provisions of submitting and distributing the Report requirements. AccountAbility Principles Standard ISO26000:2010 standard, as well as lies under the Corporate Quality 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) (2008), the Global Reporting Initiative the ten principles of the United Nations Department, which coordinates requirements, against the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Global Compact (UNGC). the input from the CR Report Team Guidelines `in accordance’ core This is AIA’s first Report in members and other colleagues 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in requirements, including the G4 Airport accordance to the GRI G4 representing the majority of Company the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”. Operators Sector Disclosures, as Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, departments. The CR Report Team is appropriate, depending on AIA’s including no changes in scope from supervised by the cross-company CR reported material aspects. The our 2012 Report. Nevertheless, Committee, which in turn reports to the What we did to form our conclusions Airport Operators Sector Disclosures the concept of Aspect Boundaries CEO and the Chief Officers. In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: ► Interviewed a selection of AIA managers to understand the current status of corporate responsibility activities and progress made during the reporting period. ► Reviewed AIA’s approach to stakeholder engagement through interviews with managers responsible for engagement activities at corporate level and reviews of associated documentation. ► Reviewed AIA’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the coverage of material issues within the Report, against aspects found in the “GRI G4 Airport Operators Sector Disclosures”, material issues and areas of performance covered in external media reports, and sustainability reports of selected European peers. ► Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing sustainability data reported for internal and public reporting purposes, linked to the G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65). 68 / aia.gr aia.gr / 69 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ► Reviewed the Report for the appropriate transposition and presentation of the sustainability Materiality: Has AIA provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its data linked to the G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our assurance sustainability performance? engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), including limitations and assumptions relating to how these data are presented within the ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s materiality determination Report. approach does not provide a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance. Nevertheless, we consider that AIA’s materiality determination ► Reviewed information or explanations to substantiate key data, statements and assertions approach could be enhanced by including direct engagement and input from external regarding the sustainability disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement. stakeholders. ► Reviewed the AIA UNGC CoP against the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC Responsiveness: Has AIA responded to stakeholder concerns? CoP. ► Reviewed the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines” to check AIA’s ► We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AIA has not applied the adherence to Clause 4. responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. Level of assurance 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in related to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance ISAE 3000) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these evidence gathering procedures is column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), against the “In accordance less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of – Core” requirements. assurance is provided. This is also expressed by the ‘moderate’ level of assurance, under AA1000AS, according to which “the assurance provider achieves moderate assurance where sufficient evidence has How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report linked to qualitative information on been obtained to support their statement, such as the risk of their conclusion being in error is reduced GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under scope? but not reduced to very low or zero”. ► We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements on AIA’s sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions Limitations of our review made. ► Our review was limited to the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in How complete and accurate are the quantitative data linked to the GRI G4 General and Specific translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Standard Disclosures under scope? English version of the Report prevails. ► The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that quantitative data linked to the attending any stakeholder engagement activities. GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under scope has not been collated properly at corporate level. ► Our review did not include financial data and the corresponding narrative text and testing of the ► We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the Report. Information Technology systems used or those upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by AIA. 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) ► We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or requirements, against the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. targets, or their achievability. Does AIA’s UNGC CoP adhere to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP? Our conclusions ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s UNGC CoP is not fairly Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: stated, according to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”. Inclusivity: Has AIA been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? Does AIA adhere to the ISO26000 Clause 4, as this is disclosed in the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any key stakeholder groups have been excluded from stakeholder engagement activities, or to conclude that AIA has not ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s adherence to ISO26000 applied the Inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. Clause 4, as this is disclosed in the relevant table, is not fairly stated. 70 / aia.gr aia.gr / 71 07 Sustainability Framework and Commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Committees The following committees are responsible for their corresponding aspect of Corporate Responsibility, in line with AIA CR Governance Structure: AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee AIA’s CR Report Team Our independence I. Papadopoulou, Director Communications & Marketing (chair) P. Papademetriou, Manager Corporate Quality (Chair) We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for G. Kalimassias, Director Corporate Planning C. Mitsotakis, Head Public Relations Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements that the members of the assurance G. Tzavaras, Director Aviation Services K. Triantafyllou, Head Crisis Planning team as well as the assurance firm are independent of the assurance client, including not being involved G. Stergiopoulou, Director Human Resources I. Kapetaniou, Supervisor Quality Systems & CSR in writing the Corporate Responsibility Report. M. O’Connor, Manager Environmental Services A. Kostiani, Environmental Affairs Specialist P. Papademetriou, Manager Corporate Quality L. Chontou, Coordinator, Employee Services We have not provided any services relating to the preparation of the Report. The material and information contained herein was compiled with the contribution of numerous colleagues, representing all AIA Units. EY has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. Our assurance team The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Contact Details Climate Change and Sustainability Services global network, which undertakes similar engagements in Readers’ comments regarding our corporate responsibility We would highly appreciate any suggestions or requests Greece and at a Global level. performance enable us to improve the structure and quality for clarification on any related issue. of information disclosed. Athens, 19 June 2014 About this Report and AIA’s corporate responsibility For noise-related issues please contact: matters, kindly contact: “We Listen” hotline, For and on behalf of Irene Kapetaniou tel: (+30) 210-3530003 tel: (+30) 210-3537240 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) e-mail: KapetaniouI@aia.gr For any other contact with Athens International Airport, Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. please contact: For Local Communities issues, kindly contact: AIA / Administration Building Call Centre, Vassilios Kaminaris Anna Kostiani tel: (+30) 210-3531000 Partner tel: (+30) 210-3536493 AIA Call Center (24 hours), e-mail: KostianiA@aia.gr tel: (+30) 210-3530000 72 / aia.gr aia.gr / 73 Trade Reg. No.: 35925/04/B/96/60 General Electronic Commercial Reg. (G.E.MI.) No.: 2229601000 This document has been printed on environmentally friendly, high quality paper with the following composition: 40% recycled paper, 55% FSC certified paper pulp (certificate of sustainable forest management) and 5% cotton fibres to improve paper texture and appearance. It is eco label compliant, adhering to all environmental management ISO standards as well as the relevant ISO standard for reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) generation and emissions during manufacturing. It features neutral ph; it is free of heavy metals and is non-chlorinated to avoid contamination of water, the ground water table and the sea. It is durable but also fully self degradable and recyclable.
