Turning dreams into reality! Corporate Responsibility 2012 / 2013 All rights reserved®. No part of this report – contents or images – may be reproduced, processed by means of electronic systems or distributed without written consent by the SanLucar Group. To facilitate the reading of this report, the masculine form of the pronoun has been used. We note that all statements apply equally to women and men. For the compilation of this report, from April to September 2012 the CR (Corporate Responsibility) department evaluated the progress made since the first CR analysis in 2010 and reviewed both the stakeholders and the communication and feedback channels. This analysis constitutes the basis for the classification of the principle areas for action of CR at SanLucar and strategic stakeholders. After several meetings with the management, the current CR concept underlying the new corporate responsibility strategic plan 2013-2016, which will replace the strategic plan 2010-2013, was defined. The content of this report has been defined and its feasibility has been ensured based on the exchange of information with various internal and external stakeholders. The report is similarly structured to previous years; however, this year‘s report emphasises fundamental aspects of the d.r.e.a.m.s. social development concept. This report was reviewed by the company itself in accordance with the GRI standard, version 3.1. The report‘s Application Level A is self-declared. This report covers the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. 2 3 Table of contents Foreword by Stephan Rötzer, founder and owner of SanLucar................................... 06 1 SanLucar introduces itself............................................................................................................. 09 1.1 With a passion for taste – in harmony with people and nature................................................................ 10 1.2 The nine dimensions of the SanLucar »quality chain«............................................................................... 10 1.3 Global quality, local action........................................................................................................................... 12 2 The principles of responsible management........................................................................ 17 3 The SanLucar community – taste unites us........................................................................ 23 3.1 On-going exchange with all stakeholders................................................................................................... 27 3.2 SanLucar face to face: exchange of knowledge and experience............................................................... 28 4 People first.............................................................................................................................................. 33 4.1 Encouraging employees and developing talents........................................................................................ 34 4.2 Promoting sports at SanLucar....................................................................................................................... 36 4.3 Equal opportunities and diversity management......................................................................................... 39 4.4 d.r.e.a.m.s.: Developing Responsible Engagement And Multicultural Societies........................................ 41 4.4.1 d.r.e.a.m.s. in South Africa......................................................................................................................... 43 4.4.2 »El Puchero« – more than a soup kitchen................................................................................................. 45 4.4.3 The Social Garden....................................................................................................................................... 46 4.4.4 Three years of our corporate volunteer programme................................................ ............................... 48 4.5 Showing solidarity with fruit........................................................................................................................ 52 5 In harmony with nature................................................................................................................. 55 5.1 Eco-innovations for sustainable farming.................................................................................................... 56 5.2 Sustainability in our value chain................................................................................................................... 59 5.3 Green Office: raising awareness is the key!.................................................................................................. 62 6 Appendix............................................................................................................................................ 65 Appendix 1. Corporate data.............................................................................................................................. 66 Organigram....................................................................................................................................................... 66 Employees.................................................................................................................................................. 68 Financial profile................................................................................................................................................... 70 Materials................................................................................................................................................... 71 Appendix 2. GRI Table........................................................................................................................................ 72 Appendix 3. Communication on Progress (CoP) and corresponding GRI indicators..................................... 96 Appendix 4. CR Contacts in SanLucar................................................................................................................ 97 Appendix 5. Certificates............................................................................................................................. 98 Appendix 6. Glossary............................................................................................................................ 104 Karl-Heinz Enzenmüller, our cherry grower at Lake Constance. 4 5 Foreword by Stephan Rötzer, founder and owner of SanLucar »We all decide for ourselves how much responsibility we want to assume. We respect the earth and have patience in order to discover special varieties in the best farming regions. We have a desire to learn from our expert growers. For us, honest and good fruit and vegetables are – ›our daily bread‹. In summary: SanLucar. With a passion for taste.« Stephan Rötzer Dear reader, Taste in harmony with people and nature from the outset »If we want to create futures, we will need to find new – this is what responsibility means to SanLucar. What was a forms of community!« vision then has, to some degree, become a reality. SanLucar is an internationally active brand company. In addition to In the course of the two decades since SanLucar was foundits headquarters in Valencia, there are branches in Germaed, much has changed, naturally, and I continue to question ny and Austria as well as further locations in Tunisia, South even now whether everything we do is meaningful. Is Africa and Ecuador. The area under production will grow to SanLucar still on the right track? The world is changing very 4,000 hectares in Tunisia and to 3,000 hectares in South Affast – we must remain awake and change ourselves, preferarica by 2020. In Chile, Ecuador and Peru, an additional 1,500 bly in time. In farming practices, this means that we conhectares are planned. stantly observe new trends and our agricultural engineers time and again develop innovative farming methods so that Together with more than 150 employees at our headquarwe can also stay true to ourselves in the future. ters in Valencia, thousands of people worldwide work every day to ensure that the consumer can take the best taste We have been expanding farming internationally since 2008. home. The commitment and cooperation of this unique Tunisia, South Africa and Ecuador are important pillars of community – consisting of employees all around the world our growth. This growth also means responsibility. It means and their families, our growers, distributors, customers and that we want to talk with and learn from each other across consumers make that possible. international borders. For instance, by means of our international volunteer programme and cultural exchange, which I am convinced that business success rests upon a value-based conveys our values to all employees. In addition, we initiate corporate culture promoting partnership, transparency, measures that combine entrepreneurial activity with social dialogue and performance. With numerous projects in the commitment. In the future, these will be continued and exvarious producer countries, we want to actively contribute to panded within the framework of the d.r.e.a.m.s. programme assuming our role as a people-oriented company in society. (Developing Responsible Engagement And Multicultural Societies). Whether climate change, demographic development, education or integration – the great challenges of our time can I hope you enjoy browsing through our corporate report. only be overcome within a strong community. It is therefore of vital importance, and our wish, to involve companies like ours in social and political participatory processes. We want to learn within the community and play an active part in society. As Antoine de Saint-Exupéry said: Stephan Rötzer 6 7 1 SanLucar introduces itself SanLucar is passion for taste, quality and an international vision. We tell you why. 8 SanLucar introduces itself 1 SanLucar introduces itself 1.1 With a passion for taste – in harmony 1.2 The nine dimensions of the SanLucar With a passion for taste. Nine dimensions of true quality philosophy with people and nature »quality chain« Imagine you go to your garden whenever you are in the SanLucar has its own quality philosophy comprising nine mood for fresh fruit and vegetables. In the morning, you dimensions. We look for the most delicious varieties. We pick a crunchy apple for breakfast, a few fresh peppers grow them socially and environmentally sustainably in In harmony with people and nature Optimal production areas for your favourite recipe at lunchtime, some sweet cherthe regions most suited for their production. For this, we ries in between, and a fruity pineapple in the evening as use traditional knowledge and the latest methods – but a bedtime treat. That is exactly what we at SanLucar do no genetic engineering! We work together with our for you. We harvest ripe and tasty fruit and vegetables all expert growers over the long term, since only cooperaover the world. At SanLucar, you get what you deserve: tion based on partnership can bring in the best harvest. The most delicious taste you can trust. This is possible because both a natural Farming and freshness-preserving logistics are constantly varieties for the Traditional knowledge balance and a responsible attitude towards nature and being improved. We constantly monitor our own actions best taste and the latest methods the people working with us are priorities at SanLucar. and undergo reviews by neutral third parties. Thanks to a consistent involvement of trade partners, consumers learn We are never satisfied. Time and again, there are new vato appreciate the value of taste and sustainable quality. rieties with a unique taste to be discovered – or old ones to be rediscovered – and the perfect regions with the right soil and climate to be found. This is where we enter into long-term partnerships for production with the best and most passionate growers – which is why we call them Partnerships with expert growers. To make carefree enjoyment possible for Expert growers retailers you, our quality experts work together with expert growers, logistics experts and our trade partners to ensure product quality and safety. Traditional farming methods and the latest techniques are used for this. The growing number of expert growers and employees is committed to taste in harmony with people and nature. Therefore, our passion is not only for the taste of the fruit you can Inspections Further development of farming enjoy today but also for our responsibility for the future. Everything is monitored – from the planting of the seed to the PoS (Freshness-preserving and quality logistics) Our grower Karl Ilzer from Styria in Austria. 10 11 SanLucar introduces itself 1.3 Global quality, local action In order to bring fresh fruit and vegetables to the table every day, SanLucar is active all around the world. The result: With a range of about 90 delicious varieties of fruit and vegetables from more than 30 countries, we can show consumers what taste means and offer them consumer safety. More than 2,000 employees work to ensure this with a great deal of passion and care. In Germany, the SanLucar brand is sold via Ettlingen (Karlsruhe), and in Austria via Vienna. The headquarters of the international brand company are located in Puzol near Valencia (Spain). Anbauländer Logistikplattform Verkaufsorte Office Anbauländer Logistikplattform Production Points of sale Verkaufsorte Office Logistics depots Offices Illustration: SanLucar produces and sells internationally. The SanLucar brand is available in Germany and Austria. 12 13 SanLucar introduces itself 2020 Future vision for new crop areas Region Hectares Tonnes Employees Products Tunisia 4,000 100,000 20,000 Tomatoes, stone fruit, citrus fruit, berries, melons, lettuce, peppers, aubergines, courgettes South Africa 3,000 65,000 3,500 Stone fruit, citrus fruit, berries, grapes Latin America 2,200 52,000 6,000 Pineapples, bananas, grapes, mangoes, citrus fruit, berries, stone fruit Spain 1,200 35,000 1,100 Citrus fruit, stone fruit, pears Germany 1,000 25,000 2,000 Tomatoes, berries, apples Austria 350 5,000 1,000 Berries, apples SanLucar relies on the strategic development of international farming. Growing the areas of production allows us to offer better fruit and follow our SanLucar taste and quality philosophy even more consistently. Take the example of the planning for Tunisia: In 2017, we want to cultivate a total of 3,000 ha of land. As a result, approximately 13,500 people will find work. Overall, cultivation projects by SanLucar or co-financed by partners are planned in more than ten countries on four continents. People from more than 30 countries will then work for SanLucar. Thanks to what we already are today, we can rise to this exciting and thrilling challenge. Our agricultural engineer Ahmed Kamel in Tunisia. 14 15 2 The principles of responsible management Social responsibility and sustainability are firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy. They are reflected in our corporate policy, in our manner of communicating and our daily interactions. 16 2 The principles of responsible management The principles of SanLucar was established in 1993, with firmly anchored values that are part of our Code of Ethics. This Code is based on the international SA8000 standards, in accorresponsible management dance to which SanLucar has been certified since 2010, and on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2011. It is currently available in six languages (Spanish, German, English, French, Italian and Portuguese). Afrikaans and Arabic will soon be added. Our corporate policy and our Code of Ethics are applied in the same manner in all SanLucar producer SanLucar LightweightBox®. countries. One of SanLucar‘s main tasks is to understand the local socio-economic circumstances, identify the In order to take on the challenges of a global market, we our quality and CR experts have created 28 complete management system, the entire history of the product historical reasons for conflicts and detect potential opporhave analysed our supply chain in detail and, in this way, profiles (approximately 15 per cent of all growers) and can be viewed at any point in the supply chain. Additiontunities. can anticipate negative developments. For this purpose, drawn up a plan with correction and improvement meaally, as of September 2013, all our Spanish growers will we use our quality management systems (ISO 9001, IFS, sures for each profile. indicate the GGN number (Global G.A.P. Number) on each About the current situation: QS), production management systems (Global G.A.P.), box. This is to be extended to all growers worldwide as of The fight against hunger and malnutrition on a global ethical and social management systems (SA8000, Global The basis for an operation that is responsible towards 2014. level still counts as one of humanity‘s most important G.A.P GRASP Module) as well as a risk management sysour customers and consumers is transparency, as their tasks. The global population growth rate of approxitem based on international standards (e.g. ISO 31000). trust is highly valued by us. This is why SanLucar has been We show responsibility in production and towards our mately 80 million people per year – in conjunction with a member of SEDEX, a database for exchanging ethical customers, also in our pricing policy. In our view, sustainhigher incomes in countries with high economic growth In order to guarantee top quality, we at SanLucar have data in the value chain, for more than four years. The able relations with our partners are only possible if we – leads to a strong increase in quantitative demand for developed grower profiles since 2011; these are divided annual preparation of this report on corporate responoffer them a solid economic basis. It must enable them to food for people and animals. The Food and Agriculture into three aspects: taste (quality management), people sibility within the predefined framework of the Global grow their fruit in harmony with people and nature in acOrganisation (FAO) expects a global annual increase in (ethical management) and nature (environmental manReporting Initiative and its indicator system helps us share cordance with our philosophy. For SanLucar, a fair pricing the demand for agricultural products by 1.6 per cent until agement). The growers are classified into three categories our progress regarding social responsibility and our suspolicy includes an adequate assessment of the product as 2015, and by 1.4 per cent from then until 2030. In addiBronze, Silver or Gold. In this way, we can work together tainability strategy with all of our stakeholders. well as the performance of contractually agreed oblition, billions of people have to be supplied with power. to develop processes which generate healthy cooperation gations. In addition, the policy is to create a sustainable In the foreseeable future, the agricultural economy will and sustainable growth. During the 2012/2013 campaign, Our corporate governance is just as transparent as our relationship based on a common purpose and mutual thus have to achieve high returns both in qualitative and we began to fully introduce the grower profiles. So far, day-to-day work. For this purpose, we use, among other obligations. Only in this way can cooperation be achieved quantitative terms. (Source: German Federal Ministry of things, the web portal. It allows our growers and suppli1 on an equal footing and both parties be fairly rewarded Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection). ers to transmit all product information (quantity/number, for their commitment. We listen to our partners‘ needs, traceability, treatment in the field pre and post harvest, offer appropriate means and periods of payment and are We at SanLucar are aware of the impacts of agriculanalyses etc.). These documents are made available to our open to a dialogue regarding remuneration for products ture and the food industry on soil, water, air, climate, customers. In this way, they are given a comprehensive or services. In addition, we study the production costs in biodiversity and society. This is why nature is our most overview of the production and quality processes of all detail in order to establish a minimum price and enter important partner. Only if we carefully and responsibly products delivered to their depots. into an agreement for the season, which can then be handle resources can we harvest our fruit in the future. renewed or negotiated based on the present situation. Therefore, we are constantly searching for innovative and To ensure traceability, we monitor the entire production These are only some of the principles which our purchase environmentally friendly processes. For example, we save and distribution chain: from the seed to the supermarand sales department pursue day after day. water and fertiliser by digitally monitoring the use of ket. By means of an electronic product identification and these resources. Beneficial organisms protect our plants from harmful insects, and SanLucar‘s patented LightweightBox® saves more than 10,000 tonnes of CO2 per 1 Accessing the web portal merely requires a browser with internet access, a user name and a password. The portal is accessed via the year during transport. URL: http://extranet.sanlucar.com 18 19 Implementing these projects and improving our processes In 2013/2014, ... requires an increased use of information technology. Our IT team, which, in comparison to the previous campaign, • we will translate our Code of Ethics into Afrikaans has grown by more than 100 per cent, is developing techand Arabic. The principles of nical solutions to that end. The result is a more efficient and sustainable operation. Objectives from previous • we will continue the introduction of the grower profile campaigns such as the training of employees, customers so as to have recorded 100 per cent of the growers with responsible management and partners (SanLucar Academy) or online meetings whom we have collaborated for more than three years by with high-resolution audio and video (Office 365) have June 2014. also become a reality thanks to new IT developments. Furthermore, instruments and applications were created • we will provide the transport units of all SanLucar to improve internal processes. Among other things, these growers with the GGN number and continue the include MyEvaluation for employee talent development introduction of Global G.A.P. GRASP. and BOARD, a balanced scorecard to assess, forecast and create the budgets of the sales department. • our team for Business Excellence will be active. Its goal is to identify potential for optimisation in the entire value chain and propose corresponding solutions. What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? Fernando Piza, Pineapple Product Manager and Quality Coordinator in Costa Rica. »The introduction of grower profiles worldwide requires constantly monitoring the progress made by each individual grower and understanding his or her everyday work. The basis for this is a trusting relationship. It grants insight into every single detail of the production process, so that its strengths and weaknesses can be identified. We accompany our growers throughout the entire process and are in contact with one another in order to keep up with news and developments in the industry. Our goal is to prove to our consumers that our pineapple is something very special, since it not only tastes sweet but is also grown responsibly.« Quality control of our pineapples. 20 21 3 The SanLucar community – taste unites us Behind the excellent taste of SanLucar lies only one secret: the commitment and team work of a community formed by thousands of people. With constant dialogue and mutual understanding, we get better every day. 22 3 The SanLucar community – taste unites us Overview of the main dialogue and communication tools for the SanLucar communiConsumers recipients of our E-mail address as a consumer Labels, signs at the PoS, radio ty (consisting of the most important stakeholders): fruit, allies who service: campaigns, advertising in magaappreciate quality, fruchtig@sanlucar.com, presence zines, events, sponsorship, sales and critics in social networks (Facebook, promotions, competitions, online The SanLucar comFor SanLucar, they How do we learn about their How do we keep them Twitter, Youtube), via the fruit and campaigns, quarterly SanLucar munity is made up of are ... opinions? in the know? vegetable vendors trained by our magazine at the PoS, social media our most important expert advisers, surveys and market stakeholders studies, Genuss-Akademie (engl.: Employees the basis for everySurveys on workplace climate Intranet, LucaNova, e-mail, bulAcademy of taste) The SanLucar community – thing and other topics, meetings, focus letin board, meetings, CR report, Local communities, socio-economic Via our social experts, associations, Various project-specific methods groups, working groups, cross-deSanLucar website, Apolo (Certisociety engine and our partner foundations and NGOs, via (direct communication, signs, partmental committees (CIA), (onfication document management environment our employees (volunteers, empress, cooperation with governtaste unites us line) suggestion boxes, employee system) ployees' families), Facebook page ments and universities etc.) representatives for SA8000, Human Resources, feedback talks with the respective department heads Growers long-term partners Web portal, supplier portal proNotifications, e-mail, CR report, ject, survey platform on supplier SanLucar website satisfaction, via our quality experts all over the world and the product managers, seasonal meetings with the management, Facebook page Product suppliers strategic business Supplier portal project, via our loand service providers partners gistics and packaging departments, (carriers, intermediate via the survey platform, Facebook platforms, material page suppliers) Trading partners allies in providing Customer satisfaction survey Weekly SanLucar newsletter, (clients) the best taste to via the survey platform, via our sales brochure, brochures with consumers, and key account managers (KAMs), technical product information, critics on training trips, via day-to-day trade press, social media contact with the sales team, Facebook page Working group at our location in Ettlingen. 24 25 3.1 On-going exchange with all stakeholders We measure employee, customer and grower satisfac»Palletising« and »Confidence in Food Safety« received tion by means of our survey platform and feedback a 100-per-cent satisfaction. There is still room for improvided by consumers in conversations or when they provement with respect to the registration of orders contact us via e-mail or social media. Without our and customer needs. For training purposes we estabstakeholders, SanLucar would not be SanLucar. Only lished the SanLucar Sales Academy in 2013 to achieve together can we be better! excellent performance in the sales department (Chapter 4). The Working Climate Survey has been carried out annually at our headquarters (Spain) since 2006 and is In the Grower Satisfaction Survey, five aspects and 22 the main instrument for determining the level of satisitems were analysed. The best rated aspect in 2012 was faction inside SanLucar. In 2012, the results generally the personalised support with a satisfaction rate of indicated a very positive evaluation of SanLucar and a 95.3 per cent. The worst-rated aspect, at 72.9 per cent, The SanLucar community – clear trend towards improvement since the beginning was the complaint management. The items »Informaof the survey in 2006. Our employees give teamwork tion and Planning to Meet the Product Specifications the highest score and the system for overtime compenand the SanLucar Maximum Residue Limits« as well as taste unites us sation (on-call duty) the lowest. Over the years, we can the invoicing periods obtained a satisfaction of 100 per see that nine of the ten polled aspects have greatly cent. There is need for improvement with regard to the improved since 2006. Only the evaluation of the offices complaint procedure and the sending of advance inforhas considerably deteriorated since 2010, as the workmation on the vehicles used for the transport of goods. force has grown significantly in the last few years and In order to improve our logistics information system, the premises at our headquarters have reached their our IT department is working on a new instrument, the capacity limit. QualityReport, which we will address in more detail in the next report. The interdepartmental committee and the employee representatives made a proposal for improving the alternating on-call duty in sales. The proposal was adopted as of January 2013 and has since provided for a more even distribution of overtime and a fairer compensation for it. As regards to the workplace at the headquarters, an expansion and renovation project for the offices was initiated as early as 2012. The alteration is now planned for 2014. To ensure a smooth execution, a committee composed of representatives of the various areas and departments of the headquarters has been created. The Survey on Customer Satisfaction in Commerce consists of five aspects and a total of 27 items. In 2012, the aspect with the best rating was product quality and presentation with a satisfaction rate of 92.3 per cent. By contrast, the worst-rated aspect, at 79.2 per cent, was the administrative work. However, in comparison to the previous fiscal year, the latter has improved, as previously a rate of only 70.8 per cent was achieved. The items »Telephone Customer Support«, »Labels«, Our apple grower Ulrich Gößl. A refreshing break during the tomato harvest in Almería (Spain). 26 27 We measure the degree of consumer satisfaction via months, we receive many visitors in Valencia, where we our experts about fruit and vegetables and, at the end, direct contact with the consumer. We regularly refamiliarise our partners with the growing of citrus fruit enjoy a delicious dinner together. At the »Genuss-Akaceive praise and criticism via e-mail, our website and and show them what commitment and expert knowledge demie«, consumers can assure themselves of the high our presence on Facebook. For this purpose, SanLucar are behind the quality and packaging. In March and April, quality of our products and personally get to know the additionally carries out group discussions and regional three further trips led us to Huelva (Spain) to our partner SanLucar brand. At the end of each class, we conduct surveys on awareness, popularity, intention to purchase Fresaflor to provide insight into the production of SanLucar a survey. The participants have already confirmed that etc. In this way, we regularly receive enquiries and strawberries and into the work in the pack house. the »Genuss-Akademie« is an informative and enriching information which can be grouped into three cateexperience for them. gories: complaints and suggestions, specific product In addition, SanLucar places particular emphasis on develenquiries and praise. All messages are answered within oping young talent in the trade sector. SanLucar supports Upon an invitation by SAAL ZWEI, SanLucar presented a maximum of 48 hours and evaluated in the context of »Grips & Co.«, a competition for trainees, with educationthe company’s sustainability strategy at »grips gewinnt«, a monthly report that is sent to the management. We al materials and funding. a scholarship programme from the foundations Joachimat SanLucar take the consumers’ opinion very seriously SanLucar Facebook site. http://www.gripsundco.de/ Herz-Stiftung and Robert-Bosch-Stiftung for high-achievwhen developing our products. ing adolescents from disadvantaged families. 15 scholThe SanLucar community – We seek personal contact with the consumers of our arship pupils have spent a week discussing the topic of SanLucar participates in various committees, networks SanLucar products and conduct market surveys with focus sustainability. and working groups in which experts, scientists, politigroups. In 2012/2013, there were discussions on the fruit taste unites us cians and entrepreneurs address future challenges and categories of apples, oranges and stone fruit. During The creators of the online magazine SAAL ZWEI, Stefanie discuss how best to handle them. For example, we are these open discussions, we learnt much more about what Bilen and Nicole Mai, took over the responsibility for a member of UPJ in Germany and RespAct in Austria our consumers appreciate, what varieties they particularly directing the attention to the economy and correspondand are involved in the Master of Corporate Social like and how we can improve the presentation of our ing company strategies for a day. This is where SanLucar Responsibility at the Polytechnic University of Valencia. products so that they meet the current requirements. came into play: Nancy Daiss and Ilka Hein presented the We also participate in working breakfasts organised by company’s development as well as the successes and the publisher CoRResponsables for Valencian entrepreA novelty in 2012 was the »SanLucar Genuss-Akademie« challenges in the producer country of South Africa. The neurs. (engl.: Academy of taste). This is a proactive cooking »grips gewinnt« scholarship holders were asked to discuss class where the participants prepare a menu with solutions for the local problems in groups and present SanLucar website. SanLucar products. In the process, they learn a lot from them in the plenary session. The results ranged from Photo: A. Rosendahl / RUNDSCHAU 3.2 SanLucar face to face: exchange of knowledge and experience Together with its expert growers, SanLucar has managed We inform them about news, regularly train supermarket to set new quality standards in the fruit and vegetable staff and continuously impart our philosophy and values market, in terms of taste, but also appearance, safety and to them. sustainability. This is why our 18 quality experts take care of our growers. These experts are our five senses wherThis is also demonstrated by our training trips to our ever our products grow. Thanks to this teamwork, we growers. Thanks to our trading partners’ direct contact can closely follow each individual grower’s activities and with our expert growers, the representatives of the coordinate joint projects. SanLucar brand at the point of sale we understand what is special about the products and what passion, work and In a similar way, our teams consisting of key account responsibility are behind them. In this way information managers (KAMs) and technical advisers (PoS Consultant) also reaches the consumer. This allows the expert grower enable us to have constant contact with our customers to directly exchange information about the trading partin order to act at the right time and grow together. We ners’ needs and experience. During the last season, we at SanLucar consider a close cooperation with all those organised three training trips to Bari (Italy) to our grape who sell our products to the final consumers a priority. grower Giuliano in July and September. During the winter Grips & Co competition for trainees. Training trip in Valencia. 28 29 »building schools«, »organising volunteer work« and »ofDonations came to a total of 2,000 euros. Additionally, What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? fering leisure activities« to »building more sound roads«. SanLucar donated 2,000 euros to improve the circum»The day was a great enrichment for the scholarship stances of SanLucans in South Africa. For example, a roof holders. All participants learned a lot about sustainable protecting the children from sun and rain was installed corporate governance.« Olivia Beryt, Project Manager of at a school bus stop. In addition, we were able to award »grips gewinnt«. »Through the case study, the adolescents four scholarships for school supplies and organise colleclearned that it is easy to call for sustainable action in the tive transport to the festivities on »Women’s Day«. interests of nature and humankind – but that it can be difficult to enforce this with reasonable means.« Stefanie In 2013/2014, … Bilen of SAAL ZWEI. • the supplier portal will be fully introduced. »I would participate in the SanLucar Gewww.grips-gewinnt.de nuss-Akademie again because it is designed www.saalzwei.de • we will introduce a new tool, the QualityReport, to be interesting, and you not only learn allowing for an even better traceability of our prodfacts but also contribute yourself. It‘s like The SanLucar community – Lastly, we also want to mention an event that brings all ucts. The database grants our quality experts mobile being among friends.« members of the SanLucar community together: the Fruit access to the results of different quality inspections of Logistica. Every year, SanLucar has a presence at this the products at any time. taste unites us international trade fair in Berlin and uses this opportunity to exchange views with experts from all industries and disciplines in the world of fruit and vegetables. On the Nina Roppert, participant at the Genuss-Akademie. occasion of the Fruit Logistica 2013, we demonstrated solidarity with our community by means of fundraising: SanLucar donated 10,000 euros for a charity project for AIDS orphans in South Africa. The guests of the SanLucar Party were able to directly participate in the project by making a voluntary donation for a DO Ubuntu bracelet. »I would participate in the SanLucar Genuss-Akademie again because it was interesting, super tasty and fun.« Hanna Roggenkamp, participant at the Genuss-Akademie. SanLucar booth at the Fruit Logistica. 30 31 4 People first We, from SanLucar, produce in harmony with people because we respect their needs and wishes. We work for the development of all our workers, their families and communities. 32 4 People first 4.1 Encouraging employees and developThe development plans have four focus areas: PerforAdditionally, the programme »Developing my leaderA few examples are: mance Growth to promote professional development; ship« was launched in 2013. It consists of several training talents Functional Growth for obtaining excellent technical ing modules intended to enable the managers to lead • Benefits such as health insurance for relatives expertise; Talent Growth for developing talents; and high-performance teams. This year, the module focuses Our HR programmes usually originate at our headthe HiPo (High Potential) Impulse Plan for succession on empathy, assertiveness and recognition. • Support for the children and young people living on the quarters in Puzol and are gradually extended to the arrangements. South African farm for their development remaining locations. This requires an assessment of the To provide our employees with a better insight into our development potential and needs in all our sales and Training sessions are fundamental for these developsupply chain, they, of course, also take part in training • Families in El Hamma/Tunisia are offered premiums for production facilities. We firmly believe in the development plans. In 2013, SanLucar assessed the training trips to our farming regions. There, they learn first school enrolment, among other things ment of our people, which both comprises their proneeds of its employees in detail and planned them hand where the products we sell come from, how they fessional growth at SanLucar as well as their personal together with the management in view of shortto are produced and what professionals work with us day growth in society. We are talking about a consolidation medium-term challenges and changes. According to the after day. of their values and social responsibility, which, for us, analyses, we created a two-year training plan with a are inextricably linked to each other. very clear idea of what a SanLucar employee is. A basic SanLucar also relies on the development of young tool for training and talent management is the project talents and offers comprehensive four-to-six-month At SanLucar, personal development takes priority, SanLucar Sales Academy. The objective of this innovainternship programmes. These internships are very and we rely on internal promotions. In 2013, Human tive, practical in-house training instrument is excellent highly regarded at universities and other institutions Resources introduced a talent management system training in the area of fruit and vegetables. It stands that coordinate mobility programmes such as Leonardo for this purpose. This system is aimed at assessing the for horizontal competence development in this area. da Vinci and Erasmus. Often, they form the beginning potential, performance and motivation of SanLucar The value chain, risk management in sales, customer of a solid career in our company. The internships are employees in order to enable them to have a successful service, characteristics of SanLucar quality, knowledge connected with a training programme that comprises career at SanLucar. A distinction is made between two regarding all SanLucar products and corporate culture language courses, field trips and the opportunity to People first possible development paths: Leadership Career Path are some of the aspects SanLucar vendors must be manage specific projects or initiatives. and Expert Career Path. For every potential talent, his aware of in order to become excellent professionals. or her suitability to be a leader (vertical development) In February 2013, we carried out an analysis of the or an expert (horizontal development) is evaluated, For these training programmes and many other social situation in South Africa. On this basis, a social and a corresponding career plan with SanLucar is demeasures, we count on our e-learning platform, the development plan, which has been applied since June veloped. To that end professional competences, which SanLucar Academy. It is how we react to our own train2013, was drafted. The people on the Rooihoogte is implemented in the context of the development ing needs and those of our customers, growers and farm participate in workshops taught by local experts plans, were defined. suppliers – all over the world and at any time of the in order to learn about self-responsibility, teamwork, day. The only requirements are an internet connection self-respect and hygiene in addition to obtaining inforand fun learning. mation about health risks in connection with drug and alcohol abuse etc. Our volunteers also participate in the workshops in August, September and October and supC LES A ADEM ported our colleagues in South Africa in the planning S A Y and organisation of activities with children, youth and families of the farm. We choose the activities based on the location and the results of the analysis. At SanLucar, we not only care for SA the development and well-being of our employees but N L U CAR also provide for their families and the local community. Our workers in Tunisia. 34 35 4.2 Promoting sports at SanLucar Fresh fruit is the basis for a balanced and healthy diet. be changed effectively by motivation and example. It is an important natural vitamin source for both For this reason, world-class athletes can make a significompetitive as well as for amateur athletes. It is only cant contribution. »In the framework of our Olympia logical that SanLucar has been active in the promotion cooperation, we were able to win true top athletes of sports for many years, especially in Austria. The over to our initiative. Their valuable experience and provisional climax is the support of the Olympic Team tips will help us to turn reluctant fruit eaters into fruit Austria as the official vitamin partner. Until the end of fans«, says Alexander Thaller, Managing Director of March 2014 – and therefore also during the Olympic SanLucar Austria. Peter Mennel, Secretary General of Winter Games in Sochi –, SanLucar will be the official the Austrian Olympic Committee (ÖOC), adds: »Healthy fruit and vegetable supplier for Austrian Olympians. nutrition is everything for any competitive athlete. Fresh fruit and vegetables not only provide the athletes To whet Austria‘s appetite for our »medal-worthy« with essential vitamins but are also an important part fruit, SanLucar Austria launched the initiative »Passion of a balanced diet. That is why the Austrian Olympic for Fruit« in connection with its Olympic partnership. Committee relies on SanLucar for the best quality in A recent study shows that poor dietary habits can only fruit and vegetables.« What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? In April 2013, SanLucar participated in the Vienna City • The association »Pferde Stärken« (engl.: Horse Power), »Whether someone becomes a reluctant fruit eater Marathon (VCM) as a supporter for the second time. To whose objective is to strengthen, support and accompais decided very early. The attitude towards fruit is People first fill up the power reserves, SanLucar supplied participants ny people with and without special needs with the help a matter of socialisation. Children who associate with a fruity energy boost along the route: the SanLucar of therapeutic horses (www.therapie-am-pferd.at/) ›healthy‹ with ›dreadful‹ will rarely or never make a bananas from Ecuador. A total of 16 tonnes of bananas, 6.5 run for the fruit bowl as adults. That is why we have tonnes of apples and 32,000 finisher bags were provided for • The non-profit association »Rettet das Kind« (engl.: to associate eating fruit with pleasure. Anybody fathe more than 32,000 runners. Before the run, the Sports Save the Child) (www.rettet-das-kind.at/index.html) miliar with high-quality and properly matured fruit World Fair takes place over the course of two days. Just as knows that the taste is also far superior to many with the marathon, we were present there with our own • People with Down’s Syndrome other fast snacks. stand. In 2013, we additionally provided the Rheinstetten In Austria, we traditionally have a great interest Triathlon near our logistics centre in Ettlingen as well as the • Flood victims in Austria in winter sports. Athletes only achieve their best Lake Constance Marathon, the Ötztal Bike Marathon and results when they ambitiously train, and they have the Salzkammergut Trophy with fresh fruit for free. This SanLucar is also the main sponsor of the Austrian GTM an important role model function for young people. commitment seamlessly integrates into our long-standing Trophy (Golf-Tennis-Mannschaftstrophy). The donations also For this reason, we are pleased to announce, within partnership with the charitable organisation Österreichische serve to promote young athletes and the Franz Beckenbauthe framework of our cooperation, we were able to Sporthilfe. Together, we help young sporting talents and er Foundation. win over top athletes to our initiate. Their expeathletes with physical impairments on their way to the top. riences and tips help to turn reluctant fruit eaters Even though our Austrian colleagues are ahead by a nose into fruit fans. In addition: If anyone knows about One annual highlight is the annual SanLucar Austria charity when it comes to promoting sports, physical activity is also eating a balanced diet without sacrificing pleasure, golf cup. In 2013, more than 80,000 euros were collected actively promoted at many other SanLucar locations. In it is our Olympians.« Alexander Thaller, for charity. In the last five years, we have collected a total of South Africa, for example, sports activities are expressly part CEO of SanLucar Austria. 386,000 euros in the course of this event. With the proceeds, of our social development plan. we support: 36 37 4.3 Equal opportunities and diversity management SanLucar applies the principle of equal opportunities in each In a company that purchases fruit and vegetables from over individual area of its business operations: from the selection 30 countries and employs staff of 21 different nationalities, of candidates, remuneration policy and reconciliation of diversity is a reality. Therefore, we would like to continue to family and work life to promotions. rely on diversity with respect to all positions that cannot be filled internally. For this purpose, we concluded an agreeWe take a public stand for equal opportunities policy and ment with the Spanish Directorate General for Families and support mutual respect among everyone. This is why we Women in 2012. With this agreement, we have committed signed the Diversity Charter in 2010, the United Nations ourselves to consider women at risk of social exclusion in Global Compact in 2011 and the Valencian Business Pact our selection process. against Violence against Women in 2012. Diversity and tolerance benefit everyone – we know this Being an international brand company, we naturally train from many activities where colleagues from all over the all employees in equal opportunities and diversity. Since world work together. We bundle our knowledge and 2010, there has been a Plan and a Committee for Equality and Diversity. The committee and our equal opportunities representative Stefanie Müller coordinates various diverse activities and their implementation. Flexible working hours, home offices and reconciliation of work and personal life are also an integral part of our corporate policy. For instance, in 2013, suggestions were once again made to better reconcile work and personal life, People first including flexible working hours during the summer months and the new overtime compensation system for on-call duty in sales. In addition, the programme »Developing my leadership« was organised for 44 employees, among them 22 women. Recruiting staff at the local level and filling management and leadership positions with women is also promoted in the context of our personnel policy – including, of course, in non-European countries such as Tunisia. This is not always easy, as agricultural work is traditionally performed by men. Yet, this is exactly what distinguishes us in the market. The new talent management plan described in the previous chapter also serves to make internal promotions transparent. In this sense, it is based on objective criteria and discounts factors that are not related to personal performance and the acquisition of skills. Tania García, SanLucar quality technician in southern Spain. Picker in the herb fields in Swisttal, Germany. 38 39 develop joint strategies for action. Close cooperation brings standing for people and their actions in all producer countries. us to our goal faster and is more fun. In order for us to learn Each year, three to six colleagues have the opportunity to from each other and change our perspective every once in contribute within the SanLucar countries. After returning from a while, colleagues from different countries and cultures the producer countries, our volunteers are our best ambassawrite articles for the internal employee magazine »LucaNodors for diversity and cultural exchange. va«, which will be available worldwide as of 2014. LucaNova Global will then be published internationally, at all SanLucar locations and in three languages. Another instrument for promoting diversity is our volunteer programme at our headquarters and internationally. With this programme, we promote insight and mutual under4.4 d.r.e.a.m.s.: Developing Responsible Engagement And Multicultural Societies d.r.e.a.m.s. CR Program from P e o p l e fi r s t inside to outside Social Education dev responsibility elo ps People first Guideline CR Stakeholder s interaction supports Economical Ecological development responsibility Personal development for people Company Basis and the SanLucar Community The clean and nd responsible company: San SanLucar Production Policy Labour Policy Commercial Policy Governance Policy and activities and activities and activities and activities »A dream you dream alone is only a dream. A dream you dream together is reality.« John Lennon Education starts at a young age at our farm Rooihoogte in South Africa. 40 41 We at SanLucar love dreaming together and thereby •E  ducation: Access to suitable education is the basis for We don‘t just do this out of charity. Motivated, responsible, proactive and performance-oriented people also become gradually changing the world for the better. Sometimes, development opportunities. What appears to be normal excellent employees and great managers and make a company more economically profitable. Our first responsibility it is the little things that make big things happen and moto a luxury society and is often not questioned is an is to grow and to be economically sustainable; this allows us to create more jobs and continue investing in quality, tivate our colleagues worldwide to turn their dreams into exception in other regions of the world. Even today, not social responsibility and development! reality. If we have the opportunity to help them in the all people have equal opportunities. Although we at process, we take it. To find out what dreams the people SanLucar cannot change this, we must work to proin producer countries have, we have many discussions. vide young people in our communities with good and This allows us, first of all, to find out what obstacles have future-oriented education from an early age. We also hindered them and whether we can develop solutions believe in lifelong learning, which is why we also invest together. Throughout, we always bear in mind that in adult education. each individual has an active role in society as well as an awareness of his/her responsibility towards nature and •S  ocial responsibility: Social responsibility starts with humankind. every single one of us. Each member of the SanLucar community understands that he or she belongs to a We named this concept for social development larger group of people that is to be respected and sup»d.r.e.a.m.s.«. This acronym stands for Developing ported. To this end, it is important to have self-respect Responsible Engagement And Multicultural Societies. and self-esteem. Aspects such as the equal treatment of d.r.e.a.m.s. reflects our corporate philosophy of »taste in colleagues, regardless of their origin or their status, and harmony with people and nature«. It originates in our teamwork are part of that responsibility. These values values and rests upon the solid basis of responsible corpoare not always self learnt. SanLucar analyses the causes rate governance. d.r.e.a.m.s. includes four dimensions: of certain behaviours to motivate individuals and to understand the value of their work. To do so, we rely on Women in the craft workshop on our farm Rooihoogte. the help of local social development experts. 4.4.1 d.r.e.a.m.s. in South Africa •E  nvironmental responsibility: Every person at SanLucar should be aware of his/her responsibility The Rainbow Nation of South Africa is a country of young people on our farm who would like to get an People first towards people and nature. We work on this every day cultures and colours encompassing 11 official languages education. We are looking for suitable possibilities because once you understand your function in the ecoand many more dialects, a long-standing agricultural for them. system, you can live your professional and private life tradition and excellent production areas. However, accordingly and use every action to respect and protect South Africa also has its drawbacks. Inequality and • Social responsibility: the environment. poverty are deeply entrenched in the country’s history. In the course of the next fiscal year, a bonus system This is the situation we experienced when we acquired will be introduced on the farm. The best-maintained •E  conomic development: For the social development of the Rooihoogte farm. 50 families live on our farm in the houses and the employees who work the most for a community, economic development is an important Western Cape, and hundreds of workers go there every the community will receive a personal household basis. For that reason, wherever we work, we create day. This is why, with the help of a social worker, we bonus tailored to their respective needs and dreams economic security in the form of jobs for the local have been implementing a social development plan at for the future. population. In addition, we analyse the potential of Rooihoogte since 2013, which is based on our d.r.e.a.m.s. Athletic, creative and musical activities are promoted each region (traditional arts and crafts, industries, local concept. to prevent drug and alcohol consumption. People markets) and integrate activities and projects in the must have the feeling they can achieve things with social development plans to advance the regional eco• Education: Providing education and an upbringing their own drive so that they truly appreciate them. nomy. Examples include the production of basket ware to the 30 children under the age of 15 living on the For this reason, they take over the responsibilities of in Tunisia to be sold in Europe, production of craft from farm from a young age is one of our priorities. To organising sport and music workshops after being natural materials in South Africa, and selling at markets. do this, the facilities of the nursery school and the provided with the necessary start-up help (gospel library were renovated and a well-rounded activiand children’s choir concerts; whose proceeds go ties programme was created for every age group. towards purchasing new instruments, construction of The people responsible for teaching and taking care a football field etc.). of the kids receive special training. In addition, we An employee/company charity fund promotes a Company kindergarten in South Africa. found out through personal discussions that there are culture of future provision. Every employee can 42 43 come up with a »small dream« and a »big dream«. A that they can earn additional money by selling their 4.4.2 »El Puchero« – more than a soup kitchen • We would like to make El Puchero a meeting place where special account is set up for this purpose. The saved own handmade crafts and through selling achieve people can meet for activities and where we can better amount is proportionally multiplied by SanLucar. their dreams and those of their community (project: The economic crisis in Spain, which is accompanied by high learn about their needs. The employee can withdraw money at any time, craftsmanship of dreams). Furthermore, young people unemployment, has resulted in more and more people the funding from SanLucar is, however, only to be living on the farm who help with renovating commfalling into need – including the city of Valencia, home to • We would like to help people gain access to the job marpaid once enough money has been saved to fulfil a unity facilities are paid an extra money. The aim of the SanLucar headquarters. We cannot ignore this need. ket and win back their motivation and self-esteem. dream. The interest accrued by this account goes to incentives like this is to fight alcohol and drug abuse For this reason, we decided to open the »El Puchero« the social development plan. resulting from boredom among young people. (engl.: The Hotpot) soup kitchen at the end of the • We want to contribute to a positive outlook for the chil2012/2013 fiscal year. Every day, we bring needy families dren of families who have been affected by poverty. • Environmental responsibility: Every family has a small • Measures to promote the social development plan: quick and uncomplicated relief in the form of a warm, garden to take care of. The nursery school is also Mounting of bulletin boards around the entire farm nutritious meal in the Valencian urban districts of Orriols furnished with a fruit and vegetable garden, which is Regular meetings with Rooihoogte management and Torrefiel. maintained by the staff. In addition, training sessions and social workers and competitions about environmental protection also Social workers assisted by international volunteers La Casa Grande (lacasagrande.org), a non-governmental take place. to complete various projects organisation with 25 years of experience in Valencia, coordinates the planning and execution of the project together • Economic development: Starting August 2013, a craft with SanLucar. Three cooks take care of the preparation workshop using typical South African materials will be and distribution of up to 200 meals in El Puchero every offered in Rooihoogte. The families receive support so day. A social worker provides visitors with information and is responsible for coordinating with other social institutions in the area. These institutions refer needy people and families to El Puchero. The project is supported by SanLucar volunteers who participate in our company volunteer proDonations for this project can be made to the gramme and volunteers from La Casa Grande. following account (please include reference »El Puchero«): »Hi, I’m Eugenie and have belonged to the team The intermediate and long-term objectives of El Puchero: for social development on the Rooihoogte farm in People first Account holder: Asociación La Casa Grande South Africa since June 2013. I am a new member • We would like to make El Puchero a place of interchange Bank: Banco Mare Nostrum, S.A. of the SanLucar community. It is not difficult to which gives people perspectives for the future through BIC: GBMNESMMXXX find companies and organisations worldwide that projects and programmes. It should offer people the IBAN: ES46 0487 0370 37 9007000183 commit inspiring visions, values and strategies for opportunity to improve their situation. corporate responsibility to paper. However, communities like SanLucar’s, where everyone I have met so far thinks and acts with passion and commitment, What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? actively work to implement his or her vision and, for the benefit of others, always goes one step further, Daniel Seguí, are much rarer. In Africa, there is a saying that ›it coordinator of »The current economic situation is difficult, but it is also »El Puchero«. takes a village to raise a child‹. I also believe that a a challenge for us. The implementation of a social procommitted person can make a great contribution: ject like ›El Puchero‹ in the city of Valencia is a cause for in an organisation, in a sector, in a country, in the celebration for us. When we initially told people who world. There are many examples of people who we were and what we wanted to do, people didn’t have done exactly that. But if people come together believe us. They asked us lots of questions because to make a very valuable common vision come true, initiatives such as ours are very unusual here. Providing the project becomes much more effective; you don’t people in need in Valencia with a hot meal and fresh feel alone and have a lot more fun! For me, it is a fruit is only the beginning. We would like to get to privilege to contribute my energy to making the know people and their personal situation and help SanLucar vision of social responsibility come true.« them dream again and look forward to the future.« Eugenie Grobler, social worker and facilitator in Rooihoogte. 44 45 4.4.3 The Social Garden What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? The Social Garden in El Puig in Valencia is an initiative to revitalise traditional agricultural methods and to proJuan Antonio Muñoz, mote social and occupational integration. The idea for allotment gardener in the the Social Garden was conceived in collaboration with the »For me, the Social Garden has been a highly Social Garden in El Puig. El Puig de Santa Maria city government and the organenriching experience. On the one hand, I have isation Consorci Pactem Nord, which specialises in the earned basic production techniques – all thanks creation and promotion of jobs. to SanLucar‘s agricultural engineers and the colleagues who I exchanged experiences and little The project is aimed at the unemployed and pensioners ›secrets‹ with. On the other hand, I appreciate the who enjoy gardening and would like to cultivate vegetarelationship with the other allotment gardeners bles for their own use, as well as those who may discover and the experts. It has helped me a lot personally, their passion for a profession in agriculture. since I was going through difficult times because of health problems. The garden has distracted me On a surface area of 2,800 m2, 40 families grow their own from the doctors.« vegetables on plots ranging from 40 to 60 m2. Among them are 34 unemployed and six pensioners. They were drawn from a lot of 55 interested parties. There are The smallest are also enthusiastic. currently nine interested parties on the waiting list. Our Nancy Daiss, CR Project Developer agricultural engineers Isabel Truque, José Saorín, Antonio International at SanLucar and »I really enjoyed organising the Social Garden in El SanLucar volunteer in Valencia. Soría and Nancy Daiss assisted the project participants with varieties suited to the local climate of the region Puig and also participating in the project as a volunin various workshops to ensure each plot was optimally L‘Horta Nord: tomatoes, peppers, spinach, lettuce and teer. I spent many hours in the Social Garden after used. Each new gardener is given a seed and plant set more – vegetables which can be used to make delicious work and at the weekend, tended to the vegetables dishes every day. as a balance to my office work and exchanged views with the other ›gardeners‹. The project showed me People first SanLucar also has a plot which serves as a model for the how motivated and inventive people become if you new gardeners. Activities at the Social Garden includgive them a piece of land, seeds and seedlings. I ed, for example, SanLucar volunteers and their families especially enjoyed the training sessions which my colbuilding scarecrows and a compost enclosure. One of the leagues from the Quality Assurance department and plots is used for educational purposes and will be used I organised for the people in the Social Garden.« for different activities with children – it‘s good to get a head start if you want have green fingers! The social garden has already become a meeting point and a place of interchange, which means we are already forging new plans for the next planting season. »I decided for several reasons to participate in the garden with my family. On the one hand, it allows us to have our own little piece of garden we can cultivate and enjoy. We live in Valencia and miss not having a little bit of green. On the other hand, gardening also gives us the possibility of spending time in nature during the week and showing the children the importance of field and manual work, since it is not particularly appreciated in today‘s society.« Laura Mutto, purchasing agent at SanLucar and SanLucar volunteer in the Social Garden. The Social Garden in El Puig. 46 47 4.4.4 Three years of our corporate volunteer programme In the last three years, we have not only grown fruit and Participants in the volunteer programme vegetables responsibly but also... In the last three years, the international volunteer programme has become an indispensable part of the • made  children and young people with disabilities laugh; 50 corporate culture at SanLucar. It inspires knowledge exchange and interest in colleagues and their work • shown  young unemployed people work in the agricul40 worldwide. SanLucar‘s fundamental values are lived ture sector; Participants 30 out in the programme and thus better understood. At the same time, the programme also contributes to • motivated  young people who have absenteeism prob20 personal development. The participants leave their falems at school; miliar surroundings and must adjust to new situations. 10 It helps our diversity management in every respect and • prepared  people for re-integration into society; is, therefore, an instrument with a sustainable impact 0 and thus an investment that pays off.  • helped young farmers in the Andes; 2010 2011 2012 2013 Year • shown  women who are prone to exclusion an ecological technique for producing artisan craftwork; Year after year, our international volunteer programme and Matthias Lozano (Finance Specialist) helped The is evaluated by participating organisations and the Homestead, a South African NGO, to improve the living • trained  unemployed women in the selection and packvolunteers themselves. This is how we obtain feedconditions of children, young people and families in ing of citrus fruit together with our citrus farmer LLusar; back so that we can keep improving. In addition to townships. During educational and leisure activities, this annual evaluation, three focus groups including our volunteers devoted their time to children of The • helped  Chilean retailers with our knowledge; 21 SanLucar employees came together on 26 and 27 Homestead. They also helped many families improve February 2013. Among them were both employees who their income by setting up a Facebook page for the • mentored  street children in the townships of Cape had already worked as volunteers as well as colleagues sale of arts and crafts (www.youtube.com/watch?v=VtTown; who had not. The aim was to assess various possibilities 7JqXtHaZ4). for volunteer programmes, evaluate the experience of People first • assisted  South African artisans with marketing activities; volunteers, and identify barriers and opportunities. The Both Marie and Matthias also had the opportunity results were very encouraging: 100 per cent of the reto get to know our farm in Rooihoogte, where citrus • provided  disadvantaged families in Valencia with a spondents rated their experiences and the programme fruit, grapes and stone fruit are grown. The volunteers warm meal every day. as very positive. Most people are more interested in Motivated SanLucar volunteers. long-term projects than in sporadic activities and deThese are just a few examples. We have done all these cide on projects related to business activities (such as things with a big smile. However, the smiles we have Photo: Press Office City of Ettlingen. the Social Garden) where each person can contribute received back from everyone are bigger and even more his or her knowledge. The employees prefer activities beautiful. they can do together with their families and appreciate the flexible working hours offered to them by SanLucar More than 40 people have taken part in the initiatives for this purpose as well as the commitment of the manhere at home and abroad. Nine volunteers have travelled agement. Based on these results, SanLucar has planned to Chile, Ecuador, and South Africa. Some partners such a number of activities for a SanLucar action week, as Llusar, our families and our friends have shared these which will take place in September 2013. experiences. Our volunteers work approx. 2,000 hours per year in those activities. In 2012, volunteers Manuel Blickle (Controller) and Patrick Rühlemann (Seller) collaborated with the FAO (Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations) in Chile. There, they supported the local farmers‘ markets (»ferias libres«) in order to strengthen School children from Ettlingen are excited about the surrounding communities. At the other end of the fresh fruit and vegetables from SanLucar. world, in Cape Town, Marie Schaper (Brand Designer) Volunteer programme activity for Andean women in Ecuador. 48 49 participated in Donnagene’s social activities, the social er countries and to pitch in on-site. The programme What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? worker responsible for the nursery schools and the promotes understanding and the exchange of ideas library. within the corporate group and is thus a great instrument with a sustainable impact. In 2013, SanLucar started a new banana farming project in Ecuador. In addition to the challenges related Usually, the volunteer programme is a win-win situa»SanLucar‘s volunteer programme is a wonderful to production in Ecuador and in South Africa, social tion for all parties involved: The volunteers learn about combination of everyone‘s willingness to make problems are also a consideration. The local society other countries and cultures, develop their personality special efforts, and the possibilities offered by a suffers from social abuse, which SanLucar wants to and come home with a suitcase filled with valuable large, dedicated company like SanLucar. It was fight against right from the beginning. To this end, we experiences. We are convinced that voluntary work is a great experience for me to see what we can have embarked on the path of social development and an important instrument for employee development achieve with a diverse team. I was able to contriwould like for the entire SanLucar community to be and an official study – in which we have participated bute all my skills to a good cause and learned a able to participate in this challenge. Volunteers should as a partner – confirms our belief. The study conducted lot personally and professionally!« get to know the reality on the ground, work side by by Fundar (Valencian Foundation for Solidarity and VolManuel Blickle, Controller at SanLucar side with our teams, experts and local organisations unteering) and the University of Valencia proves that and SanLucar volunteer in Chile. and, in doing so, have an enriching experience. For this volunteers improve their qualifications in many areas reason, 100 per cent of our 2013 volunteer projects are such as teamwork, flexibility and self-confidence. geared towards our own areas under cultivation. Three volunteers will each spend a month at the farm in RooiWhat is the future of our volunteer programme? We hoogte in South Africa, while three other volunteers want to extend it to the entire SanLucar community. In will stay at the Hacienda Magdalena in Ecuador to help future, everyone at SanLucar will have the opportunity »For me, the volunteer project in South Africa commence analyses and social development plans on to help people develop positively at our farms and in was a truly unforgettable experience. SanLucar the ground. the surrounding ideas. gave me the opportunity to gain insight into the Rainbow Nation and, as a result, better underOur four-week volunteer programme enables intereststand the cultural background of this country. I ed employees to gain experience in one of our producwas particularly impressed by the cordiality given People first to me despite all the social problems. During my stay, among other things, I supported the NGO The Homestead in its marketing activities. I am very pleased to see that my help has borne ›fruit‹ and the projects now run independently of the organisation.« Marie Schaper, Brand Designer at SanLucar and SanLucar volunteer in South Africa. The library on our farm in South Africa. 50 51 4.5 Showing solidarity with fruit For a healthy diet from an early age, we supported the In 2013/2014… Valencian Heart Insitute (INSVACOR) with fresh fruit skewers on the »Día del Corazón« (Day of the Heart, 13 • we will analyse social and environmental aspects on To show solidarity and send a message against food May 2013). our farm in Ecuador. waste, we donated fruit and vegetables at all SanLucar locations together with local institutions during the last In addition to fruit and vegetable donations, SanLucar • we will introduce the social development plan based fiscal year. is also involved in many events and initiatives covering on the d.r.e.a.m.s. concept in South Africa. nutrition, health and sustainability. In 2012 and 2013, regular donations were made to the • the introduction of our talent management system institution Segarra in Vall d‘Uixó (Castellón) for severely • In vocational colleges all across Austria, SanLucar is regand of new training programmes will be completed. handicapped people, to Die Tafel e.V. in Ettlingen, social ularly invited to symposia so that trainees can learn first markets in Vienna and the organisation DASYC in Valenhand how our company works. • we will support sports and healthy food in all of our cia for families in need. headquarters. • We have supported the charitable KinderBURGfestival In the Tunisian region of El Hamma, we daily donate toat the Liechtenstein Castle/Austria for 10 years as the • we will be audited as a FairCompany. This seal is matoes to various local social facilities such as the regionmain sponsor. In addition to donations in money and awarded to companies that advocate a fair personnel al hospital, the training and work centre, the Muhammad kind, SanLucar also raises nutritional awareness among policy and support the development of young talents Ali secondary school, the Sombat secondary school, the parents and children. by means of excellent internship programmes. association Amal (non-profit-making association to support people in need) and the Tunisian Union for Assisting • Nursery school project in Austria: Nursery school kids • we will be hosting the SanLucar Engagement Week, the Mentally Disabled (UTAIM). playfully learn about a healthy diet. A (blindfolded) in which both our employees and their families, as game of »Guess the Fruit« and a jointly prepared fruit well as our partners can participate in various volunWe are also continuing to sponsor the school fruit project salad (group dynamics) give us the possibility of savourtary and educational activities. of the Pestalozzi and Carl Orff Schools in Ettlingen. After ing our products. Of course, there is also a competition the trial period of three months at the beginning of the where children can win fruit to take home. • we will continue to work with pensioners and the last school year, we extended our commitment to covunemployed in our Social Garden in El Puig. er the entire school year. Starting September, SanLucar People first • Nibble Yourself Slim – Cookbook and Guide: SanLucar will once again been participating in the school‘s fruit supported well-known nutritionist Ursula Vybiral‘s book • we will not only offer a hot meal to more than 200 campaign and delivering morning vitamins to the pupils project, and was present at the book presentation with people living in Valencia in poverty in the soup kitdirectly to the classroom. We are particularly pleased to fresh fruit. chen »El Puchero« but also develop projects intended see that other companies have also joined the school to improve their economic situations. project thanks to our initiative. • School gardens in Alzenau near Frankfurt. In order to particularly show children what it means to grow, cultivate and harvest fresh fruit and vegetables yourself, SanLucar has supported the newly created school gardens of the Karl Amberg School in Alzenau since April 2013. In addition to plants and initial tooling, SanLucar provides the participating teachers with product knowledge and ideas for recipes for children. SanLucar is present at sport events Fruit donation for the school in Ettlingen. in Austria. 52 53 5 In harmony with nature Nature is our most important partner. We act carefully and responsibly because we always work looking towards SanLucar’s future and that of our communities. 54 Another one of our priorities is to minimise the use of 5 In harmony with nature water for irrigation. In using state-of-the-art irrigation systems, applying controlled water shortages to the crops, using moisture sensors, low-drift irrigation nozzles and anti-weed sheets, we have already been able to achieve 5.1 Eco-innovations for sustainable Since the early days of SanLucar, we have worked to considerable water savings – over 40 per cent since 2011, comply with these principles together with our expert farming and we continue to make progress. growers. In 2012, we created a new research and development plan 2013-2018 for all of SanLucar‘s products. Other initiatives promoted by us: Fruit and vegetables must always be grown with fewer reThis plan, among other things, focuses on eco-innovasources in order to become more sustainable: less area and tion. One of the three main tasks for research, devel• Ploughing techniques which do not damage the soil soil, less water, less energy, fewer pesticides, less fertiliser. opment and innovation staff at SanLucar is to ensure structure and reduce erosion. Eco-innovations enable us to improve day by day and that things are kept in harmony with nature. This line achieve more environmental efficiency. For instance, using of research, which focuses on sustainability, develops • Chopping up plant debris produced while pruning to renewable energies, we are reducing the consumption of new methods for optimally using resources. The aim is increase organic material in the soil and improve soil natural resources. An eco-innovative company relies on to obtain the same production volume and quality with structure. natural rather than artificial means and is always lookfewer resources and, at the same time, preserve the bioing for the best possible solution without compromising logical diversity of ecosystems. More suitable varieties, • Establishment and protection of biological corridors and product quality. At SanLucar, environmental compatibility sophisticated farming systems and alternative methods green belts in favour of mobility and preservation of is based on seven principles: for post-harvest treatment define some of SanLucar‘s local fauna and flora. research priorities. 1. Minimisation of water consumption. • Calculation of carbon footprint of SanLucar products, 2. Preservation of soil structure and soil life. Several research programmes focus on reducing or doing reduction and compensation projects. 3. Minimisation of greenhouse gas emissions. away with the use of pesticides. In our Zero-Residue 4. Minimisation of power and fuel consumption and preProgramme, we grow lemons with zero pesticide resi• Continuous reduction of pesticide use by minimising ferred use of renewable energy sources. dues on a test field in Murcia. The lemons have the same treatment frequency and doing without particularly 5. Sustainable farming to protect the crop. optical quality as lemons from conventional farming. environmentally harmful products. 6. Recycling, waste minimisation and professional waste Because of the positive test results, we extended producmanagement. tion in accordance with the Zero-Residue Protocol from • Use of biotechnological methods and beneficial orga7. Protection of biodiversity. five to 24 hectares in 2012/2013. nisms for integrated pest control. In harmony with nature Production in accordance Plot 1 Plot 2 Improvement Plot 1 Improvement Plot 2 with Zero-Residue Protocol Fruit which does not meet 9,2 % 31,5 % 70 % 46 % the SanLucar standards of quality (2012) Fruit which does not meet 2,8 % 17 % the SanLucar standards of quality (2013) Area (2012) 3,5 ha 1,5 ha Area (2013) 21 ha 3 ha 56 57 5.2 Sustainability in our value chain Our carbon footprint In 2012, we received the final results of our carbon the planned reduction of 20 per cent for the fiscal year footprint for SanLucar lemons from Murcia (standard 2013/2014, we could reduce consumption by up to 220 PAS2050). The analysis showed an amount of 67.97 g tonnes of plastic. CO2-eq per kg lemons, with all packaging types having been considered. 49 per cent of the CO2 emissions can be ascribed to the packaging process. Therefore, many of the improvements which we are currently working on concentrate on this part of the value chain. Studies from the University of Murcia and the Spanish Higher Scientific Research Council (CEBAS-CSIC) indicate that citrus fruit has a higher growth rate and a higher CO2 fixation rate than many other tree species. A comparison between the estimated CO2 absorption capacity and the calculated emissions shows that a citrus plantation can compensate for half of the generated emissions itself because of its absorption capacity. Particularly noteworthy is our new environmentally The calculation of the carbon footprint of our lemons is friendly paper bags for table grapes: one of many steps on the path to more environmental efficiency. It provides us with an objective measuring • At an annual average consumption of around 4.5 tool which assesses efficiency in the value chain. It million bags, we reduced plastic consumption by 15 motivates us to continue to improve our growers and tonnes per year. suppliers, and ourselves. • Filling and padding material for grape boxes was SanLucar is replacing plastic packaging with 100% comreplaced by the paper bags, resulting in a 160-tonne postable recycled cardboard and is pressing ahead with saving of polyurethane foam. Food losses have also the market launch of the LightweightBox . ® decreased by 20 per cent, as no fruit remains in the box during the sales process. In harmony with nature The LightweightBox® is 5 to 15 per cent lighter than conventional packaging. Its production requires fewer raw materials and chemicals, and its transport produces fewer emissions. In 2012/2013, we exceeded our own forecasts and achieved a 54-per-cent introduction, which corresponds to approximately six million units (boxes) on the European market. As regards to the plastic reduction programme for our primary packaging, in the fiscal year 2012/2013 we accomplished a reduction of approximately 183.6 tonnes of plastic in comparison to the previous year – almost 19 per cent more than planned. If we maintain Careful treatment of SanLucar grapes at the Point of Sale. 58 59 With regards to transport-related emissions, our optimise routes. More than 80 per cent of our forwardWhat are SanLucar stakeholders saying? logistics team is working to improve our information ing partners’ fleet is made up of high-efficiency lorries systems in order to control them more precisely and (Euro 5 and Euro 6 engines). Manuel Madrid, head of 1000 the R&D department of »Resource-conserving production of very tasty fruit SanLucar. while simultaneously preserving natural ecosystems 800 is a global challenge. There are hardly any new regions with good soil, water and climatic conditions left. Additionally, pressure to reduce agrochemicals limits farming possibilities further. SanLucar‘s reNumber of lorries 600 search is aimed at finding creative solutions to these challenges and actively seeks new, tastier varieties 400 that are compatible with more efficient production methods and enable us to develop our taste in harmony with nature.« 200 0 Sebastián Morcelo, Managing Director of Fresaflor. Euro 1 Euro 2 Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Total Engine-Type »We at Fresaflor and our partners rely on innovative methods for more sustainable farming. For example, we grow 50 per cent of our raspberries hydroponically and, in this way, achieve a water saving of 30 per cent. Hydroponics additionally ensure higher fruit quality and healthier plants, reducing crop treatment on the plantations to a minimum. With strawberry farming, since the fiscal year 2012/2013 we have tested how a greater plant distance affects the risk of fungal infestation. We know the climate, the soil and the plants and explore new innovations and tests In harmony with nature every day in order to farm in an environmentally friendly manner and harvest fruit with excellent quality and great taste.« Our logistic platform in Ettlingen. 60 61 5.3 Green Office: What are SanLucar stakeholders saying? raising awareness is the key! We are gradually reaching the objectives of the Green The new Office 365 enables us to have access to all inforAnna Geiger, Office Project launched during the last fiscal year. In the mation relevant for our work regardless of our location. GLOBAL 2000. » Since 2009, the sustainability team of GLOBAL process, we are relying on raising awareness amongst our In this way, our servers in our data centre may be turned 2000, Austria‘s leading environmental organiemployees by means of small but sustainable actions that off for a certain period of time, which means energy can sation, has supervised the awarding of the PRO have a lasting effect. For example, the introduction of a be saved. PLANET label for fruit, vegetables and eggs on security code function on all printers resulted in a 50-perbehalf of REWE International AG in Austria. PRO cent reduction in the number of documents printed. We In 2013/2014, we will … PLANET stands for resource-conserving farmuse different awareness-raising campaigns throughout ing and controlled social standards. Since 2012, the year, with contributions in our internal employee • work to implement the research and development plan GLOBAL 2000 has been in regular contact with magazine LucaNova, and notices to communicate the var2013-2018 for all our products and crops. One of the SanLucar Spain in order to jointly optimise the ious actions and the obtained results to our colleagues. three research priorities is »In harmony with nature« so cultivation of citrus fruit (oranges, clementines as to make farming even more sustainable. and lemons) from Spain from an environmental To properly dispose of and recycle the materials produced point of view so that they meet the criteria for by our activity, we work with specialised companies and • continue to work towards achieving the objectives of the PRO PLANET label. The main emphasis of citorganisations. Together with the IT department, we are our Green Office project. rus cultivation is sustainable water use. SanLucar currently looking for a suitable solution regarding the is working closely with GLOBAL 2000 to achieve disposal and proper recycling of raw materials of all de• continue to work in multidisciplinary teams with our this goal together with its producers. Workshops commissioned electronic devices such as cell phones and farming partners and customers to promote good are held up to twice a year in order to help computers. practice from the field to the PoS and reduce our conthe producers choose and successfully find and sumption of raw materials and the impacts on our value implement the right measures to save water, a Our IT department not only supports us in disposing of chain. scarce resource. SanLucar is thus taking a step in electronic devices but also when it comes to saving enerthe right direction. « gy during their use. It organises information sessions on • work hard to further optimise our carbon footprint the energy-saving use of mobile phones and stresses the with innovative and ecological packaging projects, need to turn off computers and screens at the end of the more sustainable logistics and CO2 compensation in our day. producer countries. Development of paper consumption at the In harmony with nature Puzol headquarters 50 40 kg paper / employee 30 20 10 0 2005 / 06 2006 / 07 2007 / 08 2008 / 09 2009 / 10 2010 / 11 2011 / 12 2012 / 13 Fiscal Year 62 63 6 Appendix Appendix 1: Corporate data Appendix 2: GRI Table Appendix 3: Communication on Progress (CoP) and corresponding GRI indicators Appendix 4: CR Contacts in SanLucar Appendix 5: Certificates Appendix 6: Glossary 64 Appendix 1. Corporate data Organigram CEO SanLucar Group General Management Management Areas SanLucar in Germany SanLucar Resources SanLucar Operations SanLucar International SanLucar SanLucar Austria SanLucar Production Ettlingen Germany Corporate Areas Finance & Information Commercial SanLucar SanLucar Sales National Travel Technologies Area RSA Tunisia Sales Europe Sales National CR PR Carlos Segui Pepe Ventura Human Geza Aumüller Resources Legal Sonia Mallén Project SanLucar Quality & Brand & Office Services Management Ecuador R&D Management Quality & Brand Corporate Production Gunnar Brune Culture Carmen Nicolás General Business Distribution Logistics Services Excellence Germany Packaging Packaging Management Innovation Appendix 66 67 Employees Number of employees (consolidated data) Germany Professional status Men Women Total Professional status Men Women Total Executive 9 1 10 Executive 3 0 3 Directors 14 4 18 Directors 5 0 5 Managers 33 16 49 Managers 7 0 7 Technicians 129 56 185 Technicians 5 3 8 Commercial/ Sales staff 15 19 34 Commercial/ Sales staff 5 2 7 Admin. staff 27 66 93 Admin. staff 14 30 44 Warehouse staff 293 823 1.116 Warehouse staff 19 1 20 Apprentices 4 1 5 Apprentices 3 1 4 Trainees 11 15 26 Trainees 0 1 1 Total 535 1.001 1.536 Total 61 38 99 Spain Tunisia Professional status Average number of employees Professional status Average number of employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Executive 4 0 4 Executive 1* 0 1 Directors 4 2 6 Directors 1 0 1 Managers 13 14 27 Managers 7 1 8 Technicians 40 36 76 Technicians 74 17 91 Commercial/ Sales staff 6 14 20 Commercial/ Sales staff 1 0 1 Admin. staff 5 31 36 Admin. staff 8 8 16 Warehouse staff 3 2 5 Warehouse staff 76 611 687 Trainees 11 14 25 Total 168 637 805 Total 86 113 199 South Africa Austria Professional status Average number of employees Professional status Average number of employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Executive 1* 1 2 Executive 1 0 1 Directors 1 1 2 Directors 4 1 5 Managers 5 1 6 Managers 0 0 0 Technicians 9 0 9 Technicians 1 0 1 Commercial/ Sales staff 0 2 2 Commercial/ Sales staff 3 3 6 Admin. staff 0 2 2 Admin. staff 0 4 4 Warehouse staff 176 205 381 Warehouse staff 19 4 23 Total 192 212 404 Appendix Apprentices 1 0 1 Trainees 0 0 0 * Same person in charge of Tunisia and South Africa Total 29 12 41 68 69 Financial profile Materials Packaging material used2 Turnover in Million Euro 400 Material weight (t) 375,00 2011/12 2012/13 350 Transport 4,095 4,752 336,37 Packaging Wood 1,877 1,263 292,57 300 Plastic 1,110 1,101 Destination of Prepack (packCarton (box) Total the materials aging which Cardboard 751 875 goes to the 253,86 Paper 270 326 end consumer) 250 Jute 17 40 233,46 Supermarket 308 6,311 6,619 Glass 7 9 Consumer 1,352 397 1,749 Straw 0.5 0.5 Total 1,660 6,708 8,386 200 Wicker 0.5 0.4 Cork 0.04 0.05 Textile 0.03 0.03 150 Total 8,128 8,367 100 2009 / 10 2010 /11 2011 / 12 2012 / 13 2013 / 14 Packaging material at the end consumer (distribution according to weight):2 ( Budget ) 3% 1% Corporate Responsibility Investment, costs and donations (Society and Environment) in Euro 18 % 6% Country Since campaign 2011/12 2012/13 1% 2% 2008/2009 Spain 177.057 397.115,81 Tunisia 175.297,53 Austria 50.000 330.061,48 91 % Germany 2.180.000 780.000 71.941,99 South Africa 40.000* 1.882.519,78 78 % Total 2.180.000 1.007.057 2.856.936,59 Exterior circle: 2012/13, interior circle: 2011/12 * Corporate activities since April 2012. Plastic Paper/Cardboard Organic materials Other Appendix 2 Data refers to products sold in Germany with SanLucar brand. 70 71 Appendix 2. GRI Table All departments 2.10 Awards received in the FIPA Award 2012 Tunisia No applications for prizes were reporting period. Recognition by ENGAGE and third submitted. place in the Codespa Award Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the 2011/2012 Results of the 2012/2013 CR 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. Campaign 2011/2012 (tax year Campaign 2012/2013 (tax year Code Definition campaign or section in the campaign or section in the fiscal/calendar year) for from July 2011 to June 2012) from July 2012 to June 2013) CR Report CR Report information provided. General indicators Executive Board 1.1 Statement from the Foreword by Stephan Rötzer, founder and owner of SanLucar. most senior deci3.2 Date of most recent Publication in September 2011 February 2013 sion-maker of the previous report (if any). organisation about the relevance of sustainabil3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, Annually per campaign ity to the organisation biennial etc.). and its strategy. 3.4 Contact point for Appendix 4 Contact Form and Contact questions regarding the Executive Board 1.2 Description of key SanLucar has a risk management SanLucar has a risk management report or its contents. impacts, risks, and opsystem. Risks exist in connection system and is aware of direct and 3.5 Process for defining Diversity: our basis for long-term Page 3 portunities. with marketing, the corporate indirect impacts, which the comreport content. stability (Introduction) image and legal and country-spepany reduces using instruments cific aspects (such as political of sustainable management. 3.6 Boundary of the SanLucar Fruit S.L., SanLucar SanLucar Fruit S.L., SanLucar conflicts).Each risk is also an opForeword Stephan Rötzer and report (e.g. countries, Deutschland GmbH, SanLucar Deutschland GmbH, SanLucar portunity for constant improveChapter 2 divisions, subsiduaries, Import GmbH, SanLucar Vertrieb, Import GmbH, SanLucar Vertrieb, ment in management. leased facilities, joint SanLucar Obst und Gemüse HanSanLucar Obst und Gemüse HanChapter 2.5 ventures, suppliers). dels GmbH, SanLucar Portugal dels GmbH, La Cinquième Saison Sociedade Unipessoal LDA and SA., SanLucar South Africa (PTY) Cinquième Saison SA. LTD., SanLucar Factory S.L. and Executive Board 2.1 Name of the organisaSanLucar Fruit S.L., part of Grupo Consolidado SanLucar Fruit S.L. SanLucar Tunisia SARL. tion. (SanLucar Group) 3.7 State any specific limThere are operations executed The report covers the companies Brand 2.2 Primary brands, proBrand SanLucar itations on the scope or only at SanLucar Fruit S.L. of the SanLucar Group listed in ducts and/or services. Others: Sunnyboy, Sunnyberries, ClemenRed boundary of the report. Indicator not applicable Indicator 3.6. All data was providChapter 1 ed by the Controlling staff. HR 2.3 Operational structure Chapter 1.3 Chapter 1 and Appendix 1 3.8 Basis for reporting on The information included in this The key figures for South Africa of the organisation. joint ventures, subsidreport mainly refers to SanLucar were added to and Portugal HR 2.4 Location of organisaSerra Llarga 24, 46530 Puzol uaries, leased facilities, Fruit S.L., SanLucar Deutschland taken out of the report; all data tion's headquarters. outsourced operations GmbH, SanLucar Import GmbH, is marked so that comparability is Resources, Quality and 2.5 Countries where the orChapter 1.2 Chapter 1 and other entities that SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar Obst not affected. Commercial Manageganisation operates and can significantly affect und Gemüse Handels GmbH, ment countries with major comparability from SanLucar Portugal Sociedade operations. period to period and/or Unipessoal LDA and Cinquième Legal Department 2.6 Nature of ownership SanLucar Fruit S.L. between organisations. Saison SA. and legal form. Commercial Manage2.7 Markets served (includChapters 1 and 6 Germany, Austria, France, Spain, ment ing geographic breakEngland, Italy, Poland, the down, sectors served Netherlands, the Czech Republic, and types of customers/ Slovakia, Luxemburg, Tunisia, 3.9 Data measurement The calculation of the indicators is based on our internal managebeneficiaries). Romania, Lithuania, Belgium techniques and the ment system and the Global Reporting Initiative protocol. bases of calculations, including assumptions and HR and Finance 2.8 Nature of ownership Chapters 1 and 3 and Appendix 3 Chapter 1 techniques underlying and legal form. Appendix Sales, Employees estimations applied to Executive Board 2.9 Significant changes Restructuring of SanLucar‘s Purchase of the production facilithe compilation of the during the reporting departments and business areas, ties in Ecuador in January 2013; Indicators and other inperiod regarding size, purchase of the production faciliproduction and trial plots reloformation in the report. Appendix structure or ownership. ties in South Africa in March 2012 cated from Portugal to Spain and and move from our warehouse in Tunisia. Puzol to Vall d‘Uixó (Castellón) in May 2012. 72 73 CR 3.10 Explanation of the Not applicable, as this is the first The same fundamental basis was Resources Area 4.3 For organisations that See Indicator 4.1. Indicator 4.1 effect of any re-stateyear in which we apply the GRI used for all information. Where have a unitary board See Appendix 3 of the CR report Appendix 1 ments of information method to the CR report. deviations occur, this is indicated structure, state the – employee data – composition of provided in earlier in the respective section. number and gender of the committees of the Executive reports, and the reasons members of the highest Board and the management for such re-statement governance body that (e.g. mergers/acquisiare independent and/or tions, change of base non-executive members. years/periods, nature of business, measurement CR 4.4 Mechanisms for shareThere are a variety of mechaThe employee participation methods). holders and employees nisms for our employees at the mechanisms at the headquarters 3.11 Significant changes to provide recommenheadquarters: database for proin Puzol (Valencia): from previous reporting dations or direction to posals in the context of SA8000, 1. internal system regulated by the periods in the scope, the highest governance HR, CIA, employee representaSA8000 certification (suggestion parameters or measurebody. tion. In the remaining companies, boxes and employee representament methods applied we are still in the introductory tives) in the report. phase. 2. CIA: committee composed of 3.12 Table identifying the Content of CR report and table in GRI table and table of contents employees from different departlocation of the Stanthe appendix ments dard Disclosures in the 3. annual employee survey on the report. working climate 3.13 Policy and current This report was reviewed by the This report was reviewed by the Resources Area 4.5 Linkage between comThis aspect is considered in the The salaries of all SanLucar Group practice with regard company itself in accordance company itself in accordance with pensation for members strategic plan (which is currently employees are divided into a to seeking external with the GRI standard, version the GRI standard, version 3.1. The of the highest govbeing drawn up). non-performance-based basic salassurance for the 3.1. The report's Application report's Application Level A is ernance body, senior ary and a target-based bonus. The report. Also explain the Level A is self-declared. self-declared. The next report will managers and execusystem takes into account business relationship between be compiled in accordance with tives (including depargoals, departmental and individuthe reporting organisathe GRI standard, version 4.0. ture arrangements), al objectives, which are reviewed tion and the assurance and the organisation's annually. provider(s). performance (including social and environmenResources Area 4.1 Governance structure SanLucar has created a strategic The Executive Board consists of tal performance). of the organisation, plan defining its business goals. Stephan Rötzer, Jorge Peris, Carlos including committees The highest governing body Seguí, Michael Brinkmann, Santi4.6 Processes in place for This item will be taken into account in the corporate governance straunder the highest govconsists of Stephan Rötzer, Carlos ago Galán and Jaime Olleros (exthe highest governance tegic plan, which is currently being drawn up. ernance body responSeguí, Jorge Peris, Santiago ternal consultant). The Executive body to ensure conflicts sible for specific tasks, Galán and Jaime Olleros (external Board is advised and supported by of interest are avoided. such as setting strategy consultant). Thus, there exists a management team composed of or organisational overan executive committee which all departments of the company. 4.7 Process for determining It is the CEO’s responsibility to determine the composition of the sight. meets at least once a year and is The area teams confer every three the qualifications and highest governance body and its committees. The highest governance responsible for both informative months. The committees’ rules of expertise of the membody currently consists of six people (five internal people and one and advisory activities. operation are laid down in the bers of the highest govexternal consultant). committee guidelines. ernance body, including Appendix 1 any consideration of 4.2 Indicate whether the Stephan Rötzer is CEO, founder and owner of SanLucar. gender and other indiChair of the highest cators of diversity. governance body is also CR 4.8 Internally developed Chapter 2.2 Chapter 2 an executive officer statements of mission Since 2011, SanLucar has had an (and, if so, their funcor values, codes of integrated policy which compristion within the orgaconduct and principles es aspects from HR, quality, the nisation’s management relevant to economic, environment and sustainability. and the reasons for this environmental and arrangement.) social performance and the status of their implementation. Appendix 74 75 Resources Area 4.9 Procedures of the Annual preparation and approvAnnual CR report with approval CR 4.14 List of stakeholder In July 2010, SanLucar performed The stakeholders are selected highest governance al of the CR report. Corporate by Executive Board groups engaged by the a stakeholder analysis, which according to the »from inside to body for overseeing policy must be approved and the GRI indicators organisation. was reviewed and improved in a outside« model and according to the organisation’s integrated management system Integrated management system workshop with UPJ in April 2012. company locations; identification and manconstantly monitored at the Corporate policy and SanLucar’s For instance, we plan and archive Chapter 3 agement of economic, executive level. Code of Ethics all protocols of stakeholder diaenvironmental and logues and integrate them into social performance, our management system, SA8000. including relevant risks and opportunities, and 4.15 Basis for identification See foreword and Chapter 2.3 adherence or compliand selection of stakeance with internationholders with whom to ally agreed standards, engage. codes of conduct and 4.16 Approaches to stakeChapter 2.3 principles. holder engagement, Chapter 3 4.10 Processes for evaluating This aspect is considered in the All members of the highest including frequency of Chapter 4 the highest governance strategic plan (which is currently governance body, directors engagement by type Chapter 5 body’s own perforbeing drawn up). and executives, participate in a and by stakeholder Chapter 6 mance, particularly with management bonus scheme with group. respect to economic, enwhich their performance in the vironmental and social company is evaluated in relation 4.17 Key topics and concerns Chapter 7 performance. to the achievement of the annual that have been raised business indicators. This target through stakeholder system is reflected in internal engagement, and how workflows. the organisation has responded to those key Risk Committee 4.11 Explanation of whether Chapter 2.5 Risk Management. Chapter 2 topics and concerns, and how the precauSanLucar’s integrated manageincluding through its tionary approach or ment system establishes mechareporting. principle is addressed by nisms for excellent management the organisation. in relation to the prediction of Economic indicators risks and continuous improveFinance EC1 Direct economic value See Appendix 3 Appendix 1 ment. generated and distribCR 4.12 Externally developed Signing of the Global Compact; United Nations Global Compact, uted, including reveeconomic, environmensigning of the Charter of Diversi2011 nues, operating costs, tal and social charters, ty Chapter 2.4 and 5 The Charter of Diversity in Spain, employee compensation, principles or other 2011 donations and other initiatives to which the Pact against Food Waste, 2012 community investments, organisation subscribes Pact against Violence against retained earnings and or endorses. Women, 2012 payments to capital providers and governments (taxes). CR and Resources 4.13 Memberships in associChapter 2.4 Member of UPJ e.V. Germany, CR EC2 Financial implications Measurement of our products' The risks of climate change are an ations (such as industry Chapter 5.1 respACT Austria and other risks and carbon footprint, starting with integral part of our risk manageassociations) and/or Collaboration: Die Tafeln e.V. opportunities for the our lemons. Climate or meteoment system, as climate change national/international Ettlingen (Germany), City Govorganisation's activities rological changes including the can result in direct and indirect advocacy organisations. ernment of El Puig (Valencia), due to climate change. following risks: thunderstorms, potential economic consequences Consorci Pactem Nord (Valencia), ambient temperature, water for us. Asociación La Casa Grande (Valenavailability as well as health and Chapter 5.2 cia), The Homestead, Cape Town production-related issues which (South Africa) affect employees. All these risks Chapter 4.5 are included in the SanLucar risk management system. Appendix 76 77 HR EC3 Coverage of the organPension plan, wage premium for Chapters 4.1 and 4.3 Resources Area and EC6 Policy, practices and The company uses fixed qualSanLucar is a transnational compaisation's defined beneacademic continuing education, SanLucar International proportion of spendity specifications for fruit and ny which buys its products internafit plan obligations. medical insurance and other ing on locally-based vegetables. Our products are tionally. Our business activities are social benefits for employees. suppliers at significant purchased in 34 different couninternationally accompanied by See Chapters 3 and 5.3 locations of operation. tries and only from suppliers who social programmes which contriFinance and Legal EC4 Significant financial asSubsidies received from public Tunisia: The Tunisian state subsihave been approved according to bute to the development of sociDepartment sistance received from institutions. dises 12% of the invested amount. our criteria. Suppliers are only enety, the improvement of working government. Subsidy from Ministry of Health, So, the total of the subsidy gaged under contract if they can conditions and education. Ministry of Social Affairs and amounts to 993,000 DT (450,000 fulfil our criteria and guarantee Percentage of local suppliers (volSecretary of State for Equality euros) our standard of quality. ume): Tunisia: 66%, South Africa: to introduce an equality plan --> 95%, Spain: 95%, Germany: 95%; 7.740 euros Materials necessary for business Chapter 4.4 Subsidy from VEX (Valencian operations and production are Institute for Export) and from purchased in the respective the Ministry of Agriculture, country with consideration to the Fishery and Food to support the price/performance ratio. export and the introduction of an international brand --> 90.430.72 Whenever availability is guaraneuros. teed and the price is right, local suppliers are preferred. This is HR EC5 Range of ratios of stanSanLucar bases its salaries on Tunisia: The average salary is anchored in our corporate policy. dard entry-level wage salary scales from collective 151% higher than the national by gender compared to employment agreements. If these minimum salary, applied to 100% HR EC7 Procedures for local SanLucar always gives priority SanLucar always gives priority local minimum wage at are not available, we base pay on of the employees. hiring and proportion to local contracts and promotes to local contracts and promotes significant locations of average job-specific salaries of South Africa: The average salary of senior managecultural exchange. All managers cultural exchange. All managers operation. the respective country. In order to is 15% higher than the national ment hired from the are employed locally. are employed locally. get qualified personnel, SanLucar minimum salary, applied to 100% local community at Chapter 3 often offers higher salaries. of the employees. significant locations of Spain: The SanLucar salaries are operation. based on collective agreements Resources Area und EC8 Development and See Appendix 3 and Chapter 5; Spain: Opening and operation and depend on the knowledge SanLucar International impact of infrastructure More than 4% of our investments of »El Puchero«, a soup kitchen and the experience of each perinvestments and serin Tunisia were investments in in Valencia (donation: 21,891.71 son. Average salaries are higher vices provided primarcorporate social responsibility. euros). than those laid down in the collecily for public benefit Investments in infrastructure Tunisia: Donation of tomatoes to tive agreements. through commercial, improvement, employee social various facilities near business loGermany: There are no collective in-kind or pro bono security benefits, and the local cation (100,000 DT; 45,000 euros). agreements in the industry; so, engagement. community are carried out within South Africa: Donating fruit to SanLucar bases salaries on average the framework of SanLucar’s employees (19,500 euros, 2% of job-specific salaries. social policies. total investment), renovation of Austria: There is no standard employees’ homes and drinking entry-level salary. Salaries are water purification for the compacalculated individually according ny (150,000 euros, 7.5% of total to the assessment by the general investment). manager. They are well above Germany: Donating fruit to collective minimum wages. schools and »Die Tafel e.V.«, Ettlingen (3,500 euros), donation to Oncological Children’s Clinic and »Freundeskreis für Suchtkranke« in Karlsruhe (1,500 euros). Austria: SanLucar Charity Golf Tournament; the proceeds will be donated to local non-profit organisations, victims of the 2013 flood disaster and people with Down’s syndrome (80,300 euros). Chapter 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 Appendix 78 79 Resources Area EC9 Understanding and SanLucar develops a business plan For all production projects, All departments EN5 Energy saved due to In 2011, an audit concerning Germany: Motion detectors for describing significant which takes economic impacts SanLucar develops a business plan conservation and effienergy savings was carried out in the lights in the toilets and in the indirect economic into account for all production which takes economic effects into ciency improvements. Tunisia. corridors. impacts, including the projects. By measuring economic account. This plan evaluates the extent of impacts. consequences with the help of positive effects such as the creour risk management system, we ation of jobs or the development EN6 Initiatives to provide See Chapter 7 This indicator is currently not make an initial assessment with of local economic sectors (plan for energy-efficient or rebeing reported. regards to the indirect economic social development) and attempts newable-energy-based impacts. Positive: to reduce any adverse effects. products and services Job creation in the region Chapter 4.4 and reductions in Export (entry of foreign currency) energy requirements Corporate tax as a result of these initiatives. Negative: If we discover negative effects, we employ measures to convert Resources Area and EN7 Initiatives to reduce inSanLucar prefers the use of teleProcurement logistics (local purthe effects into indirect positive Logistics direct energy consumpphone and video conferencing to chasing of materials --> Indicator effects. tion and reductions save costs and avoid travelling. In EC6) Environmental indicators achieved. this way, we also reduce our global Transport (lorry transport, sea Packaging und ConEN1 Materials used by See Appendix 3 See Appendix 1 carbon footprint. freight, cargo) trolling weight or volume. SanLucar’s business travel policies Use of CO2-efficient vehicles for specify that colleagues make distribution EN2 Percentage of materials See Appendix 3 We do not use recycled material arrangements so that they travel Business travel policies used that are recycled Materials which go to superfor our packaging materials; howtogether when going to collective Calculation of carbon footprint of input materials. markets are recycled by them ever, we do make sure that the meetings or going on business lemons from Spain in accordance with applicable material – if it is cardboard and trips. Regarding this issue, we will local systems. Material which paper – comes from renewable launch the internet database »Cargoes directly to the consumer and certified stocks. pooling« this year. Our employees (approximately 20%) is, for the are informed about the possibilmost part, recycled. This was the ities of public transport; when result of a study on consumption considering transport, travelling in Germany and Austria (our by train is preferred to flying. main markets). When flying, flights with the least stops are selected. When booking Finance and those EN3 Direct energy consumpSanLucar Fruit --> 427,159 kWh Spain: 307,782 kWh (electricity) accommodation, we make sure responsible for the tion by primary energy SanLucar Austria --> 430,003.76 for office, 195,377 kWh (electricithat the hotel and the restaurants facilities at the headsource. kWh ty) for storage area are located near respective event quarters and branches Germany: electric energy 427,440 Tunisia: 13,064 kWh (electricity) venues. The travellers are informed kWh and gas 25,543 m3 (1 Janufor office, 1,032,996 kWh (electriin advance of the local conditions ary 2012 to 30 June 2012) city) for production; 15,930 l (fuel) in order to avoid unnecessary trips. Tunisia: 768 OE (oil equivalent)/ for office, 104,183 l (fuel) for The use of our carpooling system year in gas power production will reduce our emissions when (tonnes/year or Nm3/year) 700 kg/ South Africa: 78,827 l (fuel) for agcommuting to work. year (only for canteen). ricultural vehicle fleet, 1,596,000 When transporting goods, we also kWh (electricity) make sure the transport service Germany: 1,065,980 kWh (electriprovider has initiatives concerning city), 45,516 m3 (gas) energy consumption. Austria: 430,000 kWh (electricity) Finance and those EN8 Total water withdrawal Water consumption at SanLucar Spain: 1,503 m3 (office), 5,240 m3 EN4 Indirect energy conGas, CO2 (used for farming): 2,353 1,001,260 m3 (CO2) for production responsible for the by source. Fruit S.L. -->2,618 m3 (warehouse) sumption by primary tonnes/year facilities at the headWater consumption in Ettlingen Tunisia: 251 m3 (office), 925,517 m3 source. quarters and branches from 1 Jan. to 30 June 2012 (irrigation) -->559 m3 South Africa: 770,000 m3 EN16 Total direct and indirect This indicator is currently not being reported due to not having the Water consumption in Tunisia Germany: 1,194 m3 (fresh water), greenhouse gas emisnecessary information. -->101,185 m3/year, mainly for 10,652 m3 (rainwater) sions by weight. irrigation; Austria: This indicator is currently not being reported (will be reportEN17 Other relevant indirect see Chapter 7 ed in the next campaign). Appendix greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 80 81 Quality and SanLucar EN9 Water sources signifiIn Tunisia, a study on environSouth Africa: With the purchase CR EN13 Habitats protected or See chapter 7.1 and interview No specific activity during this International cantly affected by the mental impacts was carried out. of the productive land, we have restored. with Giuliano campaign. collection of water. The study specifies appropriate acquired water rights for 7,000 m3/ conditions to ensure sustainabiliha/year. These concern river water EN14 Strategies, current Currently, there are no specific measures being considered. SanLucar’s ty, such as the use of groundused for the irrigation of crops, actions and future plans controlled farming comprises the preservation of biodiversity. water. the pack house and employees’ for managing impacts homes. The water is purified for on biodiversity. use as drinking water. EN15 Number of IUCN Red None Tunisia: The water is obtained List species and national from wells controlled and manconservation list species aged by the government. with habitats in areas EN10 Percentage and total 30% of the water used in our Tunisia: The processing and reuse affected by operations, volume of water recyirrigation systems in Tunisia conof irrigation water has been by level of extinction cled and reused. sists of recycled water (drainage implemented on 100% of the risk. water). The area of application cropland. covers over 21 hectares (almost South Africa: System is not ap50% of the total area). Many of plied, as cultivation takes place in our growers also use the rainoutdoor crops planted in soil. Quality, CR, IT, ConEN18 Initiatives to reduce SanLucar has measured the Chapter 5.2 water, which is routed through trolling and Logistics greenhouse gas emiscarbon footprint of its lemons a special drainage system on the sions and reductions from Murcia and will review roofs of the greenhouses to the achieved. the relevant quantity of CO2 in irrigation systems. grams during the next campaign. EN11 Location and size of Our farm in Portugal, which is With the closure of this site in In 2011, the implementation of land owned, leased, mostly dedicated to the trialing Portugal in June 2013, none of our a monitoring system for logismanaged in, or adjaof new varieties, is located within land is located in or adjacent to tics which analyses the number cent to, protected areas the Nature Park Parque Natural protected areas. of kilometres travelled began. and areas of high biodo Sudoeste Alentejano e Costa SanLucar analyses the numbers diversity value outside Vicentina in the southwest with of kilometres travelled by plane. protected areas. an extension of 110 km2 and a Since March 2012, our travel total area of 74,414.89 ha, of agents have registered the total which 56,952.79 ha are land. distance travelled in kilometres. The farm covers over 22 ha and is See Chapters 3.4 and 7 located in Herdade da Bica, 7630736 Zambujeira do Mar, Portugal. Quality, CR, and those EN19 Emissions of ozone-deDuring this campaign, SanLucar SanLucar only uses cooling systems The area has traditionally been responsible for the pleting substances by has replaced the old cooling which conform to the latest stanused for agriculture. facilities at the headweight. chambers, which use R22, with dards. CR EN12 Description of sigSanLucar is neither a threat to SanLucar is neither a threat to quarters and branches new cooling chambers operated Indicator EN20 nificant impacts of any of the species on the IUCN any of the species on the IUCN with NH3 (liquid ammonia). This activities, products and (International Union for Con(International Union for Conservacoolant requires enhanced risk services on biodiversity servation of Nature) Red List tion of Nature) Red List nor to any management with regards to in protected areas and nor to any on the national lists. on the national lists. Our activity is employee safety. However, the areas of high biodiOur activity is performed in performed in accordance with the environmental impact on the versity value outside accordance with the standard of standard of Global G.A.P. ozone layer and the greenhouse protected areas. Global G.A.P. Furthermore, we effect is lower. employ additional measures to EN20 NOX, SOX and other Our activities are, of course, primarily natural and not industrial; ensure minimal impact, focusing significant air emissions therefore, our share of NOX and SOX is relatively low. Our cooling syson protected habitats. by type and weight. tems in the logistics centre in Ettlingen are operated with water and See Indicators EN12 and EN13 salt. Our carriers signed our environmental commitment (included in See Chapter 7.1 the Code of Ethics). Appendix 82 83 Resources Area (adminEN21 Total water discharge The waste water of our office Spain: The waste water is drained CR EN24 Weight of transported, At our headquarters, empty printer cartridges and waste electrical and istrative data), Quality by quality and destibuildings is fed into the urban into the municipal sewage netimported, exported or electronic equipment are disposed of according to valid environmental and SanLucar Internation. sewage network. work. treated waste deemed guidelines. national (production The dose and concentration South Africa: The waste water hazardous under the The Fundación para la Gestión Medioambiental de Pilas (Foundation for data) of the fertiliser is adjusted in from the office buildings and the terms of the Basel Environmental Management for Batteries) collects used batteries and accordance with the needs of the employees’ homes is cleaned by a Convention Annex I, disposes of them in accordance with the law. plant, the soil and the climate to company-operated waste water II, III, and VIII, and perWaste from pesticide packaging is always managed by an authorised avoid an overdose. There are also treatment plant and then fed into centage of transported waste manager; to this end, we contract authorised companies. measures to reduce the leachate the river. In the packaging hall, waste shipped internaSanLucar does not perform any maintenance or repairs on the vehicle (Global G.A.P.). no wasted water contaminated by tionally. fleet which could result in hazardous waste. The floors of the warehouses are chemical substances is produced. SanLucar olive oil is the only product which requires processing. always sealed and isolated to Tunisia: 8 l/second of drainage SanLucar oil residue is converted into energy (biomass). prevent harmful substances from water from the greenhouses is EN25 Identity, size, protected See EN12 and EN13 flowing into the natural soil. collected and processed for reuse. status and biodiversity There is no data on the volume The waste water is then routed to value of water bodies of waste water produced. a designated canal. and related habitats sigGermany: The waste water is nificantly affected by the drained into the municipal sewage reporting organisation's network (1,194 m3). discharges of water and Austria: The waste water is runoff. drained into the municipal sewage Quality, CR, Packaging EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Chapter 7 Chapter 5.2 network. and Logistics environmental impacts EN22 Total weight of waste SanLucar separates waste in all Waste is separated at all branch of products and serby type and disposal branch offices. offices. Waste will be disposed of vices, and extent of method. With the relocation of our either by authorised companies impact mitigation. warehouse from Puzol to La Vall or by the municipal waste service. Packaging and ConEN27 Percentage of products See EN2 and Appendix 3. In the majority of markets served, d’Uixó in May 2012, a recycling Containers with contaminating trolling sold and their packagWe cannot know whether the 100% of the transport material service was commissioned to substances are collected and dising materials that are consumer will recycle our packis recycled; in Germany, 9% is separate cardboard, wood, film, posed of by the supplier. reclaimed by category. aging. However, we know that recycled by means of reusable tapes and edge protection. the markets we serve have an packaging. Information on the weight of integrated recycling system. the residues in La Vall d’Uixó wil We recycle waste in our warebe listed in the next report. In house in Vall d’Uixó and in our Tunisia, storage areas have been logistics centre in Ettlingen. See created for cardboard, plastic and Chapter 7.3 wood, which is sold to an authorised recycling company. Plastic Legal Department EN28 Monetary value of sigThere was no failure to comply with legislation or regulations. The from the greenhouses is passed nificant fines and total company has not been subjected to any penalties. on to a recycling company once number of non-monthe storage area designated for etary sanctions for it is full. The wooden pallets are non-compliance with reused. See Chapter 7 environmental laws and regulations. Quality EN23 Total number and volNo spills occurred. ume of significant spills. Appendix 84 85 Logistics and HR (headEN29 Significant environSanLucar does not have its own SanLucar does not have its own HR (headquarters and LA3 Benefits provided to Germany and Spain: Benefits are the same for all employees. 80% of quarters and branches) mental impacts of vehicle fleet but rather relies vehicle fleet but rather relies branches) full-time employees the employees (SanLucar Group) have a fixed contract. transporting products on carriers. SanLucar currently on carriers. SanLucar currently that are not provided South Africa (starting 2012/13): permanent employee: apartments, and other goods and transports its products as follows: transports its products as follows: to temporary or partpension plan, protective clothing, work clothing, nursery school, transmaterials used for the plane 0.25%; ship 19.41%; trucks plane 0.07%; ship 17.87%; trucks time employees, by port, training, personal and social development programme. organisation’s opera80.34%. 82.06%. major operations. Seasonal workers: nursery school, transport, training, programme for tions, and transportThe Logistics, Controlling and IT In Tunisia and South Africa, social development. ing members of the departments are working on aucollective transport is available to Tunisia: Benefits are the same for all employees. 15% are permanent workforce. tomatically calculating emissions employees. staff. With every campaign, seasonal workers accumulate entitlements of the routes so that they can for benefits. Benefits: premium for time in company, school bonus, optimise them. performance bonus (monthly), transportation allowance. In Tunisia, a bus service is availAustria: accident and health insurance starting at 50% time. able to employees. LA15 Return to work and Complete reemployment, in some Spain, South Africa, Austria: We have calculated the carbon retention rates after pacases also part-time and home 100%. footprint of the lemon, including rental leave, by gender. office; Germany: currently no employees the transport to Ettlingen. thus 100%; on parental leave. Chapter 3 Tunisia: offered to all employees. LA4 Percentage of em100% Spain, Tunisia, South Africa, Finance EN30 Total environmental Appendix 3 Expenditures: ployees covered by If there is no collective agreeAustria: 100% protection expenditures Germany: 170,297.53 euros collective bargaining ment, the Works Council Germany: No collective agreeand investments by Austria: 330,061.48 euros (2012) agreements. Constitution Act or local labour ments exist. type. Spain: 375,224.10 euros legislation is applied. If there is no collective agreement, Investments: the Works Council Constitution Tunisia: 27,000 euros Act or local labour legislation is South Africa: 1,713,019.78 euros applied. Labour practices and decent work indicators LA5 Minimum notice periWe adhere to collective agreements, local legislation and employment HR (headquarters and LA1 Total workforce by See Appendix 3 See Appendix 1 od(s) regarding significontracts. branches) employment type, emcant operational changSpain: Is set out in the collective agreement or in local labour legislaployment contract and es, including whether it tion. Minimum notice period(s) in accordance with Spanish collective region, broken down by is specified in collective agreement – Manager/middle management: 60 days, Technicians: 30 gender. agreements. days, Administrative staff/workers: 15 days South Africa (from 2012/13): manager/middle management: 30 days; LA2 Total number and rate The average turnover rate for Calculation: ((new hiring-employtechnicians: 30 days; administrative staff/workers: 5 days of employee turnover the headquarters in Spain is 30% ee turnover)/number of employTunisia: 30 days, regardless of occupational category by age group, gender (calculation: ((new hiring-deees)*100 Germany: in accordance with the employment contract (compliance and region. partures)/number of employSpain: 12% with the law) ees)*100) Tunisia: 51% Austria: in accordance with collective agreement (compliance with the Office in Austria: 3 hiring (1 South Africa: 5% law) woman and 2 men) / 2 departures Germany: 12.3% Office in Germany: 8 hiring (7 Austria: 19% men and one woman) and 12 departures (7 men and 5 women) Appendix 86 87 HR (headquarters and LA6 Percentage of total Establishment of the SanLucar Spain: The Health and Safety HR and Health and LA9 Health and safety See LA6 South Africa: No specific agreebranches) workforce represented Fruit Safety and Health Committee Committee consists of eight repreSafety Committee topics covered in formal ments with labour unions exist, in formal joint managein February 2010. The committee sentatives. agreements with trade but they have the right to visit the ment-worker health consists of eight people; of these, Tunisia: There is no Health and unions. premises. Employees belong to and safety committees four are employees (non-manageSafety Committee but a doctor the labour union. Employees are that help monitor and ment positions) and four represent and a nurse. paid a premium in addition to the advise on occupational upper and middle management. South Africa: There is no Health salary to cover potential costs. health and safety proThe committee is responsible for and Safety Committee but a nurse. Tunisia: UGT Union General of grammes. the headquarters in Puzol and the Germany: 11 people (including Tunisian workers. warehouse in Vall d’Uixó. first aiders, person responsible for HR LA10 Average hours of 35 annual training hours per emEducational programmes for horiThere were four meetings in the fire safety, person responsible for training per year per ployee, regardless of gender; zontal career planning last year. HACCP). employee, by gender During the 2011/2012 campaign, Spain: 480-hour programme: DeThe establishment of a Safety and Austria: There is a responsible perand by employee two women participated in trainveloping my Leadership Skills Health Committee in Tunisia is son as well as a plan for occupacategory. ing courses with a total number South Africa: 350 hours of lanplanned for the end of the year. tional health and safety measures of 638 hours. guage classes (5 women) In Austria, there is a responsible and three first aiders. Chapters 3 and 5.2 Tunisia: 24 h: forklift driving person for safety and health as well Training programmes Austria: 29 classes (16 men); 16 h: computer as a plan for occupational health English lessons science course for the administraand safety measures; three people Training programmes Spain: tive software (5 women, 3 men); have first aid knowledge. •6 38 h: Manager Coaching, one-month traineeship in differThe establishment of a Health and Master of Agroecology (in both ent packing houses (1 woman) Safety Committee in Germany is cases, training was received by Germany: 24 h: MS Dynamics AX planned for 2013. Currently, there women) Financial Data/Basics (2 women, is one responsible person for health • 3,493 hours of language classes 2 men); 16 h: Time and Self-manand safety. agement (1 man); 3 h: Quality LA7 Rates of injury, occupaAbsence rate (total number of days Spain: Accidents/incidents without Assurance (entire workforce); 234 tional diseases, lost days on which no work was performed/ notification of sickness: 7 h: language classes (11 women, 9 and absenteeism, and number of work days*employees) – Accidents with notification of men) number of work-related has not been measured so far. Data sickness: 2 fatalities by region and will be provided in the next report. Tunisia: Women: 64 days, men: 28 Educational programmes for vertiby gender. Austria: No accidents or incidents days cal career planning occurred. South Africa: Women: 89 days, Germany: 590 h: HR specialist (1 Germany: Days not worked men: 40 men: 123 days woman); 80 h: instructor training and women: 45. Germany: Men: 25 days (1 woman); 48 h: Leadership and Spain: Accidents/incidents without Austria: None LA11 Programmes for skills Organisation (2 men); notification of sickness: 7; management and Spain: 40 hours of training per Accidents with notification of lifelong learning that year per employee, regardless of sickness: 2 support the continued gender Tunisia: 993 days not worked beemployability of emSouth Africa: advanced training cause of notification of sickness ployees and assist them courses: educational training for Health and Safety LA8 Education, training, Anti-smoking campaign in Spain: Training programmes: in managing career Kindergarten teachers; handling Commitee and CR counselling, prevenAustria risks at the workplace (all new paths. of tractors; citrus cultivation tion and risk-control Blood donation campaigns and employees), risks related to the methods. programmes in place medical examinations in Spain warehouse keeper position (2); LA12 Percentage of employ100 %, regardless of gender; Performance evaluation to assist workforce (Puzol) awareness-raising campaign and ees receiving regular SanLucar’s performance system 100% of permanent employees, members, their families Company doctor and nurse in training: »Your Back Needs You« performance and career is managed online, using a new regardless of gender (Spain, Tunior community memTunisia Tunisia: First Aid course (1 person), development reviews, computer programme. sia, South Africa, Germany) bers regarding serious Training programmes in Spain: 25 formed employees at the by gender. 44% of employees, regardless of diseases. safety at the office (71 people), moment. Hygiene courses for gender (Austria) working with risk of explosion (4 clothing (270 people, 1 h), good Chapter 4.1 people), correct use of protective agricultural practice and hygiene clothing (6 people) (500 people, 1.5 h), precautionary measures when handling chemical products (30 people, 1 h). South Africa: 7 formed employees in First Aid at the moment. Courses: how to act against drugs and Appendix alcohol, informative programmes about AIDS. 88 89 LA13 Composition of govSee Indicator 4.3 and Chapter 3.3 Appendix 1 HR HR3 Total hours of employee 90% are trained – 26 hours of At the time of the report, no speernance bodies and as well as Appendix 3 training on policies and training during the last campaign. cific training courses had been conbreakdown of employprocedures concerning Training regarding SA8000 aspects ducted at the locations in Tunisia, ees per category aspects of human rights completed by 100% of SanLucar South Africa, Austria and Germany. according to gender, that are relevant to Fruit employees. We are currentage group, minority operations, including the ly in the introductory phase of group membership percentage of employSA8000 in SanLucar Deutschland and other indicators of ees trained. GmbH, SanLucar Import GmbH, diversity. SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar Obst und Gemüse Handels GmbH. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and Men and women with the same Payment is determined by funcQuality HR4 Total number of inciNo incidents of discrimination, No known incidents. Our global remuneration of womresponsibilities receive the same tion and level of responsibility. dents of discrimination child labour, or forced or compulCode of Ethics includes, as minien to men by employee salary in the different employee Men and women in the same and corrective actions sory labour were reported. These mum requirements, the ILO concategory, by significant categories. This is laid down by position receive equal pay. Our taken. are all SA8000 monitoring indicaventions as well as the criteria of locations of operation. the collective agreements and equality policy is laid down in the tors. See HR2. the SA8000 standard. Our regular employment legislation and is Code of Ethics. HR5 Operations and signifiOur risk management system audits, both regarding our interenshrined in the SanLucar Code Chapter 4.3 cant suppliers identified takes account of »ethical risk«. nal management system and our of Ethics. This is reflected in comin which the right to growers, prevent such incidents. pany policies. exercise freedom of The contracts with our suppliers See Chapter 3.3 association and collective comprise our Code of Ethics. bargaining may be Human Rights indicators Chapter 2 violated or at significant Legal Department HR1 Percentage and total 0% of the supplier contracts for Observance of the SanLucar Code risk, and actions taken to number of significant goods and services. Since 2010, of Ethics is verified for all agreesupport these rights. investment agreethe SanLucar Code of Ethics has ments. HR6 Operations and signifiments and contracts been an integral part of the cant suppliers identified that include clauses supplier agreements. In this way, as having significant risk incorporating human with their signature, the suppliers for incidents of child rights concerns, or that agree to comply with all principles labour, and measures have undergone human of the Code of Ethics. taken to contribute to rights screening. See Chapters 4.2 and 6.6 the effective abolition of Investment agreements (21 child labour. December 2011): In the agreeHR7 Operations and signifiment for the acquisition of a cant suppliers identified farm in South Africa, the »Black as having significant risk Economic Empowerment« (BEE) for incidents of forced or policy is taken into account. The compulsory labour, and policy is designed to improve the measures to contribute conditions of the underprivileged to the elimination of all population during the time of forms of forced or comapartheid. pulsory labour. Quality HR2 Percentage of sig100% 100% SanLucar International HR8 Percentage of security Tunisia: 16 At the time of the report, SanLucar nificant suppliers, The audits for approval of our Our supplier audits include ethpersonnel trained in the South Africa: 12 had not conducted any specific contractors and other growers, carriers and intermeical, environmental and quality organisation's policies or Security personnel are provided by training for the personnel of the procedures concerning an external company which also external security companies. business partners that diate platforms include ethical, aspects. aspects of human rights receives training on our Code of have undergone human environmental and quality Chapter 2 that are relevant to Ethics. rights screening, and aspects. The agreements signed operations. actions taken. by them also include a clause regarding compliance with our Legal Department HR9 Total number of SanLucar International only carries out administrative tasks in cities and Code of Ethics. This code is based incidents of violations develops agricultural projects in areas chosen for agricultural production. on the SA8000 standard and the involving rights of No incidents regarding this issue exist. indigenous people and principles of the Global Compact. actions taken. See Chapter 4.1 Risk Committee HR10 Percentage and total Our risk management system takes account of »ethical risk«. number of operations Indicator HR1 that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Appendix Legal Department HR11 Number of grievances No grievances or complaints relating to human rights were presented. related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 90 91 Social indicators Finance (headquarters SO6 Total value of financial Not applicable SanLucar International SO1 Percentage of operaChapter 5 South Africa: As of the 2013/2014 and branches) and in-kind contribuand CR tions with implementLocal hiring policy; community campaign, we will introduce our tions to political parties, ed local community activities social development plan. politicians and related engagement, impact Tunisia: 90% of employees come institutions by country. assessments and devefrom the three neighbouring Legal Department SO7 Total number of legal No anticompetitive behaviour or monopoly practices occurred. lopment programmes. municipalities. actions for anticomChapter 4.4.1 petitive behaviour and SanLucar International SO9 Operations with signifiNo negative impacts on local communities due to our operations were monopoly practices and and Risk Committee cant potential or actual registered. On the contrary, a positive effect can be observed. their outcomes. negative impacts on See EC9 SO8 Monetary value of sigThere were no penalties or fines of this kind. local communities. nificant fines and total SO10 Prevention and mitiganumber of non-montion measures impleetary sanctions for mented in operations non-compliance with with significant potential laws and regulations. or actual negative imProduct responsibility indicators pacts on local commuQuality PR1 Life cycle stages in 100% 100% of our products are examnities. which health and safety ISO9001, QS, IFS, APPCC, Global ined at all stages of their lifecycle. Risk Committee SO2 Percentage and total Signing of the Global Compact In applying the risk management impacts of products and G.A.P. To this end, the following systems number of business and the Code of Ethics. system, the risk of corruption is services are assessed for Programme for pesticide reare available to us: ISO9001, IFS, units analysed for risks In applying the risk management analysed. improvement, and perduction: The reduction in the QS, Global G.A.P. and APPCC. related to corruption. system, the risk of corruption is centage of significant number and concentration of We constantly work on pesticide analysed. products and services pesticide residues is a constant residue programmes with the aim See Chapter 2.5 categories subject to and primary objective. We of guaranteeing: no residues on such procedures. analysed the residues of the our products. Sustainable farming SA8000 Committee SO3 Percentage of employThe entire staff are familiar with 100% of the workforce is familiar previous campaign, are searchpractices, resistant varieties and ees trained in organithe SanLucar Code of Ethics with the SanLucar Code of Ethics ing for better alternatives with integrated pest control. sation’s anti-corruption (Item 10 concerns anti-corruption (Item 10 concerns anti-corrupour technicians and only select policies and procedures. measures). tion measures). From June to the best growers. These are just During the next campaign, a December 2013, training sessions a few actions taken to achieve training session highlighting the take place on the risk and crisis the goal of making zero-residue main risks will be conducted with management system. At the time products. Reducing impact: use respect to the risk management of the drawing up of this report, of products of biological origin, system. Only 13% of SanLucar the entire Crisis Committee and sustainable cultivation, resistant Fruit and 1.5% of the SanLucar its teams had been trained in this varieties; fields are chosen for Fruit Group are trained in this respect. low presence of pests. type of risks (Crisis Committee For health and environmental and those potentially affected by reasons, we rely on integrated risks). and sustainable pest control. Legal Department SO4 Actions taken in resNo incidents of corruption. There were no known incidents PR2 Total number of inciNo incidents occurred. This is ensured by the precautionary system ponse to incidents of of corruption. A contingency dents of non-compliused for the selection and approval of plots according to our specificorruption. plan exists in case of suspicion of ance with regulations cations. corruption. and voluntary codes CR SO5 Public policy positions This year, SanLucar has particiSigning of the Pact against Food concerning health and and participation in pated in: Waste and the Valencian Business safety impacts of prodpublic policy develop• International CSR Conference Pact against Violence against ucts and services during ment and lobbying. in Berlin Women. Participation in two busitheir life cycle, by type •P  resentation of the programme: ness breakfasts with the publisher of outcomes. Youth Participation against CoRResponsables of the PolytechClimate Change, organised by nic University of Valencia regardEARTH University and the goving the challenges of corporate ernment of Costa Rica. responsibility. SanLucar signed the Global Compact and the Diversity Charter. Appendix 92 93 Quality PR3 Type of product and We observe the SanLucar labelling specifications, which are based on SanLucar indicators service information the following legislation: Implementing Regulation (EU) 543/2011 of Quality SL1 Percentage of suppliers 100% of the growers have been 100% of the growers have been required by procedures, the Commission of 7 June 2011 for the marketing of fruit and vegetaand their subsuppliaudited in accordance with the audited in accordance with the and percentage of bles, Regulation (EU) 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the ers which have been ethical standards. ethical standards. significant products and Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to audited according 100% of the carriers, intermedi100% of the carriers, intermediservices subject to such consumers, and the various standards of the United Nations Economic to SanLucar's ethical aries and other service providers aries and other service providers information requireCommission for Europe (UNECE). and environmental have been audited in accordance have been audited in accordance ments. We ensure specific information by means of our traceability system. standards in compliance with ethical and environmental with ethical and environmental It is applied to 100% of our products. with the process. standards. standards. PR4 Total number of inciThere were no known incidents. There were no known incidents. < 1% of the growers have been 14% of all growers and 37% of dents of non-compliPrevention system and intermediaudited according to the grower the growers who have worked ance with regulations ate checkpoints. profile (ethics, environment, with us for more than three years and voluntary codes See Chapter 6.2 quality) which was developed have been audited according to concerning product and in the 2011/2012 campaign. The the grower profile (ethics, enviservice information and audits have already begun. ronment, quality). labelling, by type of Our objective is to have audited outcomes. 100% of the growers with whom we have collaborated for more PR5 Practices related to See Chapter 6.3 See Chapter 3 than three years in accordance customer satisfaction, with the grower profile by the including results of end of the 2012/2013 campaign. surveys measuring customer satisfaction. SL2 Percentage of activ100% 100% ities which meet the During the 2011/2012 campaign, During the 2012/13 campaign, the Corporate CommunicaPR6 Programmes for adherSanLucar sells fruit and vegetables. These are healthy products which international best the corporate certification project corporate certification process was tion and Marketing ence to laws, standards are not prohibited. SanLucar uses responsible marketing based on its practice standards. started with the following aims: successfully continued: and voluntary codes reown standards as well as those which have been internationally set. Share of SanLucar • Improving the certification of • In October 2012, SanLucar lated to marketing comOur marketing encourages consumers to eat healthily and develops operations fulfilling the SanLucar’s current management Vertrieb Deutschland, SanLucar munications, including creative ideas to do this (with recipes, for example). international excelsystems Deutschland and SanLucar Fruit advertising, promotion lence standards for the • Owing to the expansion of our were ISO 9001 certified. and sponsorship. operations described in structures in producer areas, all • In May 2013, SanLucar Fruit, PR7 Total number of inciIn the 2011/2012 campaign, There were no known incidents. the report (ensured by processes of the newly founded SanLucar Vertrieb Deutschland, dents of non-complithere was an official notification the Integrated Managecompanies have been underSanLucar Deutschland and ance with regulations regarding confusing advertisment System). going certification since the SanLucar Fruit Import were IFS and voluntary codes ing for the product Vitamin-C 2011/2012 campaign. certified. concerning marketing bombs. In the next campaign, the • In March 2012, SanLucar joins • In order to increase efficiency communications, inclumeasures to be followed will be the IFS certification system and for the certification processes, ding advertising, prodetermined. thus initiates the corporate ISO 9001 and IFS will be certified motion and sponsorship certification process. together in future. by type of outcome. • In September 2012, ISO 9001 • In addition, ISO 9001 and IFS IT PR8 Total number of subPrivacy Statement (LOPD-Ley de No complaints were filed within certification is carried out at certifications are to be prepared stantiated complaints Protección de Datos) the reporting period. SanLucar Fruit, SanLucar Vertrieb for our branch in Tunisia. Our regarding breaches of Mechanisms for the web portal Deutschland, SanLucar Deutschobjective is to gradually obtain customer privacy and were established. land and SanLucar Fruit Import. ISO 9001 and IFS certification for losses of customer data. SanLucar Technologics is audited The latter three obtained all branches worldwide. externally. certification for this standard for the first time as a result of the Legal Department PR9 Monetary value of No violations occurred. corporate certification process. significant fines for • In April 2013, certification for non-compliance with the IFS standard was carried laws and regulations out at SanLucar Fruit, SanLucar concerning the proviVertrieb Deutschland, SanLucar sion and use of proDeutschland and SanLucar Fruit ducts and services. Import. The latter two obtained certification for this standard for the first time as a result of the corporate certification process. CR SL3 Number of countries in 4 (Spain, Austria, Tunisia, Costa 5 (Spain, Austria, Tunisia, Costa Appendix which SanLucar has deRica) Rica, South Africa) veloped social projects. 94 95 Appendix 3. Communication on Progress (CoP) Appendix 4. CR Contacs in SanLucar and corresponding GRI indicators Ilka Hein Nancy Daiss Global Compact Principle Progress No. Principle Projects and corresponding initiatives Corresponding indicators Head of Communication, PR and CR Corporate Responsibility Project Developer Human Rights Office Germany Office Spain 1 Businesses should support and Progress, in this case, consists on the assumption that 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, respect the protection of intereveryone has the same rights. For this purpose, our 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, LA4, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, Ilka speaks German and English Nancy speaks German, Spanish, English and French nationally proclaimed human Code of Ethics was translated into six languages, LA13, LA14, EC5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, Mobile: +49 170 913 6882 Phone: +34 961 42 40 40 | Extn.2258 rights. and specific programmes were developed for some HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, HR9, SO5, PR1, PR2 E-Mail: ilka.hein@sanlucar.com Mobile: +34 618 902 836 | Fax: +34 961 424 238 countries in which we operate. See Chapter 4 E-Mail: nancy.daiss@sanlucar.com 2 Businesses should make sure For this purpose, SanLucar has a Code of Ethics that is 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, that they are not complicit in applied at all levels, an integrated management system 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, human rights abuses. that is based, among other things, on the international HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, HR9, SO5 SA8000 standard and a worldwide network of CR ambassadors. Delia García Stephan Jagos In addition, SanLucar makes all suppliers go through an ethical approval process and creates a three-level grower Corporate Responsibility Manager Corporate Social Responsibility | Production profile (quality, ethics, environment). Office Spain Office Austria Labour Delia speaks Spanish, English, German and Portuguese Stephan speaks German, Spanish and English 3 Businesses should uphold the Means for ethical management (see principle 2) 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, freedom of association and the In order to avoid sexual discrimination or any other 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, LA4, LA5, HR1, HR2, Phone: +34 961 42 40 40 | Extn.2192 Phone: +43 1 615 25 61 28 effective recognition of the right form of discrimination, SanLucar has created an HR3, HR5, SO5 Mobile: +34 648 039 692 | Fax: +34 961 424 247 Mobile: +43 664 88 27 36 26 | Fax: +43 1 615 25 61 92 to collective bargaining. equality plan. SanLucar has an Equality Committee and a representative (Stefanie Müller). There are E-Mail: delia.garcia@sanlucar.com E-Mail: s.jagos@sanlucar.at 4 Businesses should uphold the 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, elimination of all forms of regular meetings with the management and the 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR7, forced and compulsory labour. employee representative. SO5 In Tunisia, we pay a school bonus so that our employ5 Businesses should uphold the ees’ children can go to school. Salaries are above the 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, effective abolition of child national average. 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR6, labour. Moreover, we also work on the economic develSO5 6 Businesses should uphold the opment of the communities with specific projects, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, elimination of discrimination such as the promotion of traditional craftsmanship 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, EC7, LA2, LA13, LA14, in respect of employment and and personal development at early ages. The social HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, SO5 occupation. programme in the communities is based on the d.r.e.a.m.s. concept. (see chapter 4.4) Environment 7 Businesses should support a The risk of environmental problems and a range of 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, precautionary approach to preventive measures (evaluation of environmental 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, EN18, EN26, EN30, environmental challenges. aspects and impact) were identified by means of risk EC2, LA4, E26, E30, SO5 management. 8 Businesses should undertake The best way to promote environmental responsibili4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, initiatives to promote greater ty among employees, customers, growers and suppli4.10, 4.12, 4.13, EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, environmental responsibility. ers is to spread SanLucar’s environmental policy and EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN11, EN12, better environmental practices. Continuous raising of EN13, EN14, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, awareness by means of internal communication and EN19, E20, E21, E22, E23, E24, E25, E26, training for key people. E27, E28, E29, E30, SO5, PR3, PR4 9 Businesses should encourage Knowing and diffusing the best technology is one of 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, the development and diffusion SanLucar’s commitments with its growers – sharing 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, of environmentally friendly knowledge and assisting in the implementation EN10, EN18, EN26, E27, E30, SO5 technology. process. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against Means for ethical management (see principle 2) 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, corruption in all its forms, inBefore any collaboration with new partners, we 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6 cluding extortion and bribery. carry out a detailed assessment. At all stages of this Appendix process, we act in accordance with the values and principles of our Code of Ethics. 96 97 Appendix 5. Certificates Appendix 98 99 Appendix 101 100 C E R T I F I C AT E according IFS Cash & Carry/Wholesale Issue 1, February 2010 In accordance with TÜV NORD CERT procedures, it is hereby certified that SanLucar Fruits S.L. Calle Serra Llarga, 24 46530 Puzol Valencia Spain COID: 8961 product-category 1. Cash & Carry 1.5. Fruit and vegetables for the range of application Purchasing, sales and warehousing of fruits and vegetables fulfills the demands on the Higher Level Date of audit: 2013-04-29 to 2013-04-30 Validity date: 2014-07-28 Audit Report No. 3512 1924 Date of next audit: until 2014-04-29 Certificate Registration No. 44 288 117569 Certification Body Essen, 2013-07-29 at TÜV NORD CERT GmbH This certification was conducted in accordance with the TÜV NORD CERT auditing and certification procedures and is subject to regular surveillance audits. TÜV NORD CERT GmbH Langemarckstrasse 20 45141 Essen www.tuev-nord-cert.com DGA-ZE-2016.99 Appendix 102 103 Appendix 6. Glossary Corporate Social Responsibility Global Compact The European Commission published a new definition of CSR as: »[...] the responsibility of enterprises for their impact The United Nations Global Compact is a worldwide alliance between the United Nations and the private sector/industry. on society. To fully meet their corporate social responsibility, enterprises should have in place a process to integrate Companies which sign the Global Compact promise to fulfill the following principles: social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy in close collaboration with their stakeholders with the aim of: Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • maximising the creation of shared value for their owners/shareholders and for their other stakeholders and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. society at large; Labour • identifying, preventing and mitigating their possible adverse impacts..« 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Stakeholder 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Stakeholders are various internal and external interest groups of a company which are influenced directly or indirectly Environment by the corporate activities. The relationship is often reciprocal, so that stakeholders can also exert an influence on the 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; company. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. Stakeholders of SanLucar are employees, growers and suppliers, clients and customers as well as the local communities. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI Indicators (Global Reporting Initiative) SA8000 GRI creates a reporting framework for sustainability reporting through globally applicable guidelines. The reporting framework includes a guide that sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and communicate their economic, environmental and social performance. 3 The Social Accountability Standard SA8000 was launched in1997 and is based on the International Human Right Conventions and the recommendation of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The main objective is to improve the worker conditions worldwide, especially in supplier companies in developing countries. Representatives of NGOs, workers, trade unions and companies of all sectors were involved in developing the standard. The standard is based on a number of existing international human rights` standards including the Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations‘ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The compatibility of existing management system such as ISO 9001 (quality management) and ISO 14001 series were also considered in the developing process of SA8000. Appendix 3 https://www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx 4 http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 104 105 KAM (Key Account Manager) In detail, SA8000 covers the following subject areas: The main task of a key account manager is the management of the costumer relationship which is a key success factor • Child labour is not permitted for every company. The KAM has to gain a thorough understanding of key customers and represents their interests in the company. • Forced labour is not permitted • Health and safety have to be assured HACCP (Hazard Analysis and critical control points) • Freedom to organize and collective bargaining have to be guaranteed HACCP is a systematic preventive system to ensure the safety of food. The concept includes process and product specific measurements for the protection of the health of the consumers. • Discrimination is not permitted • Disciplinary practices are not permitted IFS (International Featured Standards) • Working hours shall not exceed 48 hrs a week, with a maximum of 12 hrs overtime IFS is a common internationally accepted audit standard for foodstuff of the German and French retail trade which was • Remuneration shall be sufficient created to introduce integrated assessment criteria for all producers with own brands. • Management systems shall guarantee that the requirements are effectively satisfied GLOBAL G.A.P. BEE – Black Economic Empowerment GLOBAL G.A.P. is a private sector organization that sets voluntary standards for the certification of agricultural products around the world. The certification contains key reference standards for Good Agricultural Practice, whereby the Black Economic Empowerment was introduced as a legal measure by the South African Government in January 2004 certification is based on the consumer requirements for agricultural production. and is an instrument of policy for equality. The main objective of the program was to strengthen the opportunity for equality in the labour market through the promotion of education, the creation of property, filling management positions, socio-economic development and public procurement from organizations in previously disadvantaged communiQS (Quality and Security) ties (Black, Coloured, Indian/Asian). The »QS Qualität und Sicherheit GmbH« created a system for certified quality assurance from production to marketing. UPJ The QS is a cross stage system that ensures the quality and origin of the entire supply chain and involves the production, processing and marketing of foodstuff. Each firm will be controlled periodically for compliance with the specific UPJ is a network of committed companies and charitable intermediary organizations in Germany. Organizations like criteria for production, transport, storage and hygiene. companies, public administration and charitable organizations support each other in developing and implementing your corporate citizenship and corporate responsibility activities. http://www.upj.de/ Traceability respACT Under the regulation (EU) 178/2002 traceability means, that: »the ability to trace and follow a food, feed, food-producing animal or substance intended to be, or expected to be incorporated into a food or feed, through all stages of respACT Austrian business council for sustainable development is Austria‘s leading platform for Corporate Social production, processing and distribution.« Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainable Development. The association supports its members along their path to ecological and social sustainability. Appendix 106 107 Follow us in: www.sanlucar.com SanLucar. Passion for taste.
