Sustainability Report 2012 introdução Você está recebendo o Relatório de Sustentabilidade da Klabin S.A., ano de 2012, em sua versão resumida. Desejamos que esta seja uma leitura prazerosa e possa lhe estimular a acessar nossa versão completa online. A Klabin reconhece, em seus leitores, parte de seu público de relacionamento e esta produção busca apontar as interações entre a empresa e seus stakeholders. A Klabin preza por transparência, clareza e objetividade ao apresentar as ações que desenvolveu ao longo do ano e o Relatório de Sustentabilidade é uma maneira de engajar ainda mais colaboradores, parceiros de negócios, atuais e futuros clientes e outros públicos de interesse na trajetória da empresa de crescimento e compromisso com o desenvolvimento do Brasil. A versão completa deste relatório, publicada de acordo com as diretrizes do Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), está consolidada no Relatório de Sustentabilidade 2012, disponível em http://rs.klabin.com.br. Nela você encontrará todas as informações sobre o desempenho econômico, social e ambiental da Klabin em 2012. Neste relatório, você vai encontrar alguns QR Codes, que levarão diretamente a um conteúdo mais completo e dinâmico na versão online. Para acessar, instale um leitor de QR Code em seu smartphone ou tablet com acesso à internet e aponte a câmera para a imagem pontilhada. About the Report Sustainability Report 2012 Message from the management In 2012, we performed The year of 2012 initiated a fresh cycle of strategic reviews studies in the areas of genetic and was crucial for us to introduce more mature improvement, nanotechnology, biorefinery and others. Faced with a less favorable global Alegre Plant (PR), which will guarantee an The year of 2012 was also distinguished by macroeconomic scenario, the year of 2012 additional bleaching capacity of 30 thousand the start of new vision with regard to the initiated a fresh cycle of strategic reviews and tons a year of pulp, doing away with the Human Resources area, which was renamed was crucial for us to introduce more mature, need to purchase this raw material from the People & Management. Not only will it enable enhanced management processes at Klabin. market. On another front, we went ahead us to be more dynamic and efficient building In compensation for this effort, we achieved with the investments to bring on stream a culture of engagement, development the best results in the history of the company, two new corrugators at the Jundiai (SP) and and results among all employees, but this with excellent performance in every segment Goiana (PE) Plants, of which the one at Jundiai new nomenclature emphasizes the respect Strategic Planning and designed to ensure the even more competitive and flexible to diversify of business in which we operate. is the biggest machine of its kind installed in and importance we dedicate to people, the comprehension and alignment of sustainability products and logistical alternatives, involving Brazil and, at 400 meters per minute, is also essence which drives our business. issues for the whole company, with a longtechnological resources and people with a The consolidation of a structured program the fastest. term strategic vision. tendency to innovate. These aspects, together to reduce costs in every area, together with Based on our management to improve with exceptional teamwork, are proof that high-return investments and a commercial Thanks to well-defined commercial processes, we have made headway developing Our pledge to sustainability is further we are on the right road and bolster our attitude aligned with the market segments strategies, we have penetrated new projects to rationalize the use of natural reflected in a series of external social conviction of the potential of our differentials. where we operate, enabled us to achieve segments of the industrial sack business, resources, to mitigate environmental impacts commitments taken with highly credible Looking to the future, we believe that in a new record in cash generation, with an which will allow us to increase our sales national and international bodies, the most 2013 we will consolidate the foundations for EBITDA of R$ 1.4 billion. volume. We have approved important of which was signed in 2000, Klabin’s sustainable growth. investment in a new sack kraft and to establish an increasingly cleaner and when we endorsed the United Nations’ Throughout the year we developed industrial machine with 80 thousand more sustainable energy matrix. Among the Global Compact. By way of this important We wish to thank all our customers, suppliers, improvement processes, in order to boost our tons of capacity, with startup various improvement actions adopted during initiative we have sought to demonstrate investors and business partners and, in efficiency and our productivity. We allocated planned for 2013, making our the year was the new biofuel boiler in Correia our engagement with sustainable business particular, our employees who helped us R$ 76 million to debottleneck the Monte product more competitive and We allocated Pinto (SC), which reduced the amount of fuel development and, above all, with building a achieve these expressive results in 2012. 76 generating new jobs. oil burned in the plant. more just country of equal opportunity. The Management In the forestry area, new We continue to invest in the research, In acknowledgement of these efforts, we have harvesting machines and equipment to prepare the R$ million development and innovation of our products and technologies. In 2012, we performed received important awards. Klabin was elected the Best Company from the Pulp and Paper soil have come on stream, studies in the areas of genetic improvement, Sector in 2012, by Exame magazine’s guide with significant advances nanotechnology, biorefinery and others. to “The Best and The Biggest” (Melhores e in insourcing our labor. The to debottleneck the Monte Carried out in conjunction with important Maiores). In the 15th edition of its annual program to reduce forestry research institutes in Brazil and overseas, this publication “The Most Admired Companies of costs, which involved matrix Alegre Plant (PR), which will work was focused on productivity and the Brazil” (As empresas mais admiradas do Brasil) management of expenses, guarantee an additional development of stronger, more durable and of Carta Capital magazine, we were elected showed results in the second energy-efficient products in a continuous the most admired company from the Pulp and bleaching capacity of 30 half of the year and was quest for greater added value. Paper sector. And in the “Best of Dinheiro” important for the maintenance ranking by the IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine, the of nominal cash cost in 2012. We introduced key procedures thousand Our management processes matured and so did our commitment to and practices of company took first place in the Pulp and Paper category, besides other outstanding rs.klabin.com.br/pt/mensagem-da-administracao in logistics and a more efficient tons a year sustainability. Now, besides the Sustainability awards which we have won. system of tracking trucks, of pulp Committee, comprised of company directors which has optimized routes and one outside member, we can also The combination of these efforts has and allowed us to reduce count on a specific area of Sustainability produced a new dimension of value creation freight costs. Management, subordinated to the Director of in our production chain. This has made us 4 5 Vision of Sustainability Relatório Anual de Sustentabilidade 2012 Global Compact Well aware of its power to mobilize society to build a more just and sustainable country, Klabin has been a signatory to the Global Compact since 2003. Actions taken Principles of the Global Compact Objectives of the Millennium by Klabin Human Rights • Donations SUPPORT to Funds for MAKE SURE and respect the Childhood and they are not Adolescence protection of complicit in internationally • Volunteer work and human rights campaigns for donations proclaimed human abuses (warm clothing) rights • Strategic supply management – socioenvironmental clauses in suppliers’ contracts Labor rights • Code of Conduct Princípios do Pacto Global: • OHSAS 18001 Certification • Program to Manage Diversity and Inclusion UPHOLD UPHOLD • Klabin Development Program the freedom of the elimination association and the of all forms • Union agreements effective recognition of forced and • Klabin’s Program of Excellence in of the right to compulsory labor Occupational Health and Safety collective bargaining • Klabin’s Quality of Life Program UPHOLD UPHOLD the effective the elimination of abolition of child discrimination in respect • Sustainability Policy labor of employment and • Sustainability Committee (consisting of occupation company executives and external members) • Sustainability Commission (consisting of key areas in the company) • Department of Sustainability Environment • Ecological Park of Monte Alegre • Caiubi Program • Forest stewardship (mosaic and ecological corridors) SUPPORT UNDERTAKE • Monitoring the biodiversity a precautionary initiatives to approach to promote greater • Participation in the Consortium for Environmental Protection of the environmental environmental Tibagi River basin challenges responsibility encourage • FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®) Certification the development and diffusion of • ISO 14011 Certification environmentally friendly • Participation in external initiatives (Companies for the Climate, Forest Dialogue, technologies Corporate Movement for Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Biodiversity, Pro-Alimento Sustentavel Initiative, Sou Agro Movement, International Year of Forests, Sustainable Cartonboard Forum) Anticorruption • Code of Conduct • Ethics Commission • Corporate governance WORK against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Endorsement of the Abrasca Code of Self-Regulation • External auditing to validate economic-financial data • Internal auditing • Pact for Integrity and against Corruption 6 7 klabin.com.br 8
