COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR THE YEAR2013-14 “Consume Less Share a Better Future” NEHRU PLACE GREENS, NEW DELHI 110 019, INDIA T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91-(0)-11-2620 7575 E: qualitylife@pbcnet.com, pr@pbcnet.com W: www.pbcnet.com Sl. No. CONTENTS Page No. 1. From The CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance Statement 3-4 2. PBC Service Portfolio 5 3. Mission & Vision 6-7 4. Policy 8-14 Quality Policy Environment Management Policy Occupational Health & Safety Policy Social Accountability Policy Corporate Responsibility Policy Equal Employment Opportunity Policy HIV/AIDS Policy Sexual Harassment Policy Anti Corruption Policy 5. Stakeholder Mapping at PBC– Recognizing the key partners 15 6. PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 16 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 17 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to 18 Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 18 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 19 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 19-22 and occupation C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 23-25 Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility 26-27 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly 28-31 Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 32-33 bribery 7. Quality Par Excellence Our Certifications & Management Systems 33 8. PBC in news 34-38 9. The Road Ahead………. 39 Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 2 CEO’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT TO THE TEN UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2014 “Sustainability is the key to Corporate Governance” I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2013-14. In this report, we once again share our progress with regard to the ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact & our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. UN Global Compact is a concept that we most strongly adhere to and have been signatories to it since 2003. These are the guiding principles of our business and form an intrinsic part of our Corporate Governance. PBC has endeavored to internalise the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC & Triple Bottom line principles. PBC has played a pioneering role in revolutionizing the concept of office space and convention facilities that include training, recruitment, Night BPO and meeting room business areas and integrating it with its many environmental and social practices. Our report states our single-minded goal to be an exemplar SmE in Triple Bottom line Performance. All our energies, objectives and strategies are directed towards meeting our triple bottom line performance in a sustained and profitable manner. We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of ‘Corporate Governance” and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. Our stakeholder engagement program and our various social and environmental initiatives are aimed at achieving our business goals in a sustained manner on one hand & spreading awareness among our stakeholders / suppliers on the business benefits of UNGC & Triple bottom-line principles. We have learned how to “Grow fresh airTM” using bio-technology and specialist green plants. We use specific plants for bedrooms, living areas and for removing Volatile Chemicals, such as Benzene and Formaldehyde. They are grown in sterile soil or in hydroponics. By achieving improved Indoor Air Quality meeting ASHRAE standards, in otherwise polluted air surroundings, we are able to reduce our energy bills by > 10% as we need to cool or heat less ambient air fed into the area, and yet meet the standards. It improves our health and productivity while directly reducing our operating costs. It also strongly impacts our employee retention programme. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 3 Hence, we see that there is also a business imperative in improving our indoor air. PBC is also a BEE rated 5 star building with an average energy consumption of 28 Wh /hr / sqm. It is currently operating at 22 Wh /hr / sqm. This reduction is partially due to the IAQ initiatives taken by us. We are also a USGBC LEED Platinum building. It is the first, in India, to achieve this for existing buildings (O&M) in 2010. Over the years, we have strived hard to create an exciting, healthy and a robust workplace for our employees, a value proposition for our clients and a viable profit making business model for our shareholders. It is a known fact that employees who are satisfied with their organization’s belief and commitment to its environmental and social responsibilities, are likely to be more positive, more engaged, more efficient and therefore, more productive. An engaged and satisfied workforce contributes to enhanced business results and overall prosperity and well being of an organization. Only a company that produces a Triple bottom line is taking account of the full cost involved in doing sustainable business. Through this COP, we reiterate our belief in ‘Gender Equality & Gender Mainstreaming, by becoming the first SmE to sign up for UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), in 2012. Last but not the least, strategizing for implementing innovative ways to remain profitable and consistently enhance our top line and bottom line, despite challenges thrown as a result of economic downturns and a not so robust market scenario. I take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks to all our important stakeholders, especially the PBC team that has stood committed to our inherent principles care for people, environment and responsible business. We thank our vendors and suppliers who have played an important role in making our innovations a reality and helping us meet our Environmental, Social that include Human, Labour & Corporate Governance related goals and objectives. We thank and reach out to our esteemed clients, who have supported our causes and encouraged us to move ahead in the direction of corporate social responsibility. My firm belief is to be passionate about what we believe in, play to our strengths, Corporate Excellence & Governance, focus on our circle of influence and recognize that learning is a life-long exercise. This has been our ‘mantra of success for more than two decades now. Your views and feedback are important to us and we look forward to it, as we believe that we can create value by learning from all our stakeholders. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chief Executive Officer Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 4 PBC Service Portfolio OUR PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES: Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 5 OUR MISSION, VISION, ETHICS & VALUES Our Mission To be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to delivering bench-marked, quality services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment, people around us & creating value for our stakeholders. Our Vision To stand out as an organization, with passion for quality service, Care for Environment and Be Sensitive to the People Around, that inspires us from within to provide end-to-end business support to our customers whom we consider as the essence of our success. Our Ethics & Values Honesty And Absolute Integrity in whatever we do – Quality Business Ethics and Corporate Governance, Empowerment, Excellence and Innovation, Competency and Up-skilling, Sensitive to the Environment and Community Around Us, Winning -Being Best in the Business Team Work, Work Hard yet keep it fun & above all – A company that has made “Customer Care its Business”. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 6 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE SERVICES *Note: T&TTour & Travels, PMS – Property Management System, F&BFood & Beverages, NPGNehru Place Greens, ISP – Internet Service Provider, IAQ – Indoor Air Quality, HRD Human Resource Department, PR Public Relations, OpsOperations, Mktg Marketing Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 7 POLICY Quality Policy Quality Policy underlines the commitment of the management and employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) towards achieving quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee will be encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements and shall strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. Policy is available on public domain i.e. on website www.pbcnet.com Environment Management Policy We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. The environmental policy has been set up by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. Under the policy, we strive to create awareness among our customers that Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specific ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the four R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. This policy will be documented and training imparted to employees for effective implementation. This policy will be made available to public. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 8 Occupational Health & Safety Policy Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), a service provider of office and conference facilities & a suite of 27 support services, is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations.  We have replaced most of the traditional/conventional chairs with the Ergonomic Chairs. These are designed to minimize physical effort and discomfort, and hence maximize efficiency. Policy shall be made available to public, if required. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 9 Social Accountability Policy We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance  Profit  Care for the environment  Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labor Standards with PBC™ worker policies, code of conduct, procedures and SA standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 10 Corporate Responsibility Policy Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We shall take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the best employer and employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe that people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 11 Equal Employment Opportunity Policy PBC and all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for all. We are committed to the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We Are Also Certified For SA 8000 for our Social Accountability. Our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently able, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal Employment Opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently-able, marital status, national origin or economic status. The company expects full co operation of everyone associated with it, to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC™’s constant endeavour to spread the message Of ‘Equal Opportunities’ for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. HIV/AIDS Policy PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS.  PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 12  HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential  Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time.  PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company.  At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups.  PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. The committee set up for HIV/AIDS will ensure wide dissemination of the policy, review it from time to time SEXUAL HARASSMENT and also monitor the implementation of the policy. POLICY It is hoped that this policy will help build positive and supportive attitude towards those infected and promote health and safety amongst the employees. PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an Employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD / any of the general managers or any member of the harassment redressal committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  To maintain a work environment that is free of sexual harassment.  To ensure annually one interactive session conducted for PBC team members and lady crewmembers.  To ensure Harassment Redressal Committee Meeting shall be conducted twice a year. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 13 ANTI CORRUPTION POLICY PBC has a stated anti-corruption and ethical policy monitored by Human Resource Department and all the HODs in their respective business area. PBC provides the wherewithal to all the departments to ensure the success and profitability of the business ventures without compromising on the core values of conducting business such as responsibility, transparency and sensitivity towards the environment. As employees (in PBC), we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner.  Will set a good example by being trustworthy.  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources.  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason.  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company.  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO.  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Are continuously conscious about and aim to maintain our integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization.  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 14 Stakeholder Engagement Process– Recognizing the key partners & Collaborating for Mutual Business OBJECTIVES: Benefit Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders benefiut to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Policy We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. At PBC we ensure, that we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. However with our immediate and most important stakeholders i.e. employees, clients, subcontractors, Govt. Bodies etc., we have a system of ongoing engagement. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve our business performance & services. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programmes etc. From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing us is clearly understood by us. Our new cross business CSR approach need to be based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the widely varying levels of achievement across our two-business areas, and of taking account of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 15 During the year 201314, we have addressed the Ten Principles of UNGC as under: “Launch of Online Employees Self Service A. HUMAN RIGHTS Portal”... In order to facilitate easy access to relevant information for all our employees is now just a “Click” away…… I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the Ethical behaviour towards our employees and interests of the workers. We follow Shops & those of our suppliers, including the payment of Established Act. SA 8000:2008 certification decent wages and the provision of safe and cements PBC’s commitment on staff welfare & hygienic working conditions, are the essential social accountability. Through this PBC building blocks for our current and future reinforces its commitment to basic rights, business. freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunity no discrimination on any account, Inclusivity, We recognize the rights of our employees and training & skill development, health, safety etc. treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness A fair and open channel of communication is within a safe working environment. Health & maintained for all personnel at the work place. Safety are the two key factors guiding our Human Rights are clearly identified as a nonbusiness. negotiable instrument and is addressed in detail We recruit top management locally, encourage in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) high degrees of local autonomy and share During our various engagements with our ownership where appropriate. stakeholders; we use this opportunity to encourage them to become part of the GCN We pursued with a mission to educate our network, in order to ensure credibility & employees about organizational commitment to transparency to them and their business. human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings helped our employees to understand the principles of human rights. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 16 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PBC ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, in order to protect the interests of the workers. In our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights. There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under SA 8000:2008, we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion & not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance, on the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members to fearlessly give their ideas / suggestions for improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 17 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes that the collective strength of its employees, they are an effective partner towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability certification for SA 8000. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have happened at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us, this once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. We also we have a “Workers Representative” (WR) to engage with our crew-members and understand their queries, requirement, needs, grievances, issues etc and bring them to the notice of the management. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR & actions are taken to resolve all shortcoming if any. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR The WR acts as a bridge between the Management & Workers. He is also a key player in the scheme of things PBC at PBC for believes staff welfare. in voluntary labour and no instances of forced / compulsory labour have come to light during the year. Regular WR is also&an Periodic invitee to Audits by externalReview all Management agencies for compliance Meetings in order to present 8000:2008 with SAthe to the to is also conducted workers prospective ensure management. adherence to the standard and compliance to the principle. Apart from this there are unannounced / surprise audits conducted by the certification body & Social Accountability International (SAI) At PBC, we strongly condemn any kind of forced and compulsory labour. It is one of our values to pursue the concept of voluntary labour. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 18 V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF We prefer business partners, who treat their EMPLOYMENT employees similarly as us.PBC follows the Delhi The organization does not believe in any kind of Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, discrimination at workplace. At the time of the age limit prescribed for child labour is below recruitment only qualification of a candidate to 15. deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women, However, PBC has prescribed the minimum age candidates from marginal sections of the society & limit as 18 years for employment. No person differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents below this age can be employed in PBC, whether of discrimination in the reporting period. directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. Yes in the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal get decent wages and working conditions with these and apart from this it also is detailed in encouraging them to send their children to schools our MSI and processes under ISO. rather than to work. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective All our contractors & vendors are also required to is to go beyond compliance. The organization does scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations not believe in any kind of discrimination based on in respect of engagement of Child Labour. caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose This is addressed through our contract agreement, discrimination while hiring, remuneration, access to vendor declaration & regular engagement training, promotion etc at work place. programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total process defined on Child Labour – Remediation workforce and we hire people based on Plan Procedure No. SA2. competencies & not Caste, Colour, Nationality, Religion, Gender etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective We believe in Affirmative Action, as it promotes a process for detection & prevention of child labour diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in & its remediation, which covers all personnel order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of deputed to include workers provided by Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & subcontractor. cohesion and to make it into a reality in a corporate sector. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 19 We recognize the need to reorient people’s PBC CELEBRATES WOMAN POWER: attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our PBC welcomes the provisions of the Women’s society. Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Inclusivity Data: Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to UNGC and Category No. of Team Percentage members wise WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate the General 174 90% commitment to the same. OBC 8 4% PBC has adopted the seven steps in order to SC 10 5% ST 1 1% empower our women employees. Total 193 100% We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the “Skill Development Initiative: right thing to do – it is also good for business. Taking on Fresh Interns & providing  Harnessing the broadest pool of talent. them on the job training on various  Women at work bring with them a special skillbusiness verticals including set that meets our operational standards, especially in terms of multitasking, handling Technical & Soft skill people and taking-up leadership roles development”.  Special preference is given to women candidates along with candidates from marginal sections of the society.  Visible monitoring by our CEO and the executive team, of the progress in genderdiversity programs. We recognized the importance of participation of women in business way back in the early 90s, at the time of commencement of our Business & ever since our Head of Operations has always been a woman. Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments by introducing “WomenCentric” policies. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 20 PBC celebrates women power by celebrating  .Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, International Women’s day every year. work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-on-specific days’ etc. are some We enhance our company’s competitiveness by of the provisions tailor-made for our organizing skill-building programs aimed specifically at women employees the development of women employees. It is a  Extended Maternity Leaves mandate for senior executives to mentor junior  A medical insurance policy in place that women employees and encourage them to play a covers maternity from day one larger role in the company.  Providing manned cab facilities to the Women at PBC hold the highest management women employees after 7 pm and until positions. 7 am These policies make PBC an attractive workSynopsis of PBC’s Workforce place for women Total No. of Employees at PBC: 176 PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue Gender Ratio (F: M): (15:85), at workplace and addresses it proactively, by Managerial (Female: Male): (32:68) having regular awareness and interactive Non Managerial (Female: Male): (11:89) sessions with PBC team members. Non We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our Managerial Managérial women employees to ensure that their specific No. of Team Percentage Position (in Position (in Category members wise Nos.) Nos.) grievances are addressed in a timely manner No of Female PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and 27 15 % 12 15 of PBC secure place for women employees. No of Male of As an organization, we strongly feel that 149 85% 25 124 PBC synergies between the two genders can truly Total result in sustainable development of an entity, 176 100% 37 139 Employees organization & a Nation as a whole. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them look after their homes / children and family. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 21 WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC: PBC celebrates International Women’s day every year. This year, our theme was “Equality for women is progress for all”. PBC strongly supports the theme. We ran a power point presentation in the TFTs placed in our building to create awareness on equality. We organized a workshop on Women Safety. The workshop focused on the rights of the women and about the provisions in Law for women. The workshop was mentored by Delhi Police Officials. All the officers emphasized on the safety measures that a woman must follow when she is in a crisis situation. One of the lady police officers elaborately described about different articles and enactments of the Indian law that supports women safety and rights. She also emphasized on various Do’s & Dont’s that are to be kept in mind when a woman is in a threatened situation. This session was followed up by a question and answer session wherein the attendees asked their queries and got their doubts clarified. Various lady employees shared their working experience at PBC with a remark that they would recommend any female candidate to work here because of the safety measures followed and ‘No Discrimination’ policy. PBC gives equal opportunities to all irrespective of gender / caste / creed etc. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions and we foster the growth & promotion of the weaker sections at all levels. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 22 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage PBC, a 25 year old building, located in Nehru Place them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible Greens, built to Compulsory Government design. It is and our system addresses it very substantially. the first office building in the country to be USGBC LEED Platinum certified under Existing Buildings Energy at each point of consumption is tracked on a (Operations and Maintenance) category truly a daily basis & data shared with CEO, as it’s our firm green sustainable building. belief that energy conservation is not a one time activity but a lifetime of commitment to It is also a BEE 5 star rated building with an AAhEPI of sustainability. 28 wh/hr/sqm PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented An eco-friendly building has a minimal footprint on strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC the environment while enhancing occupant comfort a high performance and a truly green office building. and enhancing the performance of a building. Typically, environment-friendly design and ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: architecture tries to optimize the performance of a Energy management practices followed at PBC help building, and preserve and protect important in reducing our operating costs without impacting resources like water, land, and energy. This is the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from accomplished through an integrated approach to primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) architecture, blending designs, using energy-efficient and we don’t have any source for Indirect / materials, adopting construction techniques that aid Renewable energy. our sustainability programme, effective building systems including waste management, indoor air Our results show we have benefited from these quality and harnessing renewable energy supplies. practices, resulting in a 30% reduction in the electricity bills. We are continually working on these To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, practices to further improve our energy efficiency eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone footprint. involved in the process from design to construction. PBC is also a Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of It is our absolute belief that care for environment can Power, Govt. of India, 5-star rated building, with alone help us in addressing the Climate Change issues average annual hourly energy performance index of and take us through this difficult phase. 28 W hr /hr /sqm. Currently operating at 22 wh /hr/ sqm since 2012 & will soon reduce it to 16 wh/hr/sqm. As a result of several Energy Efficient Practices, PBC Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. has reduced Communication on Progress sanctioned 2013-2014MDI itsReport 23 735 KVA to from Page 350 KVA. Our per annum savings are > Rs 8 WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES WASTE MANAGEMENT At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & 4 R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping Recycle is our mantra for managing waste. us to conserve and sustainably manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. We segregate waste at the point of its generation. Monitoring & Reporting System  We have separate bins for food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic  Accurate measurement is the heart of any nature manure through vermi-culture with the Monitoring and Reporting System. We have help of worms. Further, this manure is used for 35 calibrated water meter in our building indoor plants.  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil  The Engineering Department in PBC and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as captures & analyzes the water consumption per DPCC norms the parameters of the data from the calibrated meters discharge is periodically tested from DPCC  QA Department reviews measurement & approved Lab. Results are within the specified Calibration methodology and it is checked parameters. and verified during Internal Audits,  We recycle paper and plastic waste. Several surveillance and third party audits under trees are chopped down in order to produce ISO-9001 & ISO-14001 papers. At PBC, we try to minimize the usage of  The Daily report of water & energy papers by following various simple practices. consumption is shared with the CEO for his Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we inputs & major improvement decision prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc.  Quarterly internal audits are carried out to  We reuse one-sided paper & promote analyze the efficiency of the water communication thru I-mail/ E-mail. management system and for continual  E-waste is discarded through e-waste recyclers improvement and useful equipments/parts are combined to Daily monitoring and recording of the water form usable machines consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. With several Water Conservation Practices, The Reduction in Total water consumption in the year 2013 as compared to the water consumption in the year 2012 is 3%. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 24 BREATHE EASY™ …….. INDOOR AIR QUALITY ‘WE GROW FRESH AIR’: PBC has developed an AVG. of % effective IAQ system that works towards making this PARAMETERS other PBC REDUCTION Buildings building more energy efficient, apart from cleaning the indoor air. CO2, ppm 1067.5 488 55 PM10, µg/m3 689 24 97 A unique biotechnology is used to clean the indoor air of its toxins and VOCs. PM2.5, µg/m3 492 14 97 VOC Benzene, ppb 150 BDL 99.99 With the help of plants, the indoor air is made rich in VOC Acetaldehyde, 3125 BDL 99.99 oxygen, In order to promote health, which results in ppb reduced absenteeism due to fewer sick days and higher productivity for occupants at PBC. VOC Acetone, ppb 800 BDL 99.99 VOC Toluene, ppb 275 BDL 99.99 IAQ system is retrofitted in the existing building. Aerobic Plate Count, 153 26 83 At PBC we take daily readings and as a result of using cfu biotechnology we have been able to significantly Fungal Count, cfu 48 <1 99 reduce the difference in CO2 between ambient air and air inside the business centre. Mimicking nature inside the building with other various IAQ initiatives has allowed us to maintain IAQ as per ASHRAE and USGBC LEED (for Platinum rated buildings – i.e. 30% over ASHRAE base) specifications with a minimum 15.3 CFM per person fresh air, resulting in energy savings. Thus, as compared to ASHRAE recommended 20 CFM, PBC saves 4.7 CFM/ person of fresh air load, on the HVAC system. We “grow” our own oxygen and remove harmful compounds from the air through the strategic use of indoor vegetation — which doesn’t just help the environment; it also helps people think and be more productive while reducing energy costs. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 25 VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders our values encourage and motivate us to have a partnership with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder: Awareness program for school children, employees, clients, community around us  Celebration of earth day, environment day etc as official events of the organization.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to the various issues relating to environment & water management  In-house employee awareness programmes.  Information dissemination to in-house clients through TFT/display monitors installed at strategic locations including washrooms  Creating awareness through our annual communication on progress (COP) & CSR/CR reports.  Till a couple of years back there were no 4/2 l cisterns available in India. We engaged companies like Cera, Hindware & Orient Ceramics and urged them for solution.  Our CEO has been actively interacting with chairman of Delhi Jal Board for getting a STP in a public park near our office for irrigation of plants.  The initiative of water conservation at PBC runs across all verticals.  We are constantly talking to our supply chain and sensitizing them on the water issues.  In our new project-GREENSPACESTM we have been able to reduce our potable water demand from 45 l to 20 l with the help of learning from this building. NEW YEAR CELEBRATION WITH GREEN RESOLUTION To mark the beginning of the New Year 2014, PBC-ians decided to take an oath to stay green and make Earth happy in their own ways. Though the New Year resolution of each member varied from the other, but the enthusiasm level of the members was high. So, PBC began this year with new hopes, unwavering commitments and Positive Green Vibes. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 26 EARTH HOUR AT PBC EARTH DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC On 29th March 2014, the planet of life – Earth, witnessed On the occasion of Earth Day, in association with Earth the “Earth Hour” phenomenon sweep across the globe. Day Network and The Climate Project, India (TCPI), Like every year, PBC participate in this movement by Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) launched a green switching off the lights for an hour. revolution-stimulator: an e-book “Pathways to Green Cities Innovative Ideas from Urban India” in New On the occasion of Earth Hour 2014, we motivated Delhi. employees to check the balance available in their account, online without using paper from the ATM The event had a grand opening with an inspiring song machine and to switch off the lights that are not essential by Lee Alison Sibley. With a welcome note given by Mr. at home – in addition to paying tribute to the Earth by Kamal Meattle, CEO – PBC, the event followed with a switching off lights for an hour. list of activities. Ms. Karuna A Singh, Country DirectorEart Day Network gave a brief introduction of the book and the challenges faced in compiling the case studies. Then, was the much awaited official launch of the ebook, “Pathways to Green Cities”. Dr. Isher Ahluwalia, Chairperson – Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICER) did the honour. She stressed on the importance of this book at this crucial time and how these innovative ideas and solutions can be replicated in our daily lives. The guest of Honour, Mr. Sandeep Mishra, Additional Secretary (Environment), Delhi Pollution Control Committee emphasized on the significance of judicious use of natural resources and doing our bit to save the Earth. The book contains a number of case studies of different organizations who have combined Green Factor with innovation. Some of the inspiring stories on the occasion were “Improving Livelihoods and Localities” by Waste Warriors, “Rag pickers Turn Entrepreneurs” by South Asian Forum for the Environment, “We Grow Fresh Air” by Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), “Catch the Rain” by Rain Centre, Chennai, “Backseat Buddies” by Earth Day Network, “25 kWp Solar” by Tata Motors and “Going Tapeless!” by Star India. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 27 IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ON THE WAY TO SUSTAIN SUSTAINABILITY – A JOURNEY FROM TURKEY TO 16TH INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS FORUM Roopali Shahney, Group General manager, Paharpur Business Centre has participated in a number of seminars and conferences to promote Sustainable Business Solutions. These pictures depict National Conference on Energy Efficiency and Conservation, organized by PHD Chambers wherein Ms. Shahney spoke about the small yet significant measures that an organization can take to Stay Green and Sustain Sustainability. She spoke about the story of evolution of PBC as a green mSME and how by focusing on the pillars of Sustainability i.e. Energy, Water, Waste, Resources & Materials and Air Quality, PBC has been able to establish an innovation and sustainable Business Model. ………………………………………………… Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 28 PBC CELEBRATES WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY Paharpur Business Centre celebrated World Environment Day (WED) 2014 by organizing a green workshop for school children and an awareness campaign on solutions to air pollution. In association with The Climate Project, India (TCPI), PBC organized a workshop on ‘How to make bottle planters’ for the school children. Every day, we dump plastic bottles after using them. Plastic bottles are not biodegradable and can affect the health of living organisms. Therefore, it is sensible to reuse them. PBC has already set up various wall units in the green house that have bottle planters hung on them. Bottle planters not only add aesthetic appeal to the place where it is kept but also raise the Green-OMeter. Children along with their parents and teachers joined the session. The session began with a welcome note given by Ms. Roopali Shahaney, Group GM, PBC who shared with all the children present out there about the importance of 4 R’s – Refuse, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. She also told them about the adverse effects of pollution. Ms. Susan Thomas, Climate Leader – TCPI and the Master Trainer of the workshop mentored them. She taught them different ways of making a bottle planter. She also showed them how they can make a bottle planter with the help of tins / cans. All of them prepared one bottle planter each successfully. Breathe EasyTM, Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) division of PBC also played a significant role in organizing the workshop. After the session, all of them were taken to the Green House of PBC where a lot of bottle planters are hung on the walls. Team Breathe EasyTM explained the children, parents and the teachers about the importance of green plants and clean and oxygenated air. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 29 The workshop inspired a lot of people to reuse the AWARENESS CAMPAIGN ON SOLUTIONS waste bottles in a greener way. This workshop has TO AIR POLLUTION been a perfect example of 4 R’s. The same day, Breathe EasyTM joined hands with ‘In AWE’ (an e-magazine) and participated in the WED 2014 celebrations at Select City Mall. It organized an awareness campaign on various solutions to air pollution. WHO in its recent study, has revealed that Delhi is the most polluted city in the world. This report has led to raised eyebrows of many. Undoubtedly, Air pollution is a grave concern. People tend to think air pollution as something that takes place outside but it is wrong. The truth is, it also takes place inside and in fact it is up to 10 times more polluted than the outdoor air. Indoor air pollution can cause an array of health hazards that may also, at an extreme point, lead to death. Our team spread awareness about it and at the same time they also told the visitors about the solutions. The team also explained the visitors that by using three common houseplants one can bring down the pollution level significantly. It also briefed them on how ‘We grow fresh airTM’ at PBC, by using the same technology. The visitors were also told about the simple measures that they can implement to curb the negative effects of pollution. The team was successful in creating awareness about solutions to air pollution. It’s time that we walked the talk and helped in reversing the ill-effects of climate change. PBC will leave no stone unturned in doing its bit to ensure a greener and cleaner planet. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 30 HOW ABOUT A CUP OF COFFEE IN GREEN CAFÉ? Cafes are usually crowded with people who either boggle their mind to finish a book, finish a gossip or finish a favourite dish. Therefore, PBC thought of making its Café Einstein a more productive place. We transformed it into a Green Café wherein a number of hydropones are placed. Plants that are grown in hydrophones are normally 10% more efficient than those grown by using conventional methods of gardening. These hydroponically grown air-purifying plants help in detoxifying the indoor environment so that the occupant breathes fresh and oxygenated air that keeps his mind and body healthy. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 31 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL The first step in the development of the policy FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING focused on the Heads of the departments. The involvement of the HODs ensured that they EXTORTION AND BRIBERY understood the significance of this policy and its We stringently follow the laws of land and comply impact on the business practices of the company. with all the legal requirements. Our annual reports are made with due diligence and it is verified by It also provided the HODs an opportunity to present external agencies. their views and provide inputs on the components of the policy. We firmly believe in paying our taxes on time. PBC has kept its policies transparent to encourage This process also gave them a strong feeling of ethical work culture & prevent corruption in belonging and owning the system and therefore business. commitment to adhere to its tenets at all times. It is accountable & responsible to its stakeholders. The policy is shared & circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC who are required to Partner, clients, contractors and vendors also ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a respect our ethical policies & abide by them while manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and doing business with us. rules of the organization at all times. The anticorruption policy was initiated on April 28, This is also reflected in a detailed manner in our 2011 at PBC. Our CEO was determined to have a Management Standing Instruction / Employee Hand proper system in place to address corruption and Book. ethical dilemmas faced by the employees during operations. Regular training to employees is imparted to make them aware of PBC’s AntiCorruption policy. The interaction of our HODS with the various Training is given to 100% employees on this. stakeholders of PBC was kept in mind while framing a policy that addressed the specific needs and Regular internal audits are carried out by our concerns of the PBC’s business and its team Quality Assurance (QA), Finance, Human Resources members. (HR), Internal Auditors and Legal Department to ensure standards, codes and other statutory and regulatory requirements are regularly updated whilst also controlling & monitoring all operations. A detailed risk analysis is carried out by each HOD for their respective business verticals, subsequently the data is collated & analyzed by CSR committee and HRD. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 32 Third party audits of the various management systems QUALITY PAR EXCELLENCE OUR CERTIFICATIONS reinforce this by providing an unbiased audit of the & MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS systems concerned. The SOPs and standards of PBC PBC has been certified with six International take care of all legal requirements, which are an certifications inherent/intrinsic part of its operations.  ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System In case any business unit / department is found to be  ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental non-compliant during the audit process, immediate Management System corrective action is taken in terms of re-defining of  ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management SOPs, getting the same in place and reviewing it for System further compliance & adequacy.  ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management Services Each department identifies its specific legal  SA 8000:2008 for International Standard for requirements and receives assistance from the Social Accountability commercial and legal department to put these in place.  OHSAS 18001:2007 for Occupational Health & Safety Management System Any employee violating the company’s code of conduct  Signatory to UN Global Compact and and/or exhibiting unethical behavior is subject to an commitment to Women’s Empowerment investigation and appropriate action is taken against Principles (WEPs) the violator in an impartial / unbiased manner. The company does not condone any violation of the law, unethical business, dishonesty or other participation in any illegal act such as bribery, fraud and theft. There have been no incidents of corruption reported against any employee or business head in this reporting period. Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 33 BUZZ ABOUT PBC Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 34 Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 35 Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 36 Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 37 Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 38 THE ROAD AHEAD………. • To promote PBC as one of the best conferencing destinations in Delhi & NCR. • In order to maximize our revenues from office space and facilitates as part of our new business strategy, converting out existing space into retail in the year 2014. • Framing CSR policies & objectives as per the new Company’s Act 2013 • In accordance to our commitment towards Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and United Nations Global Compact, we plan to employ larger number of women employees in PBC, in non-women oriented verticals & also to introduce senior women employees in the PBC Board. • To carry out more R&D in IAQ by experimenting with Green vertical walls, optimizing Hydroponic system of growing plants, to get ambient and inside CO2 at same levels and further reduce VOC’s, bacteria and fungus from the Indoor air. – Breathe Easy Vertical • To create awareness amongst our vendors/suppliers by demanding energy and resource efficient products. • To scale up the skill development programme at PBCpartner & collaborate with more universities and colleges in order to increase the number of interns that PBC takes in for specific skill development and on the job training.  Copyright © 2014 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 Page 39
