2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. Deloitte Southern Africa Next Contents Message from the Chief Executive 3 Message from the Chairman of the Board 6 About Deloitte 9 Stakeholder Engagement 17 Our Governance 19 Magnet for Top Talent 27 Environmental Sustainability 46 Commitment to Society 53 United Nations Global Compact 58 Glossary of Terms 64 Contacts 66 Previous Next Message from the Chief Executive Previous Next Dear Stakeholders This report provides a regional review of our firm’s impact during the we grew revenues. Our investments in areas such as quality and 2013 and 2014 fiscal years. We produce it every second year and it innovation reinforced and extended our service capabilities, reinforcing provides a road map for anyone seeking more detailed information our position as a leading professional services firm in Africa. on how our firm serves clients, the culture of our firm and the opportunities we provide to our people. We also detail our impact on Unwavering commitment to quality our communities and how we challenge ourselves to continue to earn I trust this report faithfully demonstrates our unwavering the trust and confidence of our stakeholders. commitment to quality in all we do. Both the quality and impact Lwazi Bam of the work reflected in this report are possible because of the Our Values Chief Executive talent and leadership of our Deloitte people. That culture of quality The report highlights various activities of our people but more than is underpinned every day through the Deloitte experience of anything else, it showcases the values that this firm embodies. These diversity, state-of-the-art training, and local and international work are values that are lived by both the leadership and the staff of the opportunities. The global vision of the Deloitte network instils shared firm. These values you will find interspersed throughout this report. values and a distinctive culture that makes us proud. For clients, this I am proud to say that the leadership team and staff have all played results in consistent quality and higher levels of trust in our insights their part in building the distinctive Deloitte brand. Our fundamental and solutions. brand attributes that align the Deloitte global network across geographic and functional lines are leadership, innovation, and In addition to our people and our clients, we acknowledge our impact. These are not just internal qualities, but qualities that I am commitment to government and our community. We support proud to say our clients, communities, potential talent, and broader government through the assurance and advisory work we undertake stakeholders experience of us every day. for various government departments and public sector entities. We offer support whenever necessary to the Auditor-General Performance of the business and South African Revenue Service (SARS), a service which helps government improve its performance and ability to deliver services. The turbulent economic environment has been felt by all our service lines, not only in the Southern African practice but throughout our Impact on Stakeholders African practice and the global network. Despite this context, our financial and operating performance during the past two years was The impact upon clients by our 4000 plus people in Southern Africa strong. As was the case throughout the entire Deloitte global network, is often broader and deeper than we commonly acknowledge. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 4 Over this reporting period Deloitte assurance and advisory continued support for the 10 principles of the United Nations professionals helped and enabled companies, many of which Global Compact. are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and on other leading global exchanges, to discover revenue opportunities Where we believe we can have the greatest practical impact by expanding into new markets. They have partnered with and is in areas such as combating corruption through risk advised executives on how to better navigate complex business management techniques, as well as to increase the integrity landscapes and to deal with the many challenging macroof markets and promote prosperity and better livelihoods for economic and socio-economic issues. everyone. Assurance and Advisory services remain the cornerstones of For our community, we participate in a range of initiatives spelt our service offerings for the foreseeable future. These service out in detail in this report. We place a high value on supporting lines are a crucial aspect of our strategy to take seriously our education, social investment and enterprise development. public interest role. We work, wherever possible, with national and international regulators in the development of policies that To all our stakeholders, we offer our thanks for your valued promote investor confidence and economic growth through support. We hope you find this report as informative and quality, objectivity and competition. inspiring as we do. We welcome your feedback on this report and in general and look forward to continued engagement We are interested parties in shaping the audit of the future, with you in the years ahead. Thank you for investing your time which will benefit stakeholders by revealing a more complete in learning more about Deloitte’s impact. picture of companies’ financial positions and triple bottom line performance. Deloitte is continually investing in innovative Sincerely tools and methods, like our new auditing methodology and platform, to further enhance the quality of our work. Lwazi Bam Chief Executive Deloitte also has practical global insight from our client Deloitte Africa experience and therefore, is in a position to take a leading role in joint efforts with fellow large corporates and organisations For questions and comments, email to address challenges faced in common by businesses, sustainability@deloitte.co.za governments, and communities. This is in keeping with our Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 5 Message from the Chairman of the Board Previous Next Dear Stakeholders Deloitte has a proud history in Southern Africa stretching back well Of course, this has considerable impact on the audit profession as over a century. Our success is built not only on our relationships with it does on investors, as some of these changes include important clients and stakeholders but on our values, which our firm has honed alterations to standards that globally may change the auditor’s report. over this time. We support any policy reform that contributes to increased confidence in financial reporting, as well as the importance and relevance of audit. The Deloitte brand and reputation is synonymous with those values – each of which is spelled out in this report. In today’s world one cannot Such changes serve to reinforce our values and sense of purpose. look purely to the bottom line, but also to what we are doing with We take the long-term view of our markets and while the economic Trevor Brown our people and the planet. We firmly espouse this triple bottom line environment at the moment appears uncertain, we have confidence Chairman of the philosophy. that the South African economy will continue to grow and social Board inequalities to diminish. Our business Welcome to 2014 Deloitte Stakeholder Report, the review of our Never has there been such a wave of regulation – many would say financial years 2013 and 2014. A snapshot of the depth and breadth over-regulation – of business as we have witnessed since the 2008/09 of the Deloitte story, it provides facts about our network and highlights recession. Though South Africa may have appeared to be on the of our work, culture, people, and broad range of businesses. periphery of much of the global economic trauma and changing government policies from stimulus to austerity to monetary easing – The over-riding value we commit to and continually quest is Quality. the reality is that our large companies and their markets are almost all It is quality above all that is core to our business and drives client cross-border. services, partnerships, strategy, acquisitions, and investments. The dichotomy they face is that while governments and regulators Our people are typically nationally focused businesses, investors and markets increasingly operate across borders. This means that complying with If a firm such as Deloitte consists primarily of its reputation for trust the changing regulations on national, regional and international levels and integrity, then the custodians of that reputation are our people. is becoming an ever more complex undertaking. I thank all our people for their contribution and extend a particular Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 7 thanks to those newly-graduated professionals and experienced our clients as a trusted business partner. To this end, we have professionals who joined our firm during the past two years. to not only do the right things but very much be seen among all our stakeholders to be doing so. I can, with confidence say to these professionals that as For instance, as a professional services firm our impact on the they work towards obtaining the Chartered Accountancy physical environment is inevitably going to be less than, say, qualification or building on their already established careers an operation in the Energy & Resources sector. Yet it remains at Deloitte, and as they work through the ranks of either our incumbent upon us to develop the intellectual property around assurance business or advisory businesses, Deloitte will provide environmental practices and reporting. It is our responsibility them with one of the best learning experiences available in to adequately advise clients on how best to improve business today. their businesses. The future of our profession rests in the progress of our young The theme of our 2014 Stakeholder Report is ‘Growing CAs. To each one, I can also say: You have joined a great firm Together. Sharing Success’. It is in this direction that we have a place where people are highly valued. During your time pointed our compass and it remains a crucial part of our with us you will have the opportunity to gain exposure to all strategy that we continuously monitor and assess the impact types of disciplines and a diverse group of clients. Use this and impressions we have made as corporate citizens. In true opportunity to its fullest and learn from all those with whom Deloitte style, we strive and will continue to strive to always you come into contact. do a bit more to create a sustainable future. To our partners and directors, especially those that have been Sincerely newly appointed, and to all of our people, thank you for your personal contribution. Self-actualisation and pushing personal Trevor Brown boundaries are intrinsic to the fabric of Deloitte, and in this Chairman spirit, we look forward to your continued hard work and Deloitte Southern Africa Board of Partners and Directors commitment to each other. For questions and comments, email Our planet sustainability@deloitte.co.za For a firm such as Deloitte, what we do ourselves can sometimes be less important than the influence we have on Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 8 About Deloitte Previous Next The purpose of this Deloitte drives progress. Our firms around the Through its globally connected network of member section is to define the world help clients become leaders wherever they firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings nature of our business, choose to compete. Deloitte invests in outstanding world-class capabilities and high-quality service to our geographical footprint people of diverse talents and backgrounds and clients, delivering the insights they need to address across the African empowers them to achieve more than they could their most complex business challenges. continent and fundamental elsewhere. Our work combines advice with action business principles for our and integrity. We believe that when our clients and Deloitte has more than 200 000 professionals stakeholders. This report society are stronger, so are we. who are committed to becoming the standard of specifically covers, in excellence in professional services and serve over detail, the progress of the Our global strength one-half of the world’s largest companies spanning Southern African firm from multiple industries, including large national ‘Deloitte’ is the brand under which a global June 2012 to April 2014. enterprises, public institutions and successful fastnetwork of professionals in independent firms growing global companies. throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, and tax services. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 10 Deloitte footprint in Africa Deloitte in Africa Deloitte is one of Africa’s leading professional services firm, providing services of the highest standard through over 6 000 professionals. As more companies and institutions do business in Africa, Deloitte endeavours to provide clients with a consistent service Deloitte footprint in Africa through our OneDeloitte approach. Tunisia We have a physical presence in 34 African countries and service 51 out of the Morocco 54 countries in Africa. Our vast footprint of the integrated Deloitte Africa spans 15 countries, including Botswana, Burundi, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, ha ra Algeria Libya Egypt Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, across 27 offices and cities. Sa rn te Wes Cape Verde Islands Mauritania Mali With 54 countries on the continent, the sheer size and diversity of its markets present Niger Sudan Eritrea unique challenges for local, national and international businesses as they seek to Senegal Chad Gambia Burkina Djibouti establish or expand their influence in Africa’s rapidly expanding business sectors. Guinea-bissau Faso Guinea Togo Nigeria Somalia Deloitte member firms provide trusted assistance to such clients by bringing their Ivory Central Ethiopia Benin South Sierra Leone Coast Ghana African Republic Sudan insight, experience and professional skills to bear in a region that is currently a focus for Liberia Cameroon international businesses seeking growth opportunities outside of developed markets such Equatorial Guinea C Bra ongo Democratic Republic of Uganda Kenya as Europe and the USA. Gabon zav Congo ille Rwanda Burundi Seychelles Cabinda Tanzania Comores Malawi “The history of Deloitte in Africa is Angola Zambia ue biq Namibia Zimbabwe Mo z am Mada r gasca Mauritius longstanding, and through our African Botswana Reunion integration we aim to continue to deliver Deloitte offices South Africa Swaziland Lesotho value-adding services during Africa’s rise.” Countries serviced Joe Wangai, Chairman of the Deloitte Africa Board Countries not serviced Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 11 Deloitte in Southern Africa Connected. Unified. Mobilised. The origin of Deloitte South Africa dates back to the 19th century when Howard Pim, Murray Smith, Harry Hands and Gurney Close started up their own operations. More recently, in 1990, Deloitte Haskins & Sells merged with Pim Goldby to form Deloitte Pim Goldby and in 1992, the legal name was changed to Deloitte & Touche to conform with the international name. In 2004, the international firm changed its brand name to Deloitte. The Southern African headquarters is in Johannesburg, South Africa and our reach across this region is well facilitated though our physical presence Windhoek of twelve offices. Gaborone Pretoria Our Purpose, Our Values Maputo Johannesburg Our vision Pietermaritzburg Richards Bay We aspire to be the standard of excellence, the first choice of the most Durban sought-after clients and talent. Our mission East London Deloitte Southern Africa exists to: Cape Town Stellenbosch Port Elizabeth • Serve the public interest as one of the cornerstones of corporate governance, by supplying world-class assurance services • Insofar as this is compatible with local and international regulations and the best principles of corporate governance, supply world-class advisory professional services to our clients • Through both these activities, to help our clients and our people excel. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 12 Our shared values Deloitte Service Offerings Our shared values are timeless. They succinctly describe the core principles that Deloitte operates through five strategic service lines namely Audit, Taxation distinguish the Deloitte culture. Services, Consulting, Risk Advisory, and Corporate Finance, and partners with clients in both the private and public sectors. To fulfil our mission and achieve our vision, we: • Focus on solving business issues and adding value to our markets and clients Our competitive advantage lies in the ‘Deloitte difference’. This philosophy through our shared values of: draws on our offering of a unique suite of services, each based on a deep -Integrity understanding of and insights into our clients’ businesses. This differential is -Outstanding value to markets and clients supported by cooperation based on shared values, global client service standards -Commitment to each other and the OneDeloitte multi-disciplinary approach. -Strength through cultural diversity. • Invest heavily in our culture, develop our people and continually build their Deloitte has the following industry-specific focus areas: technical skills, business acumen and industry experience • Financial Services • Work together in multifunctional teams to facilitate the sharing of our • Public Sector combined professional skills, knowledge and ideas and thereby, develop • Technology, Media & Telecommunications solutions tailored to client needs. • Energy & Resources Integrity Outstanding value to markets and clients • Healthcare We believe that nothing is more important We play a critical role in helping both • Manufacturing than our reputation, and behaving the capital markets and our member with the highest levels of integrity firm clients operate more effectively. We • Consumer Business. is fundamental to who we are. We consider this role a privilege, and we demonstrate a strong commitment to know it requires constant vigilance and sustainable, responsible business practices. unrelenting commitment. Commitment to each other Strength from cultural diversity We believe that our culture of borderless Our member firm clients’ business collegiality is a competitive advantage for challenges are complex and benefit from us, and we go to great lengths to nurture multi-dimensional thinking. We believe it and preserve it. We go to extraordinary that working with people of different lengths to support our people. backgrounds, cultures, and thinking styles helps our people grow into better professionals and leaders. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 13 An organisation chart of the Deloitte leadership in Southern Africa at 1 March 2014 is available. Board Chairman: TJ Brown Deloitte Southern Africa Deputy Chairman: M Comber Organisational Structure at 1 March 2014 CEO L Bam COO A Swiegers Clients & Regional Leaders Special Projects Audit Risk Advisory Tax Consulting CFO Talent & Office of the CEO T Pillay Industries D Kennedy S Gwala G Pinnock D Kennedy N Kader T Pillay C Beukman Transformation K Black J Mazzocco Strategy Brand Western Cape Audit COO Governance, Risk Corporate Consulting COO Corporate Finance GIS Talent & S Jordan S Tudor-Owen M Alberts M Jarvis and Oversight (GRO) S Dharamlall G de Beer C Larbi-Odam J Barkhuizen Transformation P Bhana D Schneider Reputation & Risk Industries KZN A&A M&A Strategy & Innovation Finance Leader / Ethics Assurance G Brazier N Ranchod Forensics B Rapsch A Olivier H Yunus Officer A Mackie D Kennedy M Comber Tip-offs Anonymous Pretoria Audit JHB FIST Technology Partnership Affairs Industries M Alberts X Botha J Welch N Kader K Ramsingh J Cooper Independence Advisory J Beaumont C Alberts Security, Privacy Mozambique Audit CPT International Human Capital and Resilience J Machado D Steyn L Vosloo W Nieuwoudt Operations C Gibson Legal Counsel D Wilson M Dicks Namibia Audit KZN Customs BPS Data Analytics E Tjipuka S Munro J Michaletos S Gwala D Schraader Corporate Citizenship Botswana Audit PTA VAT Deloitte Digital M Marinelli Technology S Payne B Greyling S Smuts C Alberts Assurance Advisory S Kanjee Chief Innovation Audit PE Transfer Pricing & Growth Officer S Wedderburn B Joubert T Jankovich Legal D Chivers Botswana GES P Naik B Abbott Exco Namibia GGI R McDonald N Cockcroft Mozambique Tax CT/Namibia T Marriday L Barlow FIST Tax KZN/PE S Jordan TMC Deloitte School Audit of Tax D Crowther M Freer A&IS C van der Riet Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 14 Highlights • Tasneem Abdool-Samad was elected to the Southern African Board of Partners and Directors as the KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape Expansion of Excellence representative, and Anthea Scholtz was appointed and tasked to oversee • Deloitte acquired 100% of mining consultancy firm Venmyn Rand the firm’s transformation strategy and equality in respect of women’s (Proprietary) Limited and established a new technical and economic advancement in the firm. mineral advisory business called Venmyn Deloitte. • Professor Njabulo Ndebele joined the Deloitte Southern Africa Board of • Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms (together, Deloitte) Partners and Directors as an external advisor. successfully acquired substantially all of the assets of Monitor Company Group Limited Partnership (Monitor), a highly influential C-Suite advisory • Marius Alberts was appointed as regional leader of the Western Cape. firm. Monitor Deloitte was established and is led out of the Consulting • Karthi Pillay assumed the role of Manufacturing, Auto & Construction Strategy & Innovation service area. Industry leader. • Deloitte Africa was formed with effect from June 2013 when partners • Deloitte Digital appointed Tim Bishop, widely regarded as South Africa’s and directors voted and overwhelmingly supported the financial leading ‘Mobilising the Masses’ expert, as the new Deloitte Digital Chief integration of Deloitte Southern Africa with the member firms in East Technical Officer (CTO) based in Stellenbosch. Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi. • Thomas Jankovich was appointed as Chief Innovation & Growth Officer. People of Excellence • Deloitte celebrated with 303 new Chartered Accountants (CAs) following • Lwazi Bam was appointed Chief Executive of Deloitte Africa. the release of the November 2012 Public Practice Examination (PPE) (Part II) results and 313 new CAs following the release of the November 2013 • National Chairperson of Deloitte Women in Leadership, Anthea Scholtz, PPE (Part II) results. and the Minister of Women, Children and People with Disabilities, Lulu Xingwana, were guest speakers at the press conference on United • Deloitte has produced 15% of all newly qualified African Black CAs in Nations (UN) Women’s Empowerment Principles. the market for 2013. • Deloitte established its Innovation and Growth Services Unit in Consulting, led by Valter Adão. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 15 Engagements of Excellence • We launched an online Press Office, a reference site for the firm’s current • We released its annual publication TMT Predictions, which presented business news and information aimed at the media, stakeholders and the Deloitte view on major trends that are likely to significantly impact potential employees. on companies in Technology, Media and Telecommunications and other • Gauteng MEC for Education Barbara Creecy addressed partners, industries over the next 12 to 18 months. directors and members of staff, highlighting the key challenges faced • We released our Tech Trends report which identified ten trends that we by the department and key initiatives embarked on. The Deloitte anticipate will impact CIOs over the next 18 to 24 months. Foundation simultaneously donated R100 000 to the Satellite Schools initiative, which aims to make satellite feed-based lessons accessible to • Deloitte Botswana launched its Best Company to Work For Survey. students in all areas. • Deloitte was the official knowledge partner of the Department of Trade • Corporate Finance established a new Restructuring Services offering, and Industry for the 5th BRICS Business Forum, which was attended specialising in providing professional and financial advisory services by public and private sector stakeholders from BRICS countries, Brazil, to management and stakeholders of underperforming or financially Russia, India, China and South Africa. Three Deloitte bodies, the Women distressed businesses, as well as those approaching insolvency. in Leadership Committee, Deloitte Mining Industry and Women in Mining South Africa (WiMSA), co-hosted an event at which the topic of • We launched a global strategic business transformation initiative called ‘how women can act as positive change agents in the current mining Deloitte Audit, aiming to instil confidence in financial reporting and to environment’ was discussed. develop talented practitioners. • Deloitte KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) hosted its KZN Funding Fair, a joint venture • We hosted a Black Management Forum conference addressed by between Deloitte, the KZN Provincial Treasury and KZN Department keynote speaker Minister Lindiwe Sisulu. of Economic Development and Tourism. The event facilitated face-to• We launched our first Deloitte Africa People Survey 2014 to members face interaction between project promoters and funding institutions, of staff in Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, showcasing the availability of funds across organisations for Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and business development. Zimbabwe. The survey aims to measure and understand the levels of • Deloitte conducted its FY2013 Member Firm Ethics Survey to assist our engagement and satisfaction of staff, and will inform our strategic member firms with DPM 2060 (Ethics) compliance, particularly with People and Talent mandates going forward. regard to measuring the effectiveness of our Ethics programme. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 16 Stakeholder Engagement Previous Next It is imperative that as a professional services firm, Deloitte examine its stakeholder groupings carefully. It is important that we not only list them but also identify areas where we may have certain impacts on them. The list of stakeholder groupings below are material to Deloitte and we have therefore listed our engagements with them, the type of topics/concerns identified as well as how we respond to them. Stakeholder engagement summary Educational Institutions/ Clients Academia Analysts Alumni Click on a stakeholder group to read more about: • The engagement approach and typical frequency of interaction with this stakeholder group Deloitte staff Suppliers and their families • Sample of topics identified • Type of response (may vary across Deloitte) International Governments Multi-Stakeholder and Regulators • Issues addressed by Deloitte. Organisations Non-profit Professional Organisations Associations and Community Organisations Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 18 Our Governance Previous Next The purpose of this Deloitte is a leading brand in Africa and within At Deloitte, we aim to foster public trust through chapter is to define the the global market. Operating in a highly regulated the practice and promotion of sound ethics, good nature and practice of activity, our reputation is of vital importance to corporate governance and quality in everything governance embodied and us particularly in light of our engagement with we do. applied by Deloitte. roles such as auditor, advisor and business partner across the entire spectrum of the Southern African The Board, as the focal point of corporate economy. governance, has oversight and is ultimately accountable and responsible to all stakeholders for Our firm is governed by the Deloitte Southern the long term sustainable success of the firm and Africa Board of Directors (‘the Board’) which in the quality and value of its contribution. It holds turn is constituted in terms of the provisions of the responsibility to the broader stakeholders, the partnership agreement. The Board subscribes which include the present and potential to the King III Code of Corporate Practices and beneficiaries of Deloitte’s products and services, Conduct to the extent possible for a partnership. clients, employees, alumni and the profession, to achieve continuing prosperity and maintain the Proper management of the partnership requires pristine reputation of the firm. a degree of flexibility to respond to changing circumstances, as well as to differences between In accordance with the best traditions of individual contributions and the circumstances of corporate governance, we have separated the each partner/director. The partnership agreement Board of Partners and Directors from executive provides for a Board in recognition of the fact the management. The Board elects a chairman at the number of partners/directors is too great for each beginning of its term, whose duties in line with to participate in its management. It is the Board’s best practice in corporate governance are similar responsibility to oversee the business and affairs to those of a corporate chairman. The Board of of the partnership and to pursue our mission of Partners and Directors is constituted in terms of the becoming the best professional services firm in partnership agreement and is elected by partners Southern Africa. and directors every three years. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 20 Management Control: 1 March 2014 Our Board of Partners and Directors have the following mandate: Board of partners and directors • To approve the corporate vision and mission • To oversee the development and implementation of a strategic plan 37.50% Black Male 43.75% • To ensure ethical behaviour and legal compliance Black Female White Male • To select, monitor, evaluate and compensate the firm’s CEO. 18.75% To facilitate its work, the Board comprises a number of committees, each Black Male 7 43.75% Black: 62.50% with its own charter which governs its role and performance. Black Female 3 18.75% Black Women: 18.75% White Male 6 37.50% The following graph depicts the composition of the Board of Partners and Directors as at 1 March 2014. Exco 18.18% 45.45% Black Female Black Male 36.36% White Male Black Male 4 36.36% Black: 54.54% Black Female 2 18.18% Black Women: 18.18% White Male 5 45.45% Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 21 Ethical framework Our Ethical Principles apply to all the people of Deloitte, and we use the term “we” to mean all partners, directors, professionals Deloitte is committed to the highest levels of ethics, integrity and administrative staff no matter what country or function they and quality. This is evidenced by our business practices and client reside in. Deloitte partners, directors and staff have an obligation service standards, our leadership behaviour and shared values, to know, understand and adhere to not only these principles, but and most importantly by the quality of people we employ. In fact, also the shared values on which they are founded. In addition, ethics, integrity and quality are at the core of everything that we have a responsibility to encourage our political leaders and we do. business colleagues to do the same. Our Ethical Principles define the standards of ethical behaviour Our shared values inform Deloitte’s Ethical Principles and the that unite all the people of Deloitte. They offer guidance relationship between them is simple: Our shared values define the about appropriate professional conduct covering such issues underlying beliefs that tie our global firm together, and our Ethical as objectivity, confidentiality, and competence. The behaviours Principles further define the specific standards of behaviour that we these principles elicit will enhance and maintain the integrity expect of our leaders and our people. Each Ethical Principle maps and reputation of Deloitte as the premier global professional directly back to our shared values, helping to reinforce and sustain services firm. behaviour that reflects those values. They are, in fact, our values in action. It is important to note that while these principles provide a foundation for ethical decision-making, they do not cover all the situations we may face on a daily basis. When faced with difficult choices, personal integrity and responsibility must be our guide. It is during those times that we are encouraged to seek advice and counsel from our leaders and colleagues, and work together to make the right choices. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 22 Our Ethical Principles Honesty and Integrity Confidentiality “We act with honesty and integrity.” “We respect the confidentiality of information.” • We are straightforward and honest in our professional and • We prohibit disclosure of information to anyone inside or outside our business relationships. firms without the legal or professional right to know. • We are truthful about the services we provide, the knowledge we • We do not misuse information of our clients, our firms, or our people for possess, and the experience we have gained. personal advantage or for the benefit of third parties. • Areas of high concern Fair Business Practices Professional Behaviour “We are committed to fair business practices.” “We operate within the letter and the spirit of applicable laws.” • We receive fees that reflect the value of services provided and responsibilities • We comply with professional standards and applicable laws and assumed, and are considered fair and reasonable by our clients. regulations. • We respect our competitors and do not compete unfairly. • We avoid any action that may discredit our firms or our professions. Responsibility to Society • We strive not only to do what is legal, but also what is right. “We recognise and respect the impact we have on the world around us.” • We take our role in society seriously and do not cause intentional harm. Competence • We support contributions to the communities where we operate. “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every client assignment.” Respect and Fair Treatment • We understand that the public and our clients expect our work to “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy, and fairness.” meet high professional standards. • We understand the impact that our individual behaviour has on our firms, our • We use due care to ensure that client needs are matched with colleagues, and society, and always work to take responsible action. Deloitte personnel who have the competence required for their assignments. • We encourage and value the diverse mix of people, viewpoints, talents and experiences found at Deloitte. • We are fair in our behaviour and our policies promote equal opportunity for all. Objectivity “We are objective in forming our professional opinions and the Accountability and Decision-making advice we give.” “We lead by example, using our shared values as our foundation.” • We do not allow bias, conflict of interest, or undue influence of • We recognise that we are role models and that we set behavioural standards others to override our professional judgments. for our professions and each other. • We address differences of opinion and handle them • We make decisions based on our shared values of integrity, outstanding constructively and professionally. value to markets and clients, commitment to each other, and strength from cultural diversity, and expect our leaders and colleagues to do the same. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 23 Reputation and Risk These policies and procedures are based on the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics The management of reputation and risk is fundamental to the Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), a standard-setting protection of our brand which is something that cannot under any body of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and circumstances be compromised. The firm has a Reputation and Risk U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Public Leader who has overall responsibility for preserving our reputation. Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). These standards The responsibility for the management of risk lies with each are enhanced, as appropriate, to reflect local standards or DTTL individual partner and director. They are assisted by a network policies that may be yet more restrictive. of risk leaders and teams within each of our service lines, who assist with the management of risk within those service lines on a Our system of quality controls related to independence includes day-to-day basis. Our global firm continues to extend the nature of the following: risk, independence and ethics requirements for member firms. This includes further training, monitoring and reporting elements with • Policy and procedural independence which we have to comply. While increased requirements impose • Consultation network additional burdens on all our people, our people understand the importance of meeting their responsibilities on a timely basis. • Compliance business process tools including the Deloitte Entity Search and Compliance system, Global Independence Monitoring Independence System and Confirmations Regulators and legislators around the world consistently impose • Business relationship assessment and monitoring more stringent rules governing the independence of auditors. As • Client and engagement acceptance processes this has a far-reaching impact on our profession and the way we • Independence learning do business, it has affected partners, directors and professional staff alike. The firm is fully committed to comply with these • Monitoring of independence systems and controls relating to requirements and has introduced many new systems, policies and personal independence, engagement and practice reviews procedures designed to govern our independence and to provide • Disciplinary measures and actions reasonable assurance that our commitment to full compliance to independence standards is achieved. • Assignment of responsibility for independence systems and controls • ‘Tone-at-the-top’ culture relating to independence. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 24 Due to the integration of several Deloitte member firms in Africa Legal Counsel during this reporting period, one of our challenges has been to Management of the firm’s legal affairs is a critical function given fully align independence standards among all member firms. This the increasingly complex regulatory environment, the number of has been successfully achieved through Deloitte’s network of agreements we conclude on a daily basis and the continued threats ‘Directors of Independence’ and their teams in each region who of litigation that arise. are responsible for implementing and maintaining quality controls over independence. The firm accordingly has an in-house Legal Counsel who is also a director of the firm. Legal Counsel is responsible for The firm’s growth strategy raises numerous enquiries as to the management of the firm’s legal affairs, and reports to the potential joint ventures with other parties, merging businesses or Reputation and Risk Leader. Legal Counsel is assisted by a small simply acquiring businesses. This inevitably creates challenges to team of attorneys who handle key legal matters centrally and avoid conflicts of interest involving our restricted-entity clients, and provide legal guidance to the firm. Legal Counsel is further to ensure that business relationships we enter into with our audit assisted, by a network of risk leaders and teams within each service clients are acceptable in terms of the very stringent independence line, on legal matters or issues that arise on a regular basis. rules relating thereto. The Legal Counsel fulfils the following functions: Deloitte obtains annual confirmation from its partners, professional staff and support staff that independence policies and procedures • Contract management have been adhered to. This is reinforced by rigorous monitoring • Legal compliance and testing procedures as to the accurateness and completeness of • Company Secretarial these confirmations. In the case of breaches, we have disciplinary procedures in place designed to provide an appropriate response. • Intellectual Property • Litigation, disputes and subpoenas Furthermore, all our partners and senior managers in Risk Independence and Legal are available to be consulted on difficult • Employment disputes and complex independence issues. • Communication with the Deloitte Global Office of the General Counsel • Transactions • General legal advice. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 25 From a structural perspective, Deloitte’s full-time Compliance Deloitte’s Tip-off Anonymous contact centres are fully Officer reports to the Legal Counsel and is responsible for computerised with a significant focus on network security, which introducing and managing a legal compliance programme for the includes all standard best practices such as firewalls, access control firm. Legal Counsel is also the firm’s designated Privacy Officer and and network routing and switching secure settings. All calls are Anti-Money Laundering Officer. automatically recorded and agents do not have access to override this facility. All contact centre agents are carefully selected and in Tip-offs Anonymous terms of our standard procedure, undergo truth verification testing as well as random lifestyle audits. During 2013, the Tip-offs Anonymous reporting service received eight tip-offs across Deloitte Southern Africa, up from five logged Importantly, Tip-offs Anonymous has received the SABS during 2012. Due process was followed on these tip-offs, with International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) 9001:2008 each being escalated and managed through the appropriate Quality Management System certification for the contact centre. channels and ultimately forwarded to Chief Operating Officer, It was also awarded the Ethics SA accreditation, being the first Allen Swiegers, who dealt with each matter. external hotline service provider to be awarded such accreditation in South Africa. Introduced in 1999, the Tip-offs Anonymous hotline has been extended to clients and is now being used by more than 300 Deloitte clients both in Southern Africa and around the world. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 26 Magnet for Top Talent Previous Next “Our African integration offers something incredible for everyone. As a Deloitte professional, you stand to benefit personally from increased opportunities for cross-border work and broader client exposure. As a collective, by living up to our vision of being the standard of excellence, we stand to benefit by being the first choice of clients and the first choice of talent – and we can make a meaningful contribution to Africa’s success.” Lwazi Bam, Deloitte Africa Chief Executive Officer “Our firm has, for a number of decades, sought to place itself ahead of the Transformation curve. As we celebrate 20 years of democracy it is highly appropriate that we set our sights on the future. We believe our target of 51% black ownership, and 40% female ownership, will take us there. Supported by the ‘Each One, Grow One’ initiative, we are continuing in the proven tradition of growing our talent from within.” Justine Mazzocco, Managing Partner: Talent & Transformation Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 28 At Deloitte we understand that our people are everything. Over the past two years Deloitte Africa has cemented closer connections with our global office in order to develop common shared “It comes down to how the organisation metrics. Our objective is to better understand how our Talent & Transformation can measure progress and continue building on our delivers on four key attributes of our commitment to attract, recruit, develop and ultimately retain the talent experience: lead, develop, flex, and best talent to service clients across Africa. connect. At its heart, this experience is During this year, key areas of focus for our Talent strategies about having unlimited opportunities to have been: • Building and consolidating our Talent strategy do meaningful work and to grow, learn, • Continual focus on recruitment and selection and lead at every point in your career. • Greater focus on diversity Deloitte people have the flexibility to • Enabling mobility for our people create the career and life experience they • Improving the quality of our performance management want and the power of being part of a • Compensation and rewards global network of talented people.” • Provision of learning and professional development Margot Thom, Deloitte Global Talent Leader • Strengthening our engagement and culture. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 29 “The only product we have available to sell at Deloitte is the quality of our 4000 people. At 6pm every day, all our assets go home. We are left with empty offices, an empty car park and all the lease liabilities. We therefore have to ask ourselves every day, what have I done today to make sure our assets come back tomorrow?” Allen Swiegers, Deloitte Africa Chief Operating Officer Workforce Planning Building and consolidating our Talent strategy On t te eD Our overarching goal in Talent & Transformation has been to develop and e loi in g t h e D e l oi tt e W ay elo implement a robust talent strategy that supports the firm’s business strategy, eD L iv it On te achieving the following outcomes: m Fir Gr n o • We are recognised in the market, and by our people, for our distinctive Retention ri ca w Recruitment talent experience Pan th -af • Our talent ‘brand’ is pre-eminent, and attracts and retains top talent • We consistently deliver world-class learning Standard of • We are viewed internally and externally as a leading organisation for Reward rm Excellence Pa Onboarding developing and growing leaders rtn sfo eri ng O • Our leadership development strategy is on par with leading global practice itte an ne D Tr elo rpos e eloi • Our talent team is viewed as a strategic business asset, enabling Deloitte to neD nd Tale pu tt achieve our vision and objectives O nt ith a w e L iv a y in g • We are viewed in the market as leaders in transformation and diversity. Manage Talent t h e D e l o it t e W Pipeline Development Performance Management Talent & Transformation supports the execution of our business strategy. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 30 In our talent foundational analysis for Strategy 2020, Deloitte identified 10 significant talent trends to consider in making business choices. These trends will inform and guide our strategy for Talent & Transformation in the years to come. 10 significant talent trends Talent Trend Description Overall labour market growth declining and growing more slowly than Deloitte’s anticipated growth, with significant variations in 1. Slower global workforce growth labour market growth, and talent supply and demand mismatches by country 2. Hyper-specialisation Prevalence of automation is leading to hyper-specialisation and creating demand for high skills and rapidly changing skills Specialised skills shortages in science, technology, engineering and math will make competition for this talent more intense in both 3. High demand for STEM skills existing and new areas of our business 4. Access to global talent pool Technology and increased ability/desire to work virtually create a global pool of talent 5. Rising labour costs Labour costs increasing across many markets including existing/potential offshore locations Leader shortages and skills gaps to manage increasingly complex and global businesses, and lack of diversity among our 6. Leader capability gaps senior leaders 7. Broader competition for talent Declining attractiveness of the audit and accounting profession, and broader competition for talent across all businesses Dramatically changing mix of generations in the workforce with unique expectations, and dominance of the millennial generation 8. Generational mix who possess a strong desire to be entrepreneurs 9. Search for purpose An increasing search for purpose across all generations Increased focus on open talent networks driven by both talent and business need, with unique requirements for managing a 10. Open talent networks ‘contingent’ workforce Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 31 Continual focus on recruitment and selection Increasingly, being able to offer career exposure outside South Africa and Africa is also a key differentiator for Deloitte. To support this we offer the Audit Graduate Recruitment following programmes: The mandate for Audit Graduate Recruitment (AGR) is to staff all of our offices in South Africa and Namibia with fully qualified trainees. This • JIT (Just In Time) is a programme that gives third-year trainee requires that all trainees should have a SAICA-accredited postgraduate accountants the opportunity to apply for secondment to northern qualification when they commence their three-year training contract. hemisphere member firms. • MyJourneyCentre is a unique Deloitte service, which provides trainee Our intake of 314 full-time Audit trainee accountants meant that, once accountants with career counselling from experienced coaches, tools to again, Deloitte was able to achieve 103% of our 2014 target intake. help them identify and understand their strengths, and the opportunity This was achieved against a background in which competition was to gain valuable business experience through secondments to business exceptionally demanding, particularly in terms of recruitment of Black CTA units across the various service lines at Deloitte. graduates and the country’s severe talent shortage. We also implemented new technology to streamline the application process, which decreased the administrative load and improved our turnaround times. Deloitte capitalised on opportunities in 2013, increasing market share as Top students are becoming more aware of the value of we took on new clients, which in turn required that we increase our target international exposure as a core component of their intake. This increased our campus presence and further facilitated the personal development. acquisition of top talented Chartered Accountant students. Our target for future years is to deliver consecutive 100% intakes for our South African and Namibian offices, consisting of top talented individuals across the demographic spectrum. Embracing transformation, we will constantly re-evaluate our value-proposition to ensure that we remain the employer of choice to all potential trainees. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 32 Graduate Recruitment Talent Referral Deloitte’s high standing at South African university campuses has enabled Deloitte encourages staff to identify and recommend potential employees the firm to hire not only accounting undergraduates but from across the within their circle of acquaintances and professional interactions. This spectrum of disciplines and degrees, including Engineering, Advanced initiative has produced a steadily growing source of quality recruitment, Maths and Finance, and IT-based qualifications. This has resulted in a high with more than 202 people having been successfully referred over the past number of applications for the Graduate Programmes. two years. To date, our Risk Advisory service line has enjoyed the most success with this programme. The past two years have also seen the conceptualisation of five new internship programmes for graduates, which include the following: Experienced Hires • CEO Bootcamp Our goal is for our candidates to have a world-class talent enrichment experience throughout the recruitment process. Our strategy is simple, yet • Monitor Deloitte Internship effective. The people we aim to hire are experienced individuals ideally • Financial Crime Graduate Trainee Programme with the following characteristics: • Strategy and Innovation Process Factory • High energy • Consulting Human Capital Industrial Psychology internship. • Intellect and an innovative mindset • Insight and the ability to see beyond the obvious These programmes aim to: • Thinking broadly and deeply. • Improve the assimilation of graduates into the Deloitte environment Over the past two years we hired 1 151 people, with our Assurance, • Provide graduates with the necessary training to ensure a talent pool Consulting and Risk Advisory service lines recruiting the majority of these with a strong technical foundation in their area of expertise. experienced hires. This calibre of professional joins Deloitte to further develop his/her professional skills through the opportunity to work with a more diverse range of businesses, both large and small. They remain with us for the challenges, as well as associated personal and professional growth they discover en route. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 33 This bold strategy takes us into unchartered territory and allows us to set the pace for the profession. Deloitte is committed to achieving a 51% black ownership target by 2020. Greater focus on diversity One of the key pillars of our transformation strategy is the ‘Each One, Grow One’ initiative, in which each partner or director is required to Transformation identify a talented senior black professional with partnership potential Building on the success of our Transformation Strategy over many years, and to support that individual to partner level. This inculcates a culture our executive has committed to a bold new set of transformation goals of collective accountability at leadership level and is directly aligned to and strategies that will take us into the future and differentiate us in Deloitte’s long term strategy of organic growth. the highly competitive professional services field. It will enable us to compete on the basis of normal business practices where our unique skills, Strategic levers supporting the attainment of these targets include deep client relationships and excellent client service will be our defining experienced hire recruitment, assurance graduate recruitment, third-year competitive edge. trainee accountant retention and focused development. Drivers behind the successful achievement of such targets include a robust Employment Deloitte’s 51% black ownership target is underpinned by two bold plays, Equity Forum at which qualitative information on the barriers that leveraging off our internal partnership pipeline, while simultaneously could impact the attraction and retention of talent and partner/director targeting black senior hires whom our partners and directors will mentor commitment is provided. into the partnership. Targets have also been set for Black and African Black professional staff below the partner/director level, female senior These strategic levers will be driven by service line leaders and business managers and partners/directors, and Black staff with disabilities. This is to unit leaders, with support from their Talent & Transformation champions ensure that the transformation at the partner/director level is continuous, and Talent & Transformation business partners. Attention will continue to sustainable and representative of the demographics of the firm. be paid to maintaining our inclusive corporate culture, which is one of the key pillars of our retention strategy. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 34 At Deloitte, we strive to be a magnet for top talent through the creation of a climate and culture that recognises and encourages community activism and social consciousness. The employment graph below is a reflection of our total workforce as at March 2014, which includes learnerships, contractors, fixed term, secondments and permanent employees. Total staff: 3969 Male: 1825 87 African 390 Coloured Indian 96 White Non-Equity 996 256 Female: 2144 76 African 598 Coloured Indian 970 White 180 Non-Equity 320 Black Male 742 18.70% Black: 46.36% Black Female 1098 27.66% Black Women: 27.66% White Female 970 24.44% White Male 996 25.09% Non-Equity/Non-SA 163 4.11% Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 35 Deloitte Women in Leadership DWIL has implemented various initiatives in support of its goal including: The Deloitte Women in Leadership (DWIL) initiative is firmly entrenched in • Performing a comprehensive ‘Establishing a fact base’ campaign where our culture and way of doing business in South Africa. DWIL interviewed more than 200 females in the firm, from manager to partner/director level. Feedback collated continues to inform the action DWIL is a governance body overseeing the firm’s strategies and policies plans of DWIL. for the advancement of women to senior levels. DWIL has regional representation at all Deloitte offices country-wide and senior female • Hosting various client networking events between female leaders of the leaders from each service line and region serve on the national DWIL firm and business women in South Africa. committee. DWIL currently has four key focus areas, namely career • Annually hosting Women’s Day events nationally for all our female staff. development, work-life balance, role models and networking. • Hosting a networking event for all female partners and directors in South Africa and other African countries present at the 2013 Deloitte The primary objective of DWIL is to increase the number of women in Leadership Summit. leadership roles within Deloitte. Specifically, our target is for the firm to be 40% female-owned by 2020 with a greater amount of females fulfilling • In collaboration with Talent & Transformation, pioneering and leadership roles. Currently women account for 54.02% of the total staff of introducing Maternity Transition Coaching in South Africa for our female which 52.10% are South African women. management body. • Running a national internal role model campaign whereby female leaders hosted our female talent at coffee sessions and shared their lessons learnt, using Sheryl Sandberg’s book ‘Lean In’ as a basis for discussions. • Developing a DWIL placemat which sets out how to establish a Gender Diversity body in your organisation to assist clients to set up their own gender diversity bodies. • DWIL representatives have informal discussions with key female talent who leave the firm in order to identify future trends. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 36 Not many companies in South Africa have an initiative such as DWIL Disability and even fewer have a specific Board position dedicated to oversee the During 2014 a comprehensive Disability strategy will be implemented with equality of women’s advancement. Deloitte’s partners and directors the purpose of: recognise that DWIL is a powerful weapon in their arsenal when going to • Increasing awareness and educating employees about disability market to recruit. • Supporting and empowering people with disability Future DWIL initiatives will include: • Establishing what we can reasonably achieve within the business • Hosting career path planning sessions for all female partners/directors • Recruiting more people with disabilities in the future. nationally to provide practical guidance on how to progress to other leadership roles in the firm We will set measurable goals across the firm to ensure persons with • Developing an executive education programme aimed at women leaders disabilities are better supported, foster an inclusive culture that supports • Developing a specialist mentoring programme to be known as ‘For and encourages employees with disabilities in the workplace, maximise Women, by Women’ the contribution that people with disabilities can make to the firm, improve employment prospects by providing them with opportunities for • Developing a DWIL ‘sponsorship programme’ whereby male and female advancement, and ensure equal opportunities. leaders will be requested to ‘sponsor’ key female talent • Various initiatives around the concept of work-life balance. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment The aim of Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) initiatives in the CA sector is to significantly increase the number of black people that Through initiatives and the hosting of selected events, DWIL aims to manage, own and control enterprises in the sector, as well as to contribute attract, develop and retain talented women in Deloitte while providing a to decreases in income inequalities in the country in general. This needs platform for businesswomen in South Africa to connect with each other. to be achieved by means of an integrated and coherent socio-economic DWIL also actively participates in the empowerment of women in the process that directly contributes to the economic transformation of South South African economy. Most notably, Deloitte has partnered with the Africa. Department of Trade and Industry and Business and Professional Women (BPW) South Africa to provide a ‘Women on Boards’ training programme to equip senior female directors and executives with board member skills. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 37 Deloitte has developed transformation strategies and targets in accordance Our targets are underpinned by the resolution to grow our talent from with the current industry specific requirements of the CA Profession within. To date, over 70% of our Black partners and directors were Sector Code of Good Practice gazetted on 10 May 2011 and will developed from within the ranks of the firm. Our transformation goals continue to implement the strategies mentioned above until the new are further underpinned by the structure of the firm, which is such that CA Profession Sector Code of Good Practice has been gazetted in line ownership sits in the hands of top management. with the amendments that have been made by the DTI on the Codes of Good Practice. The table below provides a breakdown of the firm’s ownership (voting rights) in South Africa as at 1 March 2014. Deloitte is committed to contributing to the growth and development of B-BBEE in South Africa and in so doing, maintaining our profile as a leader in B-BBEE. 252 Partners and Directors 17.06% We are pleased that Deloitte South Africa has retained its Level 2 BEE 1.19% Black Male rating and achieved significant improvements in the areas of ownership 51.59% Black Female and management control. As at December 2013 the firm reached 30% 21.83% White Male White Female black and 26% female voting rights under the element of ownership. Non-SA Citizens (Black) Black people represent 46.68% of our South African workforce. Black men 8.33% represent 19.66%, while black women represent 27.02% (including top management). Black Male 55 21.83% Black: 30.16% We are committed to achieving our 2016 target of 35% equity ownership. Black Female 21 8.33% Black Women: 8.33% Our partnership consists of 252 partners and directors who are jointly and White Female 43 17.06% severally liable for the partnership. Partners and directors are effectively the White Male 130 51.59% shareholders in the business in which black economic interest under the Non-Equity/Non-SA 3 1.19% element of ownership currently constitutes 26.25%.  Black is a generic term used, which includes Africans, Coloureds and Indians.  Chinese form part of the Coloured headcount, as per Employment Equity and B-BBEE Legislation. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 38 Mobility fosters the creation of global networks, which in turn increases knowledge transfer and supports the delivery of globallyconsistent, high quality, seamless cross-border service to our clients. Enabling mobility for our people Mobility has become an essential prerequisite to our continued growth. Professional services firms compete to recruit and engage the best people In the global business environment, clients expect auditors and consultants from a shrinking global talent pool. to have international exposure to add value to client operations. As a result, our leaders and people must understand the global complexity of In order to deploy our most experienced talent where most critically the industries in which their clients operate. needed in the world, help build local capability before competitors can establish a presence, and steer the African firm in long-term growth in a Deloitte currently has 32 active secondments, which are a combination of global economy, we have dramatically advanced our mobility strategy over both inbound and outbound transfers. the past two years in the following ways: From a talent perspective we believe that: • A Global Mobility project team has been established • The experiences derived through workforce mobility accelerate the • A Global Mobility desk has been set up to support inbound and development of leaders outbound deployments • Our people and potential new hires want international opportunities in • A centralised Global Mobility email address system has been both their careers and life experiences implemented to field all queries via a dedicated resource • Opportunities for emerging markets talent to work in developed markets • Key subject matter experts (SMEs) have been identified to provide their strengthens both workplace performance and potential, while the services, as required same is true for talent from mature markets gaining experiences from • An advisory council comprising our SMEs has been established. emerging markets • Understanding cultural differences strengthens our ability to see situations from all sides and to optimise the impact of diverse teams. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 39 “These systems provide Talent & Transformation with real-time reporting, and therefore better business analysis to leadership at the click of a button”. Improving the quality of our performance management The firm has tailored its performance management metrics to be more standardised and measurable, so as to ultimately more accurately reward the performance of our people. For instance, our Assurance team introduced a new performance management system, known as e-Tracs, to assist both our people and leadership with the Performance Appraisal (PA) process. PA consists of an additional set of criteria developed by Deloitte to facilitate the development and growth of trainee accountants through qualitative feedback. It appraises client focus, personal impact and interpersonal skills, problem solving, flexibility and ease of performance, and leadership effectiveness. In addition, all of our Advisory business units and most of our Internal Client Services teams now make use of our electronic Key Performance Criteria (eKPC) system, whereby our people are enabled to: • Detail their individual development plans with learning requirements • Set up their individual KPCs with weightings • Obtain direct feedback from seniors • Obtain direct feedback from team members • Score themselves against specific competencies relative to their level and function • Complete a biannual performance review. The eKPC system provides managers with greater visibility of team members’ progress. This is enabled through an electronic sign off process on KPCs and weightings, which is done in the middle of the year and at year end. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 40 Deloitte’s investment into upgrading its performance management Performance-related pay is critical to that philosophy and is supported by a platforms reinforces the message that performance management is all robust performance management system. We have a dynamic approach to about the need for open and honest discussions on performance, which is short-term incentives which takes two elements into account, namely firm the key to developing our people. profitability and personal contribution. Over the past two years we have introduced a reward toolkit within the Offering compensation and rewards firm. This assists our managers to answer frequently asked questions Deloitte’s reward philosophy is to attract, motivate, recognise and retain on the subject of our Reward policies and processes. Ultimately too, talent by providing competitive total reward packages while aiding our our approach to rewarding and recognising excellence is based on the people to grow and develop within a high-performance culture. following guiding principles. We strive at all times to remain competitive with the market, by Competitiveness subscribing to various accredited and respected survey hourses for current market data We allow all employees flexibility and choice with regards to the Flexibility and Choice manner in which they structure their total cost of employment in line with South African tax law Transparency and Equitability We emphasise tranparency and fairness in the development and implementation of salary bands Communication and Trust We attempt to establish and maintain relationships of trust and communication with all stakeholders Fit for purpose We stive to allow flexibility for business units rather than a one-size-fits-all approach Accountability and Ownership pf the Line management takes ownership of reward for their process with Line Management people Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 41 Provision of learning and professional development At Deloitte, while technical learning remains the prerogative of a business unit, the development of professional and leadership skills is the These programmes ensure that skills responsibility of The Leadership Centre, a centralised academy managed by Talent & Transformation, which: learned are transferred back into the • Offers a blend of learning opportunities including e-learning, virtual workplace. The focus is on identifying the learning, classroom based learning and simulations skills that the Deloitte employee of the • Is leader-led with Deloitte partners, directors and associate directors facilitating the majority of programmes future will need in order to both work and • Communicates its offerings in the form of a learning roadmap for each manage teams in 2015 and beyond. level in the organisation To further enhance the learning culture at Deloitte, two new initiatives • Is guided by learning roadmaps that contain a mix of recommended were introduced during 2013. learning and self-paced learning, which are used to customise our people’s learning journey. Learning Fridays are concise half or full day programmes held weekly on a Friday. Ranging from Excel and PowerPoint sessions to Business Writing During 2013, of our 3900 Deloitte staff, 3365 (86.28%) attended and Presenting Effectively courses, these ever-popular programmes provide learning programmes for a total of 165 532 hours. It is our intention to accelerated skills boosts. They have proven to be effective even for the maintain this more practical focus as each of these members of staff have busiest of staff members. added value within the business through the transfer of skills within the workplace. Warrior Games is a games-based initiative piloted by our Consulting service line to encourage learning about Deloitte and learning across diverse In addition to local programmes, Deloitte Southern Africa nominates teams. This initiative has seen a steady increase in attendance. participants to attend programmes at our Brussels-based Deloitte University for the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. While the programme content and learning objectives mirror those of local programmes, the advantage therein lies in attending a dedicated and resourced Deloitte learning facility, together with the invaluable opportunity to network with European colleagues. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 42 A further resource through which Deloitte provides staff with learning and Strengthening our engagement and culture professional development is through its assessment centres. Our approach Our integrated Talent & Transformation team to running these centres is that feedback we provide becomes embedded The Deloitte Talent & Transformation business partners serve as the in an affirmative and meaningful developmental process. We currently interface with business, ensuring provision of a seamless talent service by have a Leadership Assessment and Development Centre, Associate leveraging off specialised services driven by our Talent Centre. This Centre Director Assessment and Development Centre and a robust Management provides the following support: Assessment and Development Centre. • Risk and Governance Fulfilling a critical role in advising the business on complex labour matters, thereby managing our risk One of the most powerful interventions of the assessment centre is the feedback session, which enables our candidates to gain: • SAP and People Service Hub Ownership of our SAP HR master data, • Heightened self-awareness regarding their strengths which ensures functionality for users and provides information for all statutory, Deloitte Global and internal reporting • Opportunities for development • Projects Team Focusing on the roll-out of talent projects • Development of natural strengths of personality, cognitive style and leadership attributes • Reward Team Managing job grading, annual salary increase process, data analytics, salary surveys, and providing the business with intelligent • An ability to manage their blind spots. reporting to make informed decisions with regard to talent and reward. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 43 Deloitte Africa People Survey 2014 Employee wellness The wellness of our people remains a top priority, and we have engaged with two organisations Interface and ICAS over the past two years to ensure our people have the right support to live healthy balanced lives. Other initiatives are an e-Care email system, wellness days and in 2013, we hosted our first ever voluntary testing and counselling for HIV/ AIDS in conjunction with World Aids Day in the first week of December. e-Care enables our people to track their health via. an online portal and where necessary, obtain health advice based on their specific needs. This has proven to be successful as we have seen readership numbers increase monthly. This year marked a landmark year for the Deloitte Employee Engagement Survey in that it involved newly-integrated Africa offices across 13 countries. The integration of our African firms provided us with an opportunity to gauge levels of staff engagement and satisfaction as a collective. This inclusive approach will provide further opportunities for collaboration and leverage across a wider spectrum of talent challenges and solutions. The firm achieved an excellent overall participation rate of 79%. Once results have been presented to the executive committee, our Talent & Transformation team will work with our service lines to address areas that require attention. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 44 Deloitte Way The Deloitte Way, which has run for seven years, continues to be a successful recognition and culture programme at Deloitte. The Deloitte Way is a simple set of behaviours. It It is not a performance or sales programme, nor a brand campaign. It is brings together different cultures, different ages, our culture programme. It is how we are expected to behave towards different backgrounds and commits all of us to each other and towards the firm when we are at work and in our personal capacity. It is a set of behaviours which are not negotiable and should one set of values. It defines the kind of never be compromised. It is what makes us proud to work at Deloitte. organisation we would like to be and the kind of Our Deloitte Way behaviours were written by the people of Deloitte after organisation our people said they would like to extensive research and surveys. Since its launch in June 2007 we have be a part of. seen more than 125 000 nominations of people recognised for living the Deloitte Way. Our current aim is to receive 12 000 nominations in a period of six months. Two successful banquets were hosted during 2013 at which our Top Achievers were recognised for their contributions between December 2012 to May 2013 and June to November 2013. During 2014 we will be launching the Deloitte Way Mobile Application, where our people will be able to nominate colleagues for living the Deloitte Way from their mobile devices. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 45 Environmental Sustainability Previous Next Environmental commitment We recognise the importance of being Background Deloitte subscribes to the environmental principles of the United Nations transparent and in minimising the Global Compact. These are based on the Rio Declaration on Environment impact on the environment of our and Development, also known as Agenda 21, which was adopted in 1982. operations and services. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. A healthy natural environment is essential to societal well-being, and to this end Deloitte has commited itself to promoting environmental sustainability across its spheres of influence. As a professional services business, our most significant environmental impacts arise from business travel and work premises. In this context, we promote travel alternatives, energy efficiency, improved building design, resource conservation, office product consumption and waste reduction. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 47 Policy framework Implementation and targets Deloitte has an environmental policy with key statements on how we will Our target for 2020 is to reduce our overall carbon footprint by 10% manage our impact on the environment. The Deloitte Environmental Policy through reducing electricity consumption and international air travel, as states that as a firm, we will: well as by using more video conferencing. • Comply with the letter and spirit of applicable laws and regulations. Our environmental policy governs the way in which our impact on the • Comply with the spirit of the United Nations Global Compact principles environment is managed, and we annually measure our carbon footprint on environmental sustainability. to consistently manage energy consumption and air travel. In addition, we • Incorporate energy efficiency in all areas of business activity. strive to reduce our energy consumption through various initiatives, for example, we have installed motion light sensors in our offices and some • Implement waste management strategies that promote waste reduction, geysers and air conditioners have been fitted with timers. re-use and recycling wherever appropriate. • Minimise the need for travel whenever possible and where travel cannot Deloitte also has initiatives to reduce our water footprint and recycle be avoided, make choices that we minimise environmental impact. waste. Further practical measures in place are: • Promote awareness among staff of the environmental impact of their • We reduce paper consumption through double-sided printing. work activities. • Use of video conferencing facilities to keep local and international travel • Adopt a purchasing programme that takes into account the to a minimum. environmental impacts and transportation of products and services. • Use of IMPACT Day and social investments to get involved in greening • Raise environmental awareness among our clients, and where possible activities within the communities and schools we support. improve that performance, through our service line offerings. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 48 The data collected for the FY2014 carbon inventory Office Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Paper Fuel Electricity Business travel1 Procured Diesel Petrol Domestic International International Car Hire Travel Claims Hotel Nights Flights Short Haul Long Haul Flights Flights (<1600km) (>1600km) Litres Litres KWh Km Km Km Km Km Nights Tons Johannesburg 3 512 12 258 6 537 016 11 688 890 2 779 486 45 249 351 361 060 7 870 949 8 341 69 Pretoria 211.13 1 484 618 1 059 355 86 524 1 596 971 129 361 1 429 575 1 546 43 Durban 1 459 431 1 580 552 171 065 505 538 172 616 1 099 9452 2 763 11 Cape Town 1 497 1 395 034 3 227 481 166 366 1 102 095 40 762 541 968 1 699 13 44 823 Included in Included in Included in Included in 466 Stellenbosch Cape Town Cape Town Cape Town Cape Town PE 116 438 345 527 39 845 167 319 171 909 57 3 187 989 Included in Included in Included in PMB Durban Durban Durban East London 35 316 119 979 684 12 834 408 33 072 Included in Included in Included in Included in Included in 0.25 Richards Bay Durban Durban Durban Durban Durban Total 3 512 13 966 11 293 737 18 021 784 3 243 970 48 621 274 703 699 11 127 646 14 814 138 1 Air travel for Pietermaritzburg and Richards Bay are included in Durban and Stellenbosch is included with Cape Town 2 This value includes travel claims for the Richards Bay and Pietermaritzburg offices Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 49 Carbon footprint 2013 Deloitte’s total carbon inventory for the year under review was 23 202 1% tons carbon dioxide equivalent (t CO2e), an 8.6% increase in carbon 1% 0,2% 0,2% 0,1% emissions year on year. The increase in emissions (noted above) is 10% predominantly due to a significant increase in business travel (flights, car hire, hotel nights and travel claims by employees) to other African countries as a result of our expanding footprint. In contrast, there has Johannesburg been a noticeable decrease in electricity consumption, which we believe is 10% Pretoria as a result of energy efficient installations at these offices during the year. Durban Cape Town A carbon inventory for an organisation involves accounting for all Stellenbosch greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions released as a result of operations. In line Port Elizabeth with international best practice, the calculation of a carbon inventory is 10% Pietermaritzburg done in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. East London Richards Bay The following operations/offices have been incorporated within the Deloitte carbon inventory: Cape Town, Durban, East London, Johannesburg (head office), Pietermaritzburg, Port Elizabeth, Pretoria, Richards Bay and Stellenbosch. 68% Carbon inventory by office Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 50 The office in Johannesburg has the largest carbon inventory of all Deloitte Year on year comparison offices, contributing 69% of total emissions. This office has the highest number of employees and floor space and therefore the highest electricity 2012 2013 consumption and the highest emissions from business travel. Fuel Diesel (Litre) 5 210 3 512 Following the 2012/2013 Budget Review, the South African National Treasury released a Carbon Tax Policy Paper May 2013 for public comment. 25 470 13 966 Petrol (Litre) The paper elaborates on specific carbon tax design features, and proposes that government applies a carbon tax of R120 per t CO2e (with a basic Electricity 12 137 101 11 293 737 tax-free threshold). At this level Deloitte Southern Africa could expect to pay R1 113 716 in carbon tax, and this amount, whilst significant, Air Travel compares well to other firms/companies in similar business sectors. Domestic Flights 15 432 509 18 021 784 International Short Haul Flights 3 131 603 3 243 970 (<1600km) International Long Haul Flights 33 790 082 48 621 274 (>1600km) Car Hire (Km) 257 496 703 699 Travel Claims (Km) 9 044 670 11 127 646 Paper Procured (Ton) 118 138 Hotel Nights (Nights) 8 193 14 814 FTE Employees 2 570 2 460 FTE Employeesand Audit Trainees 3 526 3 353 Floor Space (m2) 59 198 58 402 Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 51 Some of our ways to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHC) emissions Avoidance Reduce demand for emissions-intensive goods and services Offsetting e.g. international Reduction airline travel Take action by Measure carbon planting trees in the footprint and increase communities in efficiency to save which we operate money and emissions e.g. offsets Substitution e.g. facilities, electricity, lights, Switch to energy lower-carbon technologies e.g. videoconferencing instead of air travel Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 52 Commitment to Society Previous Next Supporting Societal Growth Enterprise Development Enterprise Development initiatives at Deloitte Deloitte financial and include the provision of opportunities to previously non-financial contributions for disadvantaged individuals, assisting them to play Socio-Economic Development a meaningful and sustainable role in society. Our and Enterprise Development was support ranges from the provision of pro bono R17 963 203 services to ongoing mentoring and coaching of entrepreneurs. 917 Deloitte volunteers Enterprise Development Beneficiary History Makers Corporate private education training participated in various CSI activities Enterprise Development Beneficiary Beautiful Beginnings 12 169 hours Corporate gifts were spent on a range of Enterprise Development CSI projects 99 166 beneficiaries Enterprise Development expenditure recognised by mPowerRatings equated to Supported projects: benefitted from the support 4.32% • CallForce from Deloitte staff • Stitchwise • Engeli Enterprise Development (Pty) Ltd • Sonke Skills Solution • The Hope Factory • Ukuvula Investment Holdings of net profit after tax R4 949 329 Additional African black bursary contributions to: • Thuthuka – R2 160 000 (CA Sector compliance target of 3% NPAT exceeded) • Varsity College – R318 000 Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 54 Socio-Economic Development Socio-Economic Development (SED) is the financial or non-financial contribution that a company makes to get involved in socio-economic upliftment within the communities it chooses to support. The focus is on areas of development with the greatest need and, which are aligned with the business strategy as well as the socio-economic circumstances of the firm’s operating environment. Youth Talk IMPACT Day session at Eden Park Secondary School Socio-Economic Development IMPACT Day Project working with the children at the JM Mpanza Primary School Supported projects: Socio-Economic Development spend recognised by mPowerRatings equated to 5.14% • ACFS Community Education and Feeding Scheme • Afrika Tikkun • Arebaokeng Hospice • Enke • Helping Hands Charities Aid Foundation Southern Africa • IMPACT Day • Imperial and Ukhamba Community Development Trust of net profit after tax • Izinsika Zesizwe • Junior Achievement Southern Africa (JASA) • LEAP Maths and Science School • Mitchell’s Plain Role Model and Bursary Trust R15 638 068 • Nkanyezi Stimulation Centre (CA Sector compliance target of 1% NPAT exceeded) • Project Siyakhula 15% of all newly qualified African black CAs in the market in 2013 were produced by Deloitte Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 55 A visit to the Library at Zakariyya Park Combined ACFS Skills Development Programme parents of After-school reading sessions at the Kliptown Youth Bokamoso Education Trust early childhood School Imperial and Ukhamba Trust learners on feeding scheme learn to make and sell Programme development lesson beaded jewellery Brick layering at Havanna Primary School on Graduation at the Afrika Tikkun Early Childhood IMPACT Day Library Refurbishment Project IMPACT Day in Windhoek Development Centre IMPACT Day Project hearing about different careers at the Careers Day in Alexandra Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 56 Learning to write at the Afrika Tikkun Early Listening intently at the ACFS Early Childhood Project Siyakhula Learners visiting the Durban Tutoring at Havana Primary School on IMPACT Day Childhood Development Centre Development Centre Office for a Careers Day in Windhoek Tutoring maths at Mvele Primary School Problem solving exercise during a Project Siyakhula Young learners at the Afrika Tikkun Early Childhood IMPACT Day Project Cape Town session Development Centre Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 57 United Nations Global Compact Previous Next Statement of continued support towards the United Nations Human Rights Global Compact The human rights principles of the Global Compact arise out of the Deloitte has committed itself to the ten principles with respect to human Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN General rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since joining the United Assembly in 1948, as follows: Nations Global Compact in 2007, Deloitte has supported those ten principles and worked tirelessly to make the Global Compact and its Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of principles part of the strategy and operations of our firm. We have aligned internationally proclaimed human rights. these principles with our commitment to responsible business practises and our shared values of integrity, outstanding value to markets and Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that their own operations are clients, commitment to each other and strength from cultural diversity. not complicit in human rights abuses. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 59 Disclosure Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) and its member firms take their Deloitte recognises that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both duty to keep their people safe seriously, especially during times of crisis or in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte when client needs may take them to higher-risk locations. DTTL maintains not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, a Global Security Office to assist Deloitte member firms to improve but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges crisis management and security programmes. A first-ever global crisisof our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change simulation exercise was held to identify gaps in member firm crisis plans. within and across regions and borders. Furthermore, thirty member firm countries have implemented DTTL’s Travel Tracking system, which is used to rapidly account for Deloitte travellers We address human rights in the workplace through a policy which during emergencies. embeds non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. Deloitte values See pages 20 45 differences in thought, style, culture, ethnicity and has embedded concern for human rights in its core values. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to human rights. Deloitte also protects human rights in the community, doing this through contributions to poverty alleviation and education improvement projects. Access to education is a fundamental human right that Deloitte addresses through our various socio-economic development activities. In addition, our members of staff contribute to the public debate on issues related to human rights. We recognise that in moments of crisis, Deloitte and other businesses have an important role to play in responding and helping to protect, maintain, and rebuild the communities where we operate. Deloitte endeavours to make a positive, lasting humanitarian impact by using our core business skills and people to enhance the humanitarian sector’s preparedness to respond to crises. Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 60 Labour Disclosure Deloitte labour policies contribute significantly to shaping the preferred The Global Compact Principles relating to labour rights reflect those of the culture with respect to human rights. It is against this backdrop that 1998 ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Deloitte is able to have programmes that help professionals maintain a healthy work-life balance, manage their careers and performance, develop Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and new skills and knowledge, and work in secure and healthy working the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. conditions. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold elimination of all forms of forced Our policies that relate to human rights include: and compulsory labour. • Employment Equity and Non-Discrimination policies Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child • Working Hours Policy labour. • Remuneration Policy Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of • Overtime Policy employment and occupation. • Termination of Employment, Industrial Relations and Grievance Policy • Performance Evaluation/Learning and Financial Study Assistance • Leave Policy • Benefits Policy • Occupational Health and Safety Policy • Corporate Social Investment Policy. See pages 28 45 Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 61 Environment Disclosure Deloitte aims to make a positive contribution to protection of the The environmental principles of the Global Compact are based on the Rio environment. Ours is a commitment to environmental sustainability which Declaration on Environment and Development (also known as Agenda 21) is firmly embedded in our shared values. We recognise the importance of as adopted in 1982. transparency and our responsibility to minimise the impact of Deloitte’s operations and services on the environment. We continue to make Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to real progress as we work to develop a fully integrated approach to environmental challenges. environmental management. The firm has developed an environmental policy with key statements on how we will manage our impact on the Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environment. The Deloitte Environmental Policy states that it will, among environmental responsibility. other things, comply with the spirit of the United Nations Global Compact principles on environmental sustainability. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. See pages 47 52 Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 62 Anti-Corruption Disclosure At Deloitte, we fully understand it is imperative to maintain consistently The 10th principle of the United Nations Global Compact is based on high standards of honesty and integrity within our organisation. The the United Nations Convention against corruption which was adopted conduct of Deloitte and our people springs from our shared values and in 2003. ethical principles which, among other core business principles, set the expectation that Deloitte professionals demonstrate integrity, objectivity Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, and fair business practices in all their relations with clients, government including extortion and bribery. and all other stakeholders. See pages 20 26 Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 63 Glossary of Terms Previous Next ACFS African Children’s Feeding Scheme Electronic Key Performance Criteria PA Performance Appraisal process eKPC system AGR Audit Graduate Recruitment Public Company Accounting Oversight FY Financial Year PCAOB BCom Bachelor of Commerce Board GAS Group Administrative Services Business and Professional Women (BPW) South African Institute of Chartered BPW South Africa SAICA South Africa GIS Group Information Services Accountants Countries of Brazil, Russia, India, China International Ethics Standards Board for SARS South African Revenue Service BRICS IESBA and South Africa Accountants S&I Strategy & Innovation CA Chartered Accountant International Federation of IFAC U.S. Securities and Exchange CEO Chief Executive Officer Accountants SEC Commission CSI Corporate Social Investment International Organisation for ISO SED Socio-Economic Development Standardisation CTA Certificate in Theory of Accounting Imperial and Ukhamba Community SMEs Subject matter experts CTO Chief Technology Officer IUCDT Development Trust Science, Technology, Engineering and DTTL Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited STEM JIT Just In Time Programme Math DWIL Deloitte Women in Leadership JASA Junior Achievement South Africa UN United Nations ECD Early Childhood Development KYP Kliptown Youth Programme USA United States of America EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa NGO Non-governmental organisation WiMSA Women in Mining South Africa Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 65 Contacts Previous Next Contacts The 2014 Deloitte Stakeholder Report has been produced and Please direct your comments to: published by the Corporate Citizenship team on behalf of the Postal: Deloitte Southern Africa Board of Partners and Directors. Deloitte Corporate Citizenship Private Bag X6 The report forms part of the commitment by Deloitte to open Gallo Manor, 2052 dialogue with its broad range of stakeholders. South Africa We welcome and encourage feedback and comments on Follow Deloitte on: this report. • Twitter • Deloitte South Africa Blog • Facebook • LinkedIn Tel: +27 (0)11 806 5000 Website: http://stakeholderreport.deloitte.co.za Email: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 67 Editorial Team Managing Editor and Content Development: Kerry Naidoo Communication Leader Clients & Industries Editorial Assistant Salimah Esmail Clients & Industries Content Development: Samuel Payne Senior manager: Corporate Citizenship Design and Layout: Deon Naidoo Designer: Creative Services Clients & Industries Ryno Dekker Senior Designer: Creative Services Clients & Industries Queries: Email: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Previous Next 2014 Stakeholder Report Growing together. Sharing success. 68 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. The more than 200 000 professionals of Deloitte are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this communication. © 2014 Deloitte & Touche. All rights reserved. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Designed and produced by Creative Services at Deloitte, Johannesburg. (806728/dbn) Previous
