2014 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS -COP , 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participant Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : India Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period : 2013 – 2014 (Financial Year Aprilcovered March) Contact Person : Sh. HP Kataria, GM(P)/HR Contact E-mail : hpkataria@kribhco.net Date : 14th August, 2014 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net 2 The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles, is as under: 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  PLANT-VISITS To build productive relationship and enhance customer satisfaction, we organized visits at our Plant at Surat (Gujarat) of co-operative delegates, farmers, students, etc. from all the regions of India. During this year, we organized various Plant visits in which a total of 165 co-operative delegates, farmers, students etc. visited our Plant at Surat. Specifically students of nearby colleges and schools visited our Plant at Surat for educational purpose.  HRD TRAINING PROGRAMS As organizations strive to compete in the global economy, differentiation on the basis of the skills, knowledge, and motivation of their workforce takes on increasing importance. “Training” refers to a systematic approach to 3 learning and development to improve individual, team, and organizational effectiveness. On continuous basis, KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for the development of employees through various Human Resource Development activities such as In-house/External Training Programmes, Lectures, Presentations, Talks, Quizzes etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental & functional training needs of employees. During the year, 38 In-house Training Programmes were organized benefiting 925 employees. 66 employees were sponsored for 30 External Training Programmes. One Training Program was also organized which benefited 36 dependents of employees. The beneficiaries of this program included students and house wives with focus on enhancement of quality of life besides providing an ideal platform for change as in life style for better, happier and healthier family and social life. This is keeping in mind the management philosophy that a satisfied employee at home will contribute more at the work place. • Focus on Employee Health : Health and safety initiatives help employees improve their physical and mental health through the prevention, assessment and treatment of health problems. Talk sessions on health issues were held in-house. These programs were organized to meet the needs of the employees as per the feedback received from the employees from time to time. • Health Talks were organized on ‘Gastro Intestinal Disorders’, ‘Common Eye Diseases’, ‘ Performance Health & Happiness’, Age related Health Problems in Women (Precaution & Treatment) during the year. • Enabling female employees to Manage Stress : Programs that facilitate work life balance acknowledge that employees have responsibilities and lives outside of work and help them better manage multiple demands. 4 • To help female employees cope up with the stress in professional and personal life, training program for female employees at Dwarkadhessh & Somnath was organized emphasizing upon Organizational and Self Development, Management Values, Communication, Managing Stress etc. • Female employees were also sent to attend the workshop on Work Life Balance and Career Women finding success at work and home. • Personality Development of Employees : Opportunities for growth and development help employees expand their knowledge, skills and abilities and apply the competencies they have gained to new situations. • Keeping this in mind, talks & Quiz were conducted for the employees like General Management Quiz, Management Lessons from 5 Mahabharat, Training on SAP-ESS and many employees were sent to the personality development programs like ‘Enhancing Self Effectiveness through NLP’, Roadmap to Success – enhancing effectiveness through self awareness’, Discipline – A necessity for organizational growth, Quiz – SHAKTI. • Focus on Aging Workforce : As most of the employees are in the age group 50+ years, programs like ‘Planning for Superannuation’, Investor Awareness program targeting their requirements were organized.  APPRENTICESHIP/ VOCATIONAL TRAINING In addition to imparting Apprenticeship-II freshly qualified 46 Nos. of ITI, B.Sc and Diploma in Engineering students and 268 numbers of students from Educational Institutes were given On The Job Training as part of their educational curriculum.  SUMMER TRAINING Summer training was also given to students from different education Institutions.  RURAL DEVELOPMENT As part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), KRIBHCO is carrying out Rural Development Activities like construction of school buildings, providing benches, distribution of uniforms and text books to school children, plantation of trees, construction of roads, check dams, health check-ups and eye camps for villagers with special attention to the weaker sections like Adivaasis (tribals). In the year 2013-14, an expenditure of Rs. 5,80,000/has been incurred for the purpose. For its adopted villages Kavas and Ichhapore -drinking water is provided free of cost and the approximate expenditure is around Rs.50,00,000/-. 6 Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution along with other serious players in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. 7 Crop Seminar in UP Educating Farmers on new products in AP During 2013-14, KRIBHCO organized 3879 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers meetings, Soil testing campaign, Field demonstrations, Field days, Technical wall Painting, Income Generation Programme, Drinking Water Facility, Rural Sports, Village Cluster Adoption, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussion & Farmers Study Visit Programme benefiting 3.75 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. To back up the Agriculture Technology transfer, the Society also made available 7.92 lakh technical folders on various crops to the farmers and cooperatives. 8 Educating Farmers on the crop of Maize & Bt. Cotton KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related problems. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 2056 soil samples for Micro-nutrients( Zn,Cu,Fe,Mn) and 2218 soil samples for Macronutrients(N,P,K) along with Sulphur pH, EC & irrigation water from 15 states free of cost. Results along with recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from using KRIBHCO website for display of results. Pramarsh Kendra also provided latest information on weather, like rainfall, temperature, relative humidity, monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and mid-term corrections in the event of crop failure generally through Kisan helplines. 9 Micro & Macro Nutrients Testing All State Director of Agriculture were informed about educational programmes conducted and soil samples tested from their states along with district-wise deficiency noticed in various soil samples. KRIBHCO also joined hands with ICAR, State Agriculture Universities, State Cooperative Federations for free soil testing and technology transfer which was thankfully acknowledged and appreciated at all platforms. Rural Sports Programme in Chhatishgarh 10 Income Generation Campaign in Haryana As a step towards modernization, KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using email, phone, computer and KRIBHCO website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operations are also made available on website. Farm Implements to adopted cooperative society School bag for rural students in Punjab 11 Strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction 33 cooperative societies were adopted, 16788 cooperative managers were trained through 102 cooperative conferences and workshops. The society also organized 27 Income generation programmes and 32 health campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 21 water facilities including micro-irrigation systems for crops in rainfed areas and rural sports for integrated rural development. Storage-cumcommunity centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India still continuing with 176 centers sanctioned and 160 are completed and being used fully. Rural Sports Programme Rural Sports Drinking water facility in W.Bengal 12  CSR ACTIVITIES THROUGH GRAMIN VIKAS TRUST KRIBHCO established Gramin Vikas Trust (GVT) with the support from Government of India and Department for International Development (DFID), U.K. It is a National Level Organization aiming to improve rural livelihood in remotest and poorest areas of the country. GVT, is an accredited NGO of UNCCD. It is working since 1992 under the aegis of KRIBHCO, and has managed projects costing Rs. 111 crore during 19952006. Currently, its developmental activities are spread over in sixty districts of nine states of the country, namely Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. The underlying strategy behind GVT’s approach to rural development and livelihood improvement is to promote skill development & income generating activities; encourage social entrepreneurship; improve farm productivity & add value to farm and non-farm activities; provide market linkages for rural output (produce, goods or services); build capacity for sustainable and healthy approach to use of natural resources, agriculture related inputs and watershed management; and reduce risk & vulnerabilities relating to nutrition, health and shelter. GVT aims to act as a repository of knowledge and implementing capacity for wholesome approach to poverty alleviation and livelihood related risk mitigation. It manages a National Livelihood Resource Institute from a fully equipped residential campus at Ratlam (MP); and a Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Godda Ranchi. GVT has been piloting 5 agricultural innovation projects in Jharkhand, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh in consortium mode either as lead agency or as a partner organization funded under NAIP. GVT is establishing 23 Homestead Farming projects (WADI) under the sponsorship of NABARD to address sustainable livelihood of marginal farmers by generating supplement income through horticulture, improved agriculture and vegetable growing in home gardens. In the area of skill development, GVT has made appreciable progress by providing skill up-gradation training to tribal migrants in order to up-grade their existing capacity, which will provide them, increased earnings. 13 GVT is running four Construction Skill Training Centres at Bero in Jharkhand, Jehanabad in Bihar, Nilgiri in Orissa and Dhamtari in Chattisgarh. The candidates are trained in different construction trades for one month and after completion of one month training, they are sent to Construction Skill Training Institutes of L&T for further two months training, certification and placement by L&T. Recently GVT has been awarded one Skill Training project by Rajasthan Government under the scheme SJSRY in which it has to train 20000 candidates both from rural and urban areas and provide placement to them in various sectors like Construction and Information & Communication Technology,. Similarly GVT is expecting similar skill training assignments from Government of Haryana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. GVT has also partnered with like minded organization like Prognosis and Radiant Technology to implement projects under RSBY. The project entails rolling out biometric health cards for the beneficiaries which will help them to cover medical expenses. It is also exploring avenues with state governments to implement the unique identification (UID) card programe. GVT is facilitating market linkage to farmers and unemployed youths for selling Fresh Fruits and Vegetables and also supports them with modern knowhow on farm activities. Major highlights under this intervention are in the area of Agri-business, Handicrafts, and e-governance. GVT is providing market linkages to the farmers in order to enable them to get better prices. The main identified areas are Shahjahpur (Uttar Pradesh), Hazira (Gujarat), Ratlam (M.P), Nasik (Maharashtra) and Dahod (Gujarat). Work plan is divided into Three steps (i) Procurement of Vegetables/Fruits from farmers and giving market support to their produce (ii) Cultivation on farmers land and providing backward and forward linkages to them for marketing (iii) Cultivation on own land in respective areas for the purpose of demonstration to the farmers. GVT has established its linkages with Mother Dairy, Big Bazaar, Reliance Fresh, Bharti Wal-Mart and is also exploring different mandies and other sources to fetch better price for fresh vegetables/fruits. GVT also intend to support retail in some selected areas. GVT has undertaken a new initiative for promotion of Handicraft items. In pursuit of its goals, GVT has joined hands with Jhitku Mitki Van Hast Kala Samiti and Bastar Arts, Chhattisgarh for building a sustainable demand for 14 Tribal Art. It also aims to bring other famous arts and handicrafts of tribal and rural communities under an umbrella for better visibility and marketing potential.  National Livelihoods Resource Institute (NLRI) of GVT: is now running a School of Rural Management (SRM) to provide certificate, diploma and degree courses and is affiliated to a rural university Mahatma Gandhi Chitrakoot Gramoday Vishwavidalya. NLRI is also using a field lab facility for its GIS related projects & activities by installing a software called RVYS 10.1 to develop monitoring and measurement framework and provides GIS based solution for watershed activities.  Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Godda, Jharkhand: managed by GVT besides disseminating low cost innovative technologies and accelerating agricultural and allied production through acquisition of vocational application of appropriate technologies and inputs started vegetable cultivation at its backyard on pilot basis. It has also established a Piggery Unit which will be a demonstrative project for the farmers for exploring an alternative livelihood. Beside normal business objective, KRIBHCO has its social role for up-liftmen of farming / village community in which every year, the Society is organizing various activities like Education, Water, Health & Hygiene, Infrastructure facilities and other activities for the development of Villages as well as weakened/tribal/economically backward etc. communities. The near by area, where complex is located, consists of villages like Kawas, Mora, Icchapur etc.Kribhco shows special consideration to local people for employment. Kribhco has rendered yeoman services during natural calamities such as flood and drought conditions to the surrounding villages. Kribhco’s adopted villages like Kawas and Icchapur have been provided with a number of services such as drinking water facility, construction of new rooms in schools, supply of note books and economic aid to children etc. In line with the corporate philosophy of KRIBHCO, the plant organization at Hazira has been undertaking various community development activities in and around Surat District of Gujarat. This has not only enable us in enriching the socio-industrial culture but 15 has earned the reputation of being an organization supporting the social cause. Under the Community Development Schemes / Social responsibility programme, the Society has been sponsoring: a) Health: The society has been organizing Medical Check-up and Eye Camps for the benefit of tribal farmers in the villages in Vyara, Songadh, Dharmapur, Vansdaetc. b) Education: With a view to promote education in rural and tribal areas, the society has been supporting educational institutes by way of construction of Class-rooms, Sanitation Blocks, providing furniture, books and book-shelves for Libraries, Laboratory instruments, distribution of Uniform and education kits consisting books and stationary items etc. The society has also supported for construction of village public library. c) Infrastructure: The society has been supporting the local administration in creation and maintenance of infrastructure. Construction of Village approach roads at Kawas, Kakrapara, Malgama and other villages were aided so that village connectivity can be maintained during monsoon. Bus-stand sheds were also constructed. d) Environment Preservation: The society continually supports the programmes that sensitize Environment Protection and Enrichment by way of organizing Tree-Plantation campaigns and participating in Agriculture Fairs/Exhibitions etc. e) Sponsoring financial help to Differently Able: On the occasion of May Day Celebration, financial help to Ability Unlimited Foundation, Delhi for community Based Rehabilitation Project (Rural) for persons with physical disabilities was sponsored. Ability Unlimited is a voluntary, non profit making social service organization which recognizes, enables and nurtures the hidden talent in differently able youngsters. KRIBHCO supports such organization and salutes the spirit of these youngsters. 16 f) Education Service: KRIBHCO strongly believes ‘Educating Children means educating future citizen’. Every year KRIBHCO provides text books, bags and study material to the students of villages nearby to Surat. This year contribution was made towards providing books and study material to the students of Primary School Kawas, Primary School Ichhapore and Suvas Balbhavan, Kawas. More than 300 students have been beneficiaries through this service of KRIBHCO. g) Biotechnology Project: KRIBHCO sponsored Biotechnology Project for Sarvajanik Education Society, Surat in which various apparatus and scientific equipments were contributed by KRIBHCO for future career development of students. h) Nutrition Supplements: KRIBHCO also focuses on the mental and physical growth of children who are going to lead the nation tomorrow. With this aim, KRIBHCO also sponsored Supplementary Nutrition for Anganwadi children in Mandvi . i) Providing financial help for education of poor children: Shri Ramakrishna Vivekanand Aradhna Kendra, Surat is a Trust engaged in social welfare activities in Surat by which poor children are extended help in education. j) Construction of class room: Amalsad Mishra Primary School, Gandevi, Distt. Navsariis located in a background of rural area, there are classes upto Std. 7th and most of the students are from weak sections of society like Adivasis, SC/ST communities. A contribution was made for construction of classes. k) School Uniforms: As an overall support to encourage education among children, KRIBHCO also sponsored uniforms to the students of Primary school, Kawas. Every two years, KRIBHCO provides 2 pair of best quality school uniform to 450 students. l) Providing Water Cooler facility for Surat Central Jail: KRIBHCO supports Government of Gujarat in providing welfare and education facilities to the convicts for their reformation to be responsible citizens and so KRIBHCO provided a facility of Water Cooler. 17 m) Multi Purpose Kissan Hall at Ahwa: Financial assistance for undertaking part construction of Multi Purpose Kissan Hall at Ahwa, Dang District, run by Dr. Ambedkar Vanvasi Kalyan Trust, Surat. This Trust is engaged in all round development and prosperity of Adivasis, SC/ST communities and Urban people. n) Kasturba Madhyamik Kanya Shala: Sponsoring financial help for providing furniture and infrastructure for Kasturba Madhyamik Kanya Shala, Ghandhi Baug, Mahuva. This school is located in rural area where people are from farming and backward communities. This school caters need s of only girls students and is performing good. KRIBHCO sponsored grills and 50 Nos. of benches in this school.  CSR ACTIVITIES MANAGED BY KRIBHCO CORPORATE OFFICE The society also organized 101 income generation programmes for rural women along with training in tailoring, 196 health campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 85 drinking water facilities, 8 rural sports and helps to school children for integrated rural development. Storage-cumcommunity centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee Celebration of India for providing facility for celebrating marriages/other social functions as well as venue for training on agriculture and allied activities and storage space in rural areas, still continuing with 157 centres completed and being used fully.  COMMUNITY SERVICE ON HEALTH &SAFETY AWARENESS The Society provides safe working environment to its employees. The safety set up of KRIBHCO Hazira Plant at Surat has been established with a vision to achieve the objective: “SAFETY FIRST, PRODUCTION MUST” Safety objectives of the Hazira Plant have been derived from following VALUES of KRIBHCO:  Creation of safe, efficient and pleasant working environment in the Plant,  Continual Enrichment of Safety culture of the Plant,  High level of emergency preparedness at all the time, 18  Extending support to the neighbouring villages, industries and government agencies for any emergency mitigation beyond Plant boundaries. To achieve the above, state of art safety systems and infrastructure have been set up at KRIBHCO Plant and are well maintained and continually improved upon by a team of highly motivated Fire & Safety personnel. In addition, these systems and infrastructures are got audited by internal safety committees as well as by external experts. We have set up a Central Safety Committee at Plant level with representation of employees working in various areas like Production, Maintenance and Commercial. Safety training and awareness in KRIBHCO is given top priority. On initial joining initially, the employees are given induction training on safety measures. Worker is permitted only to work in the Plant after undergoing safety training. Refresher safety training is imparted from time to time to all such workforce. Training sessions on First-Aid are conducted by internal and external experts. At shop-floor level, safety related lectures and fire fighting practices are conducted regularly. The safety training includes for safe behaviour and conduct in the Plant, general safety rules, hazards handling, use of personal protective equipments, basic fire fighting, response to various emergency conditions etc. Practical fire fighting training is imparted to various categories of employees at the KRIBHCO Fire and Rescue training ground. During the year 2013-14, more than 2000 persons were imparted safety training.  Documentary on Safety for Textile-workers Surat The State Government Authorities were highly impressed with our worker safety training audio-visual program, they requested KRIBHCO to prepare a similar type of documentary film for imparting safety awareness to all the factory owners of various dyeing and printing industries of the south Gujarat. The film has been appreciated by the viewers and on 5th April 2014 KRIBHCO received a letter of appreciation from the Directorate Industrial Safety and Health, Government of Gujarat. 19  Medical Facilities/ Health Camps/ Blood Donation Camps For first aid facilities, KRIBHCO has a First Aid Centre working round the clock in the Plant at Surat with required facilities/instruments including Ambulances. To support further for effective health services, KRIBHCO runs a well-equipped 30 bedded Hospital in its Township in proximity to Plant for providing free of cost health facilities to the employees and their dependent family members, completely free of cost. For specialized treatments, KRIBHCO got arrangements with leading Hospitals in Surat city where employees & their dependent family members are referred to and the cost is borne by KRIBHCO. For creating awareness on health of the employees and their dependent family members, lectures, slide shows, Camps were organized on Life Style Modification, Arthritis, Early Detection of Coronary Disease, and Bone Mineral Density (BMD). Blood Donation Camps were organized during the year. A Lecture-cum-Slide Show on Bio-medical Waste Management was organized for Hospital Staff. First Aid Training was imparted to the Trainees. Hygiene tips of epidemics are also regularly given through Cable TV for Township residents. Round the clock Emergency treatment for accidents in Hazira Industrial area is provided by KRIBHCO Hospital. 20  HELPING OTHER INDUSTRIES FOR COMMISIONING We have helped to commission KBR Plant of National Fertilizers Limited, Nangal through “Technimont” EPCC Contractor. We provided experience & technical expertise to train their people to learn new technology i.e. KBR and to run DCS i.e. Distributed Control System.  PROVIDING WATER TO ADANI GROUP OF INDUSTRIES The Technical discussions are going on with Adani group of industries and KRIBHCO is hopeful to finding solution to use the blow down from cooling tower for wetting the coal at their coal yard. This will reduce the water effluents and will help in avoiding the disposal of blow down water from the cooling tower. This is a very major step and substitute for fresh water for industrial use. The society is also providing drinking water, in the neighbouring villages i.e., Kawas and Ichhapore. In addition, construction of check-dams were also sponsored in the districts of Dharampur and Olpad.  HANDLING EMERGENCY SERVICES During the year 2013-14, occurrence of gasket failure was there, but due to vigilant and prompt action by KRIBHCO, eventuality was avoided. In addition, KRIBHCO received 01 request from government agencies for rendering emergency services to neighbouring areas including chemical fire in Surat City which was promptly honoured and the Society has earned good name for the same.  PROTECTION FOR WOMEN AT WORK PLACE Full protection is given to all female employees from any type of harassment. Such Provisions have been incorporated in the Service Rules of employees regarding the same. As per the notification published by The Central Government, ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women At Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,2013’ has come into force with effect from 09.12.2013 and as per section 4(I) , an Internal Complaint Committee has been constituted for KRIBHCO plant. This committee comprises of 2 senior 21 woman officials of KRIBHCO as well as an eminent woman social worker from outside KRIBHCO.  WELFARE MEASURES FOR EMPLOYEES KRIBHCO believes that a contented employee is an asset to the organization. Therefore, everything possible is done to take care of the welfare of its employees and their families. KRIBHCO is having more than 1201 housing units to accommodate its employees with all the allied facilities like Schools, Clubs, Auditorium, Consumer Cooperative Society, Playgrounds etc. It has also schemes for extending loan facilities for its employees for Housing, Conveyance, computers loans, education loans for wards of the employees, which are extended on liberal terms and conditions.  EDUCATING FARMERS & OTHERS COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES  Training to Farmers/ cooperative societies We organize Farmers Meeting, Crop Seminars, Field Demonstration, Trainings to educate farmers and cooperative societies to enhance crop productivity through balanced use of nutrients. The Society also made available 05.64 lakh technical folders on various crops to farmers and cooperatives as back-up knowledge. Our Society, having a dedicated team of agricultural professional, continued its efforts towards transfer of latest farm technology to the farming community and has undertaken rural welfare schemes for improving farmers livelihood. Sustainable rural development through effective farm services has been a focus area for the Society. The Paramarsh Kendra as well as “KRIBHCO Kisaan Helpline” continued to provide latest information on weather to farmers enabling them to plan farm operations and mid-term corrections in case of crop failures. 22  Helping farmers in increasing yield of their produce The capacity of production of Bio-fertilizers of all types has been enhanced to 6 Lakh Litres. This enhancement of production of Biofertilizers will help the farmers’ community for increasing the yield of their produce.  Adoption of cooperative societies We adopt Cooperative societies with an objective of bringing about overall economic development and improvement in living standards of rural community through integrated rural development with particular emphasis on agricultural development. Society adopted 107 cooperative societies, trained 24940 cooperative managers in 208 cooperative conferences and conducted study/educational visits for inclusive development of farmers’ cooperatives.  Community Development Society is dedicated and concerned for the good of the Society and improving the quality of life of the farmers we serve. The Society has been taking concrete action by focusing primarily on the up-liftment of communities in health, family, welfare, education, environment protection, institution building etc. As part of its health protection programme the Society has initiated a pilot project on Micro Health Insurance through GraminVikas Trust to cover the rural masses for health protection.  Organized 50 health campaigns for livestock and humans.  Organized sports for integrated rural development in rural area.  Analyzed 7167 soil samples for micro-macro nutrients.  Safe & healthy atmosphere.  Healthy and educated employees. 23  Up-graded and updated working conditions.  No incidents of violation.  AWARDS/ ACCOLADES RECEIVED BY KRIBHCO The following awards/ Letter of Appreciation were received during Financial Year 2013-14: • KRIBHCO received the following awards in the Annual Seminar of Fertiliser Association of India (FAI) held in Dec.’2013: 1. Improvement in the “Overall Performance of a Company” 2. Best Technical Innovation Award for Modification in Refrigeration System of Ammonia Plant 3. Award for Production, Promotion and Marketing of Bio-Fertilizer 2012 was presented to KRIBHCO  Other Awards / Certificates: 1. KRIBHCO received the “Performance Excellence Award 2012” by the Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering (IIIE) in the 17thCEO Conference held in Amritsar during June 21-23, 2013. 2. Shri. Rajesh Kumar Bhikubhai Patel, Fire & Safety Dept. received the “Shrama Ratna Puraskar” from Gujarat State Labour & Employment Department for the year 2012-13 on 12/02/2014 24 2. LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  REGISTERED UNIONS & ASSOCIATIONS We recognize the employees’ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial unrest.  COMPLIANCE TO LABOR LAWS KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is 25 shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community. Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect to their working, development and growth. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7:Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8:undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9:encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  ENVIRONMENT PROCTECTION PLAN KRIBHCO is fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care for environment has always been of paramount importance to KRIBHCO. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive Environmental Protection Plan based on the principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources.  TREATMENT SCHEMES FOR EFFLUENTS Various treatment schemes have been implemented since commissioning of the Plant, which has resulted in reduction of water consumption by approximately 40%, and we have achieved zero effluent discharge from final outlet for the last seven years. Efforts are being made to further reduce water consumption. Tertiary treated sewage water is being used as cooling 26 water make up. Deep hydrolyser is installed in the Urea Plant to reuse the effluent as boiler feed water after treatment.  POLLUTION CONTROL Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks is far below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. An Automatic Ambient Air Quality Station has been installed to continuously monitor the effects of emission from stacks. Six Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations have been set up within a radius of 10 kmsfor periodic monitoring of air quality in surrounding areas. Wet dedusting system at the Prilling Tower top has been installed and emission of the Urea dust and Ammonia in the atmosphere is well below the specified limits.  Air Pollution control through commissioning of GTG GTG (Gas Turbine Generator) was commissioned at new Captive Power Plant for power generation. This being highly eco-friendly, the generation of pollutants is much less as compared to that in conventional coal fired Boilers/ Turbo Generators.  ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION & AWARENESS To ensure clean and green environment, Society has created a Green Belt by planting more than 500 trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index thereby helping to improve the ambient air quality within the complex. Lush green lawns are also developed in an area of 100 acres. To create awareness among contract workers, an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the Plant premises. To enrich Marine and Coastal eco-system, society has signed a MOU on 30thJune 2010 with Gujarat Ecology Commission, Gandhinagar for the plantation of Mangroves on an area of 100 hectares at village Kantiyajal, District Bharuch, Gujarat. Mangrove is a highly valuable plant species and forms one of the most important eco-systems of coastal and marine area. 27 Environmental Management System (EMS) of the Society has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. To promote awareness of Environment Protection among Township residents and School children, every year Environment Day is celebrated on 5thJune. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  VIGILANCE AWARENESS Vigilance is an integral part of the management and it provides important instruments for improving performance of an organization. Vigilance is essential for discipline and growth of the organization and every manager needs to perform the role of vigilance officer as well. There is a separate Vigilance Section in our company. Keeping in view the importance of preventive vigilance in checking corruption, periodical inspections of sensitive areas are carried out. Sensitive posts have been identified in various departments and persons holding such posts are periodically rotated to maintain transparency. Procurement files are reviewed by the Vigilance Section on random basis with a view to identifying irregularities, if any, and to give suggestions for improvement and to take corrective steps wherever required. All officers are required to submit Annual Property Returns on moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1stJanuary to 31stDecember every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. During 28thOctober to 2nd November 2013 Vigilance Awareness Week was observed. The programmes started by taking oath to maintain transparency and integrity in all areas of public dealings. During the week, banners and slogans in Hindi, Gujarati and English were displayed at prominent places in the KRIBHCO Complex. Folders, supplied by CVO, containing the message: “If anybody of this office asks for bribe or if you have any information on 28 corruption or if you are a victim of corruption in this office, you can complain to…”and GOI Resolution on Pubic Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer (both in Hindi and English) were distributed to all the vendors and contractors. Individual indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organization leads to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons’ mis-endeavours and promote organizational interest. Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision-making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (open-ness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned) competition in the interest of the organization and Accountability. It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organizational Citizenship among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. For the irregularities detected, punitive vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the Society and we adopt ‘zero tolerance’ for corruption irrespective of the position held.  ACTION PLAN AGAINST CORRUPTION For achievement of the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A. AWARENESS: • Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates. • Circulate CVC / Government's Instructions. • Issue In-house articles on Vigilance Awareness. • Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. 29 B. PREVENTIVE VIGILANCE • Simplification of Rules and procedures. • Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption. • Sensitizing employees about evil consequences of corruption. Increasing Transparency & Accountability in day to day working. • Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints. • Regular and Surprise Inspections. • Ensuring high standard of integrity among the employees. • Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. PUNITIVE VIGILANCE: • Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries. • Steps to maintain positive discipline. ********** 30
