Communication on Progress 2013 1 HL Display’s corporate responsibility area of corporate responsibility and a programme is established and decided culture carrier that HL Display wants “At HL Display, we are engaged by the Board of Directors. The work to permeate the Company. It is linked in continuous improvement work is headed by the Company’s Product to other principles, i­ncluding those in the area of corporate responDevelopment Director with the support enshrined in the UN Global C ­ ompact. sibility. Through our membership of other members of Group manageThe Code of Conduct clarifies the funin the UN Global Compact, we ment. The Group’s local entities have a damental principles that HL D ­ isplay demonstrate that we support the high level of responsibility for day-toexpects every employee to follow. It UN’s fundamental values and that day sustainability work, particularly contains information about how the we integrate their ten principles with regard to environmental issues at Company views its responsibility in on human rights, labour, environthe production facilities. HL Display terms of social and ethical, as well as ment and anti-corruption into our has been a participant in the UN Global environmental issues. The areas of strategy, culture and day-to-day Compact since 2010. responsibility described include human business.” rights, employee rights, environment, Policy documents anti-corruption, conflicts of interest and Gérard Dubuy competition. President and CEO HL Display has developed clear guideThese overall documents also HL Display lines for corporate responsibility work. ­interact with other policies g­ overning The two most important documents the C­ ompany’s corporate responsi­ are HL Display’s CR policy and the bility work. These include HL Display’s Company’s Code of Conduct, which external and internal environmental are reviewed by the Board each year. policy, purchasing policy and common The Code of Conduct is one of the operational policy for the production ­Company’s key policy documents in the facilities. Corporate responsibility programme Human rights HL Display’s Code of Conduct expresses clear statements of position ensuring that the Company supports and respects UN Global Compact principles the protection of human rights and that Principle 1 the Company is not complicit in human Businesses should support and rights abuses. respect the protection of internationally In 2013, HL Display strengthened proclaimed human rights; and the implementation of the Code of ­Conduct in the organisation. Today, all Principle 2 ­employees within the Group have the make sure they are not complicit in Code of Conduct explained to them and human rights abuses. then sign it. Previously, only individuals in particularly vulnerable roles (managers, sales and purchasing staff) were required to sign the Code of Conduct. A reminder of the Code is provided each year in the annual performance review between employee and manager. Suppliers that HL Display engages must sign the Company’s purchasing policy, thereby undertaking to comply with areas such as respect for human rights. See also the purchasing policy section on page 3. Historically, HL Display has a very low risk related to human rights. No incidents related to human rights were reported during 2013 (2012: 0). 2 Corporate responsibility programme Labour Purchasing policy Whistleblower function UN Global Compact principles HL Display has clear requirements for its HL Display established a whistleblower suppliers. A central component of work in function during 2013. The function Principle 3 this area is that all suppliers must sign ­enables employees to report ­malpractice Businesses should uphold the freedom of HL Display’s purchasing policy. Suppliers to a c ­ entral unit. This will complement are expected to meet defined requirements the ­natural dialogue that takes place association and the effective recognition in several areas. These ensure that supplibetween employees and managers about of the right to collective bargaining; ers comply with ILO (International Labour ­malpractice at the Company. Organization) conventions and other prinPrinciple 4 ciples related to human rights and labour. Examples of malpractice that HL Display the elimination of all forms of forced and In addition, there are clear guidelines on wants to pick up by introducing this funccompulsory labour; business ethics (corruption) and environtion include non-compliance with local ment. HL Display also reserves the right to laws or breaches of HL Display’s Code of Principle 5 make unannounced site visits to its suppliConduct in areas such as human rights, the effective abolition of child labour; and ers’ premises to ensure that the purchasing labour and anti-corruption. policy is being followed. Principle 6 Information that comes through the the elimination of discrimination in ­whistleblower channel will be investigated respect of employment and occupation. centrally. If the malpractice proves to be well founded and correct, it will result in sign the Company’s purchasing policy, disciplinary or legal action. HL Display is a multicultural company. thereby undertaking compliance with It therefore goes without saying that the ILO conventions and similar principles Company will endeavour to give all its on working conditions. See also the employees equal opportunities for pro­purchasing policy section above. fessional development, promotion and Health and safety in the pay growth, regardless of background, Employee development workplace gender, ethnicity or age. The basis of HL Display’s efforts Health and safety is monitored continWorking conditions and to develop employees and create a uously at HL Display’s facilities. Health standards talent base in the Company consists risks at the Company are mainly assoof two processes – HL Plus and ciated with production. By carrying The working conditions and standards the Annual Employee Review. All out preventive work, HL Display aims that HL Display follows are clearly HL Display employees are covered by to ensure safe workplaces with a good defined in the Code of Conduct. In brief, these processes. working environment. The Company these include a clear statement of posiWithin these processes, performance regularly updates its safety procedures tion in favour of freedom of association appraisals are conducted, in which and examines different risk factors. and the right to collective bargaining, employees are given clear targets for HL Display has established processes and an equally clear position against their work. During the appraisals, which are designed to provide local forced labour, child labour and all employees also receive clear guidance managers, mainly at the production forms of discrimination. In addition, through discussion of the work priorfacilities, with methods for optimal HL ­Display will offer a working enviities for the coming year. A long-term management of sickness absence. The ronment that is healthy, safe and in ­development plan is also produced. number of workplace accidents leading accordance with international standards More information about HL Display’s to absence or sick leave in 2013 was 45 and local laws for all employees. employees can be found on page 6-7. (2012: 33). No fatal accidents occurred. HL Display is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreements are in place. In general, the terms of employment that HL Display applies are in accordance with local laws and applicable collective agreements, Employee facts whether the employees choose to be 2013 2012 unionised or not. Number of employees as of December 31 1,155 1,175 There is a further emphasis on the Gender structure, % Male 60 61 working environment in HL Display’s Female 40 39 working environment policy. The ­ Education level, % University 37 40 policy states, for example, that HL Display will respect European health Upper secondary and safety standards in its factories, school 37 40 respect employees’ freedom of assoCompulsory school 26 20 ciation at all workplaces in accordInvestment in staff training Total, MSEK 1 2 ance with the principles of the ILO and Per employee, KSEK 1 2 UN, and work systematically to ensure Costs related to health ­compliance with legal requirements. promotion activities Per employee, KSEK 1 1 HL Display also expects its suppliers Number of workplace accidents leading to adhere to the same high standards to absence or sick leave 45 33 in these areas. Suppliers are required to 3 Corporate responsibility programme Environment Raw materials and input goods 2013 % UN Global Compact principles PVC 40.5 PET 14.1 Principle 7 Polystyrene (PS) 7.7 Businesses should support a ABS 6.1 ­precautionary approach to environmental Other plastic materials 5.3 challenges; Packaging materials 12.9 Aluminium, steel and wire 8.3 Principle 8 Other materials 5.1 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and ­diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility HL Display’s factories were certified p ­ roduction processes where possible. Policy and Code of Conduct define the under the standard as long ago as the The s­ econd is to recycle plastic and fundamental guidelines that the Comlate 1990s. Changes in the production other waste as far as possible. pany follows with regard to environstructure in recent years mean that the HL Display’s goal is that all waste mental impacts. proportion of factories with ISO 14001 from production will eventually be HL Display has four production certification has fallen to 50 percent. ­recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s facilities, which are located in Sweden, The factories in Sweden and China have production facilities in 2013 was 2,551 Poland, the UK and China. The main ISO 14001 certification. This is a temtonnes (2012: 2,778 tonnes), and 94.9 environmental impacts of HL Display’s porary decline and it is HL Display’s percent of this was recycled (2012: production are related to plastic waste, aim that its factories in Poland and the 91.7 percent). use of plastic raw materials and energy UK will be certified as soon as this is consumption. practicable. Energy consumption The Company has a presence in 47 markets, which means that ­shipments Raw materials HL Display’s direct electricity consumpof products represent a source of tion in production was 26.6 GWh in ­environmental impacts. HL Display’s main raw material is 2013 (2012: 26.6 GWh). Various measHL Display also defines environmen­plastic, notably PVC. See the table ures for reducing electricity consumptal requirements for its suppliers in the above for more details about raw tion are being implemented at all the Company’s purchasing policy. Suppliers ­materials use. factories. These range from heating the must guarantee that they comply with HL Display complies with REACH, premises using waste heat from machinall applicable environmental laws and the EU’s chemicals legislation, and this ery to installing time-controlled lighting. regulations in the country where they is taken into account in the Company’s operate. They must also sign a written approval of new materials. No subundertaking with regard to REACH (the stances classified as SVHC (Substances EU’s chemicals legislation). HL Display’s of Very High Concern) may be used, and major suppliers are large international the presence of phase-out substances is producers of plastic raw materials which also checked. Energy have their own comprehensive environconsumption mental programmes in place. Waste management 2013 Electricity “green” (MWh)* 11,954 ISO 14001 Certification The waste generated at HL Display’s Electricity (MWh) 8,512 factories consists largely of plastic. Gas (MWh) 6,167 Certification under the ISO 14001 enviHL Display addresses the problem Water (m3) 347,346 ronmental management standard has of waste in production in two ways. * Electricity from renewable sources. been an important part of HL Display’s The first is to reduce plastic waste environmental work. The majority of ­generated in production by streaml­ining Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Re-use own production 118 – – – – 118 – Recycled externally 1,186 371 172 305 1 2,035 3 Recycled for heating – – – 266 – 266 – Deposit – – – – 123 123 6 4 Corporate responsibility programme Under an energy agreement signed with the electricity supplier Vattenfall in 2010, HL Display’s Sundsvall factory and logistics centre in Falkenberg run entirely on hydrogenerated electricity. This is a conscious choice on HL Display’s part and the Company pays a somewhat higher electricity fee for using renewable energy. Water is used primarily for c­ ooling in certain of HL Display’s ­production processes, in particular the cooling of extruded plastic products, such as datastrips, in waterbaths. In 2013, 347,346 cubic metres of water were used at the Group’s production facilities (2012: 313,334 m3). Several of HL Display’s factories use closed cooling water systems in order to minimise water consumption. Transport HL Display has sales companies and distributors in Western and Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East, South Africa and Brazil. This means that transthey are sent for recycling. HL Display standards in the area of anti-corruption. port is a major part of HL Display’s has been using telephone and video The risk of corruption also exists in cusenvironmental impacts. HL Display conferences as an alternative to travel tomer relationships. HL Display operengages third-party suppliers for its between offices for many years now. ates in some risk markets, where some transport and requires these suppliers With technological development and parties try to facilitate deals by making to have environmental programmes in the launch of services such as Google direct payments to individuals in the place. Hangout, the use of video c­ onferencing ­client company. The majority of shipments are by at HL Display has increased further. To combat corruption, all e­ mployees truck. HL Display works with its This means lower travel costs for the must sign HL Display’s Code of logistics suppliers to route inward and Company and a reduction in the envi­Conduct, which contains clear rules outward transport flows from road ronmental impacts of business travel. of practice with regard to corruption. transport to sea and rail transport This is also followed up each year in the ­wherever possible. annual performance review. The newly HL Display’s efforts to reduce carbon Anti-Corruption established whistleblower function has dioxide emissions also include stratgiven HL Display an additional tool egies to improve transport efficiency. UN Global Compact principles for detecting possible corruption in the The Company constantly endeavours Group. Principle 10 to increase the number of products per Increased centralisation and ­control Businesses should work against package and reduce package size. of purchasing activities also plays ­corruption in all its forms, including an important part in the Company’s ­extortion and bribery. The Company’s fleet of vehicles anti-corruption efforts. Any local suppliers that HL Display wishes to engage in It is HL Display’s aim to gradually HL Display’s Code of Conduct demonthe regions must be validated centrally. reduce CO2 emissions from its fleet of strates the Company’s strong position This ensures that the prices and other vehicles. The Company has four difagainst corruption. HL Display will terms are in line with the Company’s ferent categories of vehicles and there maintain a good reputation for honesty, other collaborations. Under the local are limits on CO2 emissions for each integrity and taking responsibility. This purchasing procedures, the individual category. These limits are reviewed means that HL Display will not tolerate placing a purchase order is not the one every 12-18 months to see if they can be involvement in bribery, extortion or corwho identifies and selects a supplier. lowered. ruption in any form. In the selling activity, agreed prices The risk analyses that HL Display are entered into HL Display’s ERP Respect for the environment in has conducted have identified corrup­system. Invoicing and customer payall our operations tion as the area where the Company ments relating to each order are conhas the greatest risks. Risks are mainly trolled by the Company’s back-office HL Display endeavours to promote a associated with purchases made in local function and are completely separate high level of environmental awareness in markets. The risk is lower for large from field sales. everyday activities at its offices around purchases of raw materials for producHL Display had one (1) corruption-­ the world. This means collecting and tion, for example. This is because the related incidents that led to disciplinary sorting paper, packaging material and counterparties are large international action in 2013 (2012: 1 incident). old electronic equipment and ensuring suppliers which share HL Display’s high 5 HL Display’s employees The process of creating HL Display’s human resources work employees and create a talent base at the growth starts with ­employees. is governed by a number of overCompany. All HL Display employees HL Display strives for a all s­ trategies designed to enhance the are covered by these efforts. ­Company’s ability to achieve its goals. HL Plus is a performance review result-oriented culture where This is fundamentally about HL Display process where employees are given employees feel both ­challenged establishing a result-oriented culture clear work targets, which are followed and supported in their where employees receive constructive up twice a year. For employees with a ­professional development. feedback enabling them to grow in their variable salary – typically those in the role at the Company. HL Display will sales organisation – the HL Plus targets develop employees’ capabilities and give are linked to key ratios that show their them incentives to meet the demands of performance against the targets and are increased efficiency and change, and will used as a basis for determining the size also nurture and develop high potentials of the variable salary. so that they can take key positions in the During the review, employees also Company. The Company will also have receive clear guidance in the form of balanced staffing, which gives a good ­discussion of work priorities for the cost structure. coming year. A long-term development plan is also produced. Developing employees Assessment of performance HL Display has two processes – HL Plus and results and Annual Employee Review – which form the basis of efforts to develop Within the framework of the Annual Employee Review, the immediate supervisor makes an overall assessment of the employee’s performance and results. The assessment is validated in turn by the manager’s immediate supervisor to ensure that it is fair and correct. Employees are also assessed on parameters such as motivation and potential to take on new challenges and positions. Work associated with the Annual Employee Review is important for several reasons. It makes it possible to establish relevant activities and training to strengthen the employees in their professional roles. It is also an important tool for identifying and creating a talent base of individuals with the potential to make a career at HL Display. HL Display will develop employees’ capabilities and give them incentives to meet the demands of increased efficiency and change, and will also nurture and develop high potentials so that they can take key positions in the Company. 6 Employees Strong talent base HL Display has placed ­increasing emphasis on the area of Talent ­Management in recent years. This is primarily concerned with developing and strengthening the high potentials identified through the Annual Employee Review process. From the Company’s perspective, it is also important that talent development initiatives are linked to the way the Company is organised. HL Display endeavours to ensure that key positions within the Company are mainly held by its premier talent, which should strengthen the Company’s ­development in the long term. Training support growth initiatives During 2013, HL Display initiated a broad programme aimed at c­ reating sales growth. In connection with this work, the emphasis of the training ­provided during the year was on Number of employees Age distribution developing and strengthening the sales 800 500 organisation, particularly in the area of concept selling. It is about making this 400 70 knowledge and sales process a n ­ atural 600 68 323 tool for sales personnel in their daily 192 300 16 18 work. 400 In another training programme during 281 200 the year, HL Display’s country managers 157 received training in how they support 70 6 200 406 4 0 and give feedback to sales personnel in 100 15 71 4 79 concept selling. The training has pro190 105 11 95 0 83 45 vided the managers with new methods 0 0 Sweden Other Asia <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 of monitoring and developing both the Europe sales personnel and the sales model to be Women Asia used by HL Display. Men Other Europe Sweden Strengthening the recruitment base opportunities for career advancement at skills and building contacts at many HL Display aims to be an attractive the Company. different levels within the customers’ employer, providing its employees with During the year, HL Display has highorganisations. This creates the condichallenges and development opporlighted the unique opportunities and tions for varied and challenging sales tunities, which in turn facilitates the challenges that it offers, especially in work. These opportunities have been process of recruiting and retaining the comparison with companies in the FMCG used in recruitment activities in 2013 most competent staff. By increasingly sector, in order to strengthen the sales and will be communicated even more making internal recruitment the preorganisation’s recruitment base. Opporin 2014. The aim is to attract potential ferred recruitment channel, HL D ­ isplay tunities for salespersons at HL Display employees who have the attributes and demonstrates that there are great include developing their concept selling motivation to engage in concept selling. 7 HL DISPLAY AB (publ) BOX 1118, Cylindervägen 18 info@hl-display.com SE-131 26 Nacka Strand www.hl-display.com Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 Fax: +46 8 683 73 01 8
