ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 menu 2 How to read this report GRI 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.8 | 3.11 Oi presents its Annual Sustainability Report for the third year in a row in line with menu the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, version G3, with application level B. The document brings together the Company’s initiatives and performance in its operations in Brazil during the period from January 1 to December 31, 2013, and Annual Sustainability Report 2013 was structured based on information gathered through interviews with its executives and from printed, electronic, and audiovisual materials provided by Oi itself, plus information disclosed publicly. The last report was published in 2013 with reference to the activities of the year 2012. GRI 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 The references used include Criteria from Abrasca for the Preparation of Annual Reports, the IBASE Social Report, NBCT 15 (Brazilian Technical Accounting Standard No. 15), CPC (Accounting Pronouncements Committee), and from CODIM (Steering Committee for Information Disclosure to the Market). Accounting data follows the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as recommended by the CVM (Brazilian (Securities and Exchange Commission). GRI 3.9 The identification and preparation of the contents of this publication were developed in a multidisciplinary way by employees of the Company and validated by the Board. The content follows, once again, the guidelines of the Dialogue Panel held in 2012 due to their topicality and relevance in defining the issues considered relevant to the administration and Oi stakeholders, which include employees, suppliers, service providers, customers, consumers, shareholders, investors, partners Oi Futuro and organized civil society. GRI 4.14 | 4.15 3 How to read this report The first step to create a structured process of engagement with the Company’s public was to set up the multistakeholder panel, menu conducted in 2012, which pointed out the following topics as relevant to the Sustainability Report: • Incorporation of sustainability in management (coherence between Annual Sustainability Report 2013 the talk and practices). • Integrated management (guidelines for inserting sustainability into decision-making processes and everyday actions). • Dialogue and communication between teams and representatives of the value chain. • Innovation (development of technologies, systems, and materials). • Waste management (in particular those associated with communication technology). • Quality of customer service. • Private social investment, addressing impacts on poor communities. • Digital inclusion. • Generation of jobs and income. Investments in local and regional infrastructure, which are essential for the development of the country and communities far from urban centers. Multiplying agent (potential to disseminate good practices throughout the entire value chain). Because of the corporate restructuring process completed in 2012, it was necessary to adjust the presentation of some information to allow understanding and comparability. Thus, the results described in this report represent Oi S.A. (surviving company and new name of Brasil Telecom S.A.) at the end of December 2013. GRI 3.10 4 How to read this report In October 2013 the Company announced as material fact the closing of a memorandum of understanding for the merging of its activities menu with Portugal Telecom. The data follow corporate standards and have undergone internal verification. The information concerning the operation of this corporate restructuring is based on a memorandum of understanding announced to the market on October 2, 2013. GRI 3.10 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Only the economic and financial information were subject to external audit. The indicators are pointed out throughout the text and can also be identified by the remissive index. For more information and suggestions, please contact the Company’s Governance and Sustainability Department (the Treasury and IR Director) by e-mail pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br or invest@oi.net.br. GRI 3.4 | 3.13 5 Message from the Board menu MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD GRI 1.1 | 1.2 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Oi kept attentive to opportunities in the telecommunications market in 2013. According to data from ANATEL (National Telecommunications Agency), in late August 2013, the total access of telecommunications services in Brazil came to approximately 350.6 million represented by 44.5 million fixed lines in operation, 268.4 million mobile users, 20.4 million fixed broadband internet users, and 17.3 million pay TV users. There was an increase of 2.8% in accesses compared to 2012 driven primarily by net additions from the mobile products segment, as well as increased penetration of broadband and pay TV. We closed 2013 with 74.5 million RGU (Revenue Generating Units), net revenue of R$ 28.4 billion, and EBITDA of R$ 9.6 billion. Net earnings were R$ 1.5 billion and we made investments of R$ 6.3 billion due to our confidence in our long-term strategy. Oi’s gross debt closed the year at R$ 34.4 billion while the net debt stood at R$ 30.4 billion. We defined a strategy based on three main pillars to take advantage of the opportunities that the Brazilian market offers. The first is the consolidation of our business model and a focus on productivity and operational excellence. We want to strengthen our business model based on clear and well-defined strategies for each segment, leveraging the convergence of our services and offering innovative products, as well as a focus on the quality of the sales so as to ensure profitable growth. 6 Message from the Board On the other hand, we have worked diligently to achieve operational excellence with infrastructure management having a three-pronged menu focus on network, operations, and Information Technology (IT) through various initiatives aimed at the efficiency of our processes and management of the customer experience to ensure the provision of high quality services. In this process we increased the focus on creating value Annual Sustainability Report 2013 and on the efficiency of investment allocation in the area of Engineering, on implementing a system architecture that strengthens the convergence in the field of IT, and on a new management in the area of ​​ Operations with training of technicians, internalization of functions, and adopting control productivity control tools. The second strategic priority is to correct the trajectory of the Company’s cash flow with a focus on a strong financial discipline, on a more efficient allocation of investments, on the reduction of operating costs, and on the profitability of our business. This financial discipline also inspired the strategy of selling assets that are not essential to the business, which started in late 2012, and adapting our dividend policy to the Company’s economic and financial reality. Finally, the third pillar is the constant pursuit for maintaining the Company’s sustainable growth by leveraging our strategic differences such as convergence and the extensive coverage of our network in order to bring on board a significant portion of the potential of penetration that the telecommunication services have in Brazil, notably pay TV as well as fixed and mobile data services. To reach these objectives we implemented a series of changes designed to transform the Company into a better service provider for its customers, employees, partners, and shareholders—and also for society as a whole. We are a Company that views technology as a tool to improve people’s lives, make businesses more efficient, and promote a digital revolution. 7 Message from the Board In this year of transformation, we have been focused on being a company that values ​​listening to the customer for developing and offering menu consistent solutions and services. This process was made possible by the involvement of people in an environment of cooperation in all areas and by the great synergy between Oi and Portugal Telecom, which began with the industrial alliance closed in 2010. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The success of the alliance led naturally to the next step: in October 2013, Oi and Portugal Telecom announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding for the merging of their activities. The operation is a natural evolution of the industrial alliance between the two operators, which started in 2010, and will make it possible to accelerate the Company’s development, besides being an important step towards the process of improving Oi’s corporate governance with the simplification of the corporate structure, a spreading out of the control, and the migration of its shares to the Novo Mercado of BM&FBOVESPA, which is a special segment with the highest standards of governance and that will naturally contribute to the strengthening of our commitment to transparency and the relationship with our stakeholders. José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Chairman of the Board of Directors Zeinal Bava CEO 8 Oi in numbers menu OI IN NUMBERS GRI 2.8 INCOME STATEMENT (R$ THOUSANDS) 2012* 2013 Revenues from sales and/or services 25,161,031 28,422,147 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Cost of assets and/or services sold (12,670,413) (15,259,215) Gross income 12,490,618 13,162,932 Operating (expenses) income (7,730,969) (7,876,315) Equity in earnings from subsidiaries (12,880) (17,750) Selling expenses (4,840,707) (5,553,891) General and administrative expenses (2,993,131) (3,519,419) Other operating income 1,996,101 3,127,676 Other operating expenses (1,880,352) (1,912,931) Income before financial income and taxes 4,759,649 5,286,617 Financial revenue 2,275,106 1,375,217 Financial expenses (4,490,889) (4,649,665) Financial income (2,215,783) (3,274,448) Income before taxes 2,543,866 2,012,169 Income Tax and social Contribution Current (932,871) (418,498) Deferred 173,932 (100,656) Net income for the year 1,784,927 1,493,015 Net profit attributable to controlling shareholders 1,784,890 1,493,015 Net profit attributable to non-controlling shareholders 37 Primary and diluted earnings per share Common shares primary and diluted (R$) 1.09 0.91 Preferred shares primary and diluted (R$) 1.09 0.91 * Figures restated proforma. Net income for 2012 refers to 10 months of results of Oi S.A. and 2 months of results of former BrT.. 74.5 million from RGUs Over 520,000 Residential Mobile coverage for 88.5% of 17,837,000 the Brazilian population with a (Revenue Generating Units) Wi-Fi hotspots market share of 18.6% 12 million households RGUs (fixed line, broadband, served (voice and internet) 18,947 employees and pay TV) Corporate/SME 8,246,000 5,477 municipalities Market Share of 40.5% in served by Oi 148,298 wireline RGUs (fixed line and mobile and broadband) 330,000 km Outsourced service Personal Mobility Public Telephones: of fiber-optic network providers 47,727,000 in all states RGUs 655,000 public phones 1. Anatel’s data in October 2013. 2. Anatel’s data in October 2013. 9 Index ANNUAL menu SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 1. OI COMPLETES YOU 10 1.1. PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES AND NETWORK 11 1.2. AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 13 2. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14 2.1. CAPITAL MARKET 19 2.2. GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES AND STRUCTURE 22 2.3. RISK MANAGEMENT 36 2.4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 41 3. FINANCIAL & OPERATING PERFORMANCES 46 3.1. KEY HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 48 3.2. OPERATING RESULTS 56 4. SOCIAL-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 68 4.1. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS 72 4.2. INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS 87 4.3. SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET 96 4.4. EMPLOYEES 97 4.5. CUSTOMERS 118 4.6. SUPPLIERS 132 4.7. OI FUTURO 136 5. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. GRI REMISSIVE INDEX 142 8. STATEMENT GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK 153 9. CREDITS 154 10 OI COMPLETES YOU menu PRESENT IN 5,477 CITIES, THE COMPANY Annual Sustainability Report 2013 HOLDS CONCESSIONS, AUTHORIZATIONS, AND PERMISSIONS TO OFFER SERVICES OF FIXED AND MOBILE TELEPHONY, DATA TRANSMISSION, BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS, AND PAY TV. 1.1. PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES AND NETWORK 11 1.2. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 13 11 Oi completes you GRI 2.2 | 2.3 | 2.7 | 2.8 Oi S.A. is present in 5,477 municipalities. The Company holds menu concessions, authorizations, and permissions to offer services of fixed line ,mobile, data transmission, broadband Internet access, and pay TV. Oi is also unique in that it has the largest Wi-Fi network Annual Sustainability Report 2013 in the Americas with more than 520,000 hotspots and an exclusive partnership with Fon, a global community with 12 million internet connection points worldwide. GRI 2.1 | 2.6 Headquartered in the city of Rio de Janeiro (RJ), Oi is responsible for the STFC (Switched Fixed LineTelephony Services) in Regions I and II of the PGO (General Concession Plan) that covers all the states of the Federation except São Paulo and the Federal District. The company also has authorization from Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency) to provide mobile telephony services throughout the country. GRI 2.4 The telephone industry in which the Company operates is the segment of Brazilian infrastructure that is best placed in the Competitiveness Report 2014 of the World Economic Forum according to the Global Competitive Index. In this segment, Oi has an advantageous position because of its diverse range of products and services, its national coverage, and its commitment to sustainability. In 2013 the Company became part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) as the only company in Brazil in its segment in the category Emerging Markets, along with being listed for the sixth consecutive year on ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) of BM&FBovespa. 1.1. Portfolio of services and network Fixed Telephony: includes local and long distance services, as well as the use of networks (interconnection) and public telephones in accordance with the concessions and authorizations granted by Anatel. With 16.855 million lines installed (11.75 million Revenue Generating Units RGU in the residential segment) and 655,000 public phones, Oi is one of the largest fixed-line telephone companies in South America. 12 Oi completes you Mobile Telephony: prepaid and postpaid customers totaled 50.238 OI’S MARKET SHARE million RGUs in the segment of Personal Mobility across Brazil. menu 40.5% Pay TV: with DTH (Direct To Home) satellite technology, this service is offered throughout Brazil with the exception of São Paulo, totaling 829,000 RGUs at the end of 2013. The launch of the geostationary FIXED Annual Sustainability Report 2013 satellite SES-6 in 2013, which offers more transmission capacity of channels, will raise the quality and add new interactive functions to the service. 18 6% . Data Transmission: Oi offers high speed data transmission services MOBILE under the brand Oi Velox with ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) technology, which allows the simultaneous use of telephone and internet, in Regions I and II. It also provides voice and data services to corporate clients throughout the country. In 2013, the 28 1%. BROADBAND Company had 5.888 million broadband subscribers, of which 5.258 million were in the residential segment. Fiber optics: Oi has a fiber optic network of approximately 330,000 km 4.6% distributed throughout all the states, serving around 12 million households PAY TV with voice and internet services in about 4,800 municipalities. In 2013, Oi also operated a network of submarine fiber optic transmission cables with GlobeNet, 22,500 km in extension connecting Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Bermudas, and the United States. In December 2013, Oi completed the transfer of its full participation in GlobeNet to BTG Pactual YS Empreendimentos e Participações. The transaction includes a long-term contract that guarantees the Company’s use of the infrastructure for the provision of services. 13 Oi completes you 1.2 Awards and Recognition menu GRI 2.10 BRAND CUSTOMERS CAPITAL MARKET CORPORATE SEGMENT MANAGEMENT Annual Sustainability Report 2013 • 18 Top of Mind Minas Gerais. • The best in the fixed telephony • Only telecom company in Brazil • 2012 Brazil Competitive Strategy • Smart Award Utilities & sector in 2013 according to BCSI listed in the portfolio of Emerging Leadership Award for services Telecom in the categories of • 23 Top of Mind Rio Grande do Sul. (Brazilian Index of Customer Markets of the DJSI of the New from Oi SmartCloud. Relationship with the Internal • Brands that I Like (Pernambuco). Satisfaction). York Stock Exchange in 2013. Public (gold trophy) and • EuroCloud Europe Awards 2013 Relationship in Crisis • Great Brands Award (Ceará). • The only Brazilian • Listed on the ISE of BM&FBovespa for services from Oi SmartCloud. Management (silver trophy). telecommunications operator for the sixth year in a row. • Top Natal 2013 (Rio Grande do Norte). recognized by Stevie Awards, •Taxpayer Award as the third • Part of BM&FBovespa’s ICO2 which highlighted the company that collected the (Carbon Efficient Index) portfolio institutional site and the Minha most ICMS tax in Ceará in 2012. for the fourth year in a row. Oi application. • Best Self-Service Technology of the 8th Annual Top Ranking Performers in the Contact Center Industry Awards Program with the Minha Oi application. • Second place in the Social Bakers’ national survey on response time and customer interactions by the Faceboook institutional fan page. (See more awards in the Customers section in the chapter Social and Environmental Performance) 14 CORPORATE menu GOVERNANCE LAST YEAR OI JOINED THE PORTFOLIO Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF SHARES ON THE DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (DJSI) OF THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE. REVIEWED ANNUALLY, THE DJSI BRINGS TOGETHER THE LEADING COMPANIES IN SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES WORLDWIDE. 2.1. CAPITAL MARKET 19 2.2. GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES AND STRUCTURE 22 2.3. RISK MANAGEMENT 36 2.4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 41 15 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI 4.5 Oi continually invests in improving its corporate governance practices, which are fundamental for a transparent relationship with its investors and for the success of its business in the long run. The Company is associated with IBGC (Brazilian Institute for Corporate Governance), guided by the principles of transparency, fairness, accountability, and corporate responsibility. An example of the improvement of its practices was the publication in 2012 of the Policy on Transactions with Related Parties and Situations Involving Conflict of Interests. The document establishes rules and consolidates the procedures for transactions of this nature while preserving process transparency so that decisions are taken in the best interests of the Company, its senior management, and its shareholders. GRI 4.6 16 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Also in 2012 there was a simplification of the corporate structure, resulting in very positive factors for adding value for the shareholders, reducing operating, administrative, and financial costs, making the Company more attractive for investors and with a greater access to capital markets. Further evidence of this constant improvement is the disclosure of the information regarding the transactions stated in the memorandum of understanding for the merging of the activities of Oi and Portugal Telecom. As a result of this continuous improvement and the commitment to transparency with the market, the Company was listed on Level 1 of Corporate Governance of BM&FBovespa in December 2012 and is preparing to move to Novo Mercado in 2014. The evolution of governance practices and measures to correct its cash flow have led to a growing interest from long-term investors (traditionally foreigners, insurance companies, and Brazilian pension funds) in its shares. Last year Oi joined the portfolio of shares on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the New York Stock Exchange. Revised annually, the DJSI brings together the companies who are leaders in sustainable practices around the world and able to create value for shareholders through managing risks associated with economic, environmental, and social factors. Currently there are 17 Brazilian companies listed on the DJSI Emerging Markets. Oi was the only telecommunications company in Brazil being listed in 2013 in this category. 17 Corporate Governance Its value for best practices in governance and sustainability can also be seen by the Company’s participation in the ISE (Corporate menu Sustainability Index) since 2008 and ICO2 (Carbon Efficient Index) since 2010, both from BM&FBovespa. Oi has been a signatory of the Global Compact for four years, taking actions related to issues such as human rights, labor relations, environment, and anticorruption. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 35.00% 35.00% BRATEL FUNDAÇÃO AG TELECOM L.F. TEL BNDES BRASIL ATLÂNTICO PREVI PETROS FUNCEF (AG) (LF) PAR (PT) (FATL) 12.07% 19.35% 19.35% 11.51% 13.07% 9.69% 7.48% 7.48% TELEMAR PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A. AG TELECOM L.F. TEL ON: 56.4% BNDES PREVI (AG) (LF) PN: 1.6% PAR Total: 18.8% ON: 0.0% ON: 0.0% ON: 1.0% ON: 3.9% PN: 6.3% PN: 6.3% PN: 1.9% PN: 3.2% Total: 4.3% Total: 4.3% Total: 1.6% Total: 3.4% OI S.A. ON: 31.5% ON: 7.1% ON: 0.2% PN: 60.7% PN: 19.2% PN: 0.8% Total: 51.5% Total: 15.4% Total: 0.6% BRATEL 100.00% OTHERS BRASIL FUNCEF (PT) TELEMAR NORTE LESTE S.A. Number of shares: 10.0% ON: 599,008,629 (514,757,934 Ex Treasury) PN: 1,198,077,775 (1,125,269,709 Ex Treasury) Total: 1,797,086,404 (1,640,027,643 Ex Treasury) As of December, 2013 PORTUGAL Shareholding percentages are calculated based TELECOM on the number of ex treasury shares. PART. SGPS Source: Company’s disclosed information 18 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 BEST PRACTICES IN GOVERNANCE •S  imultaneous, immediate, and equal disclosure of relevant information. •P  ublic disclosure of the annual board of director’s report. •A  doption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). •D  efinition of the Information Disclosure and Securities Trading Policy. •S  egregation of duties of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO. GRI 4.2 •M  aintain an Ombudsman and Complaint Channel. •U  nrestricted adoption of principles of conduct. •P  romotion of sustainability practices, such as the public disclosure of the Sustainability Policy. •C  ommitment to corporate responsibility through investments by Oi Futuro. 19 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2.1 Capital market NUMBERS OF OI + PT MERGER Oi’s IR (Investor Relations) department, which is the Company’s channel of relationship with the capital market, took an important CLIENT step in communicating with the market by launching in 2013 the PORTFOLIO: application for tablets Oi IR. The new platform includes the Company’s main information in Portuguese and English, including annual and 100 MILLION quarterly reports, press releases, material facts, along with news and EMPLOYEES: prices of its shares. Other innovative channels used by this department in Oi are the Mobile version of the IR site and Twitter 30,000 EMPLOYEES @oi_investors, beyond the website itself www.oi.com.br/ir in Portuguese and English. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL SYNERGIES EXPECTED The team also continued throughout 2013 the practices already ARE AT APPROXIMATELY 5.5 BILLION adopted to communicate with the capital market such as meetings with investors and meetings of the Capital Market Analysts R$ . Association (APIMEC), conferences, and roadshows in Brazil and abroad, in addition to updates on the IR site as a way to always keep investors informed about the Company’s business. In 2013, the department participated in 13 conferences in Brazil and abroad, meeting with about 1,000 investors and analysts. 20 Corporate Governance 2.1.1. Oi’s Merger with Portugal Telecom CAPITAL INCREASE OF OI IS AT LEAST menu On October 2, 2013, Oi disclosed a material fact to communicate the signature of a memorandum about the potential creation of the company CorpCo by bringing together shareholders from Oi, from R$ 13.1 BILLION WITH THE TARGET OF REACHING Portugal Telecom (PT), and from Telemar Participações S.A. and Annual Sustainability Report 2013 combining activities and business developed by Oi in Brazil and by PT in Portugal and Africa. R$ 14.1 BILLION WITH The merger will create a large multinational operator with R$ 7 BILLION AND 8 BILLION headquarters in Brazil. Its operations would involve a population of 260 million people, including more than 100 million customers. The R$ , new company will have on a pro forma basis related to financial RESPECTIVELY, IN CASH. information of 2012 approximately R$ 37.5 billion in revenue and R$ 12.8 billion of EBITDA, being one of the top 20 telecommunications companies in the world. EACH 1.0857 The transaction aims to strengthen the position of both companies as PREFERRED SHARE OF OI WILL leading operators in the Brazilian and Portuguese markets. Significant BE REPLACED BY 1 CORPCO economies of scale, synergy gains, reduced risks, and increased COMMON SHARE AND EACH 1 productivity are some of the benefits expected from the merger, which COMMON SHARE OF OI WILL BE intends to keep the trademarks of Oi and PT. The formation of the new REPLACED BY 1 COMMON company consolidates the industrial alliance begun in 2010 between the SHARE OF CORPCO. two companies, facilitating access to capital and financial resources and creating value for shareholders, customers, and employees, as well as opportunity for growth in convergence and mobility in Brazil. The consummation of this type of operation is subject to a number of events and approvals, including the shareholders of the companies involved and the regulatory authorities, which should occur in the first half of 2014. As an event subsequent to the period of this report, CADE (the Administrative Council for Economic Defense) approved the merger without restrictions in January 2014. Once the operation is complete, Oi and Portugal Telecom will become wholly owned subsidiaries of CorpCo. The new company will start its activities already listed on the Novo Mercado of BM&FBovespa, on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon, and will not have a shareholder or a group of related shareholders holding a majority of the voting shares. 21 Corporate Governance 2.1.2. Revision of the Dividend Distribution Policy menu Throughout the year Oi took a series of measures to adapt the business to the plan of debt reduction, diversification of activities, and growth of the operation. One of them was revising the Dividend Distribution Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Policy, which establishes the estimated value of R$ 500 million for paying dividends to shareholders for the fiscal years 2013 to 2016. This amount meets the legal requirements and also allows for the payment of interim or interspersed dividends depending on market conditions and the Company’s financial results. The payment of dividends relating to 2013 was made on October 11, 2013. In March of the same year was approved at the Annual and Extraordinary General Meeting the dividend and redemption of bonus shares for the year 2012, totaling R$ 1 billion, paid on March 28 and April 1, 2013. 22 Corporate Governance 2.1.3. Performance of shares and ADRs menu At the end of 2013, Oi’s capital was represented by 1.797 billion shares, being 599 million common shares and 1,198 million preferred shares. At BM&FBovespa, the Company’s shares closed the year 2013 listed at R$ 3.61 (OiBR3, common) and at R$ 3.59 (OiBR4, preferred), showing a Annual Sustainability Report 2013 negative performance of 54.5% and 49.4% respectively in 2013. Ibovespa closed the same period with a drop of 15.5%. On the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Company’s ADRs (American Depositary Receipts) had a depreciation of 56.4% (OIBR.C, common) and 53.1% (OIBR, preferred) in 2013. 2.2. Governance guidelines and structure 2.2.1. Code of Ethics GRI 4.8 The main guidelines for the actions of the members of the Board of Directors, and consequently of all employees, are widely disseminated through its written corporate policies. Among them, the Code of Ethics deserves to be highlighted, which was instituted in 2007 and revised in 2012 with the inclusion of items for combating corruption and fraud, digital relationship, and behavior on social networks. In 2013, Oi’s Code of Ethics received some specific updates so as to comply with Law No. 12,846/2013 known as the AntiCorruption Law. The Code brings together the principles and values ​​that guide the conduct of its employees with colleagues, partners, customers, and suppliers. It includes recommendations about respect for diversity, proper use of the Company’s assets and resources, treatment of confidential information, relationships with public agencies, media, investors, customers, and suppliers, assumptions for environmental responsibility, among others. 23 Corporate Governance As part of increasing its awareness, this document was made available on the intranet and specific training was given on human menu rights and corruption. In 2013, 95% of employees with access to Oi’s internal virtual environment (16,051 people) read and formally accepted the conditions of the Code of Ethics. The training on this issue covered 22% of the workforce and totaled 7,465 training hours. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Still in 2013, 3,248 employees and 118 managers completed the online training on the Code of Ethics while 650 employees and 249 managers attended in person the Workshop on Ethics and AntiCorruption. GRI HR3 The Company’s target for 2014 is to update the workshop and e-learning content on ethics and anticorruption to the new Brazilian anti-corruption law. GRI SO3 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES (%) 2011 2012 2013 Managers 89 21 29 Not Managers 95 26 22 24 Corporate Governance 2.2.1.1. Ethics Committee menu Oi’s Ethics Committee is made up of five directors, and it monitors compliance with the standards of the code and examines complaints of violations received from the Complaint Channel. The channel is open to all publics on the Company’s website and is also available to Annual Sustainability Report 2013 employees on the intranet. Complaints can be made anonymously or identified, and their confidentiality is guaranteed. The punishments recommended range from being given a warning all the way to even the employee being fired in addition to reporting to the police when necessary. The decisions of the committee are published so that the company’s employees can follow them. In 2013, the channel received five complaints treated as having valid grounds in relation to practices of discrimination and corruption. All cases reported were analyzed and appropriate actions were taken. GRI HR4 | SO4 2.2.1.2. Legal Compliance GRI SO7 The Company seeks to comply with the legal and regulatory determinations established by Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency). Market changes or positioning between competing companies can lead to lawsuits questioning terms of regulations or promotions, while Oi can exercise its right of defense. In 2013, the Company obtained favorable rulings in two civil lawsuits filed by a competitor claiming alleged practice of unfair competition in a promotional campaign in 2009 and a supposed procedure to unlock handsets in an unauthorized manner. 25 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 2.2.2. Corporate policies Policy on the Disclosure of Information: approved by the Board of Directors in April 2013, it promotes transparency in the fair disclosure to the market of material acts and facts, curbing privileged access to this information. Securities Trading Policy: also approved by the Board in April 2013, it aims to curb the use of inside information in the trading of securities issued by the Company. Bylaws: establishes Oi’s business purpose and the powers of the General Assembly, the Board of Directors, Executive Officers, and the Fiscal Council. Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors: addresses the operation and composition of the Board of Directors and the conduct, duties, obligations, and responsibilities of its members. 26 Corporate Governance Transparency policy (fair disclosure) aims to prohibit the selective disclosure of nonpublic material information to individuals or groups. menu Sustainability Policy: brings together 25 principles that guide business practices in the pursuit of economic and financial profitability with social responsibility and commitment to the environment. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 GRI 4.8 Corporate Essence MISSION VISION PRACTICES To surprise our Customers To be the Customers’ preferred Customer at the center of every day with simple Telecom, offering complete everything | Surprising people | solutions for communicating services with excellence Making things happen with and connecting excellence | Sustainable results 27 Corporate Governance 2.2.3. Governance structure menu GRI 4.1 Guided by these principles, Oi’s various organs of corporate governance operate within their specific roles and responsibilities in Annual Sustainability Report 2013 order to ensure the continuity of the Company and the sustainability of its results. The Ordinary General Meeting, which takes place in the first quarter of each year and by special meetings as needed, decides on the appointment of board members, approves the Company’s accounts (Financial Statements), the allocation of net income, and the remuneration of the board members. It should also address any matters within its jurisdiction under the terms of the Brazilian Corporation Law, such as strategic issues involving pooling, merger, and split or changes in Oi’s share capital. On March 21, 2013, an Extraordinary General Meeting was held that approved the Board’s proposal to give a bonus of redeemable shares. On the same date the Annual General Meeting approved the proposal on the allocation of income, election of the Fiscal Council, the remuneration of the directors and counselors, and the vote on the Board of Directors’ Report and Financial Statements. The Company is governed by a Board of Directors, a Board of Executive Officers, and a Permanent Fiscal Council. Six non-statutory committees advise the Board of Directors. No director holds, directly or indirectly, more than 1% of the shares of any type or class of the Company’s capital stock. The remuneration of the governance executives includes fixed and variable compensation based on short and long-term incentives. The members of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council receive fixed compensation only. Non-Statutory Directors receive compensation based on short-term incentives and Statutory Directors receive compensation based on short and long-term incentives. GRI 4.5 28 Corporate Governance The short-term incentives are bonuses that aim to recognize the individual performance of the executives based on the year’s business menu plan. The long-term incentives on the other hand are equivalent to stock-based compensation that aims to promote the engagement of the executives to the Company’s Business Plan for the period of Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2012-2015, ensuring the permanence of these professionals in the medium to long term. Boards and Committees SHAREHOLDERS MEETING BOARD OF FISCAL DIRECTORS COUNCIL INDEPENDENT FINANCE, MONITORING AND AUDITORS BUDGET COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE HR AND COMPENSATION OFFICERS COMMITTE INTERNAL AUDITORS RISK AND CONTINGENCIES DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ENGINEERING & NETWORKS, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION, AND SERVICE OFFERING COMMITTEE 29 Corporate Governance 2.2.3.1. Fiscal Council menu Oi’s Fiscal Council is of a permanent nature and is made up of three to five members and equal number of alternates. It holds regular meetings monthly and extraordinarily when needed. It is up to this body to inspect the activities of the Board of Directors and of the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Executive Officers, check the effectiveness of the internal controls and efficiency of the operations (in accordance with the US SarbanesOxley Act) and carry out the role of the Audit Committee, meeting the requirements of the SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) registration. The Fiscal Council is also responsible for evaluating confidential reports and anonymous complaints related to accounting, auditing, and controls received by the Complaints Channel that is available on the Company’s website for the general public, primarily, as well as for shareholders and employees. Oi also provides contacts of the IR team (phone and email) to provide all necessary support to shareholders. Another mechanism of bringing shareholders and management closer together is through the voting power in the Annual Meetings. GRI 4.4 COMPOSITION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL ON DECEMBER 31, 2013 MEMBERS ALTERNATES Allan Kardec de Melo Ferreira Newton Brandão Ferraz Ramos Sidnei Nunes Aparecido Carlos Correia Galdino Umberto Conti Carmela Carloni Gaspar Marcos Duarte Santos Peter Edward Cortes Marsden Wilson Manuel Jeremias Leite Caldas Vanessa Montes de Moraes 30 Corporate Governance 2.2.3.2. Board of Directors menu The Board of Directors is composed of 16 members and 14 alternates with two-year terms, reelection being permitted. There is no process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Board members as this is defined by the body itself with support from the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Administrative Department. GRI 4.7 The Board meets ordinarily once a month and extraordinarily when called by its Chairman or by two counselors. This group has the responsibility to approve the annual budget, the plan of targets and of Oi’s business strategy, monitor the performance of the executives, and decide on corporate matters that require their involvement. Six Committees formed by counselors of the board and of the fiscal council assist the Board of Directors in deciding on specific topics: financial risk management, finances, monitoring, and budget; human resources and compensation; risks and contingencies; disclosure; and engineering & networks, technology & innovation, and offerings of services (which also involves Oi’s CEO). The conflict of interests within the Board is prevented by the prohibition of appointing members holding positions in companies considered market competitors or have interests that conflict with those of the Company. New counselors undergo a specific process of orientation and continuing education for them to get to know in-depth Oi’s business, strategy, risks, and guidelines of conduct and governance. During the year 2013, the Board of Directors convened 21 times. GRI 4.6 31 Corporate Governance GRI 4.3 menu COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON DECEMBER 31, 2013 MEMBERS ALTERNATES José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha (Presidente) José Augusto da Gama Figueira Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Alexandre Jereissati Legey Carlos Francisco Ribeiro Jereissati Antonio Cardoso dos Santos (Membro Independente) Vago Armando Galhardo Nunes Guerra Junior Paulo Marcio de Oliveira Monteiro Carlos Augusto Borges Emerson Tetsuo Miyazaki Carlos Fernando Costa Marcelo Almeida de Souza Cristiano Yazbek Pereira Erika Jereissati Zullo Fernando Magalhães Portella Carlos Jereissati Fernando Marques dos Santos Laura Bedeschi Rego de Mattos José Valdir Ribeiro dos Reis Luciana Freitas Rodrigues Luis Miguel da Fonseca Pacheco de Melo Vago Pedro Jereissati Cristina Anne Betts Rafael Cardoso Cordeiro André Sant’Anna Valladares de Andrade Renato Torres de Faria Carlos Fernando Horta Bretas Sérgio Franklin Quintella Bruno Gonçalves Siqueira Shakhaf Wine Abilio Cesário Lopes Martins 2.2.3.3. Executive Officers The Board of Executive Officers is composed of the Chief Executive and Financial Officer and can include another eight other members appointed by the Board of Directors. Its job is to enforce the decisions from the General Meeting and of the Board, approving and executing the activities necessary for the Company’s operation. It is up to the CEO to periodically report to the Board the proposals and providing any pertinent accountability. 32 Corporate Governance 2.2.3.4. Internal Auditing menu Oi’s Internal Audit is subject to the Board of Directors and, indirectly, the CEO of the Company. It covers all the business and considers aspects of corporate responsibility in accordance with the principles and best practices recognized by the Institute of Internal Auditors. It Annual Sustainability Report 2013 is structured into three areas—IT & Operations, Compliance, and Processes & Business—as well as having a team specialized in sophisticated data mining and programming techniques that supports the auditors. The annual work plan of this department is approved by the Board of Directors through the Risk and Contingencies Committee and by the Fiscal Council. 2.2.3.5. Advisory Committees The Disclosure Committee oversees management of risks and internal controls and the flow of disclosing the Company’s public information, making sure it is within the legal standards as well as ensuring the reliability of the managerial, financial, and operational data. Among the documents validated by this body are the Management Report and the reports submitted to CVM (Securities Commission), SEC, and to Anatel. DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Bayard de Paoli Gontijo Maria Gabriela Campos da Silva Menezes Suzana Santos Flavio Nicolay Guimarães Nuno Filipe Carnaz Cadima The Financial Risks Committee oversees the framework of the hedge and investments policy as well as approves new forms of derivative transactions and the term of the investment fund managers. 33 Corporate Governance FINANCIAL RISK COMMITTEE COO menu CFO Treasury Director Control Officer Annual Sustainability Report 2013 New Business Director The Finance, Monitoring and Budget Committee focuses on the financial aspects of strategic planning, financial strategy, annual budget, tax planning, and business performance. FINANCE, MONITORING, AND BUDGET COMMITTEE Alexandre Jereissati Legey Daniel Gonçalves Pereira Emerson Tetsuo Miyazaki Fernando Magalhães Portella José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Rafael Cardoso Cordeiro Renata Eichler Ribeiro Renato Torres de Faria Shakhaf Wine Virgínia Cavalcante de Melo The Human Resources and Compensation Committee advises the Board of Directors on matters related to human resources, issues associated to major changes to the organizational structure, compensation strategy, and performance assessment. HUMAN RESOURCES & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Armando Galhardo Nunes Guerra Bruno da Silva Almeida Carlos Jereissati Daniel Gonçalves Pereira Emerson Tetsuo Miyazaki José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Laura Bedeschi Rego de Mattos Shakhaf Wine 34 Corporate Governance The Risk and Contingencies Committee assists on issues related to the performance of Internal Audit, compliance with laws, regulations, menu policies, and code of conduct, the process of disclosing information, managing corporate risks, as well as managing and controlling contingencies. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 RISK AND CONTINGENCIES COMMITTEE Daniel Gonçalves Pereira José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Emerson Tetsuo Miyazaki Bruno da Silva Almeida Pedro Guimarães e Melo de Oliveira Guterres Rafael Cardoso Cordeiro Sidnei Nunes Vanessa Gomes Ferreira The Engineering & Networks, Technology & Innovation, and Service Offering Committee is related to the operational aspects of strategic planning, commercial strategic positioning of business units, operational quality indicators, innovation cycle and new businesses, partnership opportunities with suppliers and other entities, network and platform strategies, IT architecture, opportunities for collaboration and synergies with the operating partner. The Committee sets the priority subjects to be discussed every year. ENGINEERING & NETWORKS, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION, AND SERVICE OFFERING COMMITTEE Alan Adolfo Fischler Alexandre Jereissati Legey Armando Galhardo Nunes Guerra Cristiano Yazbek Pereira Emerson Tetsuo Miyazaki Fernando Magalhães Portella José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Pedro Guimarães e Melo de Oliveira Guterres Rafael Cardoso Cordeiro Renato Torres de Faria Shakhaf Wine Daniel Pereira Gonçalves Virgínia Cavalcante de Melo Zeinal Bava 35 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2.2.3.6. Executive Group on Sustainability GRI 4.9 Sustainability management in Oi’s business is coordinated by the Executive Group on Sustainability made up of members from the areas of Investor Relations, Property, Logistics, Human Resources, Network Operations, Network Development and Engineering, Corporate Communication, Procurement, and Oi Futuro. In addition to integrating the theme of sustainability into the strategic direction, the Executive Group evaluates the management of the socio-environmental risks, recommend the continuance of and/or adopting new public commitments, define the stakeholder relations strategy, and leverage sustainability actions. It also monitors performance through following up indicators, evaluating investments in sustainability such as sponsorships, new business, products and services, and also keeps the Sustainability Policy up-to-date. To learn more about Oi’s governance, go to Reference Form at www.oi.com.br/ir. 36 Corporate Governance 2.3. Risk management menu GRI 1.2 Despite the interesting growth rates in recent years, especially in relation to other markets, and the level of competitiveness of the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 telecommunications sector, this market has not yet reached a high level of maturity. With only 15 years of operation through private concessions, the segment suffers from front-end regulations that are out of step with the reality that is still in evolution in Brazil. Among the challenges in the sector are the laws in the various spheres of government (there are over 200 different city and state laws for the installation of mobile antennas alone) and the requirements of Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency) related to the general plans and the targets of universalization, competition, and quality. These conditions lead to the risk of incurring costs for noncompliance not covered by statutory rule effectively applicable and of an unfavorable relation between required investments and expected revenues. A highlight in 2013 was Anatel’s resolution that set up the Negotiation System of Wholesale Offers (SNOA). This is a single digital platform for buying and selling wholesale products (infrastructure of towers, ducts, leased lines, interconnections, local access, and roaming). With it the operations among operators gain more transparency and agility. This scenario also presents opportunities for operators. With regulatory initiatives of compensation, the companies in the telecommunications sector need to invest in programs such as Broadband in Schools and the National Broadband Plan (PNBL) intended to spread the use of Internet in Brazil. For Oi, this scope includes much more than compliance with the law because it is closely linked to the business and can facilitate the Company’s growth. 37 Corporate Governance ENTITIES THAT REGULATE OI’S ACTIVITY menu ANATEL | National Telecommunications Agency CADE | Administrative Council for Economic Defense CONAR | Self-Regulation Advertising Council ANCINE | National Motion Pictures Agency Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Oi’s risk management model is in alignment with the major market references on the subject such as the Brazilian Risk Management Standard (ABNT – NBR ISO 31000), Internal Control – Integrated Framework by Coso (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission), and CobiT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology). The management of market risks is guided by the Financial Risk Management Policy approved by the Board of Directors, which led to the creation of the Financial Risk Management Committee. Among the main aspects managed in this context are the exchange rate, interest rate, credit, and liquidity. To mitigate them, Oi keeps an intense discipline on financial management and has reduced its level of indebtedness. Instruments of hedge, investments in derivatives, and those pegged to the CDI variations are some of the other protection mechanisms adopted. The mapping of risks is based on the ISO 31,000 methodology, and the actions to mitigate them are implemented through appropriate controls and constant monitoring of the internal environment. Risks related to corruption were identified and then evaluated in 30 groups of the company’s processes such as sales and customer relations, investor relations, legal, regulatory, human resources, treasury, financial planning, financial controls, procurement & contracting, logistics, charging, billing, invoicing, credit & collection management, configuration and activation of services, installation and maintenance of resources in the field, information technology, as well as developing and launching products and offers. 38 Corporate Governance To comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Oi processes undergo external audit annually in accordance with menu representativeness of the related accounting records. In parallel to this, the Internal Audit examines all processes regardless of accounting record representativeness. This process is performed in the most relevant companies in the group, which correspond to 78% Annual Sustainability Report 2013 of operating revenue. GRI SO2 In 2013 Oi strengthened its risk management model by keeping up the operation of the Business Continuity Committee. Implemented in 2012 in accordance with ABNT NBR ISO 22,301, this Committee aims to mitigate potential risks that impact not only operations, but mostly society or the environment. OI’S RISK FACTORS From the Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies | Corporate reorganizations, levels of debt, judicial and administrative processes, reliability of the internal systems, security and maintenance of the network, execution of the expansion and improvement plans, loss of key members on the board of directors, lack of insurance coverage or hedge operations, and mandatory distribution of dividends. From the controlling shareholder | Incompatibility of interests in relation to the other shareholders. From suppliers | Level of dependence on strategic suppliers and possible contingencies arising from contracting service providers. From customers | Default on payment. From the sectors of activity | Intensification of the competition, technological changes (obsolescence of equipment, services, and technology), wrong perception of risk about alleged health risks from radio frequency emissions. From regulations | Changes in legal requirements, permits, and licenses, the possibility of non-renewal of concessions at the end of 2025, noncompliance with regulatory obligations and bills affecting freedom in offering products and services. 39 Corporate Governance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2.3.1. Social-environmental risks GRI EC2 Operational risks | Material damage to telecommunication networks, stations, towers, antennas, and administrative buildings caused by heavy rains, floods, landslides, winds, hurricanes, tornadoes, or lightning. | Reduced life of equipment because of the likelihood of increased humidity and salinity in the air. | Delays or interruptions of service in the event of damages and failures of network or equipment due to natural phenomena. | Declining productivity in the Company’s processes due to the possibility of employees affected by diseases or epidemics of a climatic origin receiving leaves. Financial risks | Lack of coverage for certain assets and rising costs, both related to contracting insurance to cover damages to equipment and facilities caused by natural phenomena, as well as the consumption of water and electricity due to the increase in the average temperature in regions where Oi operates. Strategic risks | Possible loss of customers and damage to the Company’s image due to failures, delays, and service disruptions caused by weather phenomena. Furthermore, there is the possibility of limiting the development and expansion of Oi’s network if a power shortage occurs due to climate changes. 40 Corporate Governance Compliance risks | Possibility of receiving significant regulatory sanctions (including fines or loss of concessions) for alleged menu noncompliance with the minimum quality targets and availability of service provided to customers and for the absence of clear inspection criteria. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2.3.2. Information Security GRI PR1 The initiatives to ensure information security apply especially to the areas of Business, Information Technology and Engineering and are aimed at supporting the development of products and services, defining technological standards across the network and raising awareness among teams. This work is based on legal standards and best and current control practices. The management of information security ensures the minimum safety requirements in research and development of products, as well as on the tests run prior to entering into production. It also works with any information made available from customers or external storage. This management was done on 100% of the analyses of the IT infrastructure projects delivered in 2013 such as Catalog, SFA, Inventory, Roaming, WFM, and New Mediation. This year there was an increase in the volume of safety analyses done by the IT department. The area also gave training to increase safety in the development of the Company’s applications. The information systems of the BI (Business Intelligence) area have access control by personal password and log of transactions. Access to reports containing personal client data require authorization from a manager, acting within the regulations of an information Confidentiality Agreement. The BI area also issues informative reports with client data, such as CPF (Individual Taxpayer’s ID) and call history, to be used as a basis for business analyses and decision making. 41 Corporate Governance 2.4. Intangible assets menu Because they represent important competitive advantages, Oi’s intangible assets are subject to numerous initiatives by the Company aimed at strengthening its market operations and improving internal processes. Among these assets, some deserve special mention: the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 brand, capillarity, human capital, the infrastructure of the information technology, and research & development. Most of all, Oi has been conducting some projects on these themes with support and sharing of experiences with Portugal Telecom. So, the experience of this important partner results in good ideas and accelerates the growth of the operator in Brazil. 2.4.1. Brand In 2013 Oi initiated a movement to reposition its brand from telecommunications to entertainment while keeping the customer’s needs as the main focus when making decisions. This change was natural after the period of gaining maturity in which the Company gained ground as the most complete company in the market and reflects a convergent view of the customer and product offer. Among the major efforts include a focus on young people since they have the highest presence on social networks and association of the brand with major events. (To learn more, go to the Customers section in the chapter on Social and Environmental Performance) 42 Corporate Governance 2.4.2. Coverage menu The Company is present throughout the country and has a Wi-Fi network THE COMPANY IS PRESENT composed of more than 520,000 hotspots. Oi still holds the largest THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY network of broadband access in the country, covering 5,477 municipalities, AND HAS A WI-FI NETWORK and operates a network of 330,000 kilometers of fiber optics. COMPOSED OF MORE THAN Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Its wide scope is also present in the sales and distribution channels. 520,000 HOTSPOTS. The Company has the following infrastructure for selling fixed telephony services: a telemarketing sales channel with 1,100 sales reps who answer more than 1 million calls per month, 3,400 door-todoor sales people, and Tele-agents channel with 600 sales positions. The distribution channels for mobile services include 9,100 retail stores, 184,000 certified establishments (pharmacies, supermarkets, newspaper stands, and similar stores), 189 own stores, 500 Oi franchised customer service stores and kiosks located in major shopping malls and other high-density areas throughout Brazil, 350 exclusive agent stores, and a telemarketing sales channel with 500 sales representatives. Small and medium enterprises are served by a specific channel of telemarketing sales (responsible for 620 sales representatives and 400 retention representatives) and about 200 franchised service offices with 1,400 sales representatives. Corporate customers rely on the Company’s direct sales team. 43 Corporate Governance 2.4.3. People Oi employees constitute a valuable and essential asset to fulfill the menu mission to fascinate and surprise customers with innovative products and quality services. The Company adopts the best practices of the market with its policies of well-being, health, safety, and development in order to increase the skills of its professionals Annual Sustainability Report 2013 throughout the country and build sustainable results for its business. Get to know more in the Employees section in the chapter Social and Environmental Performance. 2.4.4. IT Strategic and essential to operate in the competitive market of telecommunications, Information Technology (IT) is one of Oi’s key intangible assets not only for expanding its network and developing innovative products and solutions for customers, but also for improving internal processes focused on operational efficiency, reducing costs, and increasing the quality of the services provided. Examples of IT’s strategic contribution to the Company’s success was the launch in 2013 of the second phase of the innovative services in the cloud (SmartCloud) for the corporate segment. This launching, which marks the sum of synergies between Oi and Portugal Telecom, reinforced the cutting edge that the Company has in the market of cloud computing. That same year, Oi concluded the SAP Consolidation Project to unify and standardize the business processes supported by the SAP business management system (accounting & financial, asset & logistics, project management, etc.) in a single working platform. Considered one of the largest migration projects in the world, it involved running 8,500 integrated tests and the training of almost 1,000 people including employees and third parties. 44 Corporate Governance 2.4.5. Research & Development menu Technological innovation is a fundamental requirement and condition for the continuity of the business and market leadership in an industry such as telecommunications, which is highly competitive and strongly influenced by the constantly evolving digital technologies. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Because of this, Oi allocates investments in research and development, according to regulatory requirements, in projects closely linked to its strategy. In 2013 these investments totaled R$ 123 million in 56 projects. Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 2.4.5.1. Inova Program The area of ​​Innovation and New Business has the mission to promote SINCE 2012, THE INOVA innovation within the Company and develop projects according to the PROGRAM ENCOURAGES demands of the business and operations areas. Since 2012, the Inova EMPLOYEES TO GIVE Program encourages employees to give suggestions of ideas and SUGGESTIONS OF IDEAS innovations focused on reducing costs, increasing efficiency, AND INNOVATIONS FOCUSED and on sustainability. ON REDUCING COSTS, INCREASING EFFICIENCY, The Inova Program is broken down into three Innovation Factories. AND ON SUSTAINABILITY. Incremental Innovation Factory has a short-term focus, encouraging a culture of innovation in day-to-day processes at Oi. Planned Innovation 45 Corporate Governance Factory develops projects to implement innovative products, services, and processes at Oi (focus on the medium term). And Exploratory menu Innovation Factory evaluates the placement of new trends, technologies, and business models that can be implemented in the long term. At the Incremental Innovation level, the proposals are placed on an Annual Sustainability Report 2013 internal virtual environment (Market for Ideas) where other employees can support them or not. Those that are voted on the most are assessed by a team of specialists and implementation plans may be developed. By the end of 2013, the initiative brought together about 5,000 employees and 1,900 ideas. 2.4.5.2. Partnerships The projects of developing solutions or products are conducted with the support of research institutions and business incubators. In some cases Oi Futuro is involved with the knowledge and dedication of young people benefited from Oi Kabum! School of Art and Technology and by the Advanced Education Center (Nave). Most initiatives still have a partnership with Portugal Telecom. Among the actions recently taken are the partnership with Fon global community (Wi-Fi hotspots), new applications (Minha Oi and Oi Ligou), and the deployment, even though in a pilot stage, of Wi-Fi in public telephone booths. Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 46 FINANCIAL menu & OPERATING PERFORMANCES Annual Sustainability Report 2013 IN THE YEAR 2013, NET REVENUE TOTALED R$ 28.4 BILLION, R$ 280 MILLION MORE THAN IN 2012 (+1%), REPRESENTED BY INCREASED REVENUE FROM THE RESIDENTIAL SEGMENT WITH THE GROWTH OF FIXED BROADBAND AND PAY TV, AS WELL AS FROM THE PERSONAL MOBILITY SEGMENT WITH AN INCREASE IN THE RECHARGE VOLUME AND DATA PACKAGES AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES (VAS). 3.1. KEY HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 48 3.2. OPERATING RESULTS 56 47 Financial & Operating Performances menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Total access of telecommunication services in Brazil came to approximately 350.6 million in late August 2013 according to data 350.6 million MILLION WAS THE from Anatel (National Telecommunications Association) with 44.5 TOTAL ACCESS TO million fixed lines in operation, 268.4 million mobile users, 20.4 million TELECOMMUNICATION fixed broadband internet users, and 17.3 million pay TV users. The SERVICES IN BRAZIL evolution of 2.8% in total accesses compared to 2012 was driven IN 2013 primarily by net additions from the mobile products segment. The Brazilian fixed telephony market recorded in 20133 a growth in the number of lines of 0.4% over December 2012. Because it is a mature market, its growth is only marginal because of the global trend of traffic migration from fixed to mobile telephony. Fixed telephony concessionaires represented 66% of total fixed lines operating in 20134. With 271.1 million users in December 2013 and a penetration rate of 136.4%, the Brazilian mobile telephony market recorded a net addition of 9.3 million users (3.5% more than in 2012). The pre-paid segment represented 78% of total mobile users in December 2013 (80.5% in 2012), while post-paid users accounted for 22% of the total mobile base. Fixed broadband internet access continued to be one of the sector’s growth drivers in 2013. At the end of 20135, the user base reached about 20.9 million accesses, revealing an 11.1% growth against 2012 (December), which represented 2.1 million new users. 3. Data from Anatel from August 2013 4. Data from Anatel from August 2013 5. Data from Anatel from November 2013. 48 Financial & Operating Performances In December 2013, the user base of Pay TV services showed an increase of 1.8 million, which is a growth of 11.3% in 2013 (27.0% in menu 2012). At the end of 2013, accesses to Pay TV totaled 18 million subscribers. This evolution was driven by the increased options of packages targeted to lower purchasing-power levels of the population in Brazil, where there is still a strong market potential in Annual Sustainability Report 2013 the country. The penetration rate relative to total inhabitants reached 29% (27% in 2012), which proves the growth potential of this market. Accesses through DTH (Direct to Home) technology accounted for 70.1% of new users followed by cable technology with 36.6%. The newcomers in the market, including Oi, use the DTH technology. 3.1. Key highlights in 20136 • Investments of R$ 6.3 billion, of which 75% was spent on improving and expanding the network. • 1% growth in net revenue resulting from growth in fixed broadband and pay TV in the residential segment and an increased revenue from Personal Mobility services. These increases, however, were partially offset by the cut in interconnection rates, reduced sales of handsets, and lower revenues in the Corporate/SME segment. • 8% increase in EBITDA compared to 2012, totaling R$ 9.6 billion, a result supported by a focus on quality sales, profitability, operational efficiency, and financial discipline. • Improvement of operating cash flow (EBITDA minus investments). • Net income of R$ 1.49 billion. • Net debt of R$ 30.4 billion. • 0.2% growth in Revenue Generating Units (RGU) totaling R$ 74.5 million at the end of 2013. 6. To facilitate the understanding of the business, Oi presents its pro-forma consolidated earnings of the 12 months of 2012, equivalent to the information from the former Tele Norte Leste Participações S.A., of physical numbers, incomes, costs, expenditures (EBITDA), and investments for first two months of 2012 49 Financial & Operating Performances CONSOLIDATED RESULTS REVENUE GENERATING UNITS ('000) 20122 2013 VARIATION (%) menu Residential 18,337 17,837 (2.7) Personal Mobility 46,305 47,727 3.1 Corporate/SME 8,971 8,246 (8.1) Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Public Telephones 727 655 (9.9) Total 74,339 74,466 0.2 NET REVENUE (R$ MILLION) 2012 2013 VARIATION (%) Residential 9,974 10,303 3.3 Personal Mobility 9,102 9,290 2.1 Corporate/SME 8,510 8,456 (0.6) VAS and Others 556 374 (32.7) Total 28,142 28,422 1.0 EBITDA 8,873 9,583 8.0 EBITDA Margin (%) 31.5% 33.7% 2.2 pp EBITDA of Routine1 n.d. 7,576 EBITDA Margin of Routine (%)2 N/A 26.7% Net Income 1,785 1,493 (16.4) Net Debt 25,068 30,416 21.3 Available Cash 7,804 3,931 (49.6) CAPEX 6,564 6,250 (4.8) 1. In 2012, the Company did not use the concept of EBITDA of routine. 2. Figures restated proforma. Net income for 2012 refers to 10 months of results of Oi S.A. and 2 months of results of former BrT. 3.1.1. Net income In the year 2013, net revenue totaled R$ 28.4 billion, R$ 280 million more than in 2012 (+1.0%), represented by increased revenue from the residential segment with the growth of fixed broadband and pay TV, as well as from the Personal Mobility segment with an increase in the recharge volume and data packages and Value Added Services (VAS). These increases more than offset the effects of the drop in the MTR1 and lower revenues from fixed lines in the Residential and Corporate/ SME segments. 7. Mobile Termination Rates amounts charged for use of the Mobile Operator’s network that the Fixed or Mobile Telephone Operator pays per Fixed-to-Mobile or Mobile-to-Mobile call (interconnection fee). 50 Financial & Operating Performances 3.1.2. Costs and expenses menu In 2013, the Company’s costs and operating expenses totaled R$ 18.8 billion, down 2.2% compared with 2012. Interconnection costs reached R$ 4 billion, 10.1% less than in 2012 mainly because of the reduction of the MTR rate and the lower off-net traffic. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Expenses with personnel totaled R$ 2.5 billion, an increase of 21.7% compared to 2012 due to increased headcount (insourcing part of the maintenance operations of Oi’s internal network) and the payment of salary bonus related to 2012 and the annual wage increase adjustment for inflation. For the year, the costs of third-party services totaled R$ 8.4 billion, an increase of 1.9% over the previous period. This performance is a reflection of the expenses from consulting companies due to the implementation of the BPO project for back-office operations, the adjustment of contracts due to inflation, and a greater acquisition of content for pay TV in 2013, partially offset by lower electricity tariffs and less expenses with commissions and sales. Costs with publicity and advertising totaled R$ 539 million, 13.5% higher than in 2012 due to spending on the launch of Oi Galera, Oi Sorte na Palma da Mão campaign, the sponsorship of the Rock in Rio, and expenses with media related to the FIFA Confederations Cup, an event which was sponsored by Oi and the official supplier of telecommunications and IT services. Rent and insurance expenses totaled R$ 2.1 billion. In comparison with the year 2012, there was an increase of R$ 254 million primarily due to higher rental expenses of towers, expenses related to divestitures in 2013, to the lease of real estate and vehicles for the insourcing of the internal plant, and due to annual contractual increases. 51 Financial & Operating Performances 3.1.2.1. Provisions for Bad Debt menu Provisions for bad debt totaled R$ 850 million, an increase of 42.9% or R$ 255 million compared to 2012 due to sales growth occurred in 2012 together with the deterioration of the macroeconomic scenario in 2013. For the year, the provision was at 3.0% of the annual net Annual Sustainability Report 2013 revenue against 2.1% in 2012. The Company took steps in the second half of 2013 to improve the quality of the sales and efficiency of the charges mainly in the Residential and SME segments, reducing default on payments by 1.6% of the net revenue in the fourth quarter. These measures also included the adoption of more stringent credit policies for new customers. In 2013, Oi’s other operating expenses/income totaled R$ 165 million, representing an increase of R$ 1.2 billion compared to 2012, resulting primarily from the sale of the submarine cable company GlobeNet. BREAKDOWN OF OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES 2012 2013 VARIATION Z§(%) (R$ MILLION) Interconnection 4,414 3,966 (10.1) Personnel 2,016 2,453 21.7 Materials 156 221 41.7 SMP Handset Costs/Other (COGS) 542 515 (5.0) Third-Party Services 8,236 8,394 1.9 Publicity & Advertising 475 539 13.5 Rent and Insurance 1,813 2,067 14.0 Provisions for Bad Debt 595 850 42.9 Other Operating Expenses (Revenue), Net 1,021 (165) Total 19,269 18,839 (2.2) 52 Financial & Operating Performances 3.1.3. Debt & Liquidity menu The Company’s consolidated gross debt closed the year 2013 at R$ 34.3 billion. Foreign currency-denominated debt represented 41.1% of the total at the end of the fourth quarter. However, only 0.2%of the debt, equivalent to R$ 59 million (R$ 466 million in December 2012), Annual Sustainability Report 2013 had some exposure to currency fluctuations. Oi uses derivative transactions such as swaps and NDFs for protection against currency fluctuations for debts held in a foreign currency. The Company maintained its policy of managing costly liabilities so as to replace more expensive debts for funding at a lower cost. The financial strategy to improve its debt profile was also maintained: at the end of 2013, the average debt maturity was 4.3 years. The consolidated net debt closed the year 2013 at R$ 30.4 billion. BREAKDOWN OF GROSS DEBT IN 2013 (R$ MILLION) International Capital Markets 11,730 National Capital Markets 9,414 ECAs and International Development Banks 4,355 National Development Banks 6,356 Commercial Banks 4,528 Hedge and Borrowing Costs (2,036) Total Gross Debt 34,347 GROSS DEBT AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE (R$ MILLION) 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 onwards TOTAL Local Currency Amortization 3,256 2,324 3,789 4,119 2,720 5,080 21,288 Foreign Currency Amortization + swap 861 1,265 1,179 2,905 408 6,442 13,060 Total 4,116 3,589 4,968 7,024 3,127 11,523 34,347 53 Financial & Operating Performances DEBT (R$ MILLION) 2012 2013 menu Short Term 2,783 4,116 Long Term 30,088 30,231 Total Debt 32,871 34,347 In Local Currency 20,497 21,287 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 In Foreign Currency 12,849 14,566 Swaps (475) (1,507) Cash (7,804) (3,931) Net Debt 25,068 30,416 3.1.4. EBITDA 8% In 2013, EBITDA reached R$ 9.6 billion, an increase of 8.0% compared WAS THE GROWTH to 2012. The EBITDA margin was 33.7%, up 2.2 percentage points IN EBITDA COMPARED compared to 2012. TO 2012, REACHING R$ 9.6 BILLION IN 2013 3.1.5. Investments The investments made during 2013 totaled R$ 6.3 billion, a decrease of 4.8% compared to 2012. These values ​​include the capitalization of financial expenses related to interest on construction in progress (JOA) in the amount of R$ 250 million (in 2013) and R$ 324 million (in 2012). Excluding these financial expenses, investments would total R$ 6.0 billion in 2013 and R$ 6.2 billion in 2012. Of the total investments, R$ 4.7 billion (or 75%) was allocated to the network, especially for expanding and improving the quality of the 3G mobile network, improving the wireline for broadband services, optimizing the platform of the Oi TV product, and for deploying and expanding the 4G network. The item Others reached R$ 1.2 billion in 2013, a reduction of 15.9%, which reflected the acquisition of the 4G license in 2012. 54 Financial & Operating Performances INVESTMENTS (R$ MILLION) 2012 2013 VARIATION (%) menu Network 4,772 4,678 (2.0) IT Services 336 348 3.6 4G License + Others 1,456 1,224 (15.9) Total 6,564 6,250 (4.8) Annual Sustainability Report 2013 3.1.5.1. Sales of assets Another important movement was the sale of fixed and mobile towers, assets considered as non-core to the Company’s business, which started in late 2012. In July 2013, Oi announced the sale of the wholly-owned subsidiary of submarine fiber optic cables, GlobeNet, to the investment fund in infrastructure, BTG Pactual. In return, GlobeNet, whose network of 22,500 kilometers connects Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Bermuda, and the United States, will continue to provide connection services to Oi and its subsidiaries under a long-term contract. The transfer of the shareholding was completed in December. The Company also announced the sale to SBA Torres Brasil the rights to commercial exploitation and use of 2,113 towers of fixed telephony in July and the sale of 2,007 mobile telephony towers in December. The transactions include leasing the space on the towers through long-term contracts, which ensures the continuity of the provision of fixed and mobile services. 55 Financial & Operating Performances 3.1.6. Distribution of the Value Added menu GRI EC1 In 2013, Oi generated a consolidated added value of R$ 20.27 billion, with 50.7% of this total being allocated to the payment of taxes, Annual Sustainability Report 2013 fees, and contributions. STATEMENT OF ADDED VALUE (R$ 2012* 2013 MILLION) Gross Income 39,901 45,253 Gross income after deductions 33,992 37,961 Other incomes and expenses 1,445 2,209 Inputs acquired from third parties (14,443) (15,959) 20.27 billion Gross value added 20,994 24,211 Retentions Net value added produced by the (3,997) (5,303) R$ entity 16,997 18,908 WAS THE CONSOLIDATED Value added received as transfer VALUE ADDED BY OI IN 2013 (financial income) 2,262 1,357 WITH 50.7% OF THIS TOTAL Added value to distribute 19,259 20,266 Payroll and related accruals 1,997 2,025 BEING ALLOCATED TO THE Taxes, charges, and contributions 9,556 10,283 PAYMENT OF TAXES, FEES, Interest and financial charges 4,318 4,397 AND CONTRIBUTIONS Rent and Insurance 1,603 2,067 Minority Interest Employee profit sharing Dividends 446 Retained Earnings 1,339 1,493 * The balance in 2012 was changed due to the restatement of the balance sheet in 2013. Distribution of the value added in 2013 (%) 7.4% 10% Retained Employees 31.9% Outsourced 50.7% Government 56 Financial & Operating Performances 3.2. Operating Results menu A year of transformation: this is perhaps the most straightforward way to define what 2013 meant for Oi. The Company’s strategic shift came in full force and definitely put the customer at the center of attention, which prompted the launch of a bold plan to transform the field Annual Sustainability Report 2013 operations in pursuit of greater productivity, cost reduction, and customer retention. The main initiatives of this plan include the implementation of the Project Click, the internalization of what has been called the internal plant, and the multi-competence training of the field technicians. In the new model, the Centralized Operations Center takes on its strategic role in the management and control of the field activities. Also part of the strategy of operational improvement is the reorganization of processes and defining indicators that are more assertive and consistent. MAIN OBJECTIVES OF THE TRANSFORMATION IN THE FIELD OPERATIONS Deployment of WFM (Workforce Management) too Successful installation of seven out of ten sales Increase of over 20% in the productivity of field technicians (both our own and partner companies) Reached the highest reduction of complaints to Anatel Reduced by two percentage points the total cost of operation The Click project consists of adopting WFM management tool launched in the first half of 2013 and with completion expected in all Regions by June 2014. The new system allows you to optimize the route of customer service, giving more autonomy to technicians (reduction of travel time, better control of visits, and decrease in schedule failures). Furthermore, it provides more visibility of the field activities, which are tracked in real time by Oi’s operation managers. 57 Financial & Operating Performances The project demanded investments in the training of field staff in order to use the new system in the activities of operation and 20,000 IS THE NUMBER menu maintenance of the telecommunications equipment (fixed, mobile, OF CERTIFIED data, and satellite networks) and in the techniques of switching, PROFESSIONALS transmission, data network, IP network, mobile network (core and THAT DO THE access), and satellite network. Beginning in 2014, a new model will be Annual Sustainability Report 2013 INSTALLATION, implemented for certifying technicians in 25 labs of Oi’s Professional MAINTENANCE, Qualification Test Centers that are installed in all regions of the AND SERVICE REPAIR country. Since 2000, 20,000 professionals have been certified that do ON THE NETWORK the installation, maintenance, and service repair on the network. By the end of 2015, the goal is to certify another 20,000 technicians in the new model. The increase in productivity in the field operations also means more sustainable operations. Productive technicians require less travel time to the homes of clients, which reduces fuel consumption, and the more the contacts between the technician and the company are digital also leads to reduction in paper consumption. 3.2.1. Residential Oi closed 2013 with 17.837 million Revenue Generating Units (RGUs) in the residential segment. The drop of 2.7% compared to 2012 was driven by a 5.8% annual reduction in the number of fixed lines in service, which annulled the expansion of pay TV (+9.5%) and the growth of fixed broadband (+3.1%). Both the reduction in the number of fixed lines as well as the deceleration of the expansion of pay TV and broadband are reflections of the change in the Company’s positioning to focus on the quality of its customer base. The Company adopted a more conservative business strategy, reviewing its credit policies and sales processes, resulting in lower gross additions. On the other hand, the strategy based on bundling (offering convergent services), the initiatives to retain existing customers, and upselling efforts (offering additional services) resulted in the fall of the churn rate, in the growth of the ARPU (Average Revenue Per User), and a more reasonable level of default payments, leading to a profile of higher quality and profitability of the customer base. 58 Financial & Operating Performances In 2013, the net revenue from the Residential segment totaled R$ 10.3 billion, 3.3% more than in 2012, mainly due to a growth in the client menu base of broadband and Pay TV, which surpassed the drop in revenue from fixed voice. Still, there was a slowdown in the decline in revenues from fixed voice compared to that seen between 2012 and 2011. This deceleration is due to the successful strategy of offering Annual Sustainability Report 2013 convergent services with broadband, pay TV, and mobile through the Oi Conta Total billing strategy and the launch of new prepaid offers such as Oi Voz Total. KEY RESIDENTIAL RESULTS 2012 2013 VARIATION (%) Net Revenue (R$ million) 9,974 10,303 3.3 Revenue Generating Units (RGUs) (‘000) 18,337 17,837 (2.7) Fixed line in service 12,478 11,750 (5.8) Fixed Broadband 5,102 5,258 3.1 Pay TV 757 829 9.5 3.2.1.1. Wireline At the end of 2013, the customer base of fixed line in Oi’s Residential segment was 11.75 million and net disconnections totaled 728,000 fixed lines in 2013 compared to 568,000 in 2012. This increase was a result of a lower volume of gross additions due to a more conservative credit policy and the maintenance of strict involuntary churn policy during the second half of 2013, which is in line with the Company’s objective of improving the quality of its customer base. The retention rates showed improvement during 2013 by their initiatives focused on cross selling and offering products more suited to the customer’s use profile. The sales teams were mobilized to offer everything from a redesign of the fixed phone plan all the way to selling new broadband accesses and pay TV though bundled services, as well as plans in the Personal Mobility segment that promote fixed-mobile convergence. 59 Financial & Operating Performances The package deals Oi Conta Total and Oi Voz Total are two examples aimed to increase ARPU and reduce churn. Oi Conta Total (OCT) is a triple-play offer menu combining fixed line, broadband, and mobile postpaid and can be combined with pay TV (quadruple-play) and mobile data packages. Oi Voz Total is a double-play offer combining fixed line and prepaid mobile in order to improve the fixed-mobile convergence. All these offers have significantly lower churn Annual Sustainability Report 2013 rates compared to single products. Additionally, plans under contract where the customer accumulates discounts on monthly bills by staying in the base for the entire contract period of 12 months are also an important tool in controlling the churn rates. 3.2.1.2. Fixed Broadband Oi ended the year 2013 with 5.258 million RGUs of fixed broadband in the residential segment, which represented an increase of 3.1% compared to the end of 2012 and a total of 156,000 net additions in 2013. The penetration of Oi’s fixed broadband in homes with Oi products reached 44.2%, or 3.8 percentage points above the 40.4% recorded at the end of 2012. Together with pay TV, broadband plays an important role in increasing the profitability of the segment, whether through cross selling or upselling of convergent offers that encourage the reduction of churn in the segment. The average speed for broadband customers increased 18.8% YoY from 3.2 Mbps at the end of 2012 to 3.8 Mbps at the end of 2013. About 18% of the broadband RGUs have a speed equal to or greater than 10 Mbps. 60 Financial & Operating Performances These advances reflect Oi’s hard work at increasing the capacity of customer retention and profitability by investing in the expansion of menu coverage and capacity of its broadband network and speed upgrade. As a result, voluntary churn continued falling and showing the results of the strategy focused on improving the quality of the customer base. ABOUT 18 % Annual Sustainability Report 2013 3.2.1.3. Pay TV OF THE BROADBAND RGUS HAVE A SPEED Oi closed the year 2013 with 829,000 RGUs in the base of pay TV, an EQUAL TO OR EXCEEDING increase of 9.5% compared to 2012. This increase occurred even with 10 MBPS. the initiatives to focus on quality sales and the Company’s decision to relaunch Oi TV only in 2014 after the implementation of a new platform using the SES-6 satellite contracted in 2013. The SES-6 will expand Oi TV’s capacity of DTH and aims to improve the quality and signal coverage, enabling the Company to offer more channels in its programming scheduleand new services in the area of pay-per-view and interactivity. The additional capacity brought by the satellite is a competitive advantage that will sustain Oi’s growth in the medium and long term in pay TV via DTH. At the end of 2013, the penetration of Oi TV in homes with the Company’s products was 7% against 6% at the end of 2012. With the attractive offer of channels in HD at competitive prices, the segment of pay TV has a high potential for upselling within Oi’s portfolio due to the offer of various packages and channels a la carte with an impact on the sustainable growth of the residential ARPU and strategically important for the retention and loyalty of residential customers. 61 Financial & Operating Performances RESIDENTIAL ARPU The total number of households connected to the Oi network at the menu end of 2013 was 11.9 million, of which 58% (6.911 million) had more than one Oi product, an annual increase of 4.7 percentage points and a more significant growth in the number of homes with triple-play and quadrupleplay offers. With an increased exposure of Oi homes to fixed broadband and pay TV, the products with the highest upselling potential, the residential Annual Sustainability Report 2013 ARPU continued to grow, closing the fourth quarter of 2013 with an improvement of 6.8% over the closing of 2012. 3.2.2. Personal Mobility In 2013, the segment of Personal Mobility totaled R$ 9.3 billion of net revenue, an increase of R$ 188 million compared to 2012. This performance is due to the increase of average recharge of prepaid and higher consumption of data, especially in the prepaid segment, apart from an increase of 9.4% in the sales of handsets. The growth was partially offset by cuts in MTR, which resulted in a drop of 8.1% in revenues from network services. Oi closed 2013 with 47.727 million RGUs in this segment, which is an increase of 3.1% compared to 2012. This growth represented 1.422 million net additions with 1.186 million being prepaid and 236,000 RGUs being postpaid. Together with the 2.511 million RGUs from the Corporate/Small and Medium Enterprise segment, Oi’s mobile customer base ended the year with 50.238 million RGUs. PERSONAL MOBILITY 2012 2013 VARIATION (%) Net Revenue (R$ million) 9,102 9,290 2.1 Services/Customers 1 6,276 6,609 5.3 Network Usage 2,337 2,147 (8.1) Sales of handsets, sim cards and others 489 535 9.4 Revenue Generating Units (RGUs ‘000) 46,305 47,727 3.1 Pre-Paid Plans 39,832 41,019 3.0 Post-Paid Plans 2 6,472 6,708 3.6 1. Includes: subscriptions, calls originated, mobile long-distance, roaming, data, and value added services. 2. Includes: High value post-paid plans; Oi Controle; convergent mobile terminals (Oi Conta Total and Oi Internet Total), and 3G (mini-modem). 62 Financial & Operating Performances SHARED NETWORK Reduction of costs, of the environmental impact, and of the menu implementation schedule— just with these benefits alone the Radio Access BETWEEN 250 300 Network or RAN Sharing project between competitors Oi and TIM would be a good deal. But even more, this joint effort is unprecedented in Brazil and considered a global case of cooperation between competitors in the TO telecommunications sector. TONS OF MATERIAL Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Among the challenges of this technological model are the development of a series of practices and controls in order to allow for a transparent WERE SPARED WITH and efficient management of the services and network assets and fully meeting the targets set by regulators. Furthermore, as a guarantee for the THE 4G NETWORK parties and a CADE requirement, it was decided to hire Accenture through a SHARING PROJECT bid to manage the agreement between the operators. Gains with RAN Sharing • Suppression of 50% of the equipment • 250 to 300 tons of material saved • 37% reduction in energy consumption with an estimated savings of 384 kWh/month/site (equivalent to the average monthly consumption of nine homes) • Cut by half the likelihood of travel for maintenance and consequently fuel consumption 3.2.2.1. Pre-paid At the end of 2013, Oi’s prepaid customer base totaled 41.019 million RGUs, a 3% increase or 1.186 million RGUs in relation to the end of 2012. The prepaid segment is of strategic importance for the financial discipline and cash generation due to its characteristics such as scale, very low customer acquisition costs, no cost to issue invoice and billing, lack of default, and favorable impact on working capital. Oi seeks to leverage the use of voice and data by focusing primarily on clients with an active consumption and recharge profile. In 2013 there was strong recharge volume with record high in December. The volume of gross recharges increased by 5.3% yearover-year, which is a performance that is higher than the annual growth of 3% of the prepaid customer base. With this, the average recharge in the fourth quarter was the highest level since 2010 with a growth of 5.6% compared to same period last year. To stimulate the segment, the Company has an infrastructure capacity for processing recharges of 7,000 transactions per minute. 63 Financial & Operating Performances The consumption of mobile data in the prepaid segment maintained a consistent growth due to the sale of additional packages that menu complement the offers of customers and the use of active marketing tools. These initiatives resulted in an increase of revenue from prepaid data of 77% and of 32% in VAS revenue throughout 2013, and in the largest share of data usage on the consumption of recharges. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The Company started the deployment of the management platform of recharging campaigns in 2013. This tool creates, executes, and manages individualized campaigns for prepaid customers and control customers (one-to-one marketing concept). The tool allows you to send messages in real time to encourage customers to make purchase recharges and additional packages according to their profile and context, and is therefore more accurate in its offers. The improved performance in the recharge volume that Oi has shown is a direct result of using the new platform. 3.2.2.2. Post-paid Oi closed 2013 with 6.708 million RGUs in the postpaid of Personal Mobility, which is a growth of 3.6% when compared to the end of 2012. At the end of 2013, the postpaid segment represented 14.1% of the Personal Mobility base. At the close of 2013, the volume of subsidized gross additions in the postpaid segment amounted to less than 1% of total sales. The goal is to add more quality to the customer base and protect cash flow with more targeted subsidies, maximizing the segment through a sustainable growth in the postpaid base, besides improving the levels of churn. In the last quarters of 2013, revenue growth in the postpaid segment was higher than the increase of the respective RGUs, and the early churn fell about 20% compared to last year. The offer of loyalty programs have also supported the continued reduction of voluntary churn both in postpaid customers as well as in the customers with mobile access from Oi Conta Total. The new offer of Oi Conectado, which combines voice, data packages, unlimited SMS, and unlimited calls to Oi, demonstrates the growing power of attraction of data. 64 Financial & Operating Performances 3.2.2.3. 3G and 4G LTE Coverage menu Oi closed 2013 with 3G coverage in 891 municipalities (76% of urban population), an increase of 29% compared to the end of 2012 with an increase of 199 municipalities covered. This evolution is essential to increase the penetration of data in the customer base and sustain Annual Sustainability Report 2013 consistent revenue growth in mobile data. Oi offers data using the 4G LTE technology in 24 municipalities, including the 12 host cities of the FIFA World Cup™. MOBILE ARPU Mobile ARPU considers the total revenue from the mobile division (Personal Mobility + Corporate/SME) as if it was a separate company, which means it includes the revenue from the traffic between the mobile and wireline divisions (intercompany). Likewise, revenue from mobile long-distance calls (SMP) in the STFC license (fixed voice concession) is not included in that calculation. The amount is then divided by the average base to calculate the mobile ARPU. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the mobile ARPU was R$ 19.9, down 7.4% over the last quarter of 2012, despite a reduction in the interconnection rate of 11.3%. The lower revenue from interconnection was partially offset by higher revenue from data and the increased level of prepaid recharging. Excluding the interconnection revenue, mobile ARPU increased by 3.9% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. 3.2.3. Corporate/SME Oi closed 2013 with 8.246 million RGUs in the Corporate/Small and Medium Enterprise segment, down 8.1% compared to the end of 2012, THE ANNUAL NET INCOME a result from the focus on quality sales and continuous cleaning of FROM THE CORPORATE/SMALL the customer base. The base reduction is a consequence of the AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE Company’s strategy to focus on profitability, including a more rational SEGMENT REACHED use of handset subsidies, as well as the reassessment of sales processes in the pursuit of higher quality in the mix of customer additions. R$ 8.5 BILLION The annual net income of the segment reached R$ 8.5 billion with a reduction of 0.6% compared to the previous year due to solid operating results in 2012 in RGU numbers and a change in strategy throughout 2013, focusing on the quality of sales. 65 Financial & Operating Performances menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 MAIN RESULTS CORPORATE/ 2012 2013 VARIAÇÃO (%) SME Net Revenue (R$ million) 8,510 8,455 (0.6) Revenue Generating Units (RGUs ‘000) 8,971 8,246 (8.1) Fixed 5,422 5,105 (5.8) Fixed Broadband 594 630 6.1 Mobile 2,955 2,511 (15.0) 3.2.3.1. SmartCloud In its technology partnership with Portugal Telecom, Oi continued with its strategy of capturing synergies and taking advantage of its expertise in cloud to offer more robust services, seeking scale and availability of solutions, as well as reduced costs. In 2013, Oi presented to the Corporate/SME market its second phase of launches of cloud computing services, reinforcing the strategy of helping customers increase revenues and reduce costs by using this innovative technology. The new solutions will operate on the international network of datacenters belonging to Oi and Portugal Telecom, including the newly opened datacenter in Covilhã, one of the largest in the world. 66 Financial & Operating Performances 3.2.3.2. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) menu The segment of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) has been focused on quality sales and restructuring its framework of franchises and adopting its own stores for marketing offers. In 2013, the Company made changes to the commissioning policy of franchises by setting a condition Annual Sustainability Report 2013 for paying commissions based on the timely payment of the clients added. This initiative improved the quality of the base of franchises, who underwent a more rigid inspection process. The initiative also had an impact on the reduction of the total franchises and hence the salesforce in the segment, directly influencing the reduction of gross additions. However, the Company has already developed a new salesforce and a greater support of partners to increase gross additions in the future. Oi continues with its focus on the profitability of the customer base by improving the quality of its sales with initiatives such as a Quality Assurance Call (a call after the sale is made to confirm the order with the customer), the review of the commissioning model, and adjustments of current offers. The segment restricted the use of subsidies and has focused on the loyalty of existing customers. The highlight was the continued expansion of fixed voice (basic and advanced voice) and broadband services, which demonstrates the assertiveness of the convergence strategy in the segment. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the base of RGUs of wireline (basic and advanced voice) increased by 9.1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, which, even with a more restrictive policy on customer additions, continues to consolidate the reversal of the drop of fixed base in this segment. As for the broadband base, Oi closed the period with a growth of 9.8% over the same period last year, demonstrating the continued advancement of fixed broadband in SME segment. Regarding the mobile base, the SME segment dropped by 23.9% compared with the same period in 2012, reflecting a lower use of the subsidy policy. 67 Financial & Operating Performances 3.2.3.3. Corporate menu In the Corporate segment, the annual drop in RGUs was caused by insourcing employees of a vendor in the third quarter, which reduced the number of RGUs in this segment. In contrast, the number of RGUs in the personal mobility segment increased. These two movements are the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 result of the focus on the quality of the sale, reducing subsidies in search of profitability, especially when offering mobile telephony, and of the increase in sales volume in the fourth quarter of 2012. The performance of the annual revenue in the Corporate segment was higher than the market in all products. Revenue from data grew by 6.0% while the market saw an expansion of 2.8%. Revenue from mobile increased 9.3% versus 6.3% in the market. And while revenue from fixed telephony services fell 3.3%, the market as a whole fell by 8.5% in the comparison of the year to date. 68 SOCIAL-ENVIRONMENTAL menu PERFORMANCE GRI 4.12 | 4.13 | 4.15 | 4.16 | 4.17 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OI IS THE FIRST CARRIER AND THE FIRST BRAZILIAN PRIVATE COMPANY TO CLOSE A STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP THAT ENABLES A COMPLETE MANAGEMENT OF SOLID WASTES THROUGHOUT ITS SUPPLY CHAIN. THIS INITIATIVE WILL ALLOW THE COMPANY TO ANTICIPATE ITS COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL POLICY ON SOLID WASTE (PNRS). 4.1. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS 72 4.2. INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS 87 4.3. SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET 96 4.4. EMPLOYEES 97 4.5. CUSTOMERS 118 4.6. SUPPLIERS 132 4.7. OI FUTURO 136 69 Social-environmental Performance The management of the social, environmental, and economic impacts from Oi’s operations, products, and services involves the menu analysis of various aspects related to the environment, relations with public agencies and representatives of society, the relationship with its employees, customer satisfaction, and promoting growth and development of the telecommunications infrastructure in Brazil. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OI’S COMMITMENTS TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Trail: this is a program that promotes concepts of sustainability and seeks to engage employees in sustainable attitudes through an online platform of knowledge and training, and encourages the identification of corporate opportunities and actions related to the business. In 2013, 2,541 employees participated in the program. EPC (Companies for the Climate): since 2011, Oi is a member of the EPC, which is a permanent business platform for the transition towards a low carbon economy. EPC aims to assist member companies in their GHG management strategies and presents public policy recommendations for the low carbon economy in Brazil. ISCV (Innovation and Sustainability in the Value Chain): The Company participates in activities for stimulating innovation in sustainability in small and medium enterprises that are part of its value chain through the ISCV project, which was created in 2011 by GVces (Center for Sustainability Studies of the Getulio Vargas Foundation). The project aims to produce knowledge on innovation and sustainability, encourage the exchange of experiences, and mobilize companies to adopt sustainability strategies. CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project): Oi provides information voluntarily to CDP, a nonprofit organization with a global reach that seeks to strengthen the exchange of information between companies and shareholders about the impacts and business opportunities in climate changes. Emission inventory: since 2010, the Company has carried out a GHG (Greenhouse Gases) Emissions Inventory in order to quantify its emissions and identify the main sources. The inventory uses the tools of reporting and measuring emissions in accordance with the Brazilian Program GHG Protocol. The information is disclosed in the public record of emissions of the GHG Protocol and CDP, which is a global initiative for monitoring climate changes. Joint Cooperation Agreement against Pedophilia: in 2008, the Company joined the initiative that brings together telecommunications companies, the Federal Prosecutor’s Office, Federal Police, and the Safernet Brasil organization to prevent and combat crimes committed via the Internet against children and adolescents. The partnership covers diverse topics ranging from improving the techniques for identifying authors of crimes against children and adolescents and communication actions that aim to educate parents, children, and teens about the safe use of internet. Global Compact: Oi has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2009 and is permanently committed to adopting in its business practices the principles related to human rights, labor relations, the environment, and the fight against corruption. 70 Social-environmental Performance COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES MILLENNIUM GOALS menu 1. Respect and protect human rights 1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger 2. Prevent violations of human rights 2. Achieve universal primary education 1 RESPEITAR e apoiar os direitos humanos reconhecidos internacionalmente 2 ASSEGURAR a não participação da empresa em violações dos direitos na sua área da influência humanos 3. Support freedom of association in the workplace 3. Promote gender equality and empower women } } 4. Abolish forced labor 4. Reduce child mortality Annual Sustainability Report 2013 RESPEITAR ASSEGURAR 5. Abolish child labor 5. Improve maternal health e apoiar os a não 1 direitos humanos reconhecidos internacionalmente 2 participação da empresa em violações APOIAR ELIMINAR na sua área dos direitos humanos a liberdade todas 3 4 da influência de associação as formas } } e reconhecer de trabalho o direito à forçado 6. Eliminate discrimination in the workplace 6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases negociação ou compulsório coletiva RESPEITAR RESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR e apoiareosapoiar os a não a não 1 1 direitos humanos direitos humanos 2 2 participação participação 7. Support a preventive approach to environmental challenges 7. Ensure environmental sustainability reconhecidos reconhecidos da empresa da empresa internacionalmente internacionalmente em violações em violações na sua área dos direitos ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR na sua área dos direitos práticas efetivamente 5 humanos 6 da influência da influência humanos que eliminem todas as formas } }} } de trabalho qualquer infantil tipo de da sua cadeia discriminação produtiva no emprego 8. Promote environmental responsibility 8. Develop a global partnership for development 3 APOIAR a liberdade de associação e reconhecer o direito à 4 ELIMINAR todas as formas de trabalho forçado negociação ou compulsório coletiva 9. Encourage environmentally-friendly technologies RESPEITAR RESPEITAR e apoiar os e apoiar os ASSEGURAR a não ASSEGURAR a não 1 1direitos humanos direitos humanos reconhecidos reconhecidos internacionalmente 2 2 participação da empresa participação da empresa em violações APOIAR APOIAR ELIMINAR ELIMINAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery internacionalmente em violações dos direitos a liberdade a liberdade todas todas efetivamente práticas ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER 5 6 na sua área dos direitos 3 3 4 4 na sua área de associação que eliminem uma abordagem iniciativas humanos humanos de associação as formas as formas todas as formas 7 8 da influência da influência e reconhecer e reconhecer de trabalho de trabalho de trabalho qualquer preventiva e práticas } }} } o direitooàdireito à forçado forçado infantil tipo de responsável para promover negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório da sua cadeia discriminação e proativa e disseminar coletiva coletiva produtiva no emprego para os desafios a responsabilidade ambientais sócio-ambiental $ RESPEITARRESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR e apoiar os e apoiar os a não a não $ $ 1 1 2 2 direitos humanos participação participação direitos humanos reconhecidosreconhecidos internacionalmente da empresa da empresa internacionalmente em violaçõesem violações ERRADICAR ERRADICAR efetivamente efetivamente ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR práticas práticas INCENTIVAR 5 5 6 6 na sua área na sua área dos direitos dos direitos que eliminem que eliminem todas astodas formasas formas o desenvolvimento 9 da influência da influência humanos humanos de trabalho qualquerqualquer de trabalho e a difusão } } }THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES infantil infantil tipo de tipo de de tecnologias da sua cadeia da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação ambientalmente ACTIONS/INITIATIVES CORRELATION WITH CORRELATION WITH MILLENNIUM OBJECTIVES produtivaprodutiva no emprego no emprego responsáveis APOIARAPOIAR ELIMINAR ELIMINAR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER a liberdadea liberdade todas todas uma abordagem iniciativas 3 3 de associação 4 4 de associação e reconhecer e reconhecer o direito ào direito à as formasas formas de trabalho de trabalho forçado forçado 7 preventiva responsável e proativa 8 e práticas para promover e disseminar negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório para os desafios a responsabilidade coletiva coletiva ambientais sócio-ambiental DIREITOS HUMANOS DIREITOS DO TRABALHO MEIO AMBIENTE$ $ CORRUPÇÃO $ ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR APOIAR APOIAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER COMBATER RESPEITAR RESPEITAR ELIMINARELIMINAR ERRADICAR práticas práticas uma abordagem iniciativas INCENTIVAR a não a não a liberdade a liberdade todas todas efetivamente efetivamente uma abordagem iniciativas a corrupção 5 5 e apoiareosapoiar os o desenvolvimento 1 1 direitos direitos humanos humanos reconhecidos reconhecidos internacionalmente internacionalmente 22 participação participação da empresa da empresa em violações em violações 3 3 4 4 de associaçãode associação as formas as formas e reconhecere reconhecer de trabalho de trabalho o direito à o direito à forçado forçado todas as formas de trabalho de trabalho infantil infantil 6 6 todas as formas que eliminem que eliminem qualquer qualquer tipo de tipo de 7 7 preventiva preventiva responsável responsável e proativa e proativa 8 8 e práticase práticas para promover para promover e disseminar e disseminar 9 e a difusão de tecnologias ambientalmente 10 em todas as suas formas, incluindo da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação para os desafios a responsabilidade extorsão na sua área na sua área dos direitos dos direitos negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório da sua cadeia no emprego para os desafios a responsabilidade responsáveis da influência da influência humanos humanos coletiva coletiva produtivaprodutiva no emprego ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental e suborno } }} } $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 ESTIMULAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR INCENTIVAR 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ERRADICAR INCENTIVAR efetivamenteefetivamente práticas práticas o desenvolvimento 5 o desenvolvimento 5 todas as formas de trabalho de trabalho infantil 6 todas as formas infantil 6 que eliminemque eliminem qualquer tipo de qualquer tipo de 9 9 e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente da sua cadeiada sua cadeia discriminaçãodiscriminação responsáveis responsáveis produtiva produtiva no emprego no emprego COMBATER ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER a corrupção 10 X3 3 X X X X7 7 X X X X X X X uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas Education Program for Sustainability (Sustainability Trail) uma abordagem em todas APOIAR APOIAR ELIMINAR ELIMINAR preventivapreventiva responsável responsável e proativae proativa 8 8 e práticase práticas para promover e disseminar para promover e disseminar as suas formas, incluindo extorsão a liberdade a liberdade todas todas para os desafios para os desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade e suborno de associação de associação e reconhecer e reconhecer o direitooàdireito à 44 as formas as formas de trabalho de trabalho forçadoforçado ambientaisambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório coletivacoletiva $ $ Insertion of the Sustainability Module in the Generation Program (Trainees and members of the PDA) X X X X X X X X X X X X $ $$ $ COMBATER COMBATER ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR a corrupção a corrupção ERRADICAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR 7 uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas uma abordagem 7 preventiva preventiva 8 responsável responsável 8 e práticas e práticas para promoverpara promover 9 9 o desenvolvimento o desenvolvimento e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias 10 10 em todas em todas as suas formas, as suas formas, incluindoincluindo e proativa e proativa e disseminar e disseminar ambientalmente ambientalmente extorsãoextorsão efetivamente efetivamente práticaspráticas para os desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade e suborno 5 5 66 para os desafios responsáveis responsáveis e suborno X X X$ X X X X X X X X X X X X todas astodas as formas formas que eliminem que eliminem ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental Sustainability Policy qualquerqualquer sócio-ambiental de trabalho de trabalho infantil infantil tipo de tipo de da sua cadeia da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação produtivaprodutiva no emprego no emprego $ $ $ $ $ INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR Code of Ethics X X X X X X X X X X X X o desenvolvimento 9 o desenvolvimento 9 e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente responsáveis responsáveis COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção 10 10 em todas em todas Actions of Ethics Committee X X X X X X X X X X X as suas formas, as suas formas, incluindo incluindo ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER extorsão extorsão uma abordagem uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas e subornoe suborno 7 7 preventiva preventiva responsável responsável e proativa e proativa 88 e práticas e práticas para promover para promover e disseminar e disseminar para os para os desafios desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental Online training (e-learning) of Ethics X $ $ $ $ $ X $ 10 10 COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção em todas em todas as suas formas, as suas formas, X X X X X X X X X incluindo incluindo INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR extorsão extorsão o desenvolvimento o desenvolvimento e suborno e suborno 99 e a difusão e a difusão Sustainability in the Supply Chain X X X X X X X X X X de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente responsáveis responsáveis Oi Novos Brasis X X X X X X X X X X Oi Program of Cultural Incentive Sponsorships X X X X X X X X COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção 10 10 em todasem todas formas, as suas as suas formas, incluindo incluindo extorsãoextorsão e suborno e suborno Actions of Internal Auditing X X X X X X Inventory of GHG (Greenhouse gases) emissions X X X X X NAVE Advanced Center in Education X X X X X X X Sports Incentive Sponsorship X X X X X Freedom of Association to Unions, Collective Bargaining, Collective Working Agreements and Workday Agreements X X X X X Oi Kabum! Schools of Art and Technology X X X X X X Compliance to the corporate platform of Companies for the Climate (EPC) X X X X X Waste Management X X X X X Selective collection in the main administrative buildings X X X X X Channel on website for complaints X X X X Minha Oi X X X X RESPEITAR RESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR e apoiareosapoiar os a não a não 1 1 direitos humanos direitos humanos reconhecidos reconhecidos internacionalmente internacionalmente 2 2 participação participação da empresa da empresa em violações em violações dos direitos ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR na sua área na sua área dos direitos práticas efetivamente 5 humanos 6 da influência da influência humanos que eliminem todas as formas } }} } de trabalho qualquer infantil tipo de da sua cadeia discriminação produtiva no emprego APOIAR ELIMINAR a liberdade todas 3 de associação e reconhecer o direito à 4 as formas de trabalho forçado negociação ou compulsório 71 Social-environmental Performance coletiva RESPEITAR RESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR e apoiar os e apoiar os a não a não 1 1direitos humanos direitos humanos reconhecidos reconhecidos internacionalmente internacionalmente 2 2 participação da empresa participação da empresa em violações em violações APOIAR APOIAR a liberdade ELIMINAR ELIMINAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR práticas ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER dos direitos a liberdade todas todas efetivamente 5 6 na sua área dos direitos 3 3 4 4 na sua área de associação que eliminem uma abordagem iniciativas humanos humanos de associação as formas as formas todas as formas 7 8 da influência da influência e reconhecer e reconhecer de trabalho de trabalho de trabalho qualquer preventiva e práticas } }} } o direitooàdireito à forçado forçado infantil tipo de responsável para promover negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório da sua cadeia discriminação e proativa e disseminar coletiva coletiva produtiva no emprego para os desafios a responsabilidade ambientais sócio-ambiental $ RESPEITARRESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR e apoiar os e apoiar os a não a não $ $ 1 1 2 2 direitos humanos participação participação direitos humanos reconhecidosreconhecidos internacionalmente da empresa da empresa internacionalmente em violaçõesem violações ERRADICAR ERRADICAR efetivamente efetivamente ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR práticas práticas INCENTIVAR 5 5 6 6 na sua área na sua área dos direitos dos direitos que eliminem que eliminem todas astodas formasas formas o desenvolvimento 9 da influência da influência humanos humanos de trabalho qualquerqualquer de trabalho e a difusão } } } THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES infantil infantil tipo de tipo de de tecnologias da sua cadeia da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação ambientalmente ACTIONS/INITIATIVES CORRELATION WITH CORRELATION WITH MILLENNIUM OBJECTIVES produtivaprodutiva no emprego no emprego responsáveis APOIARAPOIAR ELIMINAR ELIMINAR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER a liberdadea liberdade todas todas uma abordagem iniciativas 3 3 de associação 4 4 de associação e reconhecer e reconhecer o direito ào direito à as formasas formas de trabalho de trabalho forçado forçado 7 preventiva responsável e proativa 8 e práticas para promover e disseminar negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório para os desafios a responsabilidade coletiva coletiva ambientais sócio-ambiental DIREITOS HUMANOS DIREITOS DO TRABALHO MEIO AMBIENTE$ CORRUPÇÃO menu RESPEITAR RESPEITAR ASSEGURAR ASSEGURAR APOIAR APOIAR ELIMINARELIMINAR ERRADICAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR práticas práticas ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER $ INCENTIVAR $ COMBATER a não a não a liberdade a liberdade todas todas efetivamente efetivamente uma abordagem uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas a corrupção 5 5 e apoiareosapoiar os o desenvolvimento 1 1 direitos direitos humanos humanos reconhecidos reconhecidos internacionalmente internacionalmente 22 participação participação da empresa da empresa em violações em violações 3 3 4 4 de associaçãode associação as formas as formas e reconhecere reconhecer de trabalho de trabalho o direito à o direito à forçado forçado todas as formas de trabalho de trabalho infantil infantil 6 6 todas as formas que eliminem que eliminem qualquer qualquer tipo de tipo de 7 7 preventiva preventiva responsável responsável e proativa e proativa 8 8 e práticase práticas para promover para promover e disseminar e disseminar 9 e a difusão de tecnologias ambientalmente 10 em todas as suas formas, incluindo da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação para os desafios a responsabilidade extorsão na sua área na sua área dos direitos dos direitos negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório da sua cadeia no emprego para os desafios a responsabilidade responsáveis da influência da influência humanos humanos coletiva coletiva produtivaprodutiva no emprego ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental e suborno } }} } $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 ESTIMULAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR INCENTIVAR 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ERRADICAR INCENTIVAR efetivamenteefetivamente práticas práticas o desenvolvimento 5 o desenvolvimento 5 todas as formas de trabalho de trabalho infantil 6 todas as formas infantil 6 que eliminemque eliminem qualquer tipo de qualquer tipo de 9 9 e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente da sua cadeiada sua cadeia discriminaçãodiscriminação responsáveis responsáveis produtiva produtiva no emprego no emprego Annual Sustainability Report 2013 COMBATER ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER X X X X ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER a corrupção Actions to reduce GHG (Greenhouse gases) emissions 10 uma abordagem uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas em todas APOIAR APOIAR ELIMINAR ELIMINAR 7 7preventivapreventiva responsável responsável e proativae proativa 8 8 e práticase práticas para promover e disseminar para promover e disseminar as suas formas, incluindo extorsão a liberdade a liberdade todas todas para os desafios para os desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade e suborno 33 de associação de associação e reconhecer e reconhecer o direitooàdireito à 44 as formas as formas de trabalho de trabalho forçadoforçado ambientaisambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental negociação negociação ou compulsório ou compulsório coletivacoletiva Actions to use less electric energy ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER $ $ $ INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR $$ $ X COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção X X X ERRADICAR ERRADICAR ESTIMULAR ESTIMULAR 7 uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas uma abordagem 7 preventiva preventiva 8 responsável responsável 8 e práticas e práticas para promoverpara promover 9 9 o desenvolvimento o desenvolvimento e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias 10 10 em todas em todas as suas formas, as suas formas, incluindoincluindo e proativa e proativa e disseminar e disseminar ambientalmente ambientalmente extorsãoextorsão práticaspráticas X X X X efetivamente efetivamente para os desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade e suborno 5 5 66 para os desafios responsáveis e suborno Actions to reduce water consumption que eliminem que eliminem responsáveis todas astodas as formas formas ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental de trabalho de trabalho qualquerqualquer infantil infantil tipo de tipo de da sua cadeia da sua cadeia discriminação discriminação produtivaprodutiva no emprego no emprego $ $ $ $ $ $ Collection and special disposal of batteries and handsets X X X X INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR o desenvolvimento 9 o desenvolvimento 9 e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente responsáveis responsáveis COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção Fleet Renewal Project 10 10 X X X X em todas em todas as suas formas, as suas formas, incluindo incluindo ASSUMIR ASSUMIR DESENVOLVER DESENVOLVER extorsão extorsão uma abordagem uma abordagem iniciativas iniciativas e subornoe suborno 7 7 preventiva preventiva responsável responsável e proativa e proativa 88 e práticas e práticas para promover para promover e disseminar e disseminar para os para os desafios desafios a responsabilidade a responsabilidade ambientais ambientais sócio-ambiental sócio-ambiental Using Returnable Envelopes $ $ COMBATER COMBATER a corrupção a corrupção X X X X 10 10 $ $ $ $ em todas em todas as suas formas, as suas formas, incluindo incluindo INCENTIVAR INCENTIVAR extorsão extorsão o desenvolvimento o desenvolvimento e suborno e suborno Collection and Forwarding of Donations to Institutions X99 X X X X X e a difusão e a difusão de tecnologias de tecnologias ambientalmente ambientalmente responsáveis responsáveis Broadband in Schools Program X X X X X Statement of Mutual Cooperation Against Pedophilia X 10 10 COMBATER COMBATER em todas a corrupção a corrupção em todas as suas as suas formas, formas, incluindo incluindo X X X X extorsãoextorsão e suborno e suborno Leadership Program for New Managers X X X X X Accessibility for Customers X X X X Sponsorship, supply, and actions at events of the Confederations Cup and FIFA World Cup 2014 X X X X Inova Program X X X Use of videoconferencing X X X Mapping of corporate risks X X Program for Pregnant Women X X X X Executive Group on Sustainability X X X Program for Healthy Living X X X Preventive Activities (Regular Exams, Health Education, Health in Action, Vaccination) X X X Campaigns to encourage blood and marrow donation X X X Agreement with the Brazilian Navy Antarctic Base X X X Public Disclosure of Reports, Results, Minutes, Acts, Material Facts, Announcements, and Filings X X Channel for Complaints of the Fiscal Council X X Environment of internal controls in conformity with Sarbanes-Oxley Certification X Information Security Management X Telecommunications Museum and Art Exhibits X X Compliance to the corporate platform of Innovation and Sustainability in the Value Chain X X X X X X X X X Recycling Factory X X X X X Doing More with Less program X X Employee Development Programs X X X X X X X X 72 Social-environmental Performance 4.1. Environmental aspects menu 4.1.1. Consumption of materials For the third year now, Oi has continued in the utilization of reusable envelopes for internal correspondence. The format of these Annual Sustainability Report 2013 envelopes make space for many senders and receivers, which makes it possible to use them 12 times before their disposal, reducing costs with printing labels and the amount of paper used. Some of the main savings reached with improvements in the materials for customer relationship are the reduction in the number of pages and changing the paper type of the Welcome Book (leaflets) as well as reducing the size and changing the type R$ 37.4 million WAS THE SAVINGS of packaging material of the SIM card (Rigid PVC to BOPP plastic). REACHED FROM Oi was also the first operator in Brazil to implement a Double Cut THE RECOVERY OF (two chips in one) SIM card in order to reduce SKUs (Stock Keeping APPROXIMATELY Unit) and consequently the amount of different plastics produced. 140,000 DECODERS The recovery of decoders after the closing of contracts with customers also minimizes the use of materials by the reuse of these in a specialized supplier. About 140,000 decoders were recovered in 2013 alone. Added to the 80,000 recovered in the previous year, this initiative has led to savings of around R$ 37.4 million. GRI EN27 73 Social-environmental Performance GRI EN1 CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS 2011 2012 2013 BY TYPE menu Packaging materials: Bags purchased for use in sales at stores (in units) n.d. 106,840 308,940 Flyers postal envelopes used in sending some Annual Sustainability Report 2013 products such as Chips, Devices, Modems, and small equipment. (in units) 698,764 842,456 776,984 Paper envelopes used when contracts are sent to customers (in units) 409,925 400,586 394,791 Cardboard boxes used to ship products when it is necessary to put the item in a mother box such as handsets, Mini Modem, Chips, Merchandising Material, engineering material, among others (in units) 327,727 412,825 417,659 Materials used in operations: Metal cables (in meters) 12,146,446.1 14,565,687.4 9,342,892 Optical cables (in meters) 17,217,860 20,942,268 10,347,696 Seam set (in units) 182,809 229,820 219,787 Wire (in meters) 211,752,316 242,453,229 221,023,489 Terminals (in units) 396,796 154,402 170,321 74 Social-environmental Performance GRI EN2 MATERIALS USED FROM 2011 2012 2013 RECYCLING (T) Reusable paper envelopes menu used for internal correspondence (quantity of items purchased for use) n.d. 40,000 40,000 Chips for mobile phones (in units) 27,462,584 29,214,120 29,605,537 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Recharge cards for prepaid mobile phones (in units) 1,132,660 2,079,790 5,598,930 Cards for Public Phones (in units) 77,094,100 43,583,388 16,950,290 Flyers postal envelopes used in sending some products such as Chips, Devices, Modems, and small equipment (in units) 698,764 842,456 776,984 Cardboard boxes used to ship products when it is necessary to put the item in a mother box such as handsets, Mini Modem, Chips, Merchandising Material, engineering material, among others 327,727 412,825 417,659 4.1.2. Waste Management GRI EN26 Various actions taken by the Company in recent years seek to encourage more careful use of natural resources and to lower the impacts caused by waste generation and disposal of materials. Oi is the first carrier and the first Brazilian private company to close a strategic partnership that enables a complete management of solid wastes throughout its supply chain. This initiative will allow the Company to anticipate its compliance with the National Policy on Solid Waste (PNRS). 75 Social-environmental Performance In 2013, 634,000 tons of waste were generated that were sent to certified companies to carry out the proper discarding, disposal, or menu recycling of the materials. Over 4,500 tons of scrap were sold for recycling, which included materials such as copper, aluminum, and iron, fiber optic cables, batteries, telephone cables, computer scrap, fiberglass, parts and accessories of public telephones, scraps of Annual Sustainability Report 2013 furniture, among others. In order to reduce the environmental impacts of its operations, Oi manages the materials disposed of (scrap) by its service providers and sales them to recycling companies approved by the environmental agencies. In 2012, 4,234.48 tons of scrap were sold for recycling, which included materials such as copper, aluminum, and iron, fiber optic cables, batteries, telephone cables, computer scrap, fiberglass, parts and accessories of vandalized public telephones, scraps of furniture, among others. All these materials were sent for recycling. GRI EN22 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY TYPE 2011 2012 2013 AND DISPOSAL METHOD Landfill (tons) 356,689 724,362 590,137 Recycling by selective collection in the administrative buildings (in tons) 2,059.00 131.15 38,339.06 Recycling for the sale of scrap 77.094.100 43.583.388 16.950.290 (in tons) 3,010.14 4,234.48 5,406.49 Recycling of phones, batteries, and accessories (in items) 43,000 43,782 5,834 Recycling of light bulbs (in items) n.d. 14,981.00 22,680.00 Various waste sold to auction n.d. 269.752 57.770 (in items) n.d. 269,752 57,770 76 Social-environmental Performance Oi’s hazardous waste are stationary batteries that are sent for recycling. In 2013, 1,882,900 tons of stationary batteries were menu recycled compared to 2,149,400 tons in 2012 and 1,366,500 tons in 2011. Other 430 tons of stationary batteries (used in antennas) were sent to repurchase by a vendor certified in handling, storing, collecting, transporting, and recycling them. The supplier must Annual Sustainability Report 2013 comply with existing environmental standards, as well as carry out the monitoring and adoption of any corrective actions necessary. Since 2011, the selection of companies for transportation prioritizes those that hold an ISO 14001 environmental accreditation and vehicles powered by biodiesel or ethanol. GRI EN22 | EN24 | EN29 GRI EN24 At the Company’s administrative buildings, 38,339.06 tons of Hazardous waste recyclable materials were collected by means of the selective waste transported (t)* program. In 2013, the Company also eliminated the individual trash cans for each employee and created ecopoints, which considerably 2011 430 reduced the consumption of plastic trash bags. The Company also 2012 2,204 uses auctions to sell furniture, computer equipment, telephone equipment, outdated or defective cell phones, generators, and 2013 1,373 forklifts. In 2013, 57,770 items were auctioned. * Almost all the hazardous waste refers to stationary batteries. Oi sets up collection bins in its stores for the collection of handsets, batteries, and accessories, in addition to collecting batteries in 40 administrative buildings. These initiatives aim to encourage consumers and employees to dispose of this waste correctly, avoiding pollution of the soil, streams, and other natural environments. The Company carries out communication campaigns through advertisements in newspapers, magazines, internet, and radio spots, as well as publishes on its website the list of collection points across the country. In 2013, 5,834 items were collected. The collections in the stores began now to be on demand, meaning that the store should wait until the bin’s capacity is 80% full before requesting a collection. GRI EN22 | PR1 77 Social-environmental Performance OI PARTNERSHIP DESCARTE CERTO PROMOTES THE COLLECTION OF ELECTRONIC TRASH In 2013, Oi continued with its recycling program in partnership with the menu company Descarte Certo, setting up bins to collect cell phones, batteries, and chargers in its 61 administrative buildings and in its stores across the country. About 29,300 items were collected and sent for recycling. The Company also ran the campaign on social networks, encouraging proper disposal of recyclable waste. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The material discarded is sent to factories of take-back logistics of Descarte Certo in Americana (SP) and Novo Hamburgo (RS) to be separated, processed, and reintegrated into the production chain. Descarte Certo is a company belonging to the Ambipar Group specialized in collecting and managing waste and in recycling electric and electronic products. 3,776.88 MWh 4.1.3. Energy Efficiency GRI EN7 WAS THE REDUCTION Most of the electricity consumed by Oi is from power companies. OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION In 2013, 1,717,441.81 MWh were consumed, which corresponds to IN THE 44 BUILDINGS 6,182,790.534 GJ. The Company uses generators as contingency THAT WERE PART OF and biofuels in energy acquired from the free market. GRI EN4 THE RATIONING PLAN GRI EN4 INDIRECT ENERGY PURCHASED AND 2012 2013 CONSUMED (GJ) NETWORK OF LOCAL SUPPLY1 2,149,063 2,438,441 Free market2 3,662,712 3,744,349 Total electric energy purchased (Gj) 5,811,775 6,182,790 1. The Brazilian energy matrix is made up of predominantly hydro sources, despite the gradual increase in the use of thermal power plants in recent years due to low rainfall rates. 2. The Free Market of energy allows the purchase of 100% renewable energy produced in SHP (small hydro) and biomass cogeneration plants. The Company initiated an energy rationing plan by monitoring the top 200 energy users in the regional offices. In the 44 buildings that use energy purchased from the Free Market and where remote monitoring and telemetry is done, there was a reduction in consumption of 3,776.88 MWh, corresponding to 13,593.6 GJ. GRI EN5 78 Social-environmental Performance The rationing plan for 2014 already has its financial targets set and disclosed by branch and it includes implementing energy efficiency menu projects and promoting actions of rational use of energy along with the analysis of technical and financial feasibility of migrating more units to the Free Market. GRI EN5 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 The Company conducts studies to assess the actual energy consumption in each unit and how to improve its efficiency. The Energy Efficiency Project deals with replacing fluorescent light bulbs with LED lamps and air conditioning equipment with more efficient units. Oi uses generators as contingency and biofuels in energy acquired from the Free Market. Direct energy consumed in 2013 was not quantified. In order to reduce costs and achieve environmental gains, some initiatives are being studied such as the migration of more units from the captive market to the Free Market of energy, which sells the energy from SHP (Small Hydro Power), renewable sources, and those encouraged the government with a low environmental impact, and biomass. Also under study is the implementation of a self-supply project of low voltage units with solar or wind power. Another study is the implementation of a carbon credit project based on these projects. GRI EN3 Actions aimed at energy efficiency include reductions in the energy budget, dissemination of best practices in the company’s communication media, continuous improvement projects for energy efficiency, and the rational use of energy promoted among the regional offices. The Company also studies the best opportunities to adjust the demand contracts and change the tariff groups of all consumer units, as well as being attentive to the changes of the plant, the contracts associated with them, and the seasonality of each region so that each contract is in accordance with the consumption of each consumer unit. Fuel consumption has increased considerably due to the accounting of fuel consumed in the engines of the Generator Sets as well as in vehicles used by internal maintenance of the plant. The two sources were not recorded before the process of internalization of the internal plant. 79 Social-environmental Performance GRI EN3 FUEL CONSUMPTION 2012 2013 menu Type Diesel (l) 153,896.96 1,151,845.52 Ethanol (l) 93,149.71 308,738.12 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Natural Gas (m³) 1,155.58 0 Gasoline (l) 1,543,289.83 4,823,005.49 4.1.4. Emissions of greenhouse gases GRI EN16 | EN17 | EN26 Oi has identified and recorded the direct and indirect emissions resulting from its activities every year since 2009. The inventory of GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions follows the standards of the Brazil GHG Protocol Program, which provides tools for reporting and measuring emissions by adapting the methodology developed by the WRI (World Resources Institute). The information is disclosed voluntarily on the public record of emissions with the Brazil GHG Protocol Program itself and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is a global initiative for monitoring climate governance. 80 Social-environmental Performance Besides giving priority to transparency in the communication of information, the Company also actively participates in discussions menu and initiatives related to climate change. To do so it is part of the EPC (Companies for Climate) platform, which is a forum of corporate proposals to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases from companies and support the transition of the country’s economy Annual Sustainability Report 2013 towards a low-carbon economy, while also discussing solutions and contributions to legislation on the subject. In 2013, Oi was selected to be a part of BM&FBovespa’s ICO2 (Carbon Efficient Index) portfolio for the fourth year in a row. The index combines actions of companies that have already taken the first step towards this new economy by monitoring and reporting their emissions. Although actions have been taken in order to reduce the Company’s emissions, in 2013 the numbers were higher compared to previous years. This year, after the process of internalizing the third parties working on internal plant operations, many processes that were controlled by suppliers began to be managed by Oi employees. This initiative reflected in the significant increase of Scope 1 emissions due to the high use of vehicles for maintenance of operations, a service that was previously done by suppliers (Scope 3). Scope 2 emissions increased year over year not only due to the Company’s operational expansion, but also for the emission factor of the National Interconnected Power System (NIPS), which, due to frequent droughts and starting up of thermoelectric plants, has increased in recent years. Scope 3 emissions configure mostly in the use of third party services. With the expansion of Oi’s activities and its natural organic growth, it is common that the emissions increase gradually. However, in 2013, the Company began the Do More with Less Program, which has among its targets to reduce spending on corporate travel and with taxis, which besides guaranteeing financial savings, directly impacts emissions of that scope. 81 Social-environmental Performance GRI EN16 DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS 2011 2012 2013 SCOPES 1 AND 2 (TCO2E) Scope 1 (generators, own fleet of menu cars and refrigerants gases) 5,166.59 9,516.37 24,413.22 Scope 2 (electricity purchased and consumed) 44,403.50 109,629.30 174,855.14 Total 49,570.09 119,145.67 199,268.37 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 GRI EN17 INDIRECT EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 2011 2012 2013 (TCO2E) Goods and services purchased 88,712.48 124,297.04 122,627.30 Transportation and distribution (upstream) 7,543.01 10,643.32 9,733.61 Business travel 7,586.26 8,656.09 12,016.78 Commuting of employees 6,292.23 9,202.55 9,550.46 Total 110,133.98 152,799.00 153,928.16 4.1.4.1. Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions GRI EN18 Among the initiatives to reduce GHG emissions are looking for energy efficiency projects, reducing energy consumption, and carrying out a feasibility study for a project of distributed generation using solar and wind energy and that can be a carbon credit pilot project. The energy rationing plan adopted by the Company included the campaign to disseminate best practices in the rational use of energy in internal communication media. The monitoring of the reduction indicator was done by subsidiary and reported quarterly on the intranet. In order to reduce environmental impacts and costs from air travel, Oi has invested since 2011 in expanding the use of videoconferencing for meetings. Thirteen new telepresence rooms were created for directors at the subsidiaries, which also contributed to reinforce the integration between teams from several states. In addition, air travel and taxi trips are categories in the Do More with Less Program, and the evolution of the cost with these resources is monitored monthly to ensure that the Company doesn’t have unnecessary expenses or higher than expected, generating even more greenhouse gas greenhouse. 82 Social-environmental Performance With a Fleet Renewal Project, the Company is looking to reduce its fuel consumption and thus emit less polluting gases. In 2012, Oi menu replaced its cars that were five or more years old with new vehicles after studies in the market identified specifications for savings and suitability to the job. The substitution also reduced the need for maintenance, which resulted in less volume of parts and components Annual Sustainability Report 2013 discarded every trip to the mechanic shop. For 2014, the Company is also studying the massive migration of captive market units (power supplied by distribution concession holders) to the Free Market, which sells energy from renewable sources. 4.1.4.2. Other emissions After the internalization of the internal plant in May 2013, the maintenance activities on the air conditioners, which used to be done by third-party service providers, was transferred to the internal management team. This fact significantly reflected on the consumption of refrigeration maintenance gases, both due to a better management of the maintenance of the units as well as reducing the risks of over invoicing and purchases of gases in the absence of a real need to change it. GRI EN19 GRI EN19 EMISSIONS OF SUBSTANCES DESTROYING 2012 2013 THE OZONE LAYER (TCFC11E) HCFC 221 2.9326 1.7590 HCFC 141b 2 0.4499 0.3827 Total 3.3825 2.1417 1. Considers an ODP (Ozone Depletion Potential) of 0.055, and the absolute consumption in tons was 31.98 (2013) and 53.32 (2012). 2. Considers an ODP (Ozone Depletion Potential) of 0.11, and the absolute consumption in tons was 3.48 (2013) and 4.09 (2012). 83 Social-environmental Performance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 4.1.5. Water consumption GRI EN8 To reduce water consumption, Oi develops actions such as monthly monitoring of water meters via a telemetry system installed in 22 administrative and operational buildings in the Region of RJ, and the use of aerators and consumption reducers on water taps, showers, and toilets in all administrative buildings. The measures include a retrofit of unsuitable sites and orientation of the cleaning crews regarding washing patios. A project of reusing rainwater to supply the cooling towers of an administrative building in Rio de Janeiro was implemented in 2012 and began to be monitored in 2013. A pilot project was initiated for selffiltering of the water used in the cooling towers in this same administrative building. WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE 2011 2012 2013 (M³) Underground water n.d. 80,960 2,376 Rainwater collected n.d. n.d. 527 Municipal supply or other water supply companies 1,820,624 1,562,026 1,716,325 Total 1,820,624 1,642,986 491,578 84 Social-environmental Performance 4.1.6. Impact of operations on the community menu GRI SO1 When necessary, the Company develops social media plans to clarify to the surrounding community about the impact of their operations, Annual Sustainability Report 2013 disseminating this information in major newspapers and distributing informational brochures about their equipment and their relation to human health. Sometimes, by determination of the government, public hearings are held to give information to the community. The communication plan is executed by companies whose teams are contracted to operate beginning from the licensing stage all the way to deployment and are composed of architects, engineers, and technicians working together in compliance with the legislation related to the operations of the various authorities (Departments of Public Works, City Planning, the Environment, Fire Department, among others) and after a feasibility study is done on its deployment. All measures are taken as for safety and to disseminate information to the community, respecting the parameters mentioned previously. The information is collected by the companies contracted and the stages contemplated include the legal obligations of licensing along with safety aspects and those of a technical nature. In the specific case of installations on property belonging to third-parties, an extraordinary meeting is called in order to present the project and give general explanations. During the deployment of the Broadband Project in Amapá, there was the need for passing optical fiber cables through the lands of the Uaçá indigenous community. To do so an analysis of the impact of the undertaking was done by FUNAI (National Indian Foundation), based on which the Company closed a Term of Agreement with measures that include subprograms of environmental education, social communication, digital inclusion program, donation of equipment, and provision of telecommunications services. The project benefited 85% of the community. 85 Social-environmental Performance In 2013, vendors were not contracted for carrying out backbone services or any similar service in an area protected or restored, and menu we also did not have the need for habitat restoration (in 2012 we had only one case). The goal for 2014 is to resume the conditions of the backbone project, calling on the supplier to inspect the sites that were affected in the implementation of the Manaus Backbone Annual Sustainability Report 2013 and make any necessary repairs or restorations at the site. GRI EN13 GRI EN30 INVESTMENTS AND EXPENDITURES WITH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (R$) 2012 2013 Treatment and disposal of waste (regular collecting of garbage + dumpsters) n.d. 836,755.26 Disposal of batteries, appliances, and accessories collected from Oi shops (Descarte Certo) n.d. 52,751.61 Total cleanup costs, including costs for remediation of spills n.d. 78,366,009.20 Expenses with environmental licensing 4,855,000.00 4,855,000.00 Issuance of radiometric reports that serve to monitor the quality of the radiofrequency signals, as well as prove their status before ANATEL and the government in general 988,500.00 527,740.00 Costs with transportation and storage of solid waste 572,632.72 708,124.35 Hiring of consulting company for external verification of GHG inventory 29,990.45 30,885.00 Costs of prevention and environmental management 69,570.45 299,910.21 4.1.6.1. Radio Base Stations GRI 4.11 | PR1 | PR2 Oi’s Sustainability Policy directs the continuous process of improvements and preventive measures in relation to the RBSs (Radio Base Stations, which make the connection between mobile phones and the operator), ensuring alignment with the federal legislation and compliance to the criteria adopted worldwide, and the National Policy on the Environment. Law no. 11,934/2009 sets the limits of human exposure to electrical, magnetic and electromagnetic fields based on the criteria of ICNIRP (International Commission of Protection Against Non Ionizing Radiation) recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) and by Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency). Anatel has already made itself clear through technical notes as for the non-harmfulness of the RBSs and that the company is not required to get an environmental permit for their installation. 86 Social-environmental Performance The activity developed by the Company is not considered even potentially polluting. All of Oi’s RBSs are in compliance with the law menu and in comparison with radio and TV stations, emit significantly lower levels of radiation considered safe. Oi’s RBSs have a coverage radius ranging from dozens of meters to about 5 kilometers. In accordance with federal law, the electromagnetic emissions and noise levels of Annual Sustainability Report 2013 the stations are measured continuously to ensure compliance with legal limits. The Company provides periodic reports to Anatel on the intensity of the non-ionizing radiation fields of the RBSs and it adopts measures to reduce noise levels. Oi prefers not to make public in this report the amounts of fines related to 2013 because it considers this type of information as strategic to the business since to disclose them amid the changes of legislation to which the Company must comply is contrary to its responsible management. GRI EN28 Oi received 12 sentences of failure to meet declarations, conventions, international treaties, and national, sub-national, regional, and local regulations, and six suits have not yet reached a court decision and are on appeal. The others led to the regularization of the RBSs. Because of conflicts of urban and environmental competence among federal entities (states, municipalities, and the Union), a broad discussion has arisen, including judicial, regarding the possibility of states and municipalities establishing different or additional protection rules beyond the applicable federal legislation. Some state and/or municipal laws directly affect Oi’s operation and define different criteria. For these reasons, on some occasions, the Company is compelled to adopt appropriate legal and/or judicial measures to safeguard the provision of its services as well as its rights. 87 Social-environmental Performance The national scene has become just as complex as the topic, not only for Oi, but also involving all telecom operators in the market. However, menu currently in the National Congress a new law is being prepared known as the Law of antennas, which intends to establish general criteria, especially urban ones, that are applicable to all Brazilian states and municipalities with regard to the installation of antennas. Once the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 new law is enacted, Oi will assess its impact on the lawsuits in progress in order to try to put an end to some of the ongoing measures and minimize the impact of fines levied in others through agreements or compliance of possible obligations. 4.2. Institutional Relations GRI SO5 Oi has a structured Institutional Relations area responsible for maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the executive, legislative, and judicial branches at the federal, state, and municipal levels, as well as with the regulatory agencies, industry forums, and bodies representing sectors of civil society. This action is guided by the Institutional Relationship Guide, the Code of Ethics, and by the Oi Policy of Institutional Relations (launched in 2012). In accordance with Law no. 9,504/97, Oi does not make financial contributions and in cash to political parties, politicians, or related institutions. GRI SO6 Beginning in 2012 with the launch of the Oi Policy of Institutional Relations, the area received specialized training called IR Academy. With over 400 hours in length and a methodology of distance learning, the course was conducted between 2012 and 2013 and featured subjects in the areas of communication, administration, political science, and law. The specialization was given in partnership with ESPM (Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing), IAG-PUC (Instituto de Administração e Gerência da PUC-RJ), UFMG (Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais), and the General Coordination of Specialization Courses of PUC-SP. 88 Social-environmental Performance AREAS OF OPERATION OF THE OI POLICY OF INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS menu • Government Relations • Relationship with entities (participation in multi-sector forums) • Internal mobilization (sharing knowledge within the Company and relationship with stakeholders ) • Corporate sustainability Annual Sustainability Report 2013 • Corporate relationships (focus on the operation policies and achievement of business goals) • Political, strategic, and institutional scenario (analysis of scenarios) • Institutional tools • Support for the Company’s business strategy (analysis of possibilities of partnerships and opportunities) 4.2.1. Public policies GRI EC8 At the end of 2013, the Company was already offering the Oi Velox broadband service according to the PNBL (National Broadband Plan) in 3,821 cities covered by this offer, which corresponds to 79% of all municipalities in the area covered by Oi. About 43% of the locations served are in the North and Northeast of Brazil. The Company follows the Term of Agreement of adherence to the PNBL signed with the Ministry of Communications and Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency), whose goal is to expand broadband access, promote digital inclusion, and reduce social and regional inequalities in Brazil. Oi also participates in the Broadband in Schools Program (PBLE) that aims to ensure free of charge internet connection to all elementary and high schools as well as in Urban Public Schools for training elementary and high-school teachers at all levels of the Federation (Union, State, Federal District, and Municipalities) located in Oi’s concession area, by the year 2025. The PBLE was launched on April 4, 2008 by the Federal Government through Addendum No. 001/2008/ SPVANATEL to the Statement of Authorization for the Exploitation of Multimedia Communication Services. 89 Social-environmental Performance Throughout 2013, Oi invested R$ 7,253,349.00 in the PBLE, totaling 51,668 schools benefited. menu Oi is implementing the Border Project, which aims to bring neighboring countries closer and foster communication in border localities by offering local rates for international calls between these locations. Calls from Annual Sustainability Report 2013 these cities to the neighboring countries will be reduced by up to 97% and will be valid for landlines. For the Company, the reduction of tariffs is a way to help promote the development of these locations and it is in line with the company’s spirit to offer innovative local solutions to meet the different demands of customers. The cities to be included are as follows: 51,668 Oiapoque (AP), Bonfim (RR), Tabatinga and Benjamin Constant (AM), Brasiléia and Assis Brasil (AC), Guajará-Mirim (RO), Corumbá, Bela Vista, Porto Murtinho and Ponta Porã (MS), Guaíra, Foz do Iguaçu and Barracão SCHOOLS WERE BENEFITTED (PR), Dionísio Cerqueira (SC), Uruguaiana, Itaqui, São Borja, Sant’Ana do FROM THE BROADBAND IN Livramento, Aceguá, Quaraí, Barra do Quaraí, Jaguarão, and Chuí (RS). SCHOOLS PROGRAM Another initiative that should be highlighted is Broadband in Amapá, which has a partnership with the state government and other telecommunications carriers. It has to do with building a network that will cross the state of Amapá and continue into French Guiana until Fortaleza with the aim of increasing the availability of Internet access with more affordable prices for the population in the state. This project is part of the obligations that the company has with Anatel with the installation of optical fiber connecting the city of Calçoene to the city of Oyapock on the border with French Guiana. This fiber is designed to be deployed along the highway BR-156 in order to cause the least impact as possible on the existing environment in the region. The arrival of broadband will allow the installation of 12,000 Oi Velox ports in the first 12 months of operation alone. The project covers the cities whose urban population corresponds to 85% of the urban population of the state. 90 Social-environmental Performance To finish off the list of initiatives that impact the local infrastructure are compliance with PGMU, the low-cost phone, and the Backhaul. menu More than R$ 25,000 was invested with PGMU in 2013 covering 1,369 locations. As for the low-cost phone project in connection with the programs of social benefits of the federal government, it reached the end of the year with 89,018 subscribers. And finally, the backhaul Annual Sustainability Report 2013 consists in installing broadband in municipalities not covered without passing on costs to the customer. With this program, authorized operators swap the requirement to install telephone service stations in the municipalities for installing a network infrastructure to support the high speed internet connection in the municipalities. The project involved investments of around R$ 669,000 and approximately 3,000 municipalities. 4.2.2. Relationship with local governments Based on the principle of transparency and openness to dialogue, Oi is always looking out, for example, for opportunities to strengthen its relationship with the new governments in the city halls in the more or less 4,800 Brazilian municipalities where it operates. The Company has an obligation every year to inform the municipalities about its compliance with regulatory obligations relating to the universalization targets and installation of public telephones depending on the number of inhabitants in the city and distance between households. To do this, Oi participates in events and meetings in which it has the opportunity to show how it operates in the municipalities in which it holds a license or authorization and it can even explain the technical or regulatory reasons why any certain locality may not be covered. This relationship should also consider the different laws applicable in each city and state. The year 2013 began with the mayors and city councilors taking office who won the municipal elections held in 2012. The area of ​​Institutional Relations concentrated efforts throughout the country in order to start a dialogue with these new leaders and reinforce it with the re-elected representatives. 91 Social-environmental Performance 4.2.3. Relationship with the Legislative Power menu In 2013, the area of ​​Institutional Relations represented the Company in about 25 Parliamentary Inquiry Commissions and more than 60 public hearings to answer questions about regulations, the General Law of Telecommunications Services, and other issues Annual Sustainability Report 2013 related to the sector. The Board of Federal Executive Institutional Relations coordinates the Committee for Monitoring the Legislative Proposals (Caple) for analyzing bills together with the following Departments: Legal, Regulatory and Sector Policy, Regulatory, Federal Executive Institutional Relations, Planning Management, and Institutional Performance. In 2013, ten meetings were held and 123 legislative proposals were selected for analysis and monitoring from a monitoring base with 2,297 projects. The area of Institutional Relations also participates in the Institutional Legal Financial Regulatory Committee through which it guides the Company in the treatment of institutional issues and themes related to the telecommunications sector in several states where Oi is present. 92 Social-environmental Performance 4.2.3.1. State and local laws in the telecommunications sector menu The most important topics discussed with the state and municipal political leaders were: Annual Sustainability Report 2013 • L aws restricting the expansion of mobile telephony •E  nvironmental licensing process for telecommunications infrastructure •B  asic subscription • L aying of cables along state highways •R  eduction of the theft of cables and batteries •S  witch aerial cables installed in municipalities to underground •R  egulation of Agreement 56/12 from CONFAZ (National Council for Financial Policy) •O  bligation to provide information about the coverage area •E  stablishment of rules for terminating services due to nonpayment •P  rank Law (stated that the terminals generating prank calls to Public Safety organs would be fined) •C  hange the validity period of the CND (State Negative Certificate) •C  reation of Laws to Foster Investment in Culture and Sports •P  ermission to Use Agreement of the space for installation of mobility for the Confederations Cup and other events •Z  oning change, now considering a “public utility for purposes of expropriation”. Removed from the scope of the bill areas owned by telecommunications and broadcasting companies. • L aw of fiscal incentives (exemption from property tax and reduction of ISS tax) contributing to setting up call center companies 93 Social-environmental Performance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 4.2.3.2. Federal legislation in the telecommunications sector Important discussions about the federal legislation for the telecommunications industry took place in 2013. • Oi, in partnership with Sinditelebrasil (National Union of Telephone Companies and of Mobile and Personal Service), participated in the discussion of the federal bill PLS 293/12 already approved in the Senate and pending before the House of Representatives under No. 5,013/2013, which discusses aspects of urban, environmental, and health policies associated with the installation of telecommunication infrastructure in the country • PL 2,126/2011, which deals with the civil rights framework for internet • PL 5,476/2001 about the end of the Basic Subscription • PL 6,025/2010, already approved in the Senate, amending the Code of Civil Procedure • PL 4,330/2004 establishing standards for outsourcing services • Several Provisional Measures, especially MP 615/13, enacted by Law No. 1,2865/13, which set global standards for payment arrangements, and dividing up tax debts into payments 94 Social-environmental Performance 4.2.4. Partner for major events menu 4.2.4.1. Confederations Cup The Confederations Cup was an opportunity to strengthen the relationship with federal, state, and municipal executives, which was Annual Sustainability Report 2013 held in six cities in Brazil. The area of ​​Institutional Relations also worked hard to ensure the integrity of the Company’s installations and avoid the risk of disruption of services during the competition. To broadcast the games, for example, Oi studied the routes of optical cables and backbone and of the building projects that are being carried out in the locality that may interfere in their facilities. The same efforts are made because of the World Cup, which is to be held in 12 Brazilian cities in 2014. As the official sponsor of the FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil in 2013, Oi was responsible for delivering services of internet, voice, Wi-Fi, and mobile network as hired by FIFA in 42 locations in the six cities hosting the event. Activities were carried out in six states, seven airports, six stadiums, nine hotels, 12 ticket centers, six support areas next to the stadiums, one FIFA Information Technology Command Centre (ITCC), and one FIFA Data Center. Besides providing the communication infrastructure, Oi also offered consumers experiences with their products during the events of the Confederations Cup. In 2014, this experience will be offered to the public at the FIFA World Cup™. Oi also won the bid to host the online training platform for nearly 100,000 people registered as volunteers at the 2013 Confederations Cup and for the World Cup. The platform, accessed by FIFA’s website, offers training courses for volunteers who will participate in the FIFA events. 95 Social-environmental Performance OI IN THE CONFEDERATIONS CUP •O  peration of 14 HD videoconferencing rooms running uninterrupted menu for 20 days • Installation of more than 300 kilometers of structured cabling— equivalent to laying a network cable from the city of Rio de Janeiro to São José dos Campos/SP •A  ssembly of 144 racks and environments for installation of computer Annual Sustainability Report 2013 equipment—equivalent to setting up a data center with 500 square meters with a support area • Installing 187 UPSs—equivalent to supply 4,300 incandescent 60-watt light bulbs for 30 minutes • Installation and configuration of 1,028 switches to provide 24,300 network points—equivalent to installing computer data cabling in five buildings the size of Oi’s headquarters •B  ilingual customer help desk • Institutional tools • Support for the Company’s business strategy (analysis of possibilities of partnerships and opportunities 4.2.4.2. Rock in Rio Just as in the Confederations Cup, Oi offered to its users opportunities of brand experience at Rock in Rio, another major event sponsored by the Company. Rock in Rio was used as a communication platform so that customers could take advantage of technologies and products focused on young people, such as the Wi-Fi network and Oi Galera plan. 4.2.4.3. World Youth Day The Company was mobilized to ensure telecommunication coverage of the WYD (World Youth Day), the Catholic Church event that attracted more than 3.7 million of its members from various countries to Rio de Janeiro and Aparecida (SP) in July 2013. The work began with the mapping and planning of the telecommunications network at all points where Pope Francisco would pass and where there would be a high concentration of pilgrims. Oi’s role involved other initiatives such as the acquisition of exclusive infrastructure and upgrading of existing infrastructure. To provide quality coverage, the Company brought to the locations mobile radio base stations from other states and set up the Special Operations Room at Oi’s Network Management Center in Rio de Janeiro. 96 Social-environmental Performance 4.3. Social Balance Sheet menu GRI EC1 1 Basis of Calculation 2013 Value (R$ thousands) 2012 Value (R$ thousands) Net Revenue (NR) 28.422.147 25.161.031 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 EBITDA* 9.582.698 7.988.233 Gross Payroll (GP) 2.025.448 1.997.184 2 Internal Social Indicators Value % of GP % of NR Value % of GP % of NR (thousands) (thousands) Food 164.542 8.12% 0.58% 124.004 6.21% 0.49% Compulsory social levies 480.285 23.71% 1.69% 367.600 18.41% 1.46% Private insurance 54.234 2.68% 0.19% 47.581 2.38% 0.19% Health 117.077 5.78% 0.41% 79.977 4.00% 0.32% Occupational safety and medicine 13.047 0.64% 0.05% 8.262 0.41% 0.03% Education 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Professional Training and Professional Development 11.683 0.58% 0.04% 24.082 1.21% 0.10% Day care or childcare assistance 11.078 0.55% 0.04% 8.866 0.44% 0.04% Profit Sharing Provisioned -112.448 -5.55% -0.40% 387.380 19.40% 1.54% Others 26.023 1.28% 0.09% 33.347 1.67% 0.13% Total Internal Social Indicators 765.521 37.80% 2.69% 1,081,099 54.13% 4.30% 3 External Social Indicators Value % of % of NR Value % of % of NR (thousands) EBITDA (thousands) EBITDA Education 14.829 0.15% 0.05% 17.083 0.21% 0.07% Sustainability 4.796 0.05% 0.02% 6.947 0.09% 0.03% Culture 50.727 0.53% 0.18% 50.154 0.63% 0.20% Sports 7.981 0.08% 0.03% 17.439 0.22% 0.07% Total contributions to society* 78.332 0.82% 0.28% 91.624 1.15% 0.36% Taxes (including social levies) 10,283,283 107.31% 36.18% 9,556,394 119.63% 37.98% Total External Social Indicators 10,361,615 108.13% 108.13% 9,648,018 120.78% 120.78% 4 Indicators Related to Employees Number of employees at end of year 18.947 15.146 Number of admissions during the year 8.454 5.742 Number of outsorced personnel 148.298 166.253 Number of interns/trainees 419 721 Number of women working in the company 6.442 6.329 % of leadership positions held by women 25% 25% Number of disabled or with special needs 319 268 5 Other Information 2013 2012 Responsible for accounting information: Marcelo Antônio Leal Gomes (CRC-RJ 083.182) * EBITDA was used for this calculation due to the Corporate Restructuring. Further information on this process can be found in the chapter About the Report. **These values include tax incentives and donations to the Fund for Childhood and Adolescence FIA *** In this total External social indicators are considered direct investments in the areas of Education, Culture, Sustainability, and Sports and via tax incentives through the Laws to Foster Investment in Culture and Sports. Expenses with the Administrative Structure of Oi Futuro were not considered (R$ 4,503). 97 Social-environmental Performance 4.4. Employees menu The year 2013 marked a period of transition for Oi to a new model of management and operation with a focus on operational efficiency, enhancing the quality and agility of processes and on customer satisfaction. This process was also reflected in policies, programs, Annual Sustainability Report 2013 and actions related to managing the Company’s employees. The Human Resources area was called upon to have an even greater alignment with the business strategy by investing in training, development, and technical skills. One of the objectives is the training of the multi-skilled technician who is prepared to do the installation and maintenance of all products requested by the customer. This movement also involves the challenge of training the approximately 40,000 technicians of the Company’s service providers. In the process of building a new stage in Oi’s history and the synergy with Portugal Telecom, some topics also gained more relevance such as career development and internal mobility programs, redesigning of the structure, and process optimization. Oi’s recruitment and selection policy values ​​mobility with the internal offer of job openings. 4.4.1. Profile of employees GRI LA1 Oi ended the year 2013 with 18,947 employees hired for an indefinite term and full-time. The number represents an increase of 25% in the labor force compared to 2012 and reflects the process of internalization of the internal plant and hiring sales people to sell to business customers. In 2013 the Company also took on 116 apprentices, 419 interns, and 148,298 outsourced staff. Of the total employees present in all regions of the country, 77 worked abroad (United States, Colombia, Bermuda, and Venezuela). About 50% of the employees had finished High School while another 40% had a college degree. Slightly less than 10% of the workforce had graduate studies, MBA, master’s, doctorate, or post-doctorate degrees. 98 Social-environmental Performance NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY 2011 2012 2013 FUNCTIONAL LEVEL menu Top Management 114 126 118 Management 770 904 960 Supervision/Coordination 240 596 907 Functional Staff 12,100 13,520 16,962 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Total Employees 13,224 15,146 18,947 Outsourced 141,384 166,253 148,298 Technical Apprentices 82 61 116 Interns 549 721 419 Total 155,239 182,181 167,780 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION 2011 2012 2013 South 1,293 1,576 2,398 Southeast 8,869 9,436 10,807 Mid-West 1,079 1,332 1,666 Northeast 1,406 2,015 2,970 North 508 713 1,029 United States 55 60 62 Colombia 6 5 6 Bermuda Islands 2 2 2 Venezuela 6 7 7 Total 13,224 15,146 18,947 99 Social-environmental Performance In 2013, 4,704 people voluntarily left the company, were dismissed, retired, or died. GRI LA2 menu GRI LA2 TURNOVER RATE (%) 2011 2012 2013 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 By gender Men 9.50 17.64 25.67 Women 9.40 16.19 12.33 By age group Under 30 years 9.50 18.56 14.74 Between 30 and 50 years 8.90 14.36 19.60 Over 50 years 0.50 0.92 3.65 By region South 1.83 3.47 5.50 Southeast 13.60 22.46 20.22 Mid-West 1.80 2.86 3.76 Northeast 0.92 3.76 6.33 North 0.64 1.16 2.11 United States 0.09 0.09 0.06 Colombia 0.01 0.01 0.00 Bermuda Islands 0.00 0.01 0.00 Venezuela 0.00 0.02 0.00 NUMBER OF TERMINATIONS 2011 2012 2013 By gender Men 1,019 2,033 2,599 Women 657 1,758 2,105 By age group Under 30 years 563 1,761 2,181 Between 30 and 50 years 1,007 1,826 2,277 Over 50 years 106 204 246 By region South 139 347 541 Southeast 1,185 2,835 2,852 Mid-West 176 282 488 Northeast 94 227 615 North 77 85 198 United States 4 10 10 Colombia 0 2 0 Bermuda Islands 1 1 0 Venezuela 0 2 0 100 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.1.1. Diversity menu GRI LA13 Of Oi’s total employees, 66% are male and 34% female. The executive positions have been filled over the last three years by 75% men and Annual Sustainability Report 2013 25% women. The average age of employees is 37 years old with an average of 6 years in the company. GENDER DIVERSITY BY WOMEN MEN FUNCTIONAL LEVEL Total % Total % Top Management 11 0.1 107 0.6 Management 247 1.3 713 3.8 Supervision/Coordination 287 1.5 620 3.3 Functional Staff 5,872 31.0 11,090 58.5 Total 6,417 33.9 12,530 66.1 DIVERSITY OF AGE GROUP BY UNDER BETWEEN OVER 30 30 AND 50 TOTAL FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (%) YEARS 50YEARS YEARS Top Management 0 75 25 100 Management 2 88 10 100 Supervision/Coordination 19 72 9 100 Functional Staff 26 60 14 100 Total 25 62 13 100 Click to see more pictures 1 2 3 101 Social-environmental Performance INCLUSION OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Since 2012, Oi has formed specific training groups for people with menu disabilities with the aim to train them to work in the Company. In these two years, Oi has trained five groups with 51 professionals that were trained. The training lasts four months with a class load of four hours per day. So far, 100% of those who completed the training were hired by the Company. Aiming to promote the inclusion of these employees, Oi offers online Annual Sustainability Report 2013 training (e-learning) on Brazilian Sign Language for all employees. The Company has partnered with a company that does the translation into sign language when there are events, trainings, or meetings involving Oi employees with hearing disabilities. In addition, Oi participates in actions and events for these professionals in partnership with the Idea Warehouse, which is an agency specialized in recruitment, to sponsor booths set up in places with a lot of circulation and promote opportunities and receive résumés from people with disabilities. The insourcing process of the internal plant carried out in 2013 and the consequent increase of the company’s own staff from over 15,000 employees to almost 19,000 people also raised the requirement of the number of job openings to be reserved for people with disabilities, according to current legislation. The filling of these job openings for people with special needs is a challenge for most Brazilian companies because of the difficulty of finding people with appropriate professional qualification, especially for the technical areas. To mitigate this difficulty, Oi launched in 2013, the Young Apprentice program for training people with disabilities. In 2013, the Company had 319 people with special needs on its staff, which represented 1.7% of its total employees. Considering the difficulty in meeting the quota of 5% of people with deficiencies, the Company signed a Term of Conduct Adjustment with the Ministry of Labor. This number was lower because of the internalization of the internal plant. 4.4.2.Compensation and benefits GRI EC3 | LA3 | LA14 At Oi, position and salary policy is not associated with gender discrimination. The differences in average salaries by job category are justified by the level of development and career time of the professionals. In 2013, the differences increased in some categories because new employees were hired and there was an increase in the number of men starting out their careers or those newly promoted. 102 Social-environmental Performance 2011 2012 2013 AVERAGE COMPENSATION RATIO W/M RATIO W/M RATIO W/M PER FUNCTIONAL MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN (%) (%) (%) menu CATEGORY (R $) Top Management 23,000.00 17,000.00 74 37,476.64 26,203.33 70 35,877.82 28,023.64 78 Management 6,615.00 6,162.00 93 13,944.48 13,018.17 93 13,824.56 13,360.65 97 Supervision/ Coordination 1,050.00 1,050.00 100 5,510.26 4,404.50 80 5,538.03 4,272.33 77 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Functional Staff 700.00 639.00 91 4,124.02 3,177.16 77 3,556.34 3,165.19 89 * Average compensation considers the base salary, which is the monthly and minimum fixed value paid to an employee to perform his or her job. It does not include additional remuneration, such as overtime pay, bonus, payment of benefits, or any other assistance. In 2013, the lowest salary paid by Oi was 11% higher than the national minimum. Oi does not use the national minimum wage as the basis its employees remuneration, but instead R$ 724.00. RR 191 113 111 AP 214 113 111 AM 160 119 116 PA 150 119 113 MA CE 142 119 113 160 119 116 RN 150 119 116 AC PI PB 150 119 116 176 167 125 RO 160 158 127 PE 160 116 119 TO 188 175 132 AL 183 158 165 MT 188 175 125 SE BA 143 119 116 176 129 125 DF 135 116 119 128 136 125 2011 GO 2012 128 129 132 MG 2013 MS 128 116 119 ES 159 123 127 176 136 125 SP Interpreting the chart: if the rate indicates, for example, 150%, it means that the lowest salary is 50% higher 128 136 132 RJ than the minimum salary. As Oi operates in the entire country, it does not apply the classification of “important PR 128 113 120 operational units”, and thus it shows the information per state. 128 129 132 SC 117 129 132 RS 128 129 122 103 Social-environmental Performance All employees are offered food vouchers, transportation vouchers, life insurance, health insurance, dental care, maternity/paternity leave, 4,000 TECHNICIANS WHO menu and a private pension plan. The voluntary private pension plan with WERE EMPLOYEES OF variable contribution includes retirement income, and supplement SERVICE PROVIDERS payment during sickness or in the case of death. The basic WERE CONTRACTED contribution is equivalent to 2% of the salary for participation and the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 BY OI standard contribution is 3% of the difference between the base salary and social security contribution. The Company’s contribution is of the same amount deposited by the employee in these modalities, in addition to integrating the administrative costs of the plan, and over the year it put R$ 64,977,564.34 toward the plan. Participants may opt to make additional extraordinary contributions in percentage multiples of 0.5% of their participation salary for a time period no less than six months, or opt for a single extraordinary contribution that cannot be less than 5% of their participation salary. Oi is not obligated to monitor any extraordinary contributions. 4.4.3. Insourcing of the internal plant One of the major highlights of 2013 in the area of ​​Human Resources was the project of internalization of the internal plant with hiring more than 4,000 technicians who were employees of service providers. The internal network includes the operation and maintenance of all the Telecommunications Network (Fixed telephony switches, Mobile telephony switches, Data network equipment, satellite network equipment, Transportation network equipment, Infrastructure equipment) in the Company’s telephone exchange systems and its towers. Planned six months in advance, the internalization process to hire 4,415 people in the space of five weeks mobilized selection and hiring routines and created multi-functional teams to meet all demands, involving areas of operations, human resources, information technology, property, supplies, processes & quality, financial, risks, internal control, among others. 104 Social-environmental Performance With the internalization of these employees, the operations in the field, equipment maintenance, and management of fixed and mobile menu networks began to be managed directly by Oi with a focus on quality, increased operational efficiency, agility in internal and external customer services, increase in the productivity and safety of the activities. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 5th Wave Internalization of the Internal Plant June 7 and 8 People Hired in 2013 Santa Catarina, Paraná, Rio 1st Wave 3rd Wave Grande do Sul, May 4 and 5 Rio May 18 and 19 Acre, Rondônia, de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Mato Grosso, Bahia, Sergipe, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Minas Gerais Espírito Santo, Sul, Federal and São Paulo District, Goiás, and Tocantins MAIO JUNHO 2 Wave nd 4 Wave th May 11 and 12 May 24 and 25 Total hired: North Region, Goiás, Paraná, 5,200 Pernambuco, Rio Grande do and Ceará Sul, Santa Catarina, and the Federal District 4.4.4. Campaign to reduce costs The engagement of the internal public around the Company’s guidelines is supported by a consistent work of internal communication that reinforces the key messages from senior management related to operational efficiency, increased productivity, cost reduction, and customer satisfaction, and within the context of cultural change driven by the arrival of Portugal Telecom. The main campaign developed in 2013 aimed to invest in a culture of cost reduction relating opportunities for savings with concrete actions. The Program Do More With Less seeks to align operational efficiency with quality of the services and more productivity. With video messages from the President and executives, the campaign focused on the three questions that employees would have to keep in mind before spending: why?, what for? and does it bring improvements for customers? 105 Social-environmental Performance With the aim of encouraging best practices, Oi created working groups to identify opportunities to reduce administrative, institutional, and menu operational costs, and to exchange experiences that could be deployed between regional offices and generate significant cost savings for the Company. Oi also encourages the responsible use of resources such as energy, water, taxi and plane rides, printouts, paper Annual Sustainability Report 2013 towels, and plastic cups, providing for the reduction of financial impacts and on the environment. BRAZIL QUALITY COMPETITION Between October and December 2013, the Company promoted the Brazil Quality Competition, a campaign aimed at encouraging employees to improve key operational indicators with the aim of working to reach results, raise the quality of customer service, and achieve strategic objectives in the area of ​​Operations. The competition is based on nine indicators and broken down into weekly rounds with an announcement of the champion every month. The regional office with the highest cumulative result wins the Brazil Quality Competition. In 2013, 6,200 field technicians took part in the competition in the Company’s nine regional offices in the country. To enter in the contest, each region chose an emblem to identify their team in the competition. 4.4.5.Collective bargaining Oi guarantees the right of employees to join unions. There are no operations in which the employees’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining are at risk. All employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that combine clauses related to working hours, health, occupational safety, benefits, and profit sharing. GRI LA4 | HR5 106 Social-environmental Performance The fact that Oi is country-wide brings the additional challenge in negotiating symmetrical collective agreements with 28 unions and menu two federations that represent telecommunications workers. Oi keeps its employees well informed during the entire negotiation processes, using its internal communication tools. The Company maintains a good relationship with the unions. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Collective agreements do not stipulate minimum period for advance notice, but if significant operational changes occur, the employees and their representatives with the union are properly informed. The agreements take place twice a year cover themes related to health and safety such as health insurance, hospital, dental, and medical care, forecast of existence of a plan, eligibility criteria for coparticipation, Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA), and participation of worker representatives in health and safety inspections, audits, and accident investigations, along with other relevant themes. GRI LA5 | LA9 Oi periodically meets with unions to discuss relevant topics outside the normal agenda of collective bargaining. The Company maintains an area specifically for dialoging with the union and for the daily issues that arise, as well as service channels to answer questions about the company’s internal processes. 107 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.6. Employee engagement menu Oi encourages its employees to do volunteer work. Among the major initiatives in 2013 were the Confederations Cup, Collecting donations for victims of environmental accidents, and Santa Claus Campaign with Correios. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Confederations Cup: the internal stakeholders participated in the Volunteer Program of the Confederations Cup, being given the experience of working at the stadiums on game days, and supporting the staff who worked providing telecom services. The selection process included the participation of 570 employees and 80 participants were selected in the six host cities of the games. Collection for victims of accidents: The Company promotes the collection of donations for victims of environmental accidents. In January, the Bahia Regional Office sponsored the action Carnival Without Hunger for receiving food, and the South Regional Office received 295 items for the victims of the fire in Rio Grande do Sul. In December, employees from Rio de Janeiro mobilized themselves to receive the donation of more than 250 items such as water, food, personal hygiene products, and toiletries for the homeless due to the rain that hit some cities in that state. Santa Claus Campaign with Correios: a tradition in the Company, in 2013 Oi encouraged the participation of the employees in the Santa Claus campaign with Correios and repeated the successful partnership with the Brazilian Postal System in 26 states in Brazil plus the Federal District, and 2,293 gifts were given to children at social risk. 108 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.7. Training and development menu GRI LA10 | LA11 Oi maintains structured programs at different functional levels with a view to developing and improving the skills of its employees. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Oi has a Corporate Education Program that aims to leverage learning, ensuring the mapping and dissemination of key knowledge through educational practices and actions that encourage the creation, 253,061 WAS THE TOTAL TRAINING acquisition, dissemination, use, and sharing of the knowledge of its HOURS AIMED AT TECHNICAL employees. R$ 10.2 million was invested in development programs SKILLS AND CONTINUED when considering the investment in the Academy of Leadership, in EDUCATION ACTIONS the Generation Program, and other classroom and online courses. The Company invests in the training and professional growth of its employees. Among the programs for all employees, there are the Tracks for Development of Technical Skills, spot training, development of leadership, e-learning programs, contract training, on-demand training, and online English courses. The training sessions focused on technical skills and continued education actions amounted to 253,061 hours in 2013. All the new managers participated in the Welcome to Managers program, a personalized admission process for those being hired. The Leadership Program for New Managers aims to educate new leaders about their role, as well as develop behavioral aspects of people management and clarify them about the processes of people at Oi. In 2013, 179 new managers were trained. 109 Social-environmental Performance As a tool for career management of employees, Oi has a performance analysis process to evaluate professionals with a focus on menu development. A total of 14,322 employees participated in at least one classroom or online training. In addition, 620 employees participated in nonAnnual Sustainability Report 2013 behavioral training, workshops, lectures, congresses, or events. One employee was given an undergraduate scholarship, five were presented with graduate study scholarships, and one with a language scholarship. 2012 2013 PROGRAMS EMPLOYEES AMOUNT (R$) SCHOLARSHIPS EMPLOYEES AMOUNT (R$) SCHOLARSHIPS Internal courses 8,592 22,157,289 n/a 6,235 10,214,065 n/a Financial support for external training 680 812,826 19.0 629 753,710 6.0 Placement services in the job market 13 172,500 n/a 3 40,000 n/a TRAINING IN PROCESSES FOR LEADERS In August 2013, the Processes and Quality Department had certified 179 leaders in the Training in Processes Program, which is equivalent to 70% of the Company’s total leaders. The training aimed to support the transformation of the Company, making leaders into agents of change and mobilization in search of results, quality of delivery, and generation of perceived value for the customer. The next step after the training was the review of current processes and designing of new ones with the support of Process & Quality Management in the application of the methodology and in identifying critical processes. Also presented to the leaders was the model of integrated management of processes, risks, and controls to be implemented in the Company. The Training Program in Processes has the following objectives: •Train and develop the skills of the leaders over processes. •Improve performance in management and optimization of the processes under their responsibility. •Have a cross-sectional view of the processes, specifying the interfaces between the areas. •Consolidate the management culture of processes at Oi. The training included content such as the roles and responsibilities of the leaders in the Model of Process Governance, the four life cycle stages of the management of processes (design, implement, monitor, and analyze), and the use of the iBPMS tool for managing processes at Oi. 110 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.7.1. Average training hours menu In 2013, there was a reduction of 19% in the total class load in training because in the previous year a strategic focus was given on the development of senior leadership and management of the Company with specific actions and within an individual development plan. In Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2013, the focus for these positions was the consolidation of learning in daily tasks. There was also a reduction of 35% in the individual hours due to the considerable amount of people entering from the internal plant in the middle of the year. The training of these employees started at the end of the year and will be continued in 2014. 2011 2012 2013 HOURS OF TRAINING HOURS HOURS HOURS PER EMPLOYEE HOURS EMPLOYEES PER HOURS EMPLOYEES PER HOURS EMPLOYEES PER CATEGORY EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE Top Management 2,949 100 29 3,668 121 30 263 114 2 Management 30,501 770 40 51,482 903 57 13,838 945 15 Supervision/ Coordination 14,481 426 57 8,147 907 9 Functional Staff 247,117 12,285 20 354,776 16,722 21 220,425 16,904 13 Trainees nd nd nd 591 104 6 481 116 4 Interns nd nd nd 10,552 721 15 9,907 419 24 Total 280,567 13,155 21 424,407 18,172 23 242,673 18,870 13 111 Social-environmental Performance 1,700 4.4.7.2. Six Sigma Program menu One of the pillars in the strategy of Oi’s excellence is its investment in EMPLOYEES the Six Sigma Program, which aims to reduce inefficiencies in the WERE TRAINED processes and increase productivity, customer-perceived quality, and IN E-LEARNING revenue while still reducing costs. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OF THE WHITE Through the Six Sigma program, employees can suggest projects BELT METHODOLOGY focused on revenue gains, cost reduction, quality improvement, or risk mitigation. These projects are analyzed by a central team and by the managers responsible for the processes in question and, once approved, the employees who suggested are trained as Green or Black Belts. Thus, the Company offers a special training to its employees who have the opportunity to develop professionally while implementing relevant projects for the organization, attacking mainly the root cause of the problems in processes. The program grew from 24 projects in 2011 to 174 in 2012, and in 2013 there were 179. In addition to the internal projects, the program doubled the number of projects with service providers, evolving from 20 initiatives in 2012 to 40 in 2013, which resulted in significant cost savings. In addition to the advanced training (Green and Black Belts), Oi promotes a strong training of its employees in the methodology. The E-Learning White Belt was created in 2013, which has trained more than 1,700 employees and the Yellow Belt where employees learn in practice to develop structured diagnostics. In 2013, 403 Yellow Belts were trained and the expectation for 2014 is to reach 10% of the employees. 112 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.8. Attracting Talents menu Oi’s human resources management is also focused on seeking and retaining the best professionals in its different areas of activity. In order to hire young people and position itself as an employer brand, the Company participated in six university fairs in three Brazilian Annual Sustainability Report 2013 states, always using high-quality and attractive booths. Oi also offers the Generation Program, which is aimed at meeting the need of professionals in key positions in the organization by recruiting, identifying, developing, and retaining talents that stand out for their high potential. The Generation Program is divided into three different groups: Internship Generation (College and Technical Courses), Trainee Generation, and PDA Generation (Program for Accelerated Development). In 2013, the Tracks for Online Development was launched of the Internship Generation that includes educational activities such as e-learning , infographics, Games, among others, developed especially for the group and organized into three cycles that will help the participants to reflect on issues important to their career. Moreover, the Technical Internship Generation was expanded to nine Regional Offices to a total of 100 people selected. The Executive Trainee and Expert Generation Programs started in 2011 were finalized in November 2013. Of the 12 participants approved in the Executive Trainee Program, which focuses on developing young talents with a multi-functional profile to work on various business fronts, 92% still work in the Company. The expert Trainee Program, focusing on the development of young talents with technical skills to support the technological evolution and innovation of the business, was led by the Centralized Operations and Field Departments and approved 20 candidates in 2011. Of these, 85% continue working at Oi. The 2012 edition of the Executive Trainee and Expert Trainee Programs (with a focus on the Engineering and IT Departments), which is still in progress, selected a total of 32 people and 90% of them continue working at Oi. This edition will end in 2014. 113 Social-environmental Performance OPENING OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS The Company participates in college fairs in search of professionals for the menu different fields. In August, Oi was present at the XVI Mostra PUC, one of the largest fairs for recruitment and selection of interns in Rio de Janeiro with the theme Innovations for a Better Life. In this event, Oi presented its Innovation Program, the Inova, with the participation of former trainees who put on exhibit innovative projects Annual Sustainability Report 2013 implemented in the Company, such as Wi-Fi Internet on public telephones and Integrated Apps. Students were able to pre-register for the Company’s Internship Generation Program at the event. Also in August, Oi gave a lecture at the Integration Week of the IME (Military Engineering Institute) in Rio de Janeiro and participated in EIFE 2013 (Meeting of College-Enterprise Integration) at ITA (Aeronautic Technological Institute) in São José dos Campos (SP). In September, it participated in the Fair of Employment and Internship of CEFET (Federal Center of Technological Education Celso Suckow da Fonseca) in Rio de Janeiro. In October it was present at the Internship Fair of IFSP (Federal Institute of São Paulo) in São Paulo. 4.4.8.1. Internal recruitment 80% Internal recruitment is a priority for the Company. In 2013, 80% of the OF THE OPENINGS openings for executives were filled by internal applicants through FOR EXECUTIVES WERE assessment. Overall, 58.8% of the positions opened were filled by FILLED BY INTERNAL employees except for openings of projects of stores, retail door-toAPPLICANTS THROUGH door, and corporate door-to-door, primarily targeted at the general ASSESSMENT. public in addition to the migration of the Internal Plant and IPTV. The number of people who showed interest in working at Oi by submitting their résumés in the system used by the Company (Vagas. com) has currently reached 772,075. Furthermore, 128 interns were hired during the year as employees, averaging 10.7 per month. In 2013, 1,214 employees were promoted in position and salary. 114 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.8.2. Outplacement GRI LA11 menu To support the relocation of professionals in cases selected by internal decision, Oi has an outplacement program that aims to facilitate the search for a new job by identifying and enhancing their Annual Sustainability Report 2013 skills so that their choices are fully successful. In 2013, three managers and directors were given this benefit, totaling an investment of R$ 40,000. Oi considers that all training offered (internal courses and financial support for training or external training), including for Interns and Apprentices, are a way to support the continuity of employability of the employees. The Company does not have programs to manage the end of the career. 115 Social-environmental Performance 4.4.9. Health and safety menu GRI LA8 6,172 Oi promotes a comprehensive management of the health and safety of its employees, which includes occupational tests as well as those required by Annual Sustainability Report 2013 law, and a focus on preventive health with similar periodic examinations and EMPLOYEES mini check-ups and control of the gynecological exams. The health WERE VACCINATED insurance plan extended to dependents based on a participation system IN 2013 includes medical and dental care as well as medication. Oi maintains education programs for the prevention and control of chronic diseases. Since 2012, the Healthy Living program continuously monitors employees or their dependents with chronic illnesses and sets targets for reducing risk factors and improving quality of life such as quitting smoking, physical exercise, and weight loss. In some cases the program provides home care without additional costs and subsidy for the purchase of specific medications. Those assisted by the program are given access to a 24-hours health service system to answer questions in an emergency situation. The Company promotes a series of initiatives aimed at valuing, caring for, and recognizing their human capital. It has several programs such as gymnastics, shiatsu, RPG, solo pilates, lymphatic drainage and nutritional counseling, programs for pregnant women, among others. The Program for Pregnant Women gives guidance by telephone to the collaborators. A blood donation drive was held in the middle of the year in partnership with several blood banks in several states in Brazil. The action mobilized about 731 employees, resulting in the donation of 419 units of blood collected. Oi’s vaccination campaign was carried out between April and July having vaccinated 6,172 employees in 27 states. 116 Social-environmental Performance GRI LA7 HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS SOUTH SOUTHEAST GENERAL GENERAL NORTH MID-WEST NORTHEAST menu OF THE EMPLOYEES BY REGION 2013 2012 Rate of lessions1 0.28 0.06 0.23 0.13 0.12 0.14 0.14 Rate of occupational diseases 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Total days lost2 3.28 0.59 7.22 1.01 56.28 34.25 88.77 Total absenteeism 251.41 298.75 240.84 231.82 297.99 278.57 nd Total deaths in the period 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 1. Does not include minor injuries (first aid). 2. Considers working days (250 days in 2013). GRI LA7 HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS OF GENERAL NORTH MID-WEST NORTHEAST SOUTH SOUTHEAST OUTSOURCED STAFF ONLY 2013 Rate of lessions1 1.41 1.01 1.16 0.91 1.09 1.08 Rate of occupational diseases 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 Total days lost2 20.83 11.78 207.51 54.29 73.48 80.52 Total deaths in the period 0 0 4 1 5 10 1. Não inclui pequenas lesões (primeiros socorros). 2. Considera dias de trabalho (250 dias em 2013). 4.4.9.1. Safety training Oi organized a specialized area of ​​health and safety to deal with the need to train thousands of new employees who were hired into the Company in record time in the internalization process of the internal plant. The number of employees grew by 30% in areas of risk due to the processes of the Internal Plant such as technicians working on the maintenance of towers. Among the actions of occupational safety, Oi trained 3,884 employees in Basic Notions of Work Safety. Besides this, another 4,511 employees also took the course of Conscientious and Preventive Driving. The course on Notions of Preventing and Fighting Fires had 3,912 participants. Furthermore, 892 employees participated in the practical course Work at Heights, making them authorized to work safely on the Company’s towers. 117 Social-environmental Performance The Company has 38 Internal Commissions for Accident Prevention (CIPAs) throughout all of Brazil for the buildings with more than 50 menu employees. These Commissions are composed of directly elected professionals trained to work in accident prevention. The percentage of employees represented fell from 82.01% in 2012 to 65.95% due to the internalization of outsourced workers in 2013, Annual Sustainability Report 2013 representing an increase of 45% in the workforce. This situation will be balanced out in 2014. GRI LA6 GRI LA6 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED IN 2012 2013 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES CIPA 82.01 65.95 Volunteer Brigade 34.78 28.08 The Work Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT) is held annually and focuses issues of health and safety as well as building evacuation simulation exercises. The Volunteer Brigade for Preventing and Fighting Fires is used in buildings with more than 100 employees. 118 Social-environmental Performance 4.5. Customers menu For Oi, customer relations involves two major missions. The first is to support the demands effectively and with a large capacity for resolution. The second is to bring the experience and voice of the customer into the Company, taking advantage of this contact as an Annual Sustainability Report 2013 opportunity for continuous improvement of processes, products, and services. The process of listening to the customer is coordinated by the tactical center, which monitors consumer and client contacts and at the end of each day prepares a list of these requests, which are sent to the areas responsible for their resolution. Every morning on Good Morning Oi, a teleconference is held where those involved in the topics of the previous day discuss the corrective actions to be adopted. 4.5.1. Respect for Consumers GRI PR3 All telecommunications services provided by Oi comply with Law 9,472/97 (LGT General Telecommunications Law) as well as with the specific regulations of each service as issued by Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency). In the specific case of SeAC (Conditional Access Service), the standards of Ancine (National Motion Pictures Agency) are also followed. The regulation of each service provides definitions and rules as to what are the elements necessary to provide them, their characteristics, as well as the rights and obligations of the users and operator. Among the rights of users is the detailed invoice of the services used and the values charged for them in addition to taxes. Among the duties of the service provider is to offer to the users is a way to answer any kind of questions, complaints, compliments, etc. Oi has a 24-hour Call Center for customer service. Users can also get in touch with Oi by its own stores or through its internet site. 119 Social-environmental Performance The Company is also attentive to the regulations governing the quality of the services provided, the interconnection with other networks of menu support for the service provided, payment for use of other infrastructure providers, etc. All equipment necessary for providing the services are previously certified and homologated by Anatel after undergoing rigorous assessments of service quality and meeting the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 technical criteria. TARGETS IN CUSTOMER RELATIONS • Reduce the volume of calls to the call center or complaints to Anatel. • Improve the autonomy of resolution at the first contact, reducing the need of customers to resort to the analyses of the back office for dealing with their demand. • Increase the rate of customer satisfaction. • Increase the digital relationship so that it reaches more than 25% of the customers. • Be a market reference in call center operations, including the capacity of mobilization for voluntary actions. 4.5.2. User rights In 2013, there was a significant reduction in the volume of customer disputes in relation to 2012. They involve unsolicited products, services not met, offers which were not clear to the customer, and complaints relating to delay in repairing the network. This evolution is the result of the Company’s efforts to resolve aspects of the operation that can harm the guarantees and rights of users and to seek agreements with ANATEL. Also in 2013, R$ 133 million were charged in fines related to problems with billing and incorrect collection, violation of user rights, and obligation of indemnification to users for amounts charged incorrectly. Of the total of 18 processes, 14 were derived from fixed telephony, 3 from mobile telephony, and 1 from pay TV. GRI PR4 | PR9 120 Social-environmental Performance COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES OF menu PERSONAL FIXED CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSS OF CUSTOMER PAY TV TOTAL MOBILE TELEPHONY DATA (ANATEL) Unauthorized disclosure 44 878 1 923 Misuse by third parties 846 880 33 1,759 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Confidentiality of information 15 9 0 24 Total 905 1,767 34 2,706 4.5.3. Communication and Publicity GRI PR6 Oi is a company whose advertising and communication give a lot of importance to respecting all their stakeholders and society in general. The advertising actions have increasingly focused on humanizing the relationship between company and consumer, and work not only to sell products, but also for clarification and sharing of important topics for all of society, such as low-cost broadband access, services for people with hearing impairment, solid waste collection, education with the aid of telecommunication services, and the encouragement of sports and culture. The communication messages are simple, without jargon or embellishments, and seek to comply with the regulations of Conar (Self-Regulation Advertising Council) regarding advertising. There were eight cases of penalties imposed by Conar based on its articles, four of which were changes of advertisements for lack of complementary information to the offer (one resulted in a warning) and four ad suspensions. GRI PR7 4.5.4. Customer satisfaction GRI PR5 Oi performs active electronic survey to measure the level of satisfaction of the customer receiving support from the Customer Service Center. The survey is at the most one day after the service is given (except for service occurring on Saturdays when the interview will take place on Mondays). It is done by voice message whereby the client is invited to evaluate the last customer service by giving a score of 0 to 10. 121 Social-environmental Performance The survey makes it possible to monitor the evolution of satisfaction on a daily basis and use the results for defining products or partners, menu as well as to take appropriate action whenever any change is identified in the behavior of the indicator. In 2013, the electronic surveys of the Call Center saw an increase in Annual Sustainability Report 2013 the satisfaction index. The survey that evaluated Oi as a whole reached a satisfaction level of 6.4 (a 19% increase compared to 2012). They survey conducted by partner Contax reached 6.3 (a 21% increase) and the subsidiary BTCC reached 6.7 (a 6% increase). The Company works with the target of reaching a satisfaction rate of 7.0. 4.5.5. Focus on prepaid Oi gives special attention to clients of prepaid products, which accounts for 85.9% of the Personal Mobility segment and has a strategic importance due to its profitability and the low cost of the service. Oi seeks to leverage the use of voice and of the data base of prepaid customers, which amounted to 41,019,000 from the total of 47,727 Revenue Generating Units of the segment. One of the highlights of the year was the increase of 6% in gross recharge. The Company launched in the second quarter a platform for managing recharge campaigns, which creates, executes, and generates individualized campaigns for prepaid customers and control clients. The tool allows you to send messages in real time to encourage customers to make purchase of recharges and of additional packages according to the user’s profile and context. To strengthen its strategic positioning to maintain the growth of prepaid base and the profitability of the service, Oi launched in 2013 the Everything By day offer with a daily charge for use of voice, data, and SMS services. Within this strategy, Oi still maintains the offer of low-cost products and services in retail, such as the launch of the plan Oi Galera for young people. The relaunch of pay TV in 2014 with the SES-6 satellite technology and interactive functions is aligned with the strategy of convergence to expand the customer base. 122 Social-environmental Performance To increase its participation in the high-value segment, the operator launched in 2013 its second store concept at the Leblon Mall in the menu city of Rio de Janeiro. This flagship store makes it possible for clients to experience and interact with the most innovative technologies and simulate the carrier’s best offers. The first concept store was opened in 2012 at the Iguatemi Mall in the city of São Paulo. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 4.5.6. Sales Force Automation In 2013 the Company began to implement its new SFA (Sales Force Automation) system in order to optimize the sales process (from pre to post-sales) in the business, corporate, and retail segments (doorto-door) with greater assertiveness in the proposals made and better management of products and the commercial terms negotiated. The system includes monitoring orders and activities of partners that are part of Oi’s external sales force, among other functions. ACCESSIBILITY FOR CUSTOMERS For the visually impaired customers, Oi offers contracts and invoices in Braille, and the users of postpaid services receive bonus information via audio. People with hearing and speech impairments can use the Alternative Plan of Service with a monthly package of one thousand text messages (SMS), contributing to their communication and social integration. This initiative complies with Resolution 477 of Anatel. In the Oi Atende stores, the salespersons are trained in the Brazilian Sign Language and there are terminals adapted to be used by deaf people. In most stores, the physical structure was also adapted to accommodate people with walking difficulties, in accordance with Resolution 426 of Anatel. This Annual Sustainability Report is also accessible to visually impaired customers, following the recommendations of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which is the leading global benchmark for internet accessibility. 123 Social-environmental Performance 4.5.7. Innovations in customer care menu The Company has invested in new technologies and new processes to increase the digital relationship with its customers. Today Oi is a benchmark in customer self-service, thus reducing complaints and increasing the level of customer satisfaction: Annual Sustainability Report 2013 •M  inha Oi application: in 2013, the number of customers registered in Minha Oi, the area of ​​online relationship, represented 7% of all customer interactions. Minha Oi reached 6 million registered customers, managing more than 15 million terminals online. • Online Account: the Online Account reached 1.1 million invoices 6 million registered, which is a 180% growth in the Company’s customer base in comparison with 2012. The Online Account cuts costs with printing and postage and prevents the misplacement of the CUSTOMERS invoice. In one year, the Company launched several initiatives to REGISTERED encourage joining the Online Account option. The Conta On-line WITH MY OI Premia Você campaign began its promotion in September 2013 where it gives away ten tablets per month and a car every three months until August 2014 for customers active in this service. • Simplified offers: based on the complaint indicators and a survey with customers, the proposal was introduced to simplify offers of products focused on attributes valued by the customer and with less chance of error at the time of contracting the plans. •S  ales simulator: this action was taken in order to prevent failures and reduce the acquisition time and the change of plans at Oi Stores and Franchises. Using the simulator, salespeople can see all the name of all the campaigns and offers, as well as all the plans and additional packages that they need to activate the client, along with the price per plan and the total of the user’s choice, making the sales process more intuitive, safe, and agile. 124 Social-environmental Performance •Oi’s New Invoice: Oi’s invoice was given a new layout in order to facilitate the understanding of customers about their spending menu and reducing calls to the Customer Service Desk for lack of understanding the items described in the account. •Virtual Attendant: this tool, which is accessed through the Oi Annual Sustainability Report 2013 website, answers questions about Oi TV as if it were talking with the user through chat. The user asks the question and the tool checks a knowledge base and provides the best answer. OI ON THE SOCIAL NETWORKS The Company maintains a strong presence on the social networks. In May, Oi’s fanpage on Facebook reached the mark of one million fans. An online customer service is done through the interaction tool Oi Responde using the fanpage and, if necessary, the user is directed to a cell of Oi specialists. Currently, more than one thousand client contacts are made per month on Facebook. The fanpage also offers the Oi FM application in which Internet users can listen to music while surfing the web as well as the Nossas Vagas sections where they can check the job opportunities in the Company. Oi’s strategy of increasing the use of Internet and social networks aims to establish new channels of dialogue with the public, distribute qualified and relevant content, as well as increase the scope of communication with the market. Besides Facebook, Oi is also present on Twitter, Google+, and on Orkut, and it repositioned its site (www. oi.com.br) with a focus on the user’s perspective. 125 Social-environmental Performance 4.5.8. New solutions for the client menu Oi is investing in a multiproduct project with a single, integrated view of the customer, which includes converged offers based on innovative and more efficient technologies. One example is the migration from ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) with copper cables for Annual Sustainability Report 2013 broadband to IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) technology whose minimum speed is 100 Mbps. These investments converge to the goal of broadening the company’s focus from telecommunications to becoming an entertainment company with content delivery and value-added services in broadband, mobile telephony, and pay TV in HD for all the packages, and Wi-Fi. 4.5.8.1. New satellite for HD transmission Oi is the main user of the geostationary satellite SES-6, which went into orbit in June 2013 after its launching from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. The satellite will expand and enhance the services offered by Oi TV, which already operated the service by satellite. The SES-6 has the highest transmission capacity of DTH (Direct To Home) channels operating in Brazil and dispenses the need for optical fiber to reach the homes of Oi customers. Moreover, DTH is ideal platform for providing TV service across Brazil. The Company, which already operated TV by satellite, delivers a signal with more power and that is less susceptible to adverse weather conditions such as rain. With the SES-6, Oi reaches a new level in the pay TV market, consolidating its position as the only telecom operator in Brazil to offer quadruple play (voice, data, internet, and TV) to its customers with cutting-edge technology. The system supports on-demand TV (pay-per-view) via satellite in addition to interactivity via broadband. The useful life of the satellite is about 15 years. Oi also develops the IPTV project with FTTH (fiber-to-the-home) technology available in some neighborhoods of Rio de Janeiro. The offer in this operation consists of ultra-broadband connections up to 200 Mbps and IPTV plans. 126 Social-environmental Performance 4.5.8.2. Other products menu Oi has also invested in new solutions to increase the offer of products and customer satisfaction. Some of these actions are as follows: 4G: the Company was already operating its 4G network (fourth Annual Sustainability Report 2013 generation mobile phone service) in 24 Brazilian cities at the end of 2013. Its arrival in these cities has strengthened its position as a convergent operator, offering a more complete experience in mobile internet for the customer with 4G, 3G, and Wi-Fi. Oi’s 4G customers have free access to more than 520,000 hotspots on Oi’s Wi-Fi network, and the 4G handsets sold by the Company carry the Oi Wi-Fi and Mundo Oi Application. The first locations to receive this technology were the six cities to hose the FIFA Confederations Cup 2013 (Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Salvador, Recife, and Fortaleza). The offer of the service took place within the timeframe established by Anatel, estimating 4G coverage of at least 50% in the six cities by the end of April 2013. Oi’s 4G smartphones come with the applications Minha Oi and Oi Spot (collaborative application to capture the perceptions of customers about the performance of the services) in addition to a free 30 days of the service Rdio (streaming music). Customers can rely on specialized after-sales service to give support to the configuration of the applications and to answer questions from consumers. Oi SmartCloud: in 2013, Oi introduced the second phase of launches of cloud services, reinforcing the strategy of helping customers increase their revenues and reduce their costs through the innovative use of technology. The new solutions operate on the international network of data centers belonging to Oi and Portugal Telecom. As the services operate in the cloud, companies can request more resources quickly and easily by using Oi’s SmartCloud portal and pay only for usage, especially in periods of high demand. In addition, Oi guarantees 99.9% availability of these services, which eliminates possible risks to business customers. 127 Social-environmental Performance Oi Galera: a plan targeted to the youth, it provides voice services, data, SMS, music, and access to the largest Wi-Fi network in Brazil, menu paying R$ 0.99 per day of use. To publicize the plan and gain new customers, Oi made several field actions with the distribution of chips. Besides the actions in the field, Oi created an application on Facebook that allows customers to send invitations to their friends Annual Sustainability Report 2013 to participate. The third way of entering into the plan is through the Galera list, an online list where people can sign up and request the chip, even if they do not know any member of Oi Galera. The new plan covers services, relationship channels, identity, and communication specific for young audiences with a huge potential for consumption of data and technology. The plan’s customer service cell is formed exclusively formed with professionals with the same profile as the young people that are part of the plan, making communication between customers and the company more natural and easy. The product was also launched in an internal event that brought together 1,500 young people from Oi at the Casa Grande Oi Theater in Rio de Janeiro (RJ), along with students from the educational programs Oi Kabum! and Nave aiming at a greater integration between the Company’s strategies and the social institute Oi Futuro focused on the development of Brazilian society through education and technology. Oi Carteira: the second product of a partnership of Oi with Banco do Brasil, this rechargeable prepaid card works on both the cell phone as well as on the traditional Visa card and makes it possible to make purchases at stores affiliated with Cielo, withdrawals at ATMs of Banco do Brasil, plus recharge minutes to Oi’s prepaid plan and transfer money to other customers of the product. Oi Carteira allows customers without a checking account to conduct financial transactions with their mobile or with the traditional card and they can receive cash charges even from those who are not clients of this service. Membership is not conditioned on proof of income and credit approval. Launched in May 2013, Oi Carteira uses the same technology as in the transactions of Oi Credit Card, a product launched in 2011, also in partnership with Banco do Brasil. 128 Social-environmental Performance Payphone with Wi-Fi: Oi offers free Wi-Fi connection on 30 public telephones located in the cities of Florianópolis (SC), which was the menu first city in the country to receive this technology. Anatel has plans to revitalize public telephones by installing a Wi-Fi connection in 300,000 of the nearly 1 million public telephones that exist in the country. Another 400,000 payphones will be disabled. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 GRI EC8 GOOD OLD PAYPHONE Oi is bringing the payphone back into people’s lives and has conducted campaigns to encourage them to take better care of the payphone. In 2013, the Company aired a video on YouTube called Revelações no Orelhão (Revelations in the Phone Booth) to celebrate Mother’s Day where children use a customized payphone to make confessions to their mothers. It received more than 4 million views. In October, the Company implemented an interactive game in which the children had to call from a payphone to a superheroes center and choose a character to save the Children’s Day. The Company also invests in deals in offers related to payphones and initiatives to reduce its costs and vandalism. In Rio de Janeiro and another 12 states, clients of Oi fixed phones receive free local calls from payphones. In Manaus and Recife, the Company launched a pilot project of rechargeable cards that offer lower rates. At Rock in Rio 2013, Oi installed six thematic payphone booths with a design inspired in elements related to Rock such as the guitar and spikes (sharp tacks used on clothing and accessories) and also in the Rock in Rio brand. 129 Social-environmental Performance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 OI IN THE ANTARCTIC In February, Oi inaugurated, together with the Ministry of Communications and the Brazilian Navy, the operation of telecommunication services at the Comandante Ferraz Antarctic Station (EACF). Preparations for building the new telecommunications infrastructure at EACF began in December 2012 after formalizing a cooperation agreement with the Navy. Oi technicians traveled to Antarctica on January 23 and in less than one month deployed a telecommunication infrastructure especially adapted to withstand the adverse climatic conditions of the place such as wind, which can reach up to 200 km/h, and low temperatures. The presence of Oi in Antarctica ensures the delivery of integrated services of voice, data, internet, mobile telephony, and a solution for receiving TV signal, services that were already provided to EACF since 2006. The Company rebuilt a ground satellite station to connect to the EACF with the Navy’s corporate network, which guarantees the connectivity of the military personnel and researchers installed at the base and agility in communicating with their families, the Navy network, and other research centers and universities in Brazil. Some of the new equipment supplied to the Brazilian base by Oi are as follows: antennas with antifreeze system, modems with switching system, routers, terminals for managing the station, pressurizer, and transmission and reception antennas of mobile phone signals, plus 20 mobile phone handsets made available to the Navy technicians and researchers. The agreement between Oi and the Navy also includes training and annual qualification of military personnel for operating the system and maintaining the telecommunications equipment. In addition, the Company will check and do preventive maintenance on the equipment installed at the Antarctic base. 130 Social-environmental Performance 4.5.9. Call center menu Oi invests in technology and training in order to continuously improve the customer service provided by the call centers, increase customer satisfaction, and reduce the number of complaints to Anatel and Procons. For example, incentive campaigns and intense training are Annual Sustainability Report 2013 conducted with the 50,000 operators of the subsidiary BBTC and partner Contax in order to increase the rate of solving the problem at the first contact and reducing the rate of the second call. Another relevant indicator is the customer satisfaction survey taken 24 hours after the customer service is provided, so that the client has time to see if his/her demand was solved. In 2013, Oi completed the migration of the structures at the call centers to an Internet Protocol (IP) platform, which reduces the risk of a call being interrupted before the service is finished, prevents the attendant to intentionally terminate the call and still gives the option of returning the call in case of interruption. The IP platform makes it possible to transfer calls to attendants who can answer specific questions. 131 Social-environmental Performance In the beginning of 2013, the Company held the first convention for attendants, which was held in Buzios (RJ), which brought together for menu the first time teams from Oi, Contax, and the BTCC to discuss joint solutions to improve quality. These solutions include reducing repeat calls by 15%, the decline in internal transfers, and increase in customer satisfaction by 10 percentage points. By the end of 2013 an Annual Sustainability Report 2013 increase of 19% could already be observed in Oi’s final scores of its Customer Satisfaction Survey. Currently, half of the calls made by customers with doubts and demands are resolved through the IVR (Interactive Voice Response) system, which has a series of standard options that guarantee agility in customer care. The Company also promotes award campaigns (in the form of bonuses, SMS, and data package on an Oi Card) among call center operators to raise the customer care quality targets (reduction of complaints to Anatel, repeated or transferred calls, satisfaction surveys, etc.). GRI 2.10 The quality of customer service offered by BTCC has been recognized by a number of awards received in 2013: •SMART Award: it received the gold and silver trophies, which are awards in recognition and appreciation of best practices in customer service made in the Utilities and Telecom sector. •XIII ABT Award from Garrido Marketing: won four awards with Technical Support cases: Practicality and Solution for Customers in the category Technical Customer Services; Endomarketing 2.0: A New Way to Talk with Internal Stakeholders in the category Multichannel; LideraRH: Training the Next Leaders in the category of Human Resources; Mr. Olímpio Motivational Campaign in the category Communication Campaigns. 132 Social-environmental Performance •6th National Teleservices Award (PNT) from ABT (Brazilian Association of Teleservices): recognized in four categories with menu LideraRH cases Develop to Grow, Endomarketing 2.0: A New Way to Talk with Internal Stakeholders, GIP: Integrated Management of Personnel, and Mr. Olímpio Motivational Campaign. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 •Goiás Human Being Award: sponsored by the Brazilian Association of Human Resources with the Oi cases of from Agent to Manager and LideraRH Develop to Grow. 4.6. Suppliers GRI EC6 The selection process of suppliers includes requirements relating to governance, ethics, and sustainability such as commitment to respect human rights, labor rights, and environmental protection. Oi promotes an annual workshop with its network companies to reinforce the issues related to health and safety that are stated in the contracts. All contracts are closed using standard clauses on the preservation of human rights and reinforcing its concern with preventing the exploitation of slave labor. Every year the company conducts audits on health and safety of its operations in various parts of the country, as well as with some suppliers considered critical depending on the type of service provided. These audits, in addition to their health and safety aspect, also assess issues related to compliance with labor laws, including the risk of the occurrence of forced or compulsory labor and child labor in Oi’s operations or of its suppliers. GRI HR6 | HR7 In addition, Oi gives priority to contracting domestic suppliers in all of its processes of purchasing equipment and systems of a high monetary value or of strategic importance as stated in the Anatel regulation relating to item 9.5 of the Annex to Act No. 7,828/2008 and Annex IV Methodology for Monitoring the Conditioning 9.5 of the Terms of Reference for Monitoring Investments in Research and Development (R&D), which cover the commitment of acquiring equipment and systems with nationalization standards or indexes. 133 Social-environmental Performance Local suppliers accounted for 99.8% of the purchases made in 2013. The contracting of suppliers to purchase goods and services seek menu quality and lower costs, but still emphasizing ethical behavior, with a view to full satisfaction of Oi’s customers. All outsourced professionals providing security services to Oi are Annual Sustainability Report 2013 trained in the Company’s procedures concerning human rights, such as that given in the courses “Profile of a Differentiated Professional”, “Excellence in Customer Service,” and “Basic Notions of Private Asset Protection”. The Company’s Security Policy, focused on life protection and non-use of force, hires unarmed guard services. The exception is 99.8% the buildings where the contractual requirements of the clients require armed guards. GRI HR8 ARE LOCAL SUPPLIERS The training programs set up with the contracted companies in 2013 WHO HAVE MADE reached 98% of the people trained. The pragmatic content of this PURCHASES IN 2013 training includes the following topics: Excellence in customer service, Basic notions of private asset protection, Notions of administrative tasks, Profile of a differentiated professional, Notions of preventing and fighting fires, Notions of first aid, Demonstrating emotional control in pressure situations; Demonstrate patience and politeness when dealing with people, Behavior and attitudes on Human Rights. GRI HR8 Satisfaction surveys conducted on Oi’s web sites showed a growth in satisfaction rate from 77% in January to 96% in December. GRI HR8 134 Social-environmental Performance 4.6.1. Supplier Qualification Index menu GRI HR2 One of the significant instruments to monitor the quality of the services rendered by suppliers is the Supplier Qualification Index (IQF), Annual Sustainability Report 2013 which assesses customer service on items related to operational efficiency, compliance of processes, customer satisfaction, contract management, financial aspects, and human resources management. In 2013, 58 reviews were conducted of the IQF, of which 26 of them were on the pillar of human resources management. The Company goes to the field to inspect the service providers periodically. The assessment generates a score and an action plan under the responsibility of the contract manager and the supplier evaluated in order to correct possible noncompliance actions being done by the supplier with the objective of increasing operational efficiency and reducing labor contingencies. Suppliers who have good scores receive bonuses or penalties as stated in the contract. Of the 56 items assessed, about 17 are related to health and safety at work. In 2013, the Company continued to work with diagnosing its supply chain, which was started in 2012. Voluntary assessments were made against suppliers considered critical because of the values ​​of contracts and types of activities conducted, as well as the suppliers considered as strategic by the Business Continuity Committee. These evaluations considered practices and aspects of the environment, human rights, health, and safety. The results of this diagnosis were used to leverage initiatives to improve the process of supplier management such as selection and hiring, which is expected to be implemented in 2014. 135 Social-environmental Performance 4.6.2. Training menu Oi does not directly train employees of third-parties, but prepares and distributes the training materials for the service providers for them to give the training courses. The adoption of Click, which is a tool to manage productivity in the field, will also contribute to the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 development of suppliers and for the qualification of outsourced technicians. In 2013, the Company realigned the material used for training its service providers with a focus more on functions and practical issues so that the new model of certification can be implemented in all of Brazil in 2014. The certification of network service technicians is to ensure the quality of the work. The aim of this training is to reduce the rate of repair and increase the productivity per technician through operational excellence. Since 2000, over 20,000 professionals have been certified who are strategic suppliers in the field working with installation, maintenance, and repair of the customer’s network in the segments of Voice, Velox, and Data. With the implementation of the new model, the goal is to certify another 20,000 technicians by the end of 2015. Certification is carried out in one of Oi’s 25 CEQUAL labs (Professional Qualification Test Centers) set up in all regions of Brazil. Besides practical tests, the knowledge and skills of Oi’s outsourced labor is also evaluated. The Company does not have a strategy to internalize the external plant, especially due to the complexity of such an operation considering its scope and coverage. Even so, the incentive to improve the performance of these processes is made present by Oi’s constant dialogue with its suppliers, encouraging the adoption of best practices and by offering training. The employees of the service providers are also trained through the Telecom Pronatec (National Program for Access to Technical Education) of the Federal Government, which offers technical courses with funds from the National Fund for Development of Education (FNDE). 136 Social-environmental Performance 4.7. Oi Futuro menu GRI EC9 Oi Futuro if the brand name of Instituto Telemar, Oi’s corporate social responsibility institute that supports projects in education, culture, Annual Sustainability Report 2013 sports and the environment that reflect the Company’s mission to democratize access to knowledge and promote human development. Oi’s process of change in 2013 also brought reflexes to the institute, which got closer to the initiatives of the Company’s business. GRI EC4 PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT (R$ 2011 2012 2013 THOUSANDS)* Education 20,567 17,083 14,829 Culture 75,704 50,154 50,727 Sustainability 7,473 6,947 4,796 Sports 15,432 17,439 7,981 Administrative structure of Oi Futuro 3,958 4,918 4,503 Total 123,134 96,542 82,835 Direct investment 54,364 39,547 37,565 Through tax incentives 68,770 56,995 45,270 * The table has three adjustments in relation to the standard adopted in previous years: (i) inclusion of expenses with personnel related to the lines of Education, Culture, Sustainability, and Sports; (ii) inclusion of the line of Oi Futuro’s administrative structure (supporting areas: Communication, Financial, Planning, Property, and HR); (iii) allocation of expenses with counterparts of tax benefits defined in state laws to encourage culture and sports through direct investment 4.7.1. Education In the area of education, to which most of the resources from Oi Futuro went to, the objective is to qualify the vocational training of college in the field of creative economy and develop and disseminate innovative educational methodologies. To do this, the programs Nave (Advanced Education Center) and Oi Kabum! are kept, which use communication and information technologies at the same time as a tool and as part of its training processes, preparing students for careers in the digital area. 137 Social-environmental Performance 4.7.1.1. Nave menu Developed in two public schools in partnership with the Departments of Education of Rio de Janeiro and Pernambuco, Nave offers vocational training integrated into the regular high school curricula, offering technical courses in the area of programming for digital games, scripts for digital media and Annual Sustainability Report 2013 multimedia, research and innovation activities, as well as dissemination of the methodologies and practices. Currently the initiative has about 900 students and 80 teachers involved. Nave Rio is integrated with Microsoft’s Innovative 138 Social-environmental Performance Schools Program since 2009 and was elected the Mentor School in 2012 was invited in the same year to participate in the World Tour menu program in which selected schools around the world have the opportunity to be visited by other ones. Already in 2013, the Recife Nave was also selected as one of the 80 most innovative schools around the world in the category “Mentor”. In 2014, the two schools Annual Sustainability Report 2013 will be attending the World Global Forum organized by Microsoft in Barcelona. The Enem (National High School Exam) score is one of the indicators of the program’s positive outcomes. In the last two editions of the exam, the State School José Leite Lopes (Nave Rio) placed first among the schools connected to the Department of Education of the State of Rio de Janeiro. The Nave Rio surpassed the level of 600 points, which is the target of the Ministry of Education for 2025, a score considered as proficient and the same as those in developed countries. And the Technical School Cícero Dias (Nave Recife) also won first place among the schools linked to the Pernambuco State Department of Education (SEEP). The Nave Rio is the only school in Brazil invited by Qatar Foundation to appear on Wise Book (World Innovation Summit for Education), one of the world’s most important publications in the field of innovation in education. Students from the schools Nave Rio and Recife produced 24 games entered into the Windows Phone Market Place platform. Up until October 2013, more than 460,000 downloads were performed worldwide. 139 Social-environmental Performance 4.7.1.2. Oi Kabum! menu Oi Kabum! School of Art and Technology offers to young people in urban lower-class communities, students, or graduates from the public schools, training in courses related to creative economy: photography, graphic design, video, web design, and computer graphics. At every Annual Sustainability Report 2013 cycle of one and a half years, 380 young people join the units in Belo Horizonte (MG), Recife (PE), Rio de Janeiro (RJ), and Salvador (BA). After completion of the course, the graduates have the option to be a part of a second module of training for up to 18 months performing tasks and projects related to the languages of the schools. This module seeks to encourage artistic and cultural production and promote the integration of these young people into the labor market through partnerships with institutions and companies. In 2013, the school Oi Kabum! Belo Horizonte received accreditation from the Ministry of Education as a high school of professional technical education in courses of Audio and Video Production, Visual Arts, and Multimedia. 4.7.2. CCulture Cultural initiatives are supported through public bids and totaled 103 projects in 12 Brazilian states in 2013, mainly in the areas of visual arts, performing arts, technology, and transmedia. Part of the projects was conducted in three cultural centers held in Rio de Janeiro (RJ) with two units and in Belo Horizonte (MG). The activities were also intense at the Telecommunications Museum, which completed seven years of existence, being present during important events in the field of museology, and strengthened national and international partnerships. In 2013, the museum in Rio received 31,000 visitors and the museum in Belo Horizonte another 20,000. 140 Social-environmental Performance menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 4.7.3. Fund for Children and Adolescents: The Oi Futuro Institute also supports initiatives for the development of young people living in social risk through the FIA ​​(Fund for Children and Adolescents). In 2013, Oi supported 13 projects certified by ten Boards for the Rights of Children and Adolescents distributed throughout the states of Alagoas, Minas Gerais, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sergipe, and São Paulo. Through grants to state and municipal FIAs, Oi contributes to the effectiveness of the public policies for ensuring the human rights of children and adolescents throughout the country 4.7.4. Oi Novos Brasis Another way to financially support social-environmental projects is through the Oi Novos Brasis program. Through annual public bids, initiatives are selected of nonprofit organizations that use information and communication technologies to improve the quality of life of communities and promote diversity, accessibility, and social inclusion. During 2013, 40 projects were supported with more than 10,000 direct beneficiaries across the country. In 2013, the Oi Novos Brasis received two important awards: Top Sustainability Award from ADVB (Brazilian Association of Sales & Marketing Managers) and honorable mention for the ACRJ Sustainability Award from the Commercial Association of Rio de Janeiro. 141 Social-environmental Performance 4.7.5. Sponsorship of Sports menu Viewed as an instrument of social transformation, sports is also a focus of development for Oi Futuro, which supports sports and parasports projects that promote improved quality of life and health of the individual and value accessibility and diversity. For the fourth Annual Sustainability Report 2013 year running, Oi was granted the seal of “Business Friend of Sports” from the Ministry of Sports as an important sponsor of Brazilian sports. Oi has sponsored the judo team of Sogipa (Gymnastics Society of Porto Alegre) since 2003, which contributes to the development and consolidation of the sport in Brazil and bringing national and international titles. In 2013, the athletes of this team brought home important wins such as the African Open of Judo in Mauritius, the seven gold and three silver medals in the Intercity Games in Rio Grande do Sul, and other medals in regional championships in Pará and Santa Catarina. The Oi Sogipa team also participated in the World Judo Championships held in the city of Rio de Janeiro with six athletes: five are members of the team of 18 judo athletes who defend Brazil in the World Championship. Among these athletes is Mayra Aguiar, bronze medal at the London Olympics. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 menu 142 GRI REMISSIVE INDEX 143 GRI Remissive Index PROFILE INDICATORS Pages RA Global Compact menu 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 5 to 7 organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 5 to 7 and 36 to 40 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 2. PERFIL ORGANIZACIONAL 2.1 Name of the organization. 11 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 11 to 13 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 11 to 13 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 11 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Oi does not have 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant operations outside to the sustainability issues covered in the report. of Brazil. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 11 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 2.7 11 to 13 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the organization. 8 and 11 to 13 Because of a significant change in scope and limit there was an Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, internalization of 2.9 structure, or ownership. the internal plant of a third-party, which was explained in detail throughout the report. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 13 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 3.1 2 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.). 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 4 Process for defining content of report, including: a) determination of materiality, b) prioritization of issues on the report, and c) 3.5 2 to 4 identifying which stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 2 to 4 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 144 GRI Remissive Index PROFILE INDICATORS Pages RA Global Compact menu Any limitations as to scope and limits State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the defined for this 3.7 report. report are identified throughout the Annual Sustainability Report 2013 document. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly 3.8 2 to 4 affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations, including assumptions and techniques that sustain the estimates 3.9 2 applied to compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effects of any information re-statements provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 3 and 4 (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 2 to 4 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the information in the report. 142 to 152 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 4 assurance for the report. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 27 to 35 such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is 4.2 also an executive officer (and, if so, their function in the organization's 18 management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number of members of the highest governance body that are 31 independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 29 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and other executives 4.5 15 to 45 (including departure arrangements) and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 15 and 30 conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of 4.7 the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 30 organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 22 to 24 and 26 social performances and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, 4.9 environmental, and social performances, including relevant risks and 35 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 145 GRI Remissive Index PROFILE INDICATORS Pages RA Global Compact menu There are no mechanisms for evaluation of Board Processes for self-assessing the performance of the highest performance, 4.10 governance body especially with respect to the economic, but the internal environmental, and social performances. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 regulations provide for annual selfassessment. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 85 to 87 7 principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 68 to 141 subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ or national/international organisms that defend the organizations: a) has positions in groups responsible for corporate governance, 4.13 68 to 141 b) participates in projects or committees, c) contributes with funding beyond the basic rate as a member organization, and d) considers its role as a member strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 2 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 2 and 68 to 141 whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 4.16 68 to 141 engagement by type and stakeholder group. Main themes and concerns that were brought up through 4.17 stakeholder engagement and what measures the organization 68 to 141 has adopted to deal with them. 146 GRI Remissive Index ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach: Pages 46 to 67 menu Aspect: Economic Performance Pages RA Global Compact Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Essential EC1 donations and other community investments, retained 55 and 96 earnings, and payments to capital providers and Annual Sustainability Report 2013 governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Essential EC2 39 and 40 7 the organization’s activities due to climate change. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Essential EC3 101 to 103 obligations. Significant financial assistance received from Essential EC4 136 government Aspect: Market Presence Pages RA Global Compact Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared Additional EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations of 102 1 operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyEssential EC6 132 to 135 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Essential EC7 management hired from the local community at Not Material significant locations of operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Pages RA Global Compact Development and impact of infrastructure investments Essential EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit 88 to 90 and 128 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Additional EC9 136 to 141 impacts, including the extent of impacts. 147 GRI Remissive Index ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach: Pages 68 to 141 menu Aspect: Materials Pages RA Global Compact Essential EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 73 8 74 Essential EN2 Percentage of materials used from recycling 8 and 9 Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Aspect: Energy Pages RA Global Compact Essential EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 78 and 79 8 Essential EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 77 8 and 9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Additional EN5 77 and 78 8 improvements Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Additional EN6 energy-based products and services, and reductions Not Material in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Additional EN7 77 to 79 reductions achieved Aspect: Water Pages RA Global Compact Essential EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 83 8 and 9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Additional EN9 Not Material water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Additional EN10 Not Material reused. Aspect: Biodiversity Pages RA Global Compact Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Essential EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Not Material biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Essential EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Not Material of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Additional EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Material Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Additional EN14 Not Material managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national Additional EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas Not Material affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Pages RA Global Compact Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Essential EN16 79 to 82 8 weight. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Essential EN17 79 to 82 8 weight. 148 GRI Remissive Index ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Additional EN18 81 and 82 7, 8, and 9 reductions achieved menu Essential EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 82 8 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Essential EN20 Not Material and weight. Essential EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not Material Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Essential EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 75 and 76 8 Essential EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Additional EN24 76 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Additional EN25 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Not Material the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products & Services Pages RA Global Compact Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 74 to 77 and 79 Essential EN26 7, 8, and 9 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. to 82 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Essential EN27 72 materials that are reclaimed by category. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number Essential EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 86 8 environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport Pages RA Global Compact Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Additional EN29 76 8 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: General Pages RA Global Compact Total environmental protection expenditures and Additional EN30 85 7, 8, and 9 investments by type. 149 GRI Remissive Index PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REGARDING LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Management Approach: Pages 87 to 141 menu Aspect: Employment Pages RA Global Compact Total workforce by employment type, employment Essential LA1 97 and 98 contract, and region. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Essential LA2 99 6 group, gender, and region. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Additional LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 101 to 103 major operations. Aspect: Labor / Management Relations Pages RA Global Compact Percentage of employees covered by collective Essential LA4 105 1, 2, and 3 bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Essential LA5 operational changes, including whether it is specified 106 in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Pages RA Global Compact Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Additional LA6 117 1, 2, and 3 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Essential LA7 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 116 fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist workforce members, Essential LA8 115 to 117 1 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Additional LA9 106 1 with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education Pages RA Global Compact Average hours of training per year per employee by Essential LA10 108 to 114 6 employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Additional LA11 support the continued employability of employees and 108 to 114 assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Additional LA12 Not Material and career development reviews. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunities Pages RA Global Compact Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, Essential LA13 100 and 101 1 and 3 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Essential LA14 101 to 103 1, 2, and 3 men by employee category. 150 GRI Remissive Index PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REGARDING HUMAN RIGHTS Management Approach: Pages 87 to 141 menu Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Pages RA Global Compact Oi does this type Percentage and total number of significant investment of evaluation with Essential HR1 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have its investment Annual Sustainability Report 2013 undergone human rights screening. contracts. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Essential HR2 that have undergone screening on human rights and 134 1, 2, 3, and 4. actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Additional HR3 23 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-Discrimination Pages RA Global Compact Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Essential HR4 24 1, 2, and 3 taken. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Pages RA Global Compact Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Essential HR5 105 1, 2, and 3 be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labor Pages RA Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for Essential HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 132 5 contribute to the elimination of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Pages RA Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Essential HR7 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to 132 2 and 4 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices Pages RA Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning Additional HR8 133 1 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Pages RA Global Compact Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Additional HR9 There were none. indigenous people and actions taken. 151 GRI Remissive Index SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS RELATED TO SOCIETY Management Approach: Pages 87 to 141 menu Aspect: Local Community Pages RA Global Compact Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Essential SO1 84 to 87 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Aspect: Corruption Pages RA Global Compact Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Essential SO2 38 10 for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiEssential SO3 23 10 corruption policies and procedures. Essential SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 24 10 Aspect: Public Policies Pages RA Global Compact Public policy positions and participation in public policy Essential SO5 87 to 95 10 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Additional SO6 87 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Pages RA Global Compact Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Additional SO7 24 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Global Compact Oi had at the end of 2013, 42,387 labor lawsuits with a provision of Monetary value of significant fines and total number of R$ 1.142 billion. Essential SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and The Company regulations. was not fined for non-compliance with corporate law or regulatory obligations. 152 GRI Remissive Index PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REGARDING PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Management Approach: Pages 87 to 141 menu Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Pages RA Global Compact Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, 40 to 76 and 85 Essential PR1 1 and percentage of significant products and services to 87 categories subject to such procedures. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Additional PR2 85 to 87 safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Pages RA Global Compact Type of product and service information required by Essential PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and 118 to 119 8 services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Additional PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 119 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 120 to 121 Additional PR5 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications Pages RA Global Compact Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Essential PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including 120 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Additional PR7 120 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Global Compact Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Additional PR8 120 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Essential PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and 119 use of products and services. 153 Statement GRI Application Level Check menu Annual Sustainability Report 2013 154 Credits Acknowledgments We wish to express our appreciation for the support, efforts and menu commitment of employees from various areas of the Company who helped us put this Report together, and also for our stakeholders who are a constant motivation to improve this elaboration process. Annual Sustainability Report 2013 CVM INSTRUCTION NO. 358, ARTICLE 12: Direct or indirect controlling shareholders and shareholders who elect members of the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, and any other individual or legal entity, or group of persons, acting as a group or representing the same interests, that holds a direct or indirect interest equivalent to five percent (5%) or more of any type or class of shares of the capital of a publicly-held company, must notify the Securities Commission (CVM) and the Company of the fact, in accordance with the above article. Oi recommends that its shareholders comply with the terms of Article 12 of CVM Instruction No. 358, but it takes no responsibility for the disclosure or otherwise of acquisitions or disposals by third parties of interests equivalent to 5% or more of any type or class of its shares or of rights over those shares or other securities that it has issued. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE IN CONTROLLING DIRECT CAPITAL TREASURE SHARES CONTROLLERS1 FREE-FLOAT Common 599,008,629 84,250,695 290,549,788 62,293,273 161,914,873 Preferred 1,198,077,775 72,808,066 18,289,917 422,760,870 684,218,922 Total 1,797,086,404 157,058,761 308,839,705 485,054,143 846,133,795 Note: Quote as of December 31, 2013. 1 AG Telecom, Andrade Gutierrez, BNDES, Bratel, Funcef, La Fonte Telecom, LF TEL, Petros, and Previ. 155 Credits Head Office GRI 2.4 Independent Auditors Credits Rua Humberto de Campos, 425 ((On 12/31/2013) Coordination and menu 22430-190 ± Rio de Janeiro ± RJ KPMG Independent Auditors – SEC Production ± Brazil and CVM Financial-Administrative Department Phone: +55 (21) 3131-2918 Stock Exchange Management of Investor Annual Sustainability Report 2013 Fax: + 55 (21) 3131-1144 Relations, Governance, BM&FBovespa (Bolsa de Valores de www.oi.com.br and Sustainability São Paulo) Management of Governance Book Entry Shares Service Ticker Codes: and Sustainability Oi S/A – OIBR3 and OIBR4 Banco do Brasil S.A. GRI Consulting, (Position on 12/31/2013) Production and Edition Rua Professor Lelio Gama, New York Stock Exchange (Nyse) in USA 105/38Î andar ± Centro The Media Group Code of ADRs: OIBR.C and OIBR 20031-900 ± Rio de Janeiro ± RJ (Position on 12/31/2013) Graphic Design Phone: +55 (21) 3808-3715 fmcom Fax: + 55 (21) 3808-6088 Contacts GRI 3.4 E-mail: aescriturais@bb.com.br pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br Depository Bank of ADRs invest@oi.net.br The Bank of New York Mellon Oi S.A. c/o BNY Mellon Shareowner Services P.O. Box 358016 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8016 Phone (Toll Free): 1-888-BNY-ADRS (269-2377) Phone (International): +1 201680-6825 E-mail: shrrelations@ bnymellon.com www.oi.com.br/ri
