2014 Teijin Group CSR Report [Achievements in FY2013] Endeavoring to Provide New, Technology-driven Solutions Globally The Teijin Group upholds its brand statement “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as its promise to society and its customers. Under the statement, we are globally expanding our wide range of businesses that include advanced fibers & composites, electric materials & performance polymer products, healthcare, products converting and IT. In line with our corporate philosophy, we continue striving to enhance the quality of life of people everywhere. Progressing with technological innovation at the core of operations, we will continue to create new solutions in response to various global issues and needs. In doing so, our aim is to evolve as an organization that is worthy of society’s highest expectations and esteem. Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy Quality of Life The Teijin Group´s purpose is to enhance the quality of life through a deep insight In Harmony with Society into human nature and Empowering Our People needs, together with the application of our creative abilities. Brand Statement Our promise is to keep delivering real value through the development of chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment, and through the provision of solutions that society and our customers expect. 1 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Editorial Policy CONTENTS Explanatory Note Message from the President ................................. 3 The 2014 Teijin Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report Profile of the Teijin Group .................................... 5 has been planned and edited on the basis of the following policy to ensure that the Teijin Group’s CSR activities are understood by a wide range of stakeholders. Features Towards Solutions for Social Issues Materiality and Completeness – Shared Value with Society ............................... 9 The contents of this CSR Report have been chosen according to The 8th Stakeholder Dialogue ............................. 15 strict criteria from items that the Teijin Group has specified as important CSR issues, and with reference to the following guidelines The Teijin Scholarship Foundation Celebrates its 60th Anniversary ....................................... 21 and questionnaires on socially responsible investment (SRI). Notably, the features section introduces initiatives relating to themes that are particularly important to the Teijin Group and also important to society. CSR Management Reference Guidelines CSR Basic Policy and Promotion System ................ 23 • “Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2012” Corporate Governance ...................................... 25 (Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan) Compliance and Risk Management ...................... 26 • “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2006” Message from the Chief Social Responsibility Officer.. 28 (Global Reporting Initiative) Reporting on Website Environment, Safety and Health Report To ensure completeness in reporting of our CSR activities, we use ESH Management ............................................ 29 both this report and our website. Items reported on the website are Environmental Preservation................................ 30 introduced in the “Reference information on website” column for each of the CSR issues shown on pages 23 to 43. In addition, a list of Design for Environment .................................... 34 website references is shown on page 50. Disaster Prevention Activities .............................. 35 Occupational Safety and Health .......................... 36 WEB Teijin Corporate Social Responsibility page URL: http://www.teijin.com/csr/ Social Report Enhanced Clarity and Ease of Searching Quality Assurance ............................................ 37 After referring to readers’ responses to questionnaires, we have made Human Resources Management and Labor CSR ...... 38 efforts to create a report that is easy to read, easy to understand and CSR Procurement............................................. 41 readily accessible. We have minimized the report’s length as much as Social Contributions ......................................... 42 possible, and used graphs and figures for reporting the main points of annual activities. Furthermore, we have considered ease of searching via features such as cross-referenced pages. Economic Report Assurance of Reliability Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders .......... 43 This report has been independently reviewed by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., who have provided assurance of its reliability. Comparative Table with Corporate Code Indicators on which assurance is provided are marked with a red star ( ). of Conduct .................................................. 44 FY2013 Plans, Goals, Performance and Time Period Self-evaluations ............................................ 45 This report includes information corresponding to the period from Comparative Table with ISO 26000 ...................... 49 April 2013 to March 2014. However, some information is included List of Website References ................................. 50 that corresponds to the 2013 calendar year or activities implemented List of Assurance Indicators ................................ 51 after April 2014. Independent Assurance Report ........................... 52 Boundaries of Report Information in this report refers to all Teijin Group companies (Teijin Limited, plus 55 in Japan and 95 overseas). However, for some items, such as ESH management and human resources management, we have included notes indicating that the information refers to a separate group of companies. All product and service names in this report are trademarks or Additional Information registered trademarks of the Teijin Group. Other names of Information related to our CSR activities is also contained in the products and services are trademarks or registered trademarks following: of their respective companies. • Teijin Group CSR Report (English/Chinese) Publication Date • Teijin Group Company Profile (Japanese/English) Published in October 2014 • Annual Report (Japanese/English) • Fact Book (Japanese/English) Publishing Section • Financial Statements (Japanese/English) Corporate Communications Department • Shareholders’ Report (Japanese) Teijin Limited • Teijin corporate website (Japanese/English/Chinese) Phone: +81-3-3506-4408 Fax: +81-3-3506-4150 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 2 Message from the President Bringing Together the Group’s Overall Strength, Aiming to be a Prominent, Globally Admired Corporate Group My name is Jun Suzuki, President and CEO of Teijin Limited from Accelerating “CHANGE for 2016” April 2014 and successor to former president Shigeo Ohyagi. The Teijin Group’s corporate philosophy includes “Enhancing the In my new role, I will dedicate myself to the sustainable Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society”, and “Empowering growth of the Teijin Group and I ask for your continuous advice Our People.” This is also the starting point for our CSR. I firmly and support in these efforts. believe that businesses have the social responsibility of continuing to create the real value that society needs in order to improve the quality and standard of people’s lives, and that, The Teijin Group’s Value Creation by fulfilling that responsibility, a company can contribute to In 2012, the Teijin Group formulated “CHANGE for 2016,” the the sustainable growth of society and itself. mediumto long-term management vision, which encapsulates There is a range of predictions being made about the our long-term aim to be a Group that provides the values society future of the international community – further population needs and secures profitable, sustainable growth. I believe that growth, food and water resource shortages, heightened this vision shows the right direction for Teijin to take going demand for fossil fuel resources and increased CO2 emissions forward. I will continue following this vision in the coming years, accompanying the economic growth in emerging countries, and firmly implement “transformation and growth strategies” and increases in medical care and social-security needs due to looking five and ten years ahead. the further progression of an aging society. In response to To achieve our goals, there are many challenges that must these social and environmental changes, we are creating and be faced, but I believe that the Teijin Group has sufficient providing real value unique to the Teijin Group. This is achieved potential and the technologies to overcome these challenges. through innovations based on technologies in our strengths As we move forward, I will lead from the front as we bring of high-performance materials, healthcare and IT, and our together the Group's overall strength, aiming to be a prominent, overlapping business domains. Bringing together the Group’s globally admired corporate group. overall strength, we will secure profitable sustainable growth through providing real value in the form of solutions needed by society; that is, values such as greater energy and resource efficiency, clean energy, safety and peace of mind, and comfort. 3 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 CSR Aligned to Management Strategies In order to advance these efforts, I believe it is imperative Based on the management strategies described above, I will to work closely together with all stakeholders. From this point outline two major aspects of CSR initiatives introduced to uphold forward, we will put even more efforts into environmental our corporate philosophy of “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In communication and work hard to assertively communicate Harmony with Society” and “Empowering Our People.” information by engaging in dialogue with stakeholders and other means. Enhancing Environmental Management Environmental problems, such as global warming, the depletion Accelerating Diversity of fossil fuels and environmental pollution, are one of the key One of the pillars for sustainable growth in the Teijin Group’s issues in which the international community must make all-out mediumto long-term management vision is restructuring the efforts for the sustainable development of humankind. In addition, human resources portfolio. To achieve reform, we are actively while making the guarantee of safety a basic foundation, many promoting acceleration of globalization and diversity of human successive achievements will be required to overcome resources, and we have been working to increase the number challenges in areas such as “lowcarbon society,” “effective of women in managerial positions and to develop young materials circulation” and “existing in harmony with nature.” global leaders. The Teijin Group has been addressing these issues from an Our efforts have been rewarded as the Teijin Group was early stage. In 1992, we established the “Teijin Group Global named as one of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Environmental Charter,” under which we have carried out “Diversity Management Selection 100” in March 2014. The voluntary activities aiming to contribute to building a sustainable judges highly evaluated the fact that our female employee society. Furthermore, in 2007, we announced the “Declaration of appointed by management engaged in creating new Sustainable Environment Initiatives” under which we have been businesses and developing new products that resulted in striving to reduce the environmental impact of business processes, innovations. provide environment-conscious products and services, and create The selection should encourage further acceleration of businesses that contribute to environmental improvements. diversity and we will work hard to build a corporate culture Moreover, we have set environment and energy as one of the and environment where talented human resources can five key fields of “transformation and growth strategies” in our develop and realize their potential to the fullest, regardless of mediumto long-term management vision. nationality, age, gender, etc. Until now, the Teijin Group has focused its efforts mainly on reducing environmental impact by utilizing its technological The Teijin Group will keep providing the real values society prowess. However, in order for the Teijin Group to secure needs, aiming to become a prominent globally amired sustainable growth, we will need to create real value that meets corporate group. We ask all stakeholders for their continued customer needs and link it to our businesses. Accordingly, I understanding and support. intend to take our previous environmental management approach to an even deeper level, bring together the Group’s July 2014 overall strength and press forward with environmental management unique to the Teijin Group. To start with, aiming to enhance customer satisfaction, we will visualize the various environmental values of the Teijin Group’s wide range of products and services. We will also actively communicate with our customers from as early as the R&D stage and work to create value better matched to customers’ needs. In our business processes, we will visualize environmental impact in the supply chain, and promote Jun Suzuki reducing environmental impact together with the supply chain. President and CEO, Teijin Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 4 Profile of the Teijin Group Teijin Viewed as Numbers (as of March 31, 2014) 96 Anniversary Teijin Limited was founded in 1918. Its first business was fibers, but the business of the Teijin Group has expanded, and currently includes advanced fibers and composite, electronics materials and performance polymer products, healthcare, products converting, and IT among others. th Consolidated Sales 784.4 2014 1 billion yen Along with our plan to further expand the highly profitable businesses centered on advanced fibers, healthcare and IT, we will continue to cultivate new business in overlapping 150 domains in order to realize sustainable growth. 80 Sales Territory No. of Group Companies The Teijin Group is comprised of Teijin Limited, 55 companies in Japan, 52 companies in Asia, 23 companies in the USA and 20 companies in Europe, and continues to expand business on a Over countries global scale. The Teijin Group began full-scale global expansion in the 1970s. Currently, products of the Teijin Group are sold in over 80 countries. 32.2 No. of Group 15,756 Employees R&D Expenses billion yen The Teijin Group has 15,756 employees, including 6,320 The Teijin Group considers technological employees at overseas subsidiaries; 199 of which are innovation as the core of sustainable growth, dispatched from Japan. and spends 4-5% of the total sales for R&D every year. We have approximately 1,600 researchers. Teijin Limited Corporate Data Established: June 17, 1918 Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 Capital: 70,816 million yen Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585 Japan Osaka Head Office Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 6-7, Minami-Honmachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Representative Osaka 541-8587 Japan Jun Suzuki, President and CEO Tel: +81-6-6268-2132 Website URL: http://www.teijin.com 5 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Teijin Group Business As a global marketTrend in Consolidated Net Sales and Operating Income leading company in Net sales Operating income (100 million yen) advanced fibers such (100 million yen) 10,000 1,000 Advanced Fibers as aramid fibers and carbon fibers as well as 8,544 & Composites 8,000 7,658 8,157 7,457 7,844 800 in composites, we are Business aspiring to expand our 6,000 600 business further. 486 4,000 340 400 Aramid fibers Carbon fibers 2,000 134 181 200 124 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) We are expanding globally, holding a major share of the Trend in Main Management Indexes Electric Materials polyester films market Return on assets (ROA) & Performance worldwide and of polycarbonate resin in (%) Debt equity ratio (D/E) (%) Polymer Products growing Asian markets. 8.0 1.18 1.2 Business 0.94 1.00 1.00 0.89 Films Resins 6.0 0.9 6.1 4.0 0.6 4.5 2.0 0.3 We provide unique, 2.4 1.6 1.6 breakthrough medical 0.0 0.0 solutions, leveraging 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) our strength in the Healthcare pharmaceuticals and Business home healthcare fields. Trend in No. of Group Employees (Persons) In Japan Overseas Pharmaceuticals Oxygen concentrator for 25,000 home oxygen therapy (HOT) 20,000 18,778 17,542 16,819 16,637 15,756 15,000 8,581 7,588 7,111 7,021 We provide wide10,000 6,320 ranging solutions from 5,000 materials development 10,197 9,954 9,708 9,616 9,436 Products to products to meet a 0 Converting variety of needs in the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) markets of apparel and Business industrial materials. Consolidated Net Sales by Business Segment Others 11.3% Trading and Retail Advanced Fibers We provide various IT and Composites 32.4% services, and we are Net Sales branching out in 15.8% 784.4 Electronics Materials internet-based digital billion yen and Performance content distribution/ Healthcare Polymer Products IT Business e-commerce 17.6% 22.9% businesses. Consolidated Net Sales by Domicile of Customers The Americas 6.4% We are aiming to create new business in Europe/Other 7.9% the fields of battery materials, water Asia Japan New Business treatment, bioplastics, Net Sales 63.1% Development printable electronics 8.8% 784.4 materials and China billion yen healthcare as soon as 13.9% possible. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 6 Profile of the Teijin Group Utilizing Core Technological Innovation to Provide Values Society Needs Social Issues Business Domain Further population growth Heightened demand for fossil fuel resources High-performance Technological innovations Increasing Overmaterials Provision of solutions CO2 emissions lapping domains IT Healthcare Shortage of water resources Further progression of an aging society The Promise of the Teijin Brand Increasing medical care and social security needs 10,000 7 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Amidst a range of social issues such as further population Group, which is to improve the quality and standard of people’s growth, shortage of water resources, heightened demand for lives and contribute to the sustainable growth of society and fossil fuel resources, increasing CO2 emissions, and increasing itself. With technological innovation as the core, we are medical care and social security needs due to the further concentrating our capabilities beyond organization, business, progression of an aging society, part of our corporate philosophy, territories and borders, and focusing on creating and providing “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” reflects the mission of the Teijin solutions to social issues. Value Provided Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy Greater energy/ resource efficiency Safety/ Disaster prevention In Harmony with Society Clean energy Enhancing Increasingly sophisticated the Quality of Life services Collection and timely use of information Empowering Our People Safety/ Peace of mind Comfort TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 8 Feature 1 Towards Solutions for Social Issues — Shared Value with Society Teijin’s Advanced Solutions Contribute to Building a Sustainable Society Together with the economic and societal development and changes in demographics, various social issues have arisen in every field including environment/energy, medical services/healthcare and safety/security, and there is demand for initiatives to realize a sustainable society. In order to fulfill its responsibility as a Group that is expanding its businesses globally and contribute to solutions for social issues, the Teijin Group has set the five key fields of Sustainable Transportation, Information and Electronics, Safety and Protection, Environment and Energy, and Healthcare based on the core of technological innovation. Through provision of advanced solutions based on long-cultivated technologies, we not only respond to customer and market demands but also aim to create new value to support the future of society. Sustainable Safety Transportation and Protection Contribute to CO2 emission reduction Ensure safety for people and infrastructure P10 P12 In Harmony with More affluent Preserve and the Environment lifestyles support lives Information and Electronics Environment Improve quality of lithium-ion battery Healthcare and Energy Enhance people’s quality of life P11 Realize recycling-oriented society P14 P13 9 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Sustainable Transportation Solution 1 Using CFRP Realizes Weight Savings in Vehicle Bodies and Helps to Reduce CO2 Emissions Use of New CFRP Enables Body Weight to be Reduced to through the use of CFRP. If the body, the heaviest part of a Approx. 1/5 that of Conventional Vehicles vehicle, can be made lighter, then size/weight reduction of Amid the expansion of motorization worldwide, important other parts such as the engine and transmission are also themes in the automotive industry are energy savings and possible which enables weight savings throughout the whole reduction of CO2 emissions by improving fuel efficiency. The vehicle, thus realizing better fuel efficiency. key to this is promoting weight savings in the vehicle body Based on the above, new Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastic (CFRP) is currently in the spotlight for its ability to dramatically lighten the vehicle body while maintaining safety. CFRP, a composite material of carbon fiber and synthetic resin, has approximately 1/4 the weight and 10 times the strength of steel. In 2011, the Teijin Group made a four-seat concept car using thermoplastic CFRP with improved molding performance. The concept car minimizes the use of metal and has a chassis weighing 47kg, light enough for two adults to lift. Compared to a conventional steel framework, the weight is approximately one-fifth. Through future expansion of this lightweight and strong body to mass-produced vehicles worldwide, we will contribute not only to further progress in the transportation field but also Structure of concept car made using CFRP reduced energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Life cycle of vehicle and CO2 reduction effect of using CFRP (Model of Japan Carbon Fiber Manufacturers Association) CO2 emissions of vehicle using 20.2tons 0.3tons 17% CFRP 0.8tons 5.1tons (for 10 years) Disposal /Operation Driving bly 0.3tons 26.0tons em Ass al/ on CFRP ma Ra t ma prod l eri ucti 1.2tons ter w -5 3.9tons ia Vehicle using 17% CFRP CO2 emissions of CFRP conventional vehicle CO2 reduction effect over tons Conventional vehicle Weight reduced Steel 10 years: 30% Calculations were made under the conditions shown below. Body weight: 1,380 kg (gasoline-fueled, 4-door, FF; source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association), actual-driving fuel efficiency: 9.8 km/L (source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association), total mileage: 94,000 km (average for vehicles in use for 10 years; source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 10 Feature 1 Towards Solutions for Social Issues — Shared Value with Society Information and Electronics Solution 2 Improving Lithium-ion Battery Quality Contributes to a Wide Range of Industrial Fields World-first Coating Technology Realizes Higher Output and lifespan for laminated LIBs. Through provision of LIELSORT®, we Longer Lifespan will contribute to manufacturing that ensures a long lifespan, Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) can be used over a long time frame safety and high performance. through repeated charging while also having high power-supply performance yet small volume. For these reasons, it is used widely in applications from smartphones and tablets to electric vehicles and aircraft. Furthermore, as their use expands, there is demand for higher output and longer lifespan. Teijin Limited provides materials called separators that isolate positive and negative electrodes of LIBs. One of these is LIELSORT ®, an innovative separator that dramatically improves LIB performance. Using a world-first process of coating either meta-aramid or fluorine-based compound on a polyethylene base material, we have realized approximately 20% higher output and a lifespan several times longer than previously. In addition, because LIELSORT ® coated with meta-aramid maintains its form even if 250°C heat is applied, it prevents LIBs from becoming overly hot and improves safety. On the other hand, LIELSORT ® coated with a fluorine-based compound has adhesive properties allowing it to strongly adhere to the electrode and separator, thereby contributing to a longer LIELSORT ® Compared to conventional LIBs, Battery has longer life and 20 % output is improved by approx. fewer charges needed Conventional LIB LIB using LIELSORT® separator 11 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Safety and Protection Solution 3 Supporting People and Social Infrastructure with Aramid Fiber Material Peoples’ Safety Ensured through High Flame Resistance Contributing to Disaster Prevention Based on Reinforcement Amid the increasing awareness for security/safety in work and Material for Concrete Structures life, Teijin Limited’s meta-aramid fiber, TEIJINCONEX®, is playing In Japan, a lot of social infrastructure such as roads and bridges an important role in protecting the bodies of people working were constructed during the period of high economic growth at disaster sites or high-risk work sites. TEIJINCONEX®, an in the 1960s. Now, half a century later, countermeasures for advanced fiber with high flame/burn resistance, prevents deteriorated infrastructure is a major social issue. From the flames from spreading, doesn’t melt or adhere to the skin and perspective of preventing disasters such as earthquakes, has excellent heat-shielding performance and chemical proper maintenance/renewals are required. resistance. TECHNORA®, a para-aramid fiber developed by Teijin Teijin Limited’s original technologies also ensure that clothing Limited, has outstanding tenacity, tensile modulus and developed using dimensional stability, so it is TEIJINCONEX ® is comfortable widely used as a material for to wear too. We support concrete structures to security/safety in various repair/reinforce and in situations with uses including products to reinforce not only uniforms for foundations. It is also used for firefighters and rescue teams protective clothing material but also uniforms worn at and as a tire reinforcement electrical installation sites, material to protect people chemical factories and filling from accidents and disasters stations. TEIJINCONEX® in daily life. TECHNORA® TEIJINCONEX® 400°C Used in firefighting uniforms with heat resistance of up to TECHNORA® 8 Tenacity compared to: Steel: -fold Polyester/ Nylon: 3 Utilized as reinforcement for bridge pylons -fold TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 12 Feature 1 Towards Solutions for Social Issues — Shared Value with Society Environment and Energy Solution 4 Technologies, Systems and Bioplastics Helping to Realize a Recyclingoriented Society ECO CIRCLE™: Enabling Repeated Recycling of Polyester BIOFRONT ®: Helping to Overcome Bioplastic Issues In emerging countries, the increased waste accompanying Considering the important global need to cope with resource economic growth is becoming a major social issue. From an depletion and control greenhouse gas emissions, a promising early stage, the Teijin Group has been engaged in developing alternative material for petroleum-derived plastic is bioplastic recycling technologies that realize recycling/circulation of made from biomass. However, because conventional petroleum and water resources. The foremost example is a bioplastic is inferior to petroleum-derived plastic in terms of world-first polyester chemical recycling technology. heat resistance, hydrolysis resistance and moldability, there Utilizing this technology is ECO CIRCLE™, a consistent have been issues limiting its application. closed-loop recycling system, from the collection of polyester To overcome these weak points, Teijin Limited developed products to recycling of these products and conversion into BIOFRONT®. Besides realizing heat resistance with a melting new products. As a result, polyester products can be recycled point of 210°C, it ensures sufficient hydrolysis resistance and repeatedly without compromising quality. The expansion of moldability to allow it to be applied for wide range of uses. The ECO CIRCLE ™ began in 2002, and has now developed into a use of BIOFRONT® is also expected to expand in sectors joint project with more than 150 requiring durability such as the partner companies worldwide. In automotive, electrical/electronic device many countries, it contributes to and apparel sectors as well as in medical, reducing the usage of petroleum civil engineering and construction and oil resources and waste. field (mining of shale gas) applications. BIOFRONT ® CO2 H2O Disposal Plants 4. Collection Lifecycle of bioplastics ECO CIRCLE™ 3. Usage 1. Convert 2. Made into product End products Bioplastics BIOFRONT ® realizes heat resistance of up to 210°c Iron temperature More than 150 180~190°c partner companies worldwide 13 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Healthcare Solution 5 Contributing to Patients’ QOL* while Perceiving Social and Lifestyle Changes * QOL: Quality of Life. First New Treatment for Worldwide Modern-day Disease in Developing/Improving Oxygen Concentrators From the 40 Years Perspective of Patients Along with the changes in dietary habits and social environment, Currently in Japan, there is said to be approximately 150,000 there have been an increased number of people diagnosed with users of home oxygen therapy (HOT), a treatment for chronic hyperuricemia. The number of potential patients is estimated respiratory distress through provision of oxygen inhalation at to be approximately 16 million in Japan. This disease not only home. causes gout and urinary tract stone disease but also leads to At Teijin Pharma, a provider of oxygen concentrators for lower functioning of the liver. Furthermore, recently, there have HOT, we are aiming to enhance the QOL of patients through reports of a relationship between hyperuricemia and various developing and improving various services and products therapeutic areas including high-blood pressure and diabetes. matched to changes in users’ needs and lifestyles. For example, Teijin Pharma’s self-developed treatment for hyperuricemia we have improved the legibility and operability of display and gout* is the first new treatment in this area for approximately panels based on the fact that most users are elderly, reduced 40 years worldwide. It is receiving a lot of attention because it is a power consumption, and newly developed a model that is once-a-day medication and can be taken even by patients with a compact, lightweight, quiet and easy to carry. In addition, we certain level of decreased liver functioning. are building a system for 24-hour-a-day monitoring of * Product names: FEBURIC® (Japan/Asia), ULORIC ® (North America), ADENURIC ® equipment status through immediately detecting a device (Europe/Lebanon/New Zealand) abnormality or drop in performance. FEBURIC® Hi-Sanso™ Portable α Hi-Sanso™ 3S FEBURIC® can lower the uric acid level to Responding to diverse needs the target value by taking Hi-Sanso™ series one tablet a day 10 More than 12 different models 9 3 6 30 Sold in more than countries Expansion area: more than 110 countries TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 14 Feature 2 The 8th Stakeholder Dialogue True Diversity — The Next Step in the Advancement of Female Employees In its “Empowering Our People” corporate philosophy, the Teijin Group upholds diversity in that it aims to nurture a talented employee group with diverse abilities and personalities. On March 31, 2014, in order to consider what we should do to further promote diversity, we held a dialogue with female employees and two distinguished guests well-versed in diversity management. Changes in Diversity at the Teijin Group that Teijin is one of the leading companies promoting the Yukako Kurose: Today, we have the pleasure of having Ms. advancement of female employees. When did this start and Iwata who has been supporting the advancement of women what approaches have you taken? in the workplace in both government and private sectors and Noriko Hidaka: The Teijin Group’s promotion of women's Ms. Kawaguchi, who researches socially responsible investment advancement in the workplace was initiated as a top-down (SRI), to join female employees of the Teijin Group who are policy in 1999. The trigger came when the then-president active on the frontline to discuss the “Diversity of the Teijin saw female employees playing an active part in European and Group.” I hope everyone can take this opportunity to think American companies and realized with a sense of urgency about what we should do to further promote diversity. that the advancement of women in the workplace is essential Kimie Iwata: I have an impression looking from the outside for a company expanding its businesses globally. In 1999, we Yaohua Jin Miho Fujii Haruna Kubota Kimie Iwata Film Technology Dept. Teijin Pharma Limited Teijin Limited Vice President of Japan National Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited Pharmaceutical Scientific Area Human Resources Committee for UN Women Promotion Department Development Section Chairwoman of Japan Institute Human Resources of Workers’ Evolution Development and General Advisor, Shiseido Co., Ltd. Administration Department 15 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 started the Women’s Advancement Committee, and six reinstated after having retired once when my husband was months later a dedicated body called the Women’s assigned overseas after I returned from the first childcare Advancement Section with a female manager. In 2001, we set leave. Throughout these periods, I was assigned to similar a goal to maintain the ratio of newly recruited career-oriented work. This April, I will be transferred to another department female university graduates at 30% or more, which has since where I will be a team leader. My concern was whether I been achieved almost every year. Another key policy is could manage employees as a leader with shorter working increasing the number of female employees in managerial hours, but with more understanding of the situation by my positions, a figure which reached 85 at the end of FY2012. co-workers, I thought I would give it a try. I think the company Part of the Teijin Group corporate philosophy is “Empowering has changed a lot. Our People,” through which the Group upholds diversity with Aya Shiroki: I am in charge of sales. When I joined the the aim of realizing an appealing employee group that has company in 2004, I was told it had been decades since a diverse individuality. This is underpinned by the idea that the career-oriented woman had worked in sales in the head advancement of female employees is essential for expanding office. There was a period when I felt a sense of panic that I business globally. had to work harder but I think I am doing my duties in a Kimie Iwata: That’s wonderful. Teijin’s early initiatives for the natural way now. advancement of female employees has now become one of Yaohua Jin: I joined the company in 2009. There were many its corporate values. What has it been like for others here female employees, and being Chinese, the situation didn’t today who have experienced these changes? feel special—it seemed normal to me. Over the past three Miho Fujii: I joined the company in 1993, had two children years, the ratio of newly recruited foreigners has been 10% or and I am now in a managerial position. When I returned to more of the total every year and a Laotian is expected to join work after childcare leave for the first child, I worked a regular next year. I am happy that the workplace is becoming more schedule which I found a bit hard. Upon the birth of my global every year. second child, however, there were substantial changes in the Haruna Kubota: I joined in 2006 when the policy had environment with many female employees caring for already been set for maintaining the ratio of newly recruited children and I could work shorter hours. In fact, I was career-oriented female university graduates to 30% or more, MC Mariko Kawaguchi Noriko Hidaka Yasuhiro Hayakawa Aya Shiroki Yukako Kurose Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Teijin Limited Teijin Limited Teijin Limited Teijin Limited Chief Researcher Manager Teijin Group Corporate Officer Engineering Fibers General Manager Research Division Human Resources Chief Human Resources Office Department CSR Planning Office Planning Department High Performance Fiber Diversity Development Business Unit Section TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 16 Feature 2 The 8th Stakeholder Dialogue so there were already many female university graduates points to companies where women are highly active using around me. I belong to the Human Resources Development indicators, or alternatively, procuring from companies Group and I am in charge of planning and operation of managed by women if all other conditions are the same. employee training, so I have many opportunities to listen to Looking beyond procurement, it is important to take what employees have to say and I feel that there is an measures to promote the advancement of women together increased understanding of diversity today. with external stakeholders. Overseas, there are cases of companies with high involvement of women are prioritized for procurement. I hope the Teijin Group can progress to the next stage. Kimie Iwata: The United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles also call for liaison and cooperation with stakeholders. Yukako Kurose: It may still be difficult in Japan but I think we should take note of it for future activities. Latent Issues Behind the System to Support the Advancement of Female Employees Kimie Iwata: Incidentally, while it’s true that the more diversity-minded a company is, the more measures they will have for work-life balance, the situation will be different when it comes to activities. For example, the phrase “mommy track” is used to refer to a different career track for child-rearing female employees only. Specifically, there are situations where opportunities diminish for female What should be done to further promote the advancement employees when they become mothers. Although they may of female employees? still be employed by a company, the scope of work is so Kimie Iwata: What are the issues involved in further limited that they cannot play an active part. They may not be promoting the advancement of female employees? able to enhance their expertise or it may be difficult for them Noriko Hidaka: The Teijin Group has specified three issues: to be promoted while taking care of their children. In encouraging activities of employees who take care of their addition, various support given to an employee over a long children, fostering awareness among male employees and period may result in that employee becoming overly reliant reforming the working style. on that support and may work negatively in terms of growth Kimie Iwata: These are issues common to all advanced and career development. What is important is not to exempt companies, aren’t they? employees from work but to support them to work as usual Mariko Kawaguchi: That’s right, and of these issues, even when rearing children. To achieve this, there are two reforming the working style would be the most pressing important points: to eliminate overtime work for the issue. I think the whole of society should share the awareness company as a whole and to increase flexibility in labor that the advancement of female employees in Japanese conditions. companies is still “too little, too late” compared to other Mariko Kawaguchi: It is important to change the style in countries and we must accelerate the advancement of which we work as a result of women joining the company; for women further to revitalize both society and the economy. example, eliminating overtime or allowing employees to From the survey conducted by the Japanese Cabinet Office, positive correlations can be seen between the participation ratio of the female workforce and GDP per working hours as well as between corporate value and the advancement of women in the workplace. Even in Japan, there are results showing that the share performance of companies with female directors excels on the TOPIX. In an indicator showing the degree of male and female equality in the four sectors of economy, education, politics and health of each country announced in 2013 by the World Economic Forum (held in Davos), Japan is only ranked 105th among a total of 136 countries despite being an advanced country. Organizations that ensure diversity are considered more adaptable and sustainable. It may also be a good idea to support the advancement of female employees at suppliers through business dealings. For example, when evaluating suppliers regarding procurement, it may be worthwhile allocating 17 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 work at hours they choose as long as the required work is Aya Shiroki: In regards to the childcare leave that Ms. Jin done properly. If we could do this, the company would be a was talking about earlier, the idea of taking leave was quite more pleasant place to work not only for female employees, unique in Germany where I was working. My male German but also for foreigners and people with a disability. I think that colleague was negotiating with the president about working rather than setting the final goal solely in relation to childcare at home not for consecutive days, but one or two days a leave and shorter working hours for child-rearing female week. As his partner was also working, their style was to employees, it should also be set in relation to securing balance working hours so that one of them was at home. To diversified ways of working for employees. begin with, regardless of having a child or not, they don’t do Kimie Iwata: Actually, I once tried and failed to eliminate any overtime in principle. It’s only been one year since I overtime. Halfway measures such as reducing overtime by returned to Japan, but before I knew it, I was returning to the 10% or turning off all lights at 8 p.m. were not successful. former Japanese working style in which it is normal to work From this experience, I would like to stress the importance of long hours. I keep telling myself that it is not right. aiming to reform the working style so that there is no overtime. Mariko Kawaguchi: In an era in which double-income Yasuhiro Hayakawa: The Human Resources Development households exceed households with full-time homemakers, I Group is now reviewing a system designed to reform the think continuing to work in the same style as during the high working style. As global expansion continues, the first step is economic growth period with long working hours, etc., is also to realize change in the head office in Japan. negative for males. It is important to create a base so that people with diverse attributes and experience can work positively together. Kimie Iwata: As part of creating such an environment, I have been suggesting that employees be evaluated on the basis of hourly performance. If we did this, the evaluation of female employees with time constraints for childcare or nursing care would become relatively higher. Haruna Kubota: If the performance is the same for employees who stay in the office for a long time and for those who stay for a short time, the latter should be entrusted with work. I want the company to change to become that kind of company. Yaohua Jin: In my workplace, I have a senior who has three children. She works shorter hours but she works hard and performs her duties very well. I think supporting the advancement of female employees will benefit the company greatly. Yasuhiro Hayakawa: To increase productivity within a limited timeframe, we are now discussing how to minimize the time and workflow for the approval of management and Towards True Diversity superiors. It is not realistic to expect people to do the same Yukako Kurose: Ms. Jin, is the advancement of female workload in reduced working hours, so we are aiming to employees in China much different from that in Japan? eliminate overtime and reduce physical strain instead. Yaohua Jin: Well, many women in China hold important positions, so I was rather surprised to learn that childcare leave taken by male employees has become a matter of concern in terms of supporting the advancement of female employees. Mariko Kawaguchi: The image of leaders must also be diversified in order to create a workplace where it feels normal for there to be a female manager. In the past in Japanese society, there have been many “follow me” type leaders, but I think it would be good if there were also “let’s do it together” type leaders who unify what everyone is feeling into one direction. Noriko Hidaka: The policy of maintaining the ratio of newly recruited career-oriented female university graduates at 30% or more leads to an increase in the number of female managers. Several excellent women are not sufficient to bring about change. That’s why I think it important to increase the actual number of women. Yukako Kurose: Ms. Shiroki, you have experience working overseas. Did you feel a “gap” or any other differences when you returned to Japan? TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 18 Feature 2 The 8th Stakeholder Dialogue Kimie Iwata: I see. Teijin is creating mechanisms to reduce the way of thinking of each and every employee and his/her workload. It’s certainly true that in order to reduce work workplace, as well as to use ingenuity to promote diversity as without negatively affecting sales, there are no choices the Group becomes more and more global. I think a except selection and concentration. Therefore, this issue company with diversity is very appealing, and I hope that this must be addressed by all levels of the organization including aspect will progress further. management. There is, however, the question of how to Mariko Kawaguchi: Diversity is not about drawing a line produce the same results with less labor. This involves many between the company and private life or differentiating issues such as whether decisions can be made by individuals between black and white. Rather, it is about how to foster or whether a meeting is required, as well as reflection of this independent individuals with a good balance between the in the way agendas are decided and materials are prepared. three roles of employee, family member and citizen. I would That said, I’m sure Teijin will be able to overcome these issues. really like the Teijin Group to aim for that realm. Taking One Step Forward in Valuing Diverse Individuality Yukako Kurose: Lastly, I would like you all to comment briefly on your impression of this dialogue and your future vision. Noriko Hidaka: The diversity promotion measures of the Teijin Group started with a move for the advancement of female employees, but I think true diversity is to value the differences between each person. Just like the differences between men and women, understand that value lies in such differences, and allow each person to reach his/her full potential. I also think we need to review the method of training in relation to diversity. Haruna Kubota: For me, this dialogue underlined the importance of broadening my views to accept diverse individuality. I would like to go out on my own accord and create an external network to broaden my views. Aya Shiroki: I think it would be nice to be able to grow by Kimie Iwata: When someone joins a company, diversity is sharing values with diverse people, regardless of whether fostered at work through various duties. But I think true they are men, women, Japanese or foreigners. For this reason, diversity comes about in people’s individual lives outside the I would like to keep on absorbing many things. company. Diversity is created by the experiences of each and Yaohua Jin: Because the Teijin Group is expanding its every person, whether it be finding an opportunity to study businesses globally, I think it is important to always have the and then studying with enthusiasm or participating in social flexibility to adapt to ways of thinking specific to particular contribution activities. regions and incorporate the opinions of local employees Yasuhiro Hayakawa: We will continue to consider how to overseas. support every Teijin Group employee in developing his/her Miho Fujii: I think it is important to reconcile differences in capabilities and individuality. Yukako Kurose: I would like for us to be a company in which diverse possibilities can “chemically react” with each other to produce something better. Thank you very much for your participation today. 19 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Promoting Diversity as a Management Strategy Aiming to Realize an Appealing Employee Group with Diverse Individuality In promoting global business activities, it is essential to create a while feeling motivated to work. At the same time, we have also strong organization leveraging human resources with diversity taken measures to raise awareness about diversity. To reform in terms of nationality, race, gender, sense of value, ideas, the human resources portfolio in the mediumto long-term experience, etc. The Teijin Group upholds part of its corporate management vision “CHANGE for 2016,” the Teijin Group is philosophy, “Empowering Our People,” based on the concept that promoting diversity in recruitment/discovery, faster every single employee is the ultimate management resource. development and suitable global placements of human The Teijin Group started promotion of diversity in 1999 and resources. With diversity of human resources as a driving force has since focused on preparing and maintaining a system and for enhancing competitiveness, the Group will continue its environment to enable employees to fully reach their potential efforts to promote diversity as a management strategy. 1999 2002 2014 Started Female Published Selected for the Diversity Management Selection 100 Employee Advancement “together” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan diversity handbook Committee ~1999 2000s 2010s 2000 2007 2010 2013 Established Female Employee Renamed Female Employee Expanded the nursing Introduced hourlyAdvancement Section Advancement Section as care leave period based annual the Diversity Development to two years leave system 2001 Section (730 days) Introduced childcare support package Set goal to maintain the ratio of newly 2012 recruited female university graduates at 30% or more 2008 Started the Empower Women Advancement Introduced a work-at-home system program (EWA) Introduced of Hello-Again reemployment system Future objectives 2003 Started Women’s Intensive Promote understanding towards those doing nursing care Development program (WIND) Received Award for the Promotion of Increase male employees who take childcare leave Gender Equality for 2003 from the Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare, Japan Raise awareness about diversity Selected for the Diversity Management Selection 100 by Ministry of Publication of “together” Diversity Handbook Economy, Trade and Industry Enlighten Employees with Various Diversity Initiatives High Evaluation of the Project Led by a Female Employee The Teijin Group publishes a public relations magazine called In March 2014, Teijin Limited was selected for the Diversity “together” every year to report the latest news on its human Management Selection 100 by the Ministry of Economy, Trade resources portfolio. In addition to various messages from and Industry, Japan, as one of the companies utilizing a wide external experts and interviews with employees including variety of human resources to foster innovation. foreign staff and those on childcare leave, every issue includes The selection this time was for the Teijin Group’s initiatives round-table employee discussions about diversity. In this way, for the facilitation of diversity in a company-wide while considering how we can support diverse employee cross-organizational project being developed jointly with Nitori activities, we communicate information useful for raising Co., Ltd. Judges highly evaluated the fact that a female awareness of employees. employee took the lead in engaging in the creation of new business and development of new products and the way in which the project became a model case for transforming business to company-wide cross-organizational business The April 2014 issue carried an interview with external experts model. Encouraged by this titled “Do-it-yourself life career planning” from the viewpoint of career design as well as an article based on a round-table evaluation, we are working to talk between foreign nationals working in Japan with the concept of thinking about diversity from global perspective. further promote diversity. Awards ceremony TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 20 Feature 3 The Teijin Scholarship Foundation Celebrates its 60th Anniversary An Important Supporter of Young Scientists Networking event for Teijin Kumura Scholarship students From a desire “to support young scientists with ambitions to realize big dreams and aspirations,” the Teijin Scholarship Foundation was created 60 years ago as a scholarship system established by a private company in Japan and as one of the foundations with the greatest history and legacy. This spirit has since been continuously passed down from generation to generation and spreading around the globe. Created Mirroring the Spirit Seita Kumura, Support Realizing Many Excellent Scientists, Now Globally One of the Founders Who Devoted His Life to Research During its 60-year history, 1,542 students have so far benefited Created the Teijin Kumura Scholarship from the scholarship (as of March 31, 2014). Many graduates of in 1953 commemorating the 35th the scholarship program are teaching at universities or actively anniversary of the Teijin Group. It was involved in government and private research institutions. One named after Mr. Seita Kumura who was notable example is Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, Distinguished Professor one of the founders of the Teijin Group at Purdue University and recipient of the 2010 Nobel Prize in and also called the father of the Japanese Chemistry, was awarded the Teijin Kumura Scholarship in its chemical fiber industry. fifth year. Seita Kumura, who devoted his life to Seita Kumura In recent years, the philosophy of “fostering promising continuous research, once said, “All of you need to keep human resources capable of contributing to the society” has improving yourselves, develop your abilities and exert been expanded globally and since 2005, foreign students yourselves.” This spirit lives on today in the present Teijin studying in Japan have also become eligible for the Scholarship Foundation that fosters young scientists. The scholarship. The Teijin Scholarship Foundation also established scholarship now applies across a wide range, to the medical a scholarship system in China in 2010 and has supported and pharmaceutical, bio-science, science and technology, students of Peking University, Tsinghua University, Fudan engineering, information science and other fields. The philosophy University and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. By 2014, foreign is to pass on and develop a creative R&D spirit as well as to scholarship recipients exceeded 100 students. foster excellent human resources to contribute to the development of society. Furthermore, there are no obligatory constraints in terms of career options after graduation. 1959 Total number of 1970 Total number of 500 scholarship students scholarship students History of the Teijin Scholarship Foundation exceeded 100 exceeded 1910s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1918 1953 1954 Established Teikoku Rayon Co., Ltd., Created the Teijin Kumura Scholarship Established the Teijin Scholarship Foundation founding the Teijin Group. in commemoration as an incorporated entity. of the 35th anniversary of the Teijin Group. 21 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Symposium Commemorating 60th Anniversary Held on September 27, 2013. In addition to the commemorative speech by Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, a panel discussion was held. Certification Ceremony and Networking Event in China Approximately 400 people joined Held for the purpose of motivating scholarship students and from every part of the country, promoting exchange between scholarship students of providing many people of different universities and specialties. different generations and nationalities with an opportunity to deepen exchanges. The Spirit Lives on Today: Fostering the Diverse Next Generation The spirit of Seita Kumura reaches beyond “fostering young and environmental preservation activities, giving children of scientists,” with an expansive scope that includes support for the next generation the opportunity to take on various “fostering next-generation scientists” through social challenges. We will continue to support children, always giving contribution activities. thought to what kind of assistance will be characteristic of the The scholarship supports contributions in a wide variety of Teijin Group. fields such as science and education, culture, sports activities Science and Education Culture Sports Activities Environmental Preservation Activities Co-sponsored Midorino Komichi (Green path) environmental diary project for ecological education of children through diary-writing. Japan High School Soccer Yearbook Co-sponsored the Koshien Tournament of Expanded “Book Dream Project” to send Co-sponsored All Japan High School Soccer Science to expand the pool of science-loving picture books to children of Indonesia Tournament to support sports activities of students. and Thailand. the youth. Teijin Group Our aim is to grow and evolve in harmony with the progress of society, thus justifying the trust Corporate Philosophy of our shareholders, customers and the public at large. To this end, we strive constantly to raise In Harmony with Society corporate value and place our highest priority on safety and the environment. 2011 Total number of 1,500 1987 Total number of scholarship students 1,000 scholarship students exceeded exceeded 1990s 2000s 2010s 2005 2010 2011 2013 Started providing scholarships Established scholarship system in China. Re-established the Teijin Scholarship Foundation With the 60th anniversary in June, to foreign students studying in Japan. as a public interest incorporated entity. held 60th Anniversary Symposium in September. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 22 CSR Management CSR Basic Policy and Promotion System The Teijin Group has appointed a Chief Social Responsibility Officer under whose strong leadership we are implementing comprehensive group-wide CSR management. We classify various CSR issues into three fields, and have created a CSR management system that is appropriate to each respective field. CSR Basic Policy (2012–2015) CSR Pyramid 1. To recognize common value of business strategy and CSR management as a driving force toward sustainable development of the society Selective 2. To contribute to Teijin’s achieving the global excellence as a CSR global player, by obtaining and maintaining a global Social contribution recognition as “CSR champion” in Teijin’s way. activities 3. To realize “co-existence with global environment” by actively promoting environmental management. Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; 4. To help realize improvement of “Quality of Life,” by Purchasing/Procurement providing safe and reliable products and services. 5. To be recognized as a benchmark of Basic CSR activities such Basic CSR as compliance and risk management by their thorough Compliance; Risk management; implementation. Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance 6. To build “Win-Win” relationships with stakeholders in and outside the Teijin Group by two-way dialogues and active involvement in their development and enhance their satisfaction. WEB Reference information Features of Activities to Promote CSR we are striving to reach a level beyond these on website The Teijin Group considers CSR to be an standards. Participation in the Global important element of corporate management, Expansive CSR Compact and aims to promote CSR as an integral part This field includes human resources/labor of management. We have created the new and purchasing/procurement to meet supply post of Chief Social Responsibility Officer to chain needs. Conventionally, human act as proxy for the Chief Executive Officer resources/labor is directly controlled and (CEO) in managing all CSR-related affairs and supervised by the General Manager of the we are promoting activities under the strong Human Resources Division and leadership being shown. purchasing/procurement by the General To implement the Teijin Group’s CSR Manager of the Accounting, Finance & management in a unified, efficient manner, Procurement Division. As of recently, in order various CSR issues are classified into three to respond to advancing social needs, the fields, “basic,” “expansive” and “selective.” A Chief Social Responsibility Officer main division/organization in charge is advises/supports the General Manager of the specified for each field, and starting with Human Resources Division and the General planning for the mediumto long-term and Manager of the Accounting, Finance & single fiscal years, we continuously Procurement Division. implement the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA ) Selective CSR cycle. In “selective” CSR, companies conduct Basic CSR voluntary activities irrespective of legal The Teijin Group’s “basic” CSR is promoted obligations. The Teijin Group is actively under the direct control and supervision of expanding various social contribution the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. While activities in this field. observing laws and international standards, 23 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 CSR Management System As of April 1, 2014 Chief Social CSR and Compliance Responsibility Officer Department TRM Group Activities relating to operational risk management (ORM) and compliance. Activities relating to environmental preservation, safety/disaster prevention, and occupational ESH Group safety and health. Compliance Group Activities relating to product liability/quality assurance and secure export control. Environmental management (including Design for Environment), corporate ethics activities, CSR Group and reporting and consultation center operations This subcommittee researches, conducts planning and promotes the Teijin Group’s selective/ Group CSR Committee CSR Promotion expansive CSR activities, activities that promote dialogue and strengthen the relationship with Subcommittee stakeholders and evaluations related to the CSR activities of group companies. This subcommittee conducts planning, deliberates on and provides directions for the Teijin Environmental Management Group’s policies/objectives, mediumto long-term plan and fiscal plans in relation to Committee members Promotion Subcommittee environmental management, and reviews/deliberates on other important matters in this area. General Manager, Technology Center Chief Marketing Officer This subcommittee conducts planning, deliberates on and provides directions for the Teijin General Manager, Human Resources ESH Subcommittee Group’s policy/objectives, mediumto long-term plan and fiscal plans in relation to ESH, and Division reviews/deliberates on other important matters in this area. CFO, General Manager, Accounting, This subcommittee makes suggestions for policies, objectives and strategies and conducts Finance & Procurement Division Compliance and Risk Management (CRM) planning/supports promotion of activities in relation to the Teijin Group’s corporate ethics and Corporate Strategy Officer operational risk management (ORM), and conducts training/awareness-raising activities in Business Group General Managers Subcommittee relation to the Teijin Group’s legal/corporate ethics compliance and ORM. General Manager, New Business Development Business Unit This subcommittee deliberates on basic policies and objectives, makes necessary Product Liability/Quality recommendations, provides guidance, conducts audits and promotes information exchange in Business Unit General Managers Assurance Subcommittee relation to the Teijin Group’s product liability/quality assurance. Deputy Chief Social Responsibility Officer This conference ensures an understanding of trends in Japanese law in relation to secure export Secure Export control and conducts training/monitors compliance status at group companies in Japan. At Control Conference overseas group companies it provides supports for compliance with local laws and regulations and monitors compliance status. Role of the Teijin Group CSR Committee PDCA Approach to CSR Activities The Teijin Group has established the Group CSR Committee to discuss and take action on Long-term policies: Teijin Group programs: Corporate philosophy, Corporate Code of As part of short-term plans, each key issues and initiatives relating to Conduct, Corporate Standards of division implements measures Conduct relating to environmental protection, group-wide CSR. The Committee meets twice Environmental policy: safety/disaster prevention, product a year: in FY2013, meetings were held in April Midand long-term liability/quality assurance, compliance, environmental targets risk management, human resources/ and October. Restructuring of the product Plan Do labor, purchasing/procurement, and Action plans: social contributions. liability/quality assurance system, response Midand short-term CSR Business group programs: action plans for earthquake BCP and strengthening of Implement respective plans at individual companies. environmental management were among the items deliberated on. Self-check by CSR-related division of Under the Group CSR Committee, there Chief Social Responsibility Act Check the Teijin Group (included in the Officer specifies next CSR Report) are six subcommittees or conferences. Four year’s challenges Self-check by business groups of these subcommittees discuss and address Report to the Group CSR Assurance by an assurance provider Committee Chief Social Responsibility Officer specific issues in “basic” CSR, a focus of the review Teijin Group. “Expansive” and “selective” CSR SRI assessment issues are discussed and promoted by the Group CSR Promotion Subcommittee. From FY2012, in order to accelerate the promotion of environmental management group-wide, the Group Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee was established. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 24 CSR Management Corporate Governance The Teijin Group positions corporate governance as an essential element in realizing sustainable improvements in shareholder value and fulfilling our responsibility to various stakeholders including employees, business partners, the local community and residents, and we are implementing measures to strengthen corporate governance. Corporate Governance System As of April 1, 2014 Governance System The Board of Corporate Four of the 10 directors Auditors is in charge of are independent and overseeing and appointed from outside auditing management. Board of Board of Directors Advisory Board of the Company. The The majority (three) of Corporate Auditors (Function of Nomination and Chairman of the Board is the corporate auditors (5 members (10 members Compensation Committee) not involved in execution are independent and [3 independent outside]) [4 independent outside]) Majority of members are of internal operations appointed from outside from outside the company and responsibilities for the Group. monitoring/supervision are separated from those for implementation of Committee of Teijin Group operations. Corporate Auditors TRM Committee The Teijin Group Corporate The Advisory Board has Auditors Committee the function of an consists of auditors advisory body for the from Teijin Limited and As bodies deliberating on The Total Risk Board of Directors and core group companies decision-making of the Management (TRM) consists of five to seven and other members. At CEO, these committees Committee manages outside experts, including bimonthly meetings, ensure quick and highly CEO management strategy two to three non-Japanese, through sharing group transparent and business operating the Chairman of the Board auditing policies and decision-making risk in an integrated (counselor in the event auditing information, Group Strategy Committee processes in the presence manner. Meetings were the Chairman is absent) the effectiveness of of full-time auditors. Group Management Committee held twice in FY2013. and the CEO. Regular group-wide monitoring/ meetings are held twice auditing is increased. a year. Advanced Electric Materials & New Business Fibers & Performance Healthcare Products Converting IT Business Group Development Composites Polymer Products Business Group Business Group Business Unit Business Group Business Group WEB Reference information Strengthening Corporate Governance to enhance transparency and ensure fairness. on website Since 1999, we have implemented a series of For the Board of Directors and corporate Members of the Advisory Board groundbreaking management reforms relating officer system, with the aim of accelerating Example of Advisory Board to basic elements of corporate governance decision-making and ensuring clear Deliberation Items with the aim of enhancing transparency, accountability, our articles of incorporation limit ensuring fairness and objectivity, and the size of Teijin Limited’s board to 10 members accelerating decision-making. These reforms and we have delegated considerable authority include establishing the Advisory Board, and responsibility to corporate officers. reducing the number of directors, introducing a corporate officers’ system and establishing a Internal Control compensation system for directors in accordance The internal control system is operated and with consolidated return on assets (ROA). improved according to annual decisions At present, we have adopted a system of made by the Board of Directors regarding its governance with the following features. First, functioning. the function of monitoring and supervising An internal control report is also submitted management fulfilled by a board of directors every year. In accordance with the Financial including independent outside directors, a Investments & Exchange Act, this report includes corporate officer system and a board of corporate the opinions of an accounting auditor regarding auditors system including independent outside system maintenance/operating status and helps corporate auditors, and second, the function of to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. a nomination and compensation committee In addition, the Corporate Auditing fulfilled by an advisory board. All these features Department, which is under the direct actively incorporate outside perspectives to control of the CEO, was established in order ensure the function of monitoring and to increase the effective of our internal supervising management, which in turn helps control activities. 25 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Compliance and Risk Management We believe that compliance and risk management are the two inseparable pillars of internal control. They form the basis for sound corporate governance and are a focus of our CSR activities. We are working hard to ensure that corporate ethics are strictly upheld at all group companies and to promote business continuity management (BCM). Positioning of Compliance and Risk Management Activities in Corporate Ethics Month Corporate Governance A fair, transparent and objective management system Internal Control Compliance Risk Management Activities focusing on legal and ethical compliance, Mechanisms, systems and training for evaluating, Corporate Ethics Month as well as on internal regulations, to create a sound preventing, and controlling corporate risks campaign poster corporate culture During the Corporate Ethics Month campaign Participants Trained as Personnel Responsible for Promoting Compliance and every October, we hold the Corporate Ethics 68 Risk Management Workshop for All Employees targeting all executives and employees (including A group-work based case study was contract/temporary employees). In implemented with training materials used for addition, a message from the CEO is workshops for all employees in the Corporate distributed in six languages (Japanese, Ethics Month campaign. By discussing cases English, Chinese, Thai, Indonesian and that actually occurred at other companies, German) and campaign posters are we learned important points for conducting displayed. The poster slogans are chosen workshops for all employees. from employee suggestions every year. Compliance and Risk Management (CRM) previous calendar year of business groups WEB Reference information Promotion System and group companies. This review assesses on website The Group CRM Subcommittee, established whether there were any serious violations of Group-wide Application of Corporate Ethics and Compliance under the Group CSR Committee, meets laws or accidents during CRM activities, and Check Sheets to Survey All twice a year to deliberate on CRM-related confirms the compliance and risk Employees at the Corporate policies, measures and activities and promote management activities of business groups Ethics Workshop their group-wide expansion. and group companies on the basis of the Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey In Japan, at business groups and group compliance and risk management activity companies, we have appointed a person in survey submitted. charge of promoting CRM who For major incidents and accidents in the manages/operates activities at respective group reported to the CEO and Chief Social workplaces. Overseas, each business group Responsibility Officer during FY2013, there and group company conducts its own were no reports of serious accidents. independent training, and global compliance However, there were four small-scale meetings organized by Teijin Limited are held accidents involving leakage of chemical in main overseas regions every year. In substances at plants of an overseas FY2013, we held one meeting in Japan with subsidiary. None of the accidents had an key personnel from Europe and we closely effect on the environment. collaborated and held information exchanges In addition, in FY2013, as a new initiative, with key personnel from the U.S.A. we established focused reporting items for each business group and group company Results of Reviews by Chief Social Responsibility and we reviewed items considered to be Officer (Law Violations and Occurrence of Accidents) high-risk in terms of business characteristics Every February, the Chief Social Responsibility and other factors. Officer reviews the CRM activities for the TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 26 CSR Management Compliance and Risk Management Content of Reports/Consultation From Employees/ Promotion of BCM Those Outside the Group (Total in Japan/Overseas) As part of BCM, earthquake Sexual harassment Others evacuation drills and reporting drills are 4 cases 7 cases conducted twice a year. The earthquake Abuse of authority evacuation drills are Treatment, labor management, 19 cases conducted at approximately 300 employee benefits sites. 64 cases 8 cases Personal relationship Earthquake evacuation drill 14 cases Unfair practice at work, rule violations Safety Reporting Rate After 48 hours in Reporting Drill 12 cases 95 The counseling and reporting system is operated under the direction of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. While protecting privacy, the content and responses to all issues raised by group employees in Japan via discussions and reports are disclosed to employees every six months on the intranet. A total of 12,242 people participated Overseas, Teijin Holdings USA, Inc. and Teijin Aramid B.V. in a reporting drill which utilized a conduct discussions and receive reports from employees. % system to verify employees’ safety in emergencies. ( ) WEB Reference information Review of the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics countermeasures sheet used to on website Handbook identify/evaluate risks in order to enable Progress of Business Continuity In FY2011, we reviewed the Corporate Code quantitative evaluations, and in FY2013, the Plans and Business Continuity Management of Conduct and Corporate Standards of use of this new countermeasures sheet was Information Security Conduct to more clearly define our approach expanded to major group companies (41 to environmental management and our companies in Japan and 50 overseas response to international standards such as companies). The submission rate of the the UN Global Compact. In FY2012, we countermeasures sheet from target group published the Japanese version of the companies was 100% in Japan and 98% Corporate Ethics Handbook which reflected overseas. We have taken measures for risks the results of this review. In FY2013, working such as problems in procuring main materials towards publishing overseas versions, we and serious quality problems identified by made preparations based on the legal system these risk evaluations. In FY2014, we will of each country/region. review the risk classification chart in order to implement risk management appropriate to Risk Management Activities the present situation, clarify priorities and In FY2013, to implement risk management promote measures to control risks. with greater centralization and integration than previously, we newly established the CSR and Compliance Department under the Chief Corporate Social Responsibility Officer. Under this, we established the Total Risk Management (TRM) Group to comprehensively manage risk (see page 24). In FY2012, changes were made to the risk 27 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Message from the Chief Social Responsibility Officer Summary of FY2013 and Plans for FY2014 To create sustainable value for society, we will strive to carry out a wide variety of consistent CSR activities and disclosure of clear information to stakeholders. As climate change and economic stagnation continues worldwide, Japan is facing risks related to energy problems as well as the declining birthrate and aging population and there are increasing aspirations for the sustainability, security and safety of society. In these circumstances, in FY2013, we made steady progress in a wide range of CSR activities in areas such as compliance and risk management (operational risk management), ESH, product Osamu Nishikawa Senior Executive Officer, liability/quality assurance and social contributions. Representative Director of the Board, Chief Social Responsibility Officer Teijin Limited Strengthening Operational Risk Management Functions We are working to strengthen monitoring and control functions centered on ESH, product liability/quality assurance and compliance activities. Toward FY2014 In FY2013, in the area of safety and disaster prevention, we As a wide variety of risks become apparent on a global basis and performed detailed investigations into the background and causes there is heightened social anxiety and sense of uncertainty about for accidents involving fires by explosions at another company’s the future, the perspective of investors is shifting from a short-term plants and we shared issues for improvement and preventive centric approach to emphasis on the midto long-term. Based on measures among our factories. We also completed the these shifts, there is a trend towards a requirement for introduction of Emergency Call, a system to confirm the safety of corporations to disclose an “integrated” report to investors that employees in the event of natural disasters and started reviewing includes not only financial information, but also non-financial the BCP. In the area of product liability/quality assurance, we tried information such as environment, society and corporate to improve systems and functions throughout the group by governance (ESG) information. having quality assurance functions of each business under the The source from which a corporate entity continues to create direct supervision of the relevant business executives, and we have its value is not limited to financial capital. Various types of capital taken measures such as clarifying the scope of high risk projects. In are required whether it be human, manufacturing and intellectual the area of environmental preservation, we continued our efforts capital in the form of people, goods and information or to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. In corporate ethics and society-related and nature-related capital corresponding to the compliance activities, a workshop for all employees was held relationship with stakeholders and environmental during the Corporate Ethics Month (October) on the subject of preservation/impact. With the awareness of this basic premise, it is actual events involving misconduct that have occurred clear that the information disclosed to investors from now on will internally/externally in the past. be required to include qualitative and quantitative explanations on increases/decreases in these different kinds of capital as well as Summary of FY2013 coherent and concise explanations of the corporation’s midto While advances such as these have been made, accidents also long-term value creation capabilities on the basis of extensive occurred that require serious reflection. At chemical plants of relationships between different types of capital. overseas subsidiaries, four accidents occurred, which although In order to respond to the demands of investors and all other small-scale, involved leakage of chemical substances. Fortunately, stakeholders, the Teijin Group is conducting internal reviews to there were no human casualties and no effect on the facilitate clearer information disclosure through the integration of environment, but we regrettably caused much concern among financial and non-financial information. local residents. As the Chief Social Responsibility Officer, I will work to steer a As a chemical company, the Teijin Group regularly focuses on forward course for the CSR management of the Teijin Group. I look measures to prevent explosions, fires, leakages of hazardous forward to the guidance and support of all stakeholders. substances and workplace accidents, but we will seek to raise our activities to an even higher level in the future. Round-table Talk Held, Working Towards Integrated Report On May 28, 2013, as a part of our efforts to prepare an integrated report, we invited Mr. Hidemi Tomita, an expert from LRQA Japan, to a round-table talk with Mr. Yamamoto, Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Nishikawa, Chief Social Responsibility Officer and staff concerned. Through this talk, we were able to deepen our understanding and awareness of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework, which is the international standard, and share knowledge internally about the process of selecting important issues. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 28 Environment, Safety and Health Report Data & Topics ESH Management The Teijin Group positions ESH as a key issue relating to all business operations and is engaged in activities to reduce environmental impact both globally and locally, and ensure the safety and health of residents and employees. Obtaining ESH Management System Certifications No. of Participants in Group ESH Education We strive to acquire internationally recognized environmental management system certifications for each company and factory, and promote continuous improvements. Current ISO 14001 Certification 22 companies, 41 factories 14 companies, 17 factories Group ESH education Current OHSAS 18001 Certification Japan: Overseas: 18 28 6 companies, companies, 8 factories factories 189 12 Group ESH educational workshops aimed at enhancing the level of ESH management are held in Japan and overseas. WEB Reference information Group ESH Management System group company presidents and factory on website The Teijin Group established the Group ESH managers. Workshops are held once a year in Teijin Group ESH Basic Policy Subcommittee under the Group CSR Japan, and every two years overseas. Teijin Group Global Committee to perform integrated ESH In fiscal 2013, we held workshops at the Environmental Activity Goals management (see page 24). The Group ESH Osaka head office and P.T. Indonesia Teijin Outline of the ESH Audits Subcommittee meets twice a year to DuPont Films and there were 201 participants Group ESH Education deliberate on policy, measures and activities in total. Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH regarding ESH management, which are then General Assembly expanded within the group. Training for Internal Auditors of ESH-related Accounting ESH Compliance In addition, the Chairperson of the ESH Acquisition of Management System Certifications Committee of each business group and the To enhance compliance with laws and Manager of the Teijin CSR and Compliance regulations related to ESH, every year we hold Department conduct audits once a year. In a course to train Group employees as internal the audits, the ESH management status, any auditors for ESH compliance. In fiscal 2013, 31 accidents and countermeasures status are employees were newly certified as 1st-grade checked, and then confirmation and guidance auditors and six as 2nd-class auditors ( ), are provided in relation to future issues and bringing the total number of employees actions required before the next audit. certified to 803 since the course was introduced in 2005. Group ESH Education Group ESH educational workshops designed to enhance the level of ESH management are held periodically. The workshops target business group and group company ESH staff and production line managers as well as 29 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Environmental Preservation Aiming to reduce CO2 and chemical substance emissions as well as reduce and manage waste, we're introducing measures to reduce our environmental impact by evaluating the impact of our business activities over the entire life cycle of each product and ensuring that employees clearly understand how and why our business activities impact biodiversity. Reductions in Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations Targets for 2012–2020 Group target: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per year Target for Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 (compared to the level in the base year in FY2011). level by FY2020. Trend of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations Trends in CO2 Emissions in Logistics (Absolute Volume and Per Unit of Transportation Amount) Japan 54% decrease In Japan, Greenhouse Gas Emissions CO2 emissions Comparison with previous fiscal year Overseas (Million tons-CO2) compared to FY1990 Achieved target for Japan to reduce at Overseas Companies in FY2013 (Million tons-CO2) CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount (tons-CO2) (compared to the level (1) 0.7% improvement 4 0.75 30,000 in the base year FY2006) 1.05 3.50 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level Overseas, 1% decrease 1.018 1.024 1.017 3 0.90 2.57 0.5 compared to the previous fiscal year 20,000 19,260 18,500 0.95 2.60 2.25 2.04 1.97 0.28 0.287 2 1.00 0.25 0.178 0.928 14,216 13,046 12,398 0.93 0.77 0.76 10,000 0.85 1 1.57 1.32 1.27 0 0.019 0.887 1.21 USA Europe China Southeast 0 Asia 0 0.75 1990 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. In FY2006, the current Teijin Limited (excluding some parts Calorific values and CO2 emissions are calculated according to the coefficient specified in of the High Performance Fibers Business Unit), Teijin DuPont the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (an Films Japan Limited and the apparel business of Teijin Frontier emissions factor for electricity of 0.555 kg-CO2/kWh is used for every fiscal year). For power Co., Ltd. were classified as Teijin Group specific consignors purchased overseas, where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for calculations. under energy-saving laws in Japan. As such, the boundary of CO2 emissions in logistics applies to these businesses. Climate Change Initiatives reduced number of shipments. CO2 emissions WEB Reference information Reducing Greenhouse Gases Emitted per unit of transportation amount in FY2013 on website During Manufacturing were 0.100 tons per 1,000 ton-kilometers, Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Use of In FY2013, Teijin Group CO2 emissions equal to 1.017 as indexed by setting FY2006 Company Vehicles released during manufacturing totaled 1.97 to 1. This represents a 0.7% improvement, less Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions million tons, a 12% decrease from FY2011. than our annual target of reducing CO2 from Offices In Japan, CO2 emissions were 1.21 million emissions per unit of transportation amount tons (5% decrease from FY2012) owing to by 1% or more compared to the previous active promotion of energy-saving projects fiscal year. such as the reduction of energy loss in each In FY2014, we will further expand modal business as well as the withdrawal from the shift initiatives and improve the loading paraxylene business at Matsuyama Factory efficiency through batch transportation and films business at Ibaraki Factory. based on the collaboration between business Overseas, CO2 emissions were 0.76 million sites. We will also shift from use of trucks to tons (1% decrease from FY2012) thanks to the ships for transportation between Matsuyama effect of a steam reduction project at a factory and Mihara, expand the use of railways, and in the Netherlands and influenced by declining work to reduce transportation other than that production at a factory in Singapore. for shipping to customers such as transportation between business sites. Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics In logistics, CO2 emissions were 12,398 tons (648-ton decrease from FY2012) owing to the expanded use of Japanese domestic ships and railway transportation, improved loading efficiency through batch transportation and TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 30 Environment, Safety and Health Report Data & Topics Environmental Preservation Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Targets for FY2012–2020 Group target: Reduce chemical substance emissions by 80% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Trends in Chemical Substance Emissions Top 10 Chemical Substance Emissions Japan Overseas Toluene Inorganic cyanogen compound (excluding complex salt and cyanate) 2.5% (t) 2.3% Propyl alcohol 1.8% 10,000 Xylene 8,989 Others 5.1% 2.7% 8,000 71% decrease compared to FY1998 Tetrahydrofuran 6,000 2.9% Total emissions Dichloromethane 4,000 N-Methylpyrrolidone (methylene chloride) 2,619 3,026 52.0% 2,000 2,279 2,820 2,619 4.2% tons/year Acetone 0 1998 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 5.1% (Base-year value) Methyl ethyl ketone N,N-Dimethylformamide Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law* and chemical substances specified by the Japan Chemical 9.7% 11.7% Industry Association. The figures shown are the total of emissions into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within business sites. * Chemical Substance Management Law: Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Red text denotes chemical substances specified as Class 1 in the Chemical Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Substances Management Law. Improvements in Their Management. WEB Reference information Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Promoting Targeted Reductions From an on website Chemical Substance Emission Reduction “Environmental Impact Risk” Perspective Environmental Impact of Results The Teijin Group utilizes LIME2* to focus on Chemical Substance Emissions Using LIME2 The Teijin Group is actively committed to managing/reducing chemical substances reducing emissions of all chemical that have a large impact on the environment substances listed as Class 1 chemical and ecosystems. LIME2 allows quantitative substances in the Chemical Substances measurement of the environmental impact of Management Law* revised in April 2010 (462 chemical substances on human health, substances), and those specified by the Japan biodiversity and sectors such as agriculture, Chemical Industry Association (433 fisheries and forestry. substances). Excluding duplicated listings, Focusing on managing and reducing there are 575 specified chemical substances. substances that have a large impact on the FY2013 emissions of targeted chemical environment even in small amounts, targets substances into the environment were 2,619 are set based on not only the volume of tons, a 7% decrease from FY2012. In Japan, chemical substances emitted, but the level of we achieved a 5% year-on-year decrease and impact they have as well. In FY2013, the overseas a 9% year-on-year decrease environmental impact assessment value particularly as a result of measures taken to (integration coefficient) for the Teijin Group as control discharge of solvents. a whole decreased 10% compared to FY2012. In FY2013, of the total chemical * LIME2: The second version of the Life Cycle Impact Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling (LIME), substances emitted into the environment, a life cycle assessment (LCA) method developed through 99.0% was released into the atmosphere, a national project of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (Japan). 1.0% into the water, and 0% into landfill or the soil. 31 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Reduction of “Waste with No Effective Use” Target for FY2020 Group target: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Trends in Water Consumption and Total Water Discharged Trends in “Waste with no Effective Use” Water consumption Water discharged Japan Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Overseas (100 million tons) (t) 2.5 2% decrease 1% decrease compared to compared to 50,000 46,184 2.0 40,000 1.82 the previous fiscal year the previous fiscal year 1.5 1.54 30,000 92% decrease compared to FY1998 1.21 1.20 Achieved group target to reduce 1.0 20,000 “waste with no effective use” by 85% 0.87 0.86 0.82 0.80 or more compared to the FY1998 level 0.5 10,000 5,691 4,598 4,149 3,581 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 1998 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) (Base-year value) Water consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and In FY2012, in addition to the 4,149 tons shown in the graph above, 7,862 tap water. tons of sludge was generated as a result of dredging a discharge reservoir Water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. and was put into landfill at an external site. Impact on Atmosphere and Impact Due Reducing/Managing Waste WEB Reference information to Water Usage and Wastewater Reduction of “Waste with No Effective on website In FY2013, the Teijin Group used a total of 80 Use” (Waste Simply Incinerated or Put Preventing Soil/Groundwater Pollution million tons of freshwater (industrial water, into Landfill) groundwater and tap water). In addition, we The Teijin Group is committed to reducing used 47 million tons of seawater, mainly for the amount of waste it generates, as well as cooling applications. Freshwater to reducing “waste with no effective use” consumption was reduced 2% compared to through promoting a shift to reuse and FY2012. Group-wide, despite efforts to recycling based on material, chemical or reduce the discharge amount, a total of 120 thermal processing. million tons of water was discharged, only a In FY2013, we generated 3.6 kilotons of 1% decrease from FY2012. The total amount “waste with no effective use” (6.1% of the of chemical oxygen demand (COD) load and total 59 kilotons of waste transferred). biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) load Improvements through Using Waste associated with the water discharged per Unit of Production as an Indicator group-wide was 818 tons (7% increase from The Teijin Group has defined zero emissions FY2012)( ). as reducing the ratio of “waste with no Meanwhile, SOx emissions resulting from effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste fuel use in FY2013 were 3.9 kilotons (4% generated. decrease from FY2012) ( ). Of this total, In Japan, all factories that produce 500 overseas emissions were less than 100 tons. tons or more of waste per year achieved zero emissions by FY2011. Starting from FY2012, we have set a new target to reduce the total waste discharged per unit of production amount by 1% compared to the previous TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 32 Environment, Safety and Health Report Data & Topics Environmental Preservation Environmental Impact in FY2013 by Input/Output INPUT OUTPUT Intermediate Products Manufacturing and processing Products CO2 Energy 30.0×10 6 GJ 1.97 million tons Chemical substances Chemical substances handled 1.03 million tons Raw Materials Use 2,619 tons Waste with no effective use Freshwater consumption 80 million tons 3.6 kilotons Water discharged Seawater consumption 47 million tons Recycling 120 million tons Recovery Disposal WEB Reference information fiscal year. on biodiversity, helping to propel on website In FY2013, the waste per unit of conservation activities forward. Future efforts Environmental Input/Output production amount in our main materials will involve reviews aiming towards (Trends in the past five years) businesses (high-performance fibers, carbon quantifying the effect of each initiative. Basic Approach for Biodiversity fibers, resin, films, raw materials and Maps of Risks (Biodiversity Loss Due to Business Activities) and polymers) improved 0.7% compared to the Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impact in Initiatives (Biodiversity base year FY2011. As the average All Processes from Procurement to Disposal Conservation) improvement over two years is only 0.4%, we In addition to compliance with rules and are progressing with reviews geared towards regulations and agreements with local further improvements. governments relating to environmental impact, the Teijin Group is carrying out Biodiversity Conservation various voluntary activities aiming to further We are a promotion partner of the Keidanren reduce the overall environmental impact of (Japan Business Federation) Declaration of our business activities. These include efficient Biodiversity and we are actively working to use of energy and various resources, preserve biodiversity. minimizing chemical substance emissions, To visualize the effect that factors such as managing/reducing waste, preventing soil chemical substances, greenhouse gases and and groundwater pollution, and conserving waste resulting from business activities have biodiversity. on biodiversity, the Teijin Group has clarified the risks relating to loss of biodiversity due to business activities and activities to conserve biodiversity. As a result, this will facilitate Teijin Group employees having a clear awareness of the impact of business activities 33 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Design for Environment The Teijin Group defines Design for Environment as “product design that aims to reduce the environmental impact of each product through evaluating the overall environmental impact throughout the product life cycle including procurement, production, use and disposal” and we are taking measures for the reduction of environmental impact. Products that Received Design for Environment Approval in FY2013 Design for Environment Approved Products Aramid fiber recycled pulp Artificial leather CORDLEY® EARTH SYMPHONY ® Logo (Use of recycled polyester) We recover products as well as waste We used recycled polyester for artificial This logo is used to promote awareness fiber and fiber scraps generated in leather CORDLEY ® which is used in sports among the general public of our manufacturing processes, turn them into shoes, balls, vehicles, school bags and initiative for harmonization with the thread or pulp form and reuse them in other applications. global environment through brake pads and brake linings. environmentally conscious corporate Environmental Benefits activities based on the Teijin Group Environmental Benefits Reduced use of natural resources, Design for Environment Guidelines. Reduced use of natural resources and reduction of CO2 emissions and reduction reduction of CO2 emissions through use of chemical substances with large of recycled resources environmental impact through use of recycled resources. Promotion of Design for Environment Design for Environment Approved Products WEB Reference information We established the Teijin Group Design for EARTH SYMPHONY ® on website Environment Guidelines in January 2008, and EARTH SYMPHONY® is the trademark utilized Summary of the Design for Environment Evaluation we design our products based on for products and services that have received Checklist comprehensive evaluations of their impact Design for Environment approval. In FY2013, Design for Environment on the environment throughout their life two products were additionally approved, Organizational Bodies cycles. Using a special checklist, we evaluate bringing the total number of Design for List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for new and improved designs for products, Environment approved products to 32. For Environment Approval manufacturing processes and IT/services, these products, to ensure reliability of EARTH Supporting Widespread Use of review various measures for reducing SYMPHONY®, we conduct regular audits even the Guidelines for Calculating Avoided CO2 Emissions environmental impact and apply the results post-approval to evaluate whether or not to of the reviews in product design. continue approval. In FY2013, we reviewed existing issues EARTH SYMPHONY® has become a and directions for the future in order to apply registered trademark of the Teijin Group in Design for Environment more effectively. In Japan, the EU, China, Singapore, India and FY2014, we plan to simplify the evaluation Indonesia. method by reviewing the self-checklist and incorporating Design for Environment into R&D processes. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 34 Environment, Safety and Health Report Data & Topics Disaster Prevention Activities In order to prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, and leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we adhere strictly to disaster prevention management standards, and we are committed to preventative action/recurrence prevention as well as earthquake/tsunami countermeasures. Trend in the Number of Serious Accidents and Disasters TCAP Disaster Prevention Activities Explosions/Fires Leaks/Spills/Other (Number of events) 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 00 0 00 00 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) TCAP stands for the Teijin Group Chemical Accident Preventions Specialist Team. The photo shows guidance being given on Figures are calculated based on calendar years. disaster prevention diagnosis. Measures for Compliance with the Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law In order to minimize damage caused by a large-scale earthquake, we are systematically continuing with earthquake-resistance measures for 1995 2006 buildings. Of 61 buildings specified under the Promotion of Building Buildings found to be Buildings to which Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law in 1995, we have already non-compliant the law newly applied completed earthquake-resistance reinforcement or removal of all 38 Measures for Measures for buildings which were found to be non-compliant. We are now continuing with measures for the 19 buildings that were found not to comply with a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance all 38 eight out of Reinforcement Law and we completed earthquake-resistance measures for eight buildings by the end of FY2013. We plan to complete measures buildings 19 buildings for the remaining 11 buildings in FY2014. completed completed WEB Reference information Activities Aimed at Realizing Zero Serious Accidents Activities of the Specialist Disaster Prevention Team on website To achieve our aim of zero “serious accidents,” The Teijin Group has set-up a team consisting of System to Promote Disaster which we have defined as including current/former employees and external experts Prevention Management explosions, fires and external leakage/spills of who have vast knowledge and experience in Implementing Disaster Prevention Diagnosis hazardous substances, we are working to disaster prevention. This team, known as enhance disaster prevention management. TCAP, provides technical support for voluntary In FY2013, working to maintain zero serious disaster prevention activities at our chemical accidents, we continued efforts to prevent plants and in-house power generation plants. explosions, fires and leakage of chemical In FY2013, the team provided guidance substances. Information regarding accident to the division responsible for implementing causes and countermeasures involving fires disaster prevention diagnosis and supported caused by explosions at another company’s accident-prevention measures being put into chemical plants in Japan were shared among our practice at each factory. In addition, the team factories, and in order to prevent similar accidents conducted inspections according to the JCIA from happening, inspections were carried out at safety and accident prevention guidelines. all companies. In line with the safety and accident prevention guidelines of the Japan Chemical Fire Prevention Activities Industry Association (JCIA), we also implemented Since 2008, November 10 has been the Teijin measures such as inspections and improvements, Group Fire Prevention Day. On this day, each and disaster prevention education/training. Group company conducts its own fire Activities such as these enabled us to achieve prevention activities as well as common zero serious accidents. In the future, with the activities for the whole Teijin Group such as objective of maintaining zero serious accidents, the periodical fire prevention check. These we will strive to further enhance our accident activities are shared group-wide, helping to prevention management level. strengthen the fire prevention system. 35 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Occupational Safety and Hygiene A company cannot attain sustainable growth without ensuring the occupational safety and health and hygiene of its employees. In order to provide workplace environments created considering safety and health, we are taking steps to realize zero occupational accidents, redress long working hours and support the mental health of employees. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates*1 Training and Education Japan Overseas Teijin Group Activities with a Focus on Manufacturing industry average (Japan)*2 Chemical industry average (Japan)*2 Mental Health Care 1.2 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 1.0 0.88 0.85 0.94 0.8 0.72 0.72 0.82 0.4 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.44 0.26 0.30 0.35 0.2 0.25 0.25 0.32 0.22 0.28 0.20 Mental health training/education including topics such as 0.0 0.20 0.32 care from management and self-care was conducted a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) total of 30 times group-wide. Figures are calculated based on calendar years. *1 Lost time injury frequency rate: The number of lost time injuries per one million working hours. Mental Health Care Measures *2 Source: Survey on Industrial Accidents, Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare No. of employees who took part in planned personal interviews and surveys 1,600 As activities to prevent workplace accidents, we have set a occupational safety midand long-term target to maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rates*1 to under 0.3, we are promoting the three pillars of our safety activities*2 and we conduct ESH training and guidance in Japan and overseas. Approx. *3 Three pillars of safety activities: the “5S” initiative (five Japanese words [seiri, seiton, seisou, seiketsu and shitsuke] which correspond to organization, tidiness, cleaning, Human resource managers hygiene and discipline), the “Hiyari-Hatto” (meaning close call or near miss) initiative implement proactive measures to and safety patrols. help prevent mental health problems. Initiatives Aiming for Prevention of Mental Health Care Measures through WEB Reference information Lost Time Injuries Close Cooperation on website For the 2013 calendar year, we set a goal to In Japan, the Health Care Administration Promoting the Three Pillars of Safety Activities achieve a lost time injury frequency rate of Office is responsible for planning/promoting Group-wide Sharing of 0.25 or less and focused particularly on the group-wide health management measures. Occupational Accident prevention of accidents involving being In FY2013, in order to support mental Information and Responses at the Time of an Accident caught in rotors (accidents caused by rotors) health care measures, the Health Care Current OHSAS 18001 that occurred in 2012 as well as damage to Administration Office and human resource Certification health caused by chemical substances. managers of each business group and Preventing Nano-material-related However, the lost time injury frequency business site coordinated and conducted Health Problems rate in 2013 was 0.35 (0.44 in Japan and 0.20 personal interviews and surveys with Teijin Group Health Walk Held overseas) and we did not achieve the target. employees to check for any problems or Following another accident caused by rotors worries. The approximately 1,600 employees in September 2013, we established the targeted were those with a particularly high Accident Investigation Committee and are workload in general; that is, those who work now investigating the root cause and long hours or those who have been through introducing recurrence prevention measures. a substantial environmental change such as As for preventing damage to health caused promotion or transfer. As a result of by chemical substances, the use of organic continuous follow-up activities with solvents was investigated. Based on the employees who showed signs of a mental results, relevant departments have adopted health disorder, there were no cases of measures such as thoroughly observing laws deterioration or cases that resulted in lost and regulations and improving work work-time. environment management. As a result, there have been zero cases of health damage. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 36 Social Report Data & Topics Quality Assurance The Teijin Group conducts product liability/quality assurance activities under an original management system that ensures safe products are provided to our customers and enables quick response to needs in the ever-diversifying social environment. Enhancing the Product Liability/Quality Assurance System Group Security Export Control Conference Held Security export control training materials In September 2013, we held the Group Security Export Control Conference attended by the committee members of each business group. In the conference, laws and regulations that had been revised between 2012 and 2013 were reconfirmed, and information regarding transactions within the Group was shared. Group employees were also made aware of the significance of secure export control and internal procedures Quality management inspection through training. In FY2013, in order to enhance the management of product Current Status of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 16949 and Other Certifications 23 39 liability and quality assurance, each business group established a quality assurance department, which is independent of sales, R&D and manufacturing. The general manager of the Quality Assurance Department is assigned as the responsible person in companies factories 16 19 charge to make it an effective organizational structure. We improved the quality assurance system by placing the responsibility of controlling product shipment processes under companies factories the charge of the Quality Assurance Department. WEB Reference information Product Liability/Quality Assurance product liability/quality assurance such as the on website Management System response to customers and product safety. Product Liability/Quality The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance System Implementation of Product Liability/Quality Assurance Regulations apply to all Teijin Continuing Operation of and Strengthening the Security Group products and services, and can be Assurance Audits Export Control System considered the base for our product In the Teijin Group, product liability/quality Examples of Efforts to Ensure liability/quality assurance activities. Based on assurance activities are conducted as the Customer Satisfaction these regulations, the Group CSR Committee responsibility of each respective product and the Group Product Liability/Quality liability/quality assurance unit (six business Assurance Subcommittee decide the basic groups and nine directly managed companies policies and associated targets for all product as of March 2014). The CSR and Compliance liability/quality assurance issues of the Teijin Department, which is in charge of supervising Group, and reflect them in product group-wide quality, audits these activities and liability/quality assurance activities checks that quality assurance mechanisms are conducted by business groups. operating appropriately. We have also created an original unit-based In FY2013, we continued our regular management system for product liability/quality audits of each product liability/quality assurance that is applied to the products of assurance unit, and conducted in-depth each business group. This management system audits of specific business groups with the aims to enhance customer satisfaction, prevent objective of analyzing the root cause of product defects, and ensure appropriate quality issues and preventing the recurrence responses in the event of that defects occur. of claims. Based on feedback from the audit The system not only covers the whole scope of results, we are aiming to continually enhance the ISO standards for quality management the product liability/quality assurance system systems but also incorporates perspectives of and process. 37 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Human Resources Management and Labor CSR As a basic human resources policy, the Teijin Group aims to improve employees’ quality of life while practicing our corporate philosophy of “Empowering Our People.” As part of this management, which is being carried out from group-wide and global perspectives, we are pushing ahead with measures to secure employment, promote diversity and realize work–life balance. EaGLES Leadership Training Program All New Recruits of Five Core Group Companies in Japan Dispatched Overseas for Training 88 Number of Participants Japan EU China 59 14 15 Overseas training for new recruits Aiming to improve the fast-tracking of human resources development in response to the globalization of business and foster globally minded employees, new employees have been dispatched overseas for training since FY2011. In FY 2013, employees were Training in Japan Training in China dispatched to China, India and Indonesia. EaGLES is a training program that develops leaders capable of responding to the globalization of human resources and our businesses. The program is implemented in four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai) and consists of three steps: (1) e-learning, (2) group training in five regions (Japan, EU, USA, China and Thailand) and (3) measuring learning outcomes. China India Indonesia Global Management of Human Resources Group-wide Leadership Training Program, EaGLES WEB Reference information In 2009, we established the Global Human EaGLES is positioned as an opportunity for all on website Resources Office in the Human Resources employees in managerial positions in the Teijin Group Human Resources Policy and Mediumto Division to create a human resources Teijin Group to acquire leadership experience Long-term Plan management system and mechanism of and learn the Teijin Group sense of value, Basic Approach to Human appointment to aid Teijin Group employees management policies and history. All Resources Development and Training to be active on a global basis. In April 2014, employees in Japan and overseas requiring Human Resources Development the general manager of the Human these skills and knowledge are successively and Training Resources Department of a Group company taking this training program. Increase the Number of in Europe was appointed as the assistant In FY2014, of the courses given under this Overseas Employees Selected for the Core Human Resources general manager of the Human Resources program, those necessary for all employees Training Program Division and Corporate Officer. will be made available via the Teijin Learning Recruitment of Global Human As a part of this initiative, in addition to Center, a newly established library on the Resources expanding the Group's shared leadership Intranet. The environment will be prepared training program, EaGLES, to five regions and maintained for all employee levels, worldwide since FY2011, we have been enabling them to study without worrying dispatching all new recruits of the five core group about time or location. English and Chinese companies in Japan to China and India for training versions will be successively prepared and in order to respond to business globalization. utilized to expand training globally. In FY2013, we added Indonesia as a new dispatch destination, and allow recruits to gain firsthand experience of various cultures through discussions with high-achieving local human resources of the same generation, visits to companies, participation in NGO activities and so on. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 38 Social Report Data & Topics Human Resources Management and Labor CSR Accelerating Female Career Development Changes in the Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Changes in the Number of Female Employees in Managerial Positions Career-oriented Female University Graduates Females Males No. of females in managerial positions (equivalent of section manager or above) Percentage of Females Percentage of females in managerial positions* (Persons) 41 (%) (Persons) (%) 3.45 3.80 3.78 200 40 100 4.0 31 2.87 3.11 3.15 29 71 79 85 88 100 19 20 50 64 69 2.0 15 70 54 55 71 60 0 0 0 8 14 37 32 22 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 1999 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Five core Group in Japan * Percentage of female employees in managerial positions of the total number Five core Group in Japan of managerial positions in the Company. 29 3.78 In FY 2013, there were 88 For recruiting new career-oriented females in managerial university graduates, the five core positions. Aiming to raise the Group in Japan set the goal of number to 120 by the end of maintaining the ratio of female recruits FY 2014 and 160 by the end % at 30% or more. In FY2014, as a candidate turned down offers during the final stage of selection, the ratio % of FY 2016, we are continuing female leadership training. A total of 20 employees was 29%; however, we are aiming for attended the training in FY 30% or more again for FY2015. 2013, which was the third year. WEB Reference information Expanding Diversity Awareness Accelerating Female Career Development on website In all facets of our business, and particularly in Since December 1999, the Teijin Group has Re-employment Systems recruiting, employment and promotion, we been engaged in efforts to promote and Employment of People with a respect the sense of value held by a wide support female employees to work to the Disability variety of human resources, regardless of best of their abilities, including setting the nationality, age, gender, race, disability etc., target of maintaining the ratio of newly and support them to reach their full potential. recruited career-oriented female university Since 2002, we publish a diversity graduates and the number of females in handbook, “together,” (Japanese and English managerial positions. Concerning training for versions) every year to promote employee female managers, in FY2014, we plan to add a awareness of diversity. It is distributed to all managerial perspective to the conventional Group employees in Japan and the managers program of focusing on better understanding of Group companies overseas. The theme of oneself (reflection), change it to a program of each issue is set so as to raise employee redefining responsibilities and issues in the awareness and bring external environmental workplace from a higher perspective and change to their attention. We use it as an learn through participating in actual tasks effective enlightenment tool by always together with superiors. providing the latest information in this field. We also introduce topics regularly via a Career Building Support for Female MRs Group (internal) newsletter. The Healthcare Business Group has a relatively high ratio of female career-oriented The 8th Stakeholders' Dialogue P15 19 sales staff—mainly medical representatives (MRs)—and there is an increasing number of female employees who continue to work as sales representatives even after giving birth. 39 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Results of Re-employment by Hello-Again System Awareness-raising Seminars on Successfully Balancing Work and Family Care 7 Until the end of FY 2013 (accumulated total) In FY2013, seminars were held a total of four times targeting Re-employment employees working at the within Osaka headquarters, Tokyo Persons 10 years headquarters and the Tokyo Research Center. A special textbook was prepared to help male employees understand Hello-Again targets employees who left the company for work-life balance as a personal reasons including marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, issue. A total of 59 employees nursing care, or work transfer of their spouse. Employees attended the seminars. in this situation who wish to return to the Teijin Group due to the reason for leaving no longer applying will be rehired as full-time employees on the condition that it is not more than Seminar on successfully balancing work and family care 10 years since they left and provided that the need exists. Number of Employees In FY2013, a total of 191 employees Taking Childcare Leave took childcare leave at the five core Group in Japan. Two of the male 191 employees took leave for one month or more. We will continue to conduct activities to raise awareness and endeavor to create a workplace 30 161 culture that enables male employees to take long-term childcare leave. Male Female Having employees with time constraint issues for example, we eliminated the restriction for WEB Reference information such as childcare engaged in MR duty with the number of applications allowed, thereby on website unfixed working hours is a big challenge for enabling working hours to be adjusted Job Rotation/Transfer System both employees themselves and the flexibly according to child growth and newly Measures to Promote Work-Life Balance (Nursing Care Leave, workplace. However, a smooth return to the established an hourly-based annual leave Volunteer Leave, etc.) workplace and support after returning are system so that the mother (or father) can Determining the Status of ensured through interviews with human fulfill responsibilities at home while Group-wide Labor Management resource managers, superiors and the minimizing the impact on work. Maintaining Sound Working Relationships Diversity Development Section. As of April Employee Satisfaction Survey 2014, there are two female MRs on shorter Respect for Human Rights Data on Human Resources working hours and three on normal working To raise awareness of human rights, training (number of regular employees, hours, and there are two more expected to sessions targeting all employees are held at employees in managerial positions, retirees and others) return to work in the autumn of 2014. each workplace during Corporate Ethics Month. Overseas, in the sewing industry, one of Review of Work-Life Balance Systems the major problems is a poor working With the intention of enhancing work-life environment. As a company deeply involved balance, in FY2013, we reviewed the systems in the industry, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. takes used in Japan, incorporating the perspective exhaustive measures in employee training of raising motivation. Four systems were and enforces strict management of CSR targeted for review: Childcare Part-time Work, procurement to ensure that it is never Work at Home, Childcare Leave and Nursing involved in such human rights problems. Care Leave. Each was made easier for employees to participate in and use flexibly depending on the situation. In the Childcare Part-time Work System, TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 40 Social Report Data & Topics CSR Procurement As part of CSR in supply chain management, we clarify and put into practice our viewpoints and standards relating to CSR procurement and purchasing. Examples of this relate to improving the environmental performance of procured goods, encouraging environmental consideration, legal compliance and protection of human rights by suppliers, and also promoting fair trade practices with suppliers. Supporting the Expansion of CSR Procurement Number of Suppliers Surveyed 503 to Society as a Whole Through Our Supplier's CSR Management System The Teijin Group developed and launched the Supplier’s CSR Management System, an original system for rating the CSR of its suppliers in five levels. The system is now companies being managed by Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd., a company In FY2013, companies surveyed were expanded from the conventional main jointly established by chemical and synthetic fiber suppliers of our Purchasing Division in Japan to the main suppliers of the General companies in Japan, and is supporting the expansion of Affairs and Human Resources Division, as well as our Group companies overseas. CSR procurement to society as a whole. In total, 503 suppliers were surveyed, covering 81% of the total purchase amount of our Purchasing Division in Japan (i.e., a 5% increase compared to the previous year). Breakdown of Suppliers by Rating Breakdown of Purchase Value by Rating* Group I Group I 1% 0.1% Expanding Overseas Suppliers Subject to the Survey 2% 75 0.2% 91.2 2013 % % 5% 3.3% Starting 17% 5.2% from FY FY2013 FY2013 Group I Group II Group III Group IV Group V EU USA China Korea * The ratios were calculated excluding the purchase amounts of the General Affairs and Human Resources Division and those of our Group companies overseas. In FY2013, we surveyed 25 overseas suppliers ( ). By Using the five-level ranking of our Supplier’s CSR Management System, FY2015, we plan to expand the survey to all main 97% of the suppliers were classified into groups I-III, the groups suppliers worldwide. designated as “Okay to continue business” (94% in FY2012). The ratio of purchases from Group I, II and III suppliers was 99.7% (99% in FY2012). WEB Reference information Surveys and Ratings of Suppliers Guidance/Support to Improve CSR Activities on website The Teijin Group developed and launched an of Suppliers Basic Policies for Purchasing and original system for surveying and rating the Suppliers corresponding to groups IV–V in Procurement Activities CSR of its suppliers. The system utilizes an the results of the survey are the target of Purchasing Policy online questionnaire to confirm whether or improvement guidance; that is, they receive Purchasing Stance not suppliers are complying with the Teijin individual guidance/support to enable them Overall Consideration of Supply Chains Based on CSR Group CSR Procurement Guidelines, and the to continue as suppliers. Out of the Procurement Guidelines results are used to determine their place in a companies ranked as groups IV-V in FY2012, CSR Procurement Guidelines 5-level ranking system. Suppliers respond to we supported the establishment of CSR Care for Contractors and Work Contracts 70 itemized questions, receive a score and Procurement Guidelines for 11 suppliers. As a are then ranked according to the score and result, 26 of the 38 suppliers who were their credit status as ongoing suppliers. ranked in groups IV-V in FY2012 improved Using a matrix of these two rankings, their ranking to groups I-III in FY2013. suppliers are ranked from I to V (groups I III In the past, results were only fed back to equate to a CSR guidelines compliance ratio suppliers classified into groups IV and V, but of 40% or more, and ranks IV and V to a ratio from FY2013, we started providing feedback of under 40%). to outstanding suppliers classified into In FY2013, we improved the system by groups I to III as well in order to encourage increasing the number of choices for each further improvement. Furthermore, from question from three to five to enable more FY2014, we will study the possibility of an accurate evaluation, adding a temporary save audit visit to outstanding suppliers. function for use when answering questions, and including a function for providing feedback to suppliers. 41 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Social Contributions Through conducting social contribution activities that draw on the unique characteristics of business groups and business sites, we support the development of local communities. In addition, we are engaged in group-wide activities and we are working to foster a corporate culture that vitalizes development of volunteer personnel. Expenses of Social Contribution Activities in FY2013 Since joining the Keidanren (Japan Others 1.3% Business Federation) 1% Club in FY2003, Total Culture and the arts 0.4% the Teijin Group has been setting aside 1.2 amount Science and research 86.4% Environment 1.2% at least 1% of ordinary income for social contribution costs. Expenses of social contribution activities in FY2013 were Health, medicine and sports 3.7% approximately 1.2 billion yen, 6% of Education and social education 2.6% ordinary income. Local community activities and preservation of historic sites and traditional culture 2.3% billion Social welfare and social inclusion 2.2% The categories in the graph to the left correspond to the items of the Keidanren 1% Club. Supporting the Development Support for volunteer activities Support for areas affected of Local Communities of employees by the Great East Japan Earthquake Free-of-charge provision of uniforms for elementary NGO KAPATID (supporting the management of Mold-protection measures verification test for temporary school in Zhejiang, China kindergartens in the Philippines) housing TABLE FOR TWO Support of school lunch program for children in Nature conservation society in Hino Multipurpose facility in Iwanuma developing countries The Teijin Scholarship Foundation Celebrates its 60th Anniversary P21 22 Contributing to Society and Supporting the Fund made up of voluntary donations from WEB Reference information Development of Local Communities employees and directors as well as from on website The Teijin Group promotes mutually beneficial companies. In FY2013, providing financial Teijin Group Basic Policies for Social Contributions coexistence with society as a responsible support to four nonprofit organizations System to Promote Social corporate citizen. To this end, in countries (NPOs), we donated 100,000 yen for the Contribution Activities and regions where our bases are located, our activities of each organization. Breakdown of Spending on social contribution activities include actively Social Contribution Activities in FY2013 participating in and supporting the fields of Support for areas affected by the Great East Other Social Contribution science, education, culture and sports, as well Japan Earthquake Activities as environmental preservation and disaster To support the areas affected by the Great East prevention. In addition, to enable employees Japan Earthquake, the Teijin Group has to be actively engaged in activities that extended support of over 500 million yen in contribute to society and local communities, total including monetary donations, relief we have established a Volunteer Leave System goods such as blankets and masks and free and a leave system for bone-marrow transplant provision of home healthcare equipment such donors and registered firefighters. as oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators. From FY2011, we introduced the Volunteer In addition, we are also engaged in ongoing Support Program as an initiative to encourage reconstruction support, such as promotion of employees’ social contribution activities and to a project aimed at improving the living foster the volunteer spirit. Under this program, environment at emergency temporary housing, a committee decides which volunteer activities a joint project with Fukushima University are to be supported from volunteer activities Post-disaster Reconstruction Research Institute, that group employees in Japan are engaged in, and agricultural support utilizing IT in a and partial financial support for the activities is multipurpose facility in Iwanuma managed by provided via the Teijin Group Social Contribution Infocom Corporation in the IT Business Group. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 42 Economic Report Data & Topics Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders As the social responsibility of the Teijin Group, we place importance on maintaining a profit through our business, and distributing the resulting added value to stakeholders in an appropriate manner. Trends in Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders Percent Allocation of Added Value Gross operating profit to Stakeholders (Billions The environment Shareholders of yen) 229.3 225 225.2 9.8% 4.8% Company (Teijin Limited) 200 Total 5.4% 108.2 190.5 194.3 Local communities 1.4% 100 Shareholders 4.9 95.5 Total 5.9 82.0 Employees 53.9 Employees 75 42.4 3.9 3.9 68.2% Creditors 4.4 Total (financial institutions) Company 82 billion yen Administrative 59.4 (Teijin 50 Limited) organizations 12.0 -34.1 55.9 (national and local Administrative governments) organizations (national and local Local communities 0.9 55.5 governments) 25 4.9 Company 22.4 9.9 3.4 3.4 5.1 6.3% (Teijin Limited) 1.2 4.2 6.1 1.0 4.4 1.2 Creditors 0 The environment 9.7 8.1 8.4 8.0 (financial institutions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 4.1% WEB Reference information Distribution Results in FY2013 on website The added value obtained in FY2013 was These final two expenses are included in Table of Added Value distributed to major stakeholders as shown above. either other SGA or manufacturing costs. Distribution to Stakeholders Additionally, social contribution expenses The total amount of added value was calculated by subtracting expenses for include the use of company facilities by local transportation, R&D, marketing promotion residents and services provided by and tenancy, tariffs, depreciation, and other employees converted to a monetary value. selling, general and administrative For distribution of added value, the expenses (SGA) from gross operating profit stakeholder classification is listed as “local (net sales minus cost of sales), and adding communities.” independently calculated social contribution expenses and environmental preservation expenses. Teijin Group Stakeholders Employees, Local residents Shareholders labor unions and job seekers Customers and NGOs consumers NPOs Suppliers Local and other governments Contractors National government Financial and agencies institutions Industrial Direct stakeholders Media The global environment associations Indirect stakeholder Investors 43 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Comparative Table with Corporate Code of Conduct The table below shows activities corresponding to the Corporate Code of Conduct. Reference Corporate Code of Conduct Activities page(s) Disaster Prevention Activities P35 1. Respect human life and give due consideration to safety and health concerns Occupational Safety and Health P36 The Teijin Group has respect for human life and strives to maintain people´s safety and Quality Assurance P37 health at all stages of its business activities. Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, Safety and P29 2. Coexistence with the global environment Disaster Prevention, and Health) The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, to exist in harmony Environmental Preservation P30-33 with the natural environment and to cherish nature and life. Design for Environment P34 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders P43 3. Contribute to society and support the development of local communities The Teijin Group contributes through its business operations to the development of the economy of the countries or regions in which it locates its bases. In addition, from the perspective of promoting mutually beneficial coexistence with society, the Teijin Group Social Contributions P42 conducts appropriate activities to contribute to society as a responsible corporate Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders P43 citizen, and actively participates in and supports the fields of science, education, culture, and athletics, as well as preservation of the environment, prevention of disasters, and rescue operations. 4. Respect cultures and practices Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 In conducting its business activities on a global basis, the Teijin Group respects the Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 cultures and practices of the country or the region in which it operates. 5. Respect stakeholders In conducting its operations, the Teijin Group respects the interests of its stakeholders, Quality Assurance P37 including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, local community residents and Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 others, and strives to engage in dialogue with them. In addition, with the exception of CSR Procurement P41 trade secrets and other confidential information, the Teijin Group is committed to Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders P43 disclosing publicly, in an appropriate manner, any information that is both related to its operations and important to society. 6. Protect human rights The Teijin Group respects the human rights of its employees and all other people Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 involved in its business activities and does not allow child or forced labor. With respect to CSR Procurement P41 these policies, the Teijin Group strives to obtain the positive understanding and cooperation of concerned parties in the value chain in which it is involved. 7. Respect the personality and individuality of employees The Teijin Group respects the personality and individuality of its employees and accepts Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 their diversity including nationality, gender, religion and attributes. The Teijin Group also Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders P43 secures safe and comfortable working environments, while encouraging its employees to realize an affordable and fulfilling lifestyle. 8. Observe laws and customs In conducting its business activities, the Teijin Group observes the laws and customs of Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 the country or the region in which it operates. The Teijin Group also maintains upright Quality Assurance P37 and lawful relations with politicians and governments and avoids relations with any individual or organization that obstructs social order or its healthy operations. 9. Ensure fair and proper transactions In its operations, such as procurement and product sales, the Teijin Group negotiates in CSR Procurement P41 good faith and observes fair and proper practices. In addition, the Teijin Group neither accepts bribery nor is involved in any type of corruption. 10. Respect intellectual property rights The Teijin Group respects intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, and vows CSR Procurement P41 not to violate the effective rights of other companies or groups, as well as to protect, preserve and utilize its own intellectual property rights. 11. Maintain accurate and complete records and protect confidential information The Teijin Group maintains accurate and complete reports and other records in accordance with relevant legal and other requirements, and ensures they are stored Corporate governance P25 safely. The Group also protects the confidentiality of its trade secret and personal Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 information and pledges not to disclose such information to external parties except in accordance with legal requirements and sound business practices. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 44 FY2013 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations The Teijin Group organizes CSR issues into three categories; Basic, Expansive and Selective. We set mid-/long-term and fiscal-year goals for each area and self-evaluate achievements to reflect them in the goals for the next fiscal year. CSR issues Midand long-term goals FY2013 goals Enhance corporate governance and ensure compliance with Corporate governance laws and regulations. Review corporate governance regularly. Keep careful track of social demands and use the knowledge Identify issues through continuing to hold stakeholder dialogues (at least gained to enhance management. once a year). CSR general Promote common CSR education. Instill and enhance CSR activities through employee training and using internal newsletter. Revise Corporate Ethics Handbook for China and USA. Have all Teijin Group employees participate in the Corporate Ethics Promote corporate ethics/compliance education activities. Workshop for All Employees. Corporate ethics/Compliance Hold global compliance meetings (at least two locations a year). Operate the consulting and reporting center. Set up (English) Customer Reporting Desk on global website. Formalize risk management using the new risk countermeasures sheet. Increase recognition and enhance risk management activities. Continue to implement earthquake drills Risk management (in Japan, conduct EMC reporting drills at all group companies and evacuation drills at all business sites twice a year). Continue to expand BCPs to directly managed companies. Create and improve BCPs. Review and formalize simulated earthquake damage. Continue to implement measures to improve operations. Product liability/ Quality assurance Secure globally high level of effectiveness. Continue security export control operations. Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions*1 reduction ratio*2 of Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per Efforts to 1% or more per year (compared to the level in the base year year (compared to the level in the base year FY2011). prevent FY2011). global warming Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 20% or more compared to Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 the FY1990 level by FY2020. level by FY2020. Basic CSR Reduce chemical substance*3 emissions by 80% or more Promote total amount of reduction required for achieving mid-to-long-term Managing/ compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. target. Reducing chemical Adopt LIME2, the second version of the Life Cycle Impact Continue to promote chemical substance reduction through the use of LIME2. Environsubstance Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling (LIME) Start reviewing causes other than chemical substances that have a negative emissions developed in Japan and focus on reducing chemical ment impact on the environment. substances that have a large impact on the environment. Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use*4” by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared Group-wide: Achieve zero emissions*5 at all major business to the FY1998 level by FY2020. sites in Japan and overseas. Waste reduction Japan: Excluding coal ash and similar waste, work to reduce the amount of waste generated and achieve zero emissions for group companies in Japan. Japan: Reduce the total waste discharged per unit of production amount Japan: Reduce the total waste discharged per unit of production by 1% compared to the previous fiscal year. amount by 1% compared to the previous fiscal year. Promote measures for preventing explosions, fires and leaking of chemical substances to maintain zero serious accidents (level A). Achieve zero serious accidents. Disaster prevention Systemize facility earthquake-resistance assessment and countermeasures. Take measures for the 19 buildings that were found not to comply with a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building Complete measures for the 18 buildings targeted by the end of FY2014. Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. Maintain the lost time injury frequency rate at under 0.25. Occupational Safety Maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rate at under 0.3. and Health Prevent accidents caused by rotors and damage to health caused by chemical substances. 45 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Social contribution activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfReference FY2013 performance and results evaluation FY2014 challenges page(s) Inspected and responded to governance operation through TRM Respond based on inspection of governance operation by TRM A Committee, etc. P25 Committee, etc. Identify issues through continuing to hold stakeholder dialogues (at Held a dialogue under the theme of Diversity on March 31, 2014. A least once a year). P15-19 Implemented awareness-raising activities through level-based Promote common CSR education. workshops, Intranet and internal newsletter. A Website Global dissemination of the Corporate Code of Conduct revised in FY2012. C Establish rules for the global expansion of Corporate Ethics Principles. P27 Participation rate in the Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees: Have all Teijin Group employees participate in the Corporate Ethics Japan: 91% C Workshop for All Employees. P26 Overseas: 47% Teijin Limited held global compliance meeting with managers of Teijin Corporate Ethics Month event Aramid B.V. in November. B Hold global compliance meetings (at least one location a year). P26 Set up (English) Customer Reporting Desk on global website. Operate Consultation/Reporting Desk trusted by Group company B employees. P27 Formalized risk management by risk extraction/assessment using the new risk countermeasures sheet Promote more precise risk management by revising risk classification (submission rate of new risk countermeasures sheet of main group A chart, etc. P27 companies: 100% in Japan and 98% overseas). Conducted earthquake drills twice at all group companies in Japan. Continue to implement earthquake drills (in Japan, implement EMC Conducted EMC reporting drills at all group companies in Japan. reporting drills at all group companies and evacuations drills at all Updated EMC due to deterioration and introduced disaster A P27 business sites twice a year). countermeasures (installed redundant server). Continued to expand BCPs to directly managed companies. A Improve Corporate BCP contents. P27 Continued to take measures in line with the review of simulated A Continually improve BCP for respective individual projects. P27 damage by municipalities in which factories are located. Reviewed organizational structure and continued to implement Improve product liability/quality assurance processes. measures to improve operations. B P37 Communicated information within the group and held training Continue security export control operations. (information sessions) and meetings. A P37 Group-wide: Achieved a 12% reduction compared to FY2011 (a 6% A Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more P30 improvement in annual average). per year (compared to the level in the base year FY2011). Japan: Reduced CO2 emissions by 54% compared to the level of Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 FY1990. A level by FY2020. P30 Reduced chemical substance emissions by 71% compared to the level Promote total amount of reduction required for achieving of FY1998. C mid-to-long-term target. P31 Continue to promote chemical substance reduction through use of The FY2013 environmental impact assessed by LIME2 showed a LIME2. reduction compared to FY2012. B Continue to review causes other than chemical substances that have a P31, 32 Other than chemical substances, conducted a review on water resources. negative impact on the environment. Group-wide: Reduced “waste with no effective use” by 92% compared Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more to the level of FY1998. A compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. P32, 33 Japan: Improved the total waste discharged per unit of production Japan: Reduce the total waste discharged per unit of production amount by 0.7% compared to FY2011 (a 0.4% improvement in annual C amount by 1% compared to the previous fiscal year. P32, 33 average). Developed various disaster prevention activities, such as disaster prevention assessment, activities on Fire Prevention Day and Continue to maintain zero serious accidents. dissemination of disaster prevention information, and achieved zero A P35 serious accidents. Facility earthquake-resistance assessment and countermeasures were to be implemented in disaster prevention assessment and implemented at A Completed and no additional targets set. P35 factories targeted in FY2013. Completed measures for 8 buildings. B Complete measures for all buildings targeted. P35 Lost time injury frequency rate of 0.35. C Maintain lost time injury frequency rate below 0.25. P36 Two lost time injury accidents caused by rotors occurred (February and September), installation of Accident Investigation Committee. Gave guidance to divisions concerned for compliance with laws based on Zero lost time injury accidents caused by rotors by developing usage investigation of organic solvents and for improvement of work B recurrence preventive measures. P36 environmental management, etc. Achieved no damage to health caused by chemical substances. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 46 FY2013 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations CSR issues Midand long-term goals FY2013 goals Review systems (operations) with a view to enhancing work–life balance and motivation and increase users. • Childcare Part-time Work System • Work at Home System • Childcare Leave System Promote work–life balance measures. Promote work–life balance as a platform to “accelerate globalization and diversity” as part of the reform of the human resources portfolio in the mediumto long-term management • Nursing Care Leave System vision “CHANGE for 2016.” — Expand definition and awareness of work–life balance. • Hold awareness-raising seminars on successfully balancing work and family care. • Workshops on work-life balance systems targeting newly assigned managers. Accelerate female career development. Human Resources/ • Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates at Labor 30% or more. • Take positive action in the pharmaceutical sales division (career development support for female MRs). Increase the ratio of female employees in managerial positions. Expansive Promote diversity. CSR Continue to hold female leadership training. Promote greater awareness about diversity. • Publish internal-use diversity handbook called “together.” • Publish articles in the internal newsletter. Secure, discover and develop outstanding human resources in an open manner. Enhance global recruitment competitiveness. Establish global human resources management. Instill the Teijin way at all group companies and promote recruitment of global human resources. Continue/Expand the EaGLES leadership training program. Follow-up on selected overseas human resources. Evaluate the CSR performance of suppliers through surveys and provide guidance for improvement. Select, evaluate and rate main suppliers: 500 companies or more. Purchasing/ Procurement Formalize and enhance activities for CSR procurement. Expand cooperation with other companies in CSR procurement activities. Work towards full-scale CSR procurement activities in China. Continue to spend at least 1% of current profits on donations converted to a monetary value. Selective Manage group-wide donations (monetary and other) and Social contributions support volunteer activities of employees. CSR Expand the volunteer support program. *1 CO2 emissions include methane and N2O emissions. *2 CO2 emissions reduction ratio: Reduction ratio of absolute CO2 emissions when setting FY2011 as the base year (previously, this was described as CO2 emissions per unit of production amount). *3 Chemical substances: 462 chemical substances listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the Chemical Substances Management Law (Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management) revised in April 2010, and 433 substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 specified chemical substances. 47 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Social contribution activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfReference FY2013 performance and results evaluation FY2014 challenges page(s) Reviewed programs (operations) from the viewpoint of enhancing work–life balance, Review systems (operations) with a view to enhancing work–life balance and motivation and increasing motivation and users. and increase users. • A total of 179 employees used the Childcare Part-time Work System • Enhance convenience for employees to use Childcare Part-time Work A P40 (changed to no maximum number of use). System. • A total of 30 employees used the Work at Home System. B • Expand Work at Home System. P40 • Promoted childcare leave for male employees by posting on the Intranet. • A total of 191 employees (including 30 men) took childcare leave, A • Increase male users of Childcare Leave System. P40 including two men taking leave for one month or more. • A total of five employees used the Nursing Care Leave System. A • Enhance convenience for using Nursing Care Leave System. P40 • Introduced annual leave system on based on hours. A • Formalize the system. P40 Expanded definition and increased awareness of work–life balance. Expand definition and increase awareness of work–life balance. • Prepared a special textbook and held seminars a total of four times at • Revise the textbook according revisions in the public nursing-care the Osaka headquarters, Tokyo headquarters and Tokyo Research Center, A P40 insurance system. Hold seminars mainly at business facilities. attended by 59 employees. • Hold workshops on work-life balance systems targeting newly assigned • Held three times attended by 57 employees. A Website managers. Accelerated female career development. Accelerate female career development. • Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates • The hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates was 29%. C P39 at 30% or more. • Supported return of child-rearing female MRs (eight MRs interviewed • Maintain positive action in the pharmaceutical sales division (career A P39 before and after return). development support for female MRs). The ratio of female employees in managerial positions was 3.78%. B Increase the ratio of female employees in managerial positions. P39 Continue to hold female leadership training (provide management A total of 20 participants took part in the third female leadership A viewpoints and redefine responsibilities and issues in the workplace P39 training program. from a higher perspective). Promoted greater awareness about diversity. Promote greater awareness about diversity. • Published annually A • Publish internal-use diversity handbook called “together.” P20, 39 • Published three times a year in the internal newsletter (quarterly). B • Write features and publish every time. P39 Promoted the quick selection of outstanding human resources. A Quick selection and acceleration of developing global leaders. P38 Introduced new global internship (16 students). Jobs offered to six through foreign student seminars, etc. (of them, two Chiense were A Secure outstanding human resources on a global basis. P38 recruited locally). Introduced in Europe, China and Japan between May 2013 and January Continue EaGLES program. 2014. A P38 Maintain and operate Teijin Learning Center. 88 participants (14 European, 15 Chinese and 59 Japanese) Established a collaborative structure with global human resources Study a process and system to promote collaboration between group B P38 managers. companies. Based on the FY2012 evaluation of suppliers’ CSR performance through surveys, supported the establishment of CSR Procurement Guidelines Improve the survey system (add an automatic feedback function). for 11 suppliers. Enhance feedback system ( feedback evaluation results to all suppliers P41 B FY2013 evaluations of suppliers’ CSR performance through surveys: 503 surveyed and evaluated). suppliers. Improved survey system interface and added a temporary save function. Expanded the target of supplier CSR performance evaluations through Expand the target of supplier CSR perforemance evaluations through surveys given to departments other than purchasing (cost-related A surveys given to departments other than purchasing as well as to the P41 General Affairs, Information Systems, etc.). suppliers of group companies, etc. Implemented extensive CSR survey for Chinese suppliers with the With the cooperation of the International Purchasing Department cooperation of the International Purchasing Department (Shanghai). B (Shanghai), give guidance and raise awareness of CSR procurement P41 activities for group companies associated with China. Spending on social contribution activities totaled 1.2 billion yen (6% of Continue to spend at least 1% of current profits on donations converted current profits). A to a monetary value. P42 Donated 100,000 yen each to four volunteer organizations that A Expand the volunteer support program. P42 employees participate in. *4 Waste with no effective use: Waste that is simply incinerated or put directly into landfill. *5 Zero emissions: Reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste generated. TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 48 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 This table introduces Teijin Group activities as they apply to the seven core subjects of ISO 26000, international standards for social responsibility. Reference Core subjects Issues Activities page(s) Organizational CSR Management P23-28 1. Organizational Governance governance Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations P45-48 1. Due diligence Risk Management P26-27 2. Human rights risk situations — — 3. Avoidance of complicity CSR Procurement P41 4. Resolving grievances Counseling and Reporting System P27 Human rights 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups Promoting Diversity Among Employees P15-20, 39-40 6. Civil and political rights Corporate Ethics Month campaign P26 7. Economic, social and cultural rights Human Resources Management P38-40 Corporate Ethics Month campaign P26 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 CSR Procurement P41 1. Employment and employment relationships Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 2. Conditions of work and social protection Human Resources Management and Labor CSR P38-40 3. Social dialogue Maintaining Sound Working Relationships Website Labour practices 4. Health and safety at work Occupational Safety and Health P36 Human Resources Management P38 5. Human development and training in the workplace Risk Management P26-27 Disaster Prevention Activities P35 Environmental Preservation (Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions) P31 1. Prevention of pollution Preventing Soil/Groundwater Pollution Website Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 Solutions for Social Issues P13 2. Sustainable resource use Environmental Preservation (Reducing/Managing Waste) P32-33 The environment Design for Environment P34 Solutions for Social Issues P10 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental Preservation (Climate Change Initiatives) P30 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of Biodiversity Conservation P33 natural habitats Social Contributions P42 1. Anti-corruption Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 2. Responsible political involvement Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 Fair operating 3. Fair competition Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 practices 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain CSR Procurement P41 5. Respect for property rights Compliance and Risk Management P26-27 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Efforts to ensure customer satisfaction Website contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety Quality Assurance P37 3. Sustainable consumption Design for Environment P34 Consumer issues 4. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Quality Assurance P37 5. Consumer data protection and privacy Information Security Website 6. Access to essential services Efforts to ensure customer satisfaction Website 7. Education and awareness Efforts to ensure customer satisfaction Website 1. Community involvement Social Contributions P42 2. Education and culture Social Contributions P21-22, 42 3. Employment creation and skills development Social Contributions P42 Community involvement 4. Technology development and access — — and development 5. Wealth and income creation — — 6. Health Social Contributions P42 7. Social investment — — 49 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 List of Website References Information that could not be included due to space limitations has been published on our website. http://www.teijin.com/csr/ Contents of this report Reference information on website CSR Basic Policy and Promotion System • Participation in the Global Compact Corporate Governance • Members of the Advisory Board • Example of Advisory Board Deliberation Items CSR • Group-wide Application of Corporate Ethics and Compliance Management • Check Sheets to Survey All Employees at the Corporate Ethics Workshop Compliance and Risk Management • Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey • Progress of Business Continuity Plans and Business Continuity Management • Information Security • Teijin Group ESH Basic Policy • Teijin Group Global Environmental Activity Goals ESH Management (Environmental • Outline of the ESH Audits • Group ESH Education Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) • Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH General Assembly • ESH-related Accounting • Acquisition of Management System Certifications • Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Use of Company Vehicles • Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions from Offices • Environmental Impact of Chemical Substance Emissions Using LIME2 Environmental Preservation • Preventing Soil/Groundwater Pollution • Environmental input/output (Trends in the past five years) • Basic Approach for Biodiversity • Map of Risks (Biodiversity Loss Due to Business Activities) and Initiatives (Biodiversity Conservation) Environment, Safety and Health Report • Summary of the Design for Environment Evaluation Checklist • Design for Environment Organizational Bodies Design for Environment • List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for Environment Approval • Supporting Widespread Use of the Guidelines for Calculating Avoided CO2 Emissions • System to Promote Disaster Prevention Management Disaster Prevention Activities • Disaster Prevention Diagnosis • Promoting the Three Pillars of Safety Activities • Group-wide Sharing of Occupational Accident Information and Responses at the Time of an Accident Occupational Safety and Health • Current OHSAS 18001 Certification • Preventing Nano-material-related Health Problems • Teijin Group Health Walk Held • Product Liability/Quality Assurance System Quality Assurance • Continuing Operation of and Strengthening the Security Export Control System • Examples of Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction • Teijin Group Human Resources Policy and Mediumto Long-term Plan • Basic Approach to Human Resources Development and Training • Human Resources Development and Training • Increase Number of Overseas Employees Selected for Core Human Resources Training Program • Recruitment of Global Human Resources • Re-employment Systems Human Resources Management and • Employment of People with a Disability • Job Rotation/Transfer System Labor CSR • Measures to Promote Work–Life Balance (Nursing Care Leave, Volunteer Leave etc.) • Determining the Status of Group-wide Labor Management Social Report • Maintaining Sound Working Relationships • Employee Satisfaction Survey • Data on Human Resources (number of regular employees, employees in managerial positions, retirees and others) • Basic Policies for Purchasing and Procurement Activities • Purchasing Policy • Purchasing Stance CSR Procurement • Overall Consideration of Supply Chains Based on CSR Procurement Guidelines • CSR Procurement Guidelines • Care for Contractors and Work Contracts • Teijin Group Basic Policies for Social Contributions • System to Promote Social Contribution Activities Social Contributions • Breakdown of Spending on Social Contribution Activities in FY2013 • Other Social Contribution Activities Economic Distribution of Added Value to • Table of Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders Report Stakeholders TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 50 List of Assured Indicators From the perspective of improving reliability, the following indicators have been independently assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Reference Contents of this report Assurance indicator page(s) Number of Participants Trained as Personnel Responsible for Promoting Compliance and Risk Management P26 Content of Reports/Consultation From Employees/Those Outside the Group (Total in Japan/Overseas) P27 Number of Participants Trained to Utilize Emergency Safety Confirmation System P27 Compliance and Number of Participants Trained by Level Website CSR Management Risk Management Number of e-learning Students and Number That Completed Course Website Number of Replies and Response Ratio for Check Sheets Surveying All Employees at the Corporate Ethics Workshop Website Number of All Participants and Attendance Ratio of Employees Trained at Group Companies Overseas Website Number of Participants in Group ESH Education Program (Japan) P29 Number of Participants in Group ESH Education Program (overseas) P29 ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Number of People Certified as ESH Compliance Internal Auditor P29 Prevention, and Health) Outline of ESH Audits Website ESH-related Accounting (ESH-related investments/expenses) Website Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations P30 CO2 Emissions in Logistics (Absolute Volume and Per Unit of Transportation Amount) P30 Chemical Substance Emissions P31 Top 10 Chemical Substance Emissions P31 Environment, Water Consumption and Water Discharged P32 Safety and Health Report Environmental Preservation COD/BOD Load P32 SOx Emissions P32 Waste with No Effective Use P32 Environmental Impact by Input/Output in FY2013 P33 CO2 Emissions Associated with Use of Company Vehicles Website CO2 Emissions from Offices Website Number of Serious Accidents and Disasters P35 Disaster Prevention Activities Number of Disaster-prevention-assessed Plants Website Number of Cases of Mini Disaster Prevention Assessments Website Occupational Safety and Health Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate P36 Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Career-oriented Female University Graduates P39 Number of Female Employees in Managerial Positions P39 Results of Re-employment Using Hello-Again System P40 Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave P40 Number of Former Employees Re-employed after Mandatory Retirement Website Human Resource Management Number of Employees with a Disability Website and Labor CSR Number of Companies Achieving Employment Rate of Employees with a Disability Website Average Overtime per Month for Employees and Ratio of Annual Taken Paid Holidays Website Social Report Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave Website Number of Employees Taking Volunteer Leave Website Data on Human Resources Website Breakdown of Suppliers by Rating P41 CSR Procurement Breakdown of Purchase Value by Rating P41 Number of Overseas Suppliers Given Survey P41 Expenses of Social Contribution Activities P42 Social Contributions Breakdown of Spending on Social Contribution Activities Website Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders P43 Distribution of Added Value to Economic Report Stakeholders Table of Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders Website 51 TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 Independent Assurance Report TEIJIN CSR Report 2014 52 Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Contact: Corporate Communications Department Phone: +81-3-3506-4408 Fax: +81-3-3506-4150 URL: http://www.teijin.com/ Published in October, 2014 J-SUS: Regarding the reliability of the sustainability information published in this CSR report, the J-SUS mark on the back cover is registration proof that the report satisfies the J-SUS mark standards formulated by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://j-sus.org/english.html).
