Global Report GLOBAL IMPACT 2013 HOME OVERVIEW CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES Deloitte drives progress. Our firms around the OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE world help clients become leaders wherever they choose to compete. Deloitte invests in outstanding people of diverse talents and backgrounds and empowers them to achieve more than they could elsewhere. Our work combines advice with action and integrity. We believe that when our clients and society are stronger, so are we. 2 content OVERVIEW TALENT & OPERATIONS & Executive message OPP0RTUNITY GOVERNANCE Vision and values The Deloitte Talent Experience Organizational structure Investment in quality Leadership Leadership and governance World-class businesses International experience Influencing public policy Locations Workforce transformation Risk management The report that follows provides an Overview section with the facts about Outlook and strategy Global talent security Ethics our organization, followed by illustrative Strategic acquisitions Section video Independence examples of our firms’ work for clients. Performance numbers Data privacy and security More information about client services can Section video ECONOMIES & Metrics be found here. The Talent and Opportunity COMMUNITIES Reporting process section introduces you to some of our CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Economic integrity Section video colleagues and what it’s like to work at Deloitte. The Economies and Communities Innovative solutions Environmental sustainability section describes the impact we have in Financial leadership Preparing youth for tomorrow IMPACT IN VIDEO the places we work. And finally, in the Multidisciplinary offerings Delivering social impact PICTURE GALLERY Operations and Governance section, Audit quality Section video you can learn how we run a world-class GRI INDEX Ethical management operation like Deloitte. Protecting client data UN GLOBAL In this report, the terms Deloitte, our, Broader services COMPACT—COP and we are used to refer to the Deloitte Expanding clients’ horizons Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) network CONTACT US Advancing the greater good of member firms or to one or more DTTL member firms. For more information, see Connecting clients, customers www.deloitte.com/about. Section video A group of Deloitte professionals participating in an ice-breaker during the Deloitte University Leadership Center for Inclusion launch event. overview Welcome to Global Impact 2013, Deloitte’s annual report. A snapshot of the depth and breadth of the Deloitte story, it provides facts about our network and highlights of our work, culture, people, and broad range of businesses. Quality—in all that we do—is our commitment and quest. In this section, learn how quality is essential to our business and drives client services, partnerships, strategy, acquisitions, and investments. Beyond a collection of highlights, this report also provides a road map for anyone seeking more detailed information on HOME how our firms serve clients, our culture and opportunities we provide our people, our community impact, and how we OVERVIEW operate to continue to earn the trust and confidence of our stakeholders. Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality World-class businesses Locations Outlook and strategy Strategic acquisitions Performance numbers CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 4 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Welcome to our 10th Global Report—a stakeholders by revealing a more complete worldwide review of Deloitte’s impact during picture of companies’ financial positions. the 2013 fiscal year. Deloitte also takes a leading role in working Our financial and operating performance with other organizations to address challenges during 2013 was strong, despite a challenging faced in common by businesses, governments, global economy. Deloitte member firm and communities, in keeping with our network revenues increased for the fourth continued support for the 10 principles of consecutive year, and investments in areas the United Nations Global Compact. Deloitte such as quality and innovation reinforced specialists bring insights from their client and extended our service capabilities. These experience, which helps in developing solutions results reinforced our position as a leading that are practical and effective. Our priorities global professional services organization. include combating corruption to increase the integrity of markets and promote prosperity Those headlines are important, but there’s a and better livelihoods for everyone. bigger story behind them. This report offers Barry Salzberg, DTTL Chief Executive Officer and some examples, from among many, of the As this report demonstrates, an unwavering Steve Almond, Chairman of the DTTL Board. breadth of our work and of how Deloitte’s commitment to quality underpins all our work. HOME 200,000-plus people bring fresh ideas to make The focus on quality starts with Deloitte’s OVERVIEW a positive impact on the clients, organizations, leaders. Robust quality controls are in place and communities with which they work. For throughout the organization and client Executive message instance, Deloitte advisory professionals: assignments are approached with rigor and Vision and values discipline. Deloitte is continually investing in Investment in quality • Enable companies to discover revenue innovative tools and methods, like our new opportunities by expanding into new auditing platform, to further enhance the World-class businesses markets; quality of our work. Locations • Guide chief financial officers on how Both the quality and impact of the work Outlook and strategy to better navigate complex business reflected in this report are possible because Strategic acquisitions landscapes; of the talent and leadership of Deloitte people. Every day, all over the world, Deloitte Performance numbers • Improve conditions for workers and prevent professionals experience diversity, state-ofbusiness disruptions by working with clients the-art training, and international career to find and resolve human rights risks in their CLIENTS & INSIGHTS opportunities. Together, this enhances their supply chains; and abilities to lead teams that increasingly work TALENT & • Help organizations enhance cyber security together across borders. Our global vision and OPP0RTUNITY and resilience so they can better detect shared values instill in Deloitte a distinctive fraud, recover from intrusions, and get back culture that makes us very proud. For clients, ECONOMIES & to business quickly. this results in consistent quality and higher levels COMMUNITIES of trust in Deloitte’s insights and solutions. OPERATIONS & Deloitte takes its public interest role seriously We hope you find this report as informative and GOVERNANCE and works with regulators to contribute to inspiring as we do. Thank you for investing your policy development that promotes quality, time in learning more about Deloitte’s impact. objectivity, competition, investor confidence, and economic growth. We’re investing to Sincerely, shape the audit of the future, including piloting extended audit reports that will benefit Barry Salzberg, DTTL Chief Executive Officer Steve Almond, Chairman of the DTTL Board 5 Committed to excellence VISION AND VALUES Our Vision The Deloitte Shared Values Deloitte aspires to be the standard of Our Shared Values bind the people of the excellence, the first choice of the most soughtDeloitte member firms together, providing after clients and talent. the basis for trusting one another and helping enable the network to achieve its vision. In pursuit of that aspiration, we are mindful of our role in society, our obligation to our Integrity organization and its customers, and our We believe nothing is more important than responsibility as employers. We aim high, our reputation. That’s why we are committed confident that our daily efforts will come to sustainable, responsible business practices. together exponentially to benefit a world Behaving with the highest levels of integrity is that needs continuous infusions of integrity, fundamental to who we are. business acumen, innovation, enthusiasm, thoughtfulness, and most of all, meaningful Outstanding value to markets and clients actions. We play a critical role in helping both the When member firms’ clients succeed and grow, financial markets and our member firm clients HOME capitalizing on opportunities and overcoming operate more effectively. We consider this role challenges, economies prosper. When those a privilege, and we know it requires constant OVERVIEW clients implement new ideas and enhance the vigilance and unrelenting commitment. Executive message quality of their offerings, consumers profit. And Commitment to each other when those clients operate ethically and adopt Vision and values environmentally friendly processes, society We believe our culture of borderless collegiality Investment in quality thrives. gives us a competitive advantage, so we work hard to nurture and preserve it. We go to World-class businesses Deloitte’s mission is to influence those extraordinary lengths to support our people. Locations activities through leadership, insight, expertise, problem-solving skills, and deep knowledge Strength from cultural diversity Outlook and strategy of our globalized marketplace. Doing so Both member firm clients and our people Strategic acquisitions demands teamwork, working together across benefit from multidimensional thinking. geographic, functional, and business borders. Bringing together individuals of different Performance numbers backgrounds, cultures, and thinking styles helps This multifaceted, inclusive approach is, clients rise above complex business challenges, CLIENTS & INSIGHTS perhaps, our greatest strength. The people and enables our people to develop into better who represent Deloitte come from all corners professionals and leaders. TALENT & of the globe, bringing a tremendous variety of OPP0RTUNITY skills and backgrounds. Yet, they function As One, aligned with our vision and shared values ECONOMIES & that are appreciated by clients and talent alike. COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 6 Committed to continuous improvement INVESTMENT IN QUALITY Careful and persistent work drives the people Deloitte works with broad coalitions of leaders of Deloitte because public trust must be and recognized innovators to confront these earned. A quest for precision and desire and other global challenges, being careful to to advance our capabilities is supported by align our external efforts with esteemed groups strategy, data analysis, controls, processes, that share our ambitions and commitment to communication, and training, to ensure that quality. quality is integrated into our culture and therefore all activity. “Delivering high-quality service This commitment is evident in how member firms conduct independent audits, reflecting means not only ensuring the crucial role in enhancing the trust of the compliance with rules and investing public and financial markets. “We’re making a major investment in programs and requirements, but also activities to deliver continuous improvements working with governments in quality. This includes the Deloitte Audit and NGOs to address systemic platform, which brings clients a deeply HOME customized approach to managing important challenges, like corruption, issues and risks,” says DTTL Chief Executive that undermines businesses,” OVERVIEW Officer Barry Salzberg. “The analytics features of this platform are particularly impressive, Salzberg says. “For Deloitte, Executive message increasing the effectiveness while supporting investing in quality involves Vision and values Investment in quality the quality of audits.” helping to create conditions World-class businesses Our culture of quality is perpetuated by that allow all organizations recruiting well-qualified talent; providing Locations extensive training and education on technical and communities, not just our Outlook and strategy and regulatory matters, professional ethics, and clients, to succeed.” independence; offering valuable, global career Strategic acquisitions opportunities; and developing leaders who Performance numbers cultivate quality across the board. Quality and risk mitigation go hand in hand; CLIENTS & INSIGHTS avoiding perils enhances our ability to meet the high standards expected of us by regulators, TALENT & clients, and the investing public. This past year, OPP0RTUNITY we accelerated efforts to push risk assessments from the enterprise level to the member firm ECONOMIES & level, focusing on consistency and enhanced COMMUNITIES client risk management. Particular, serious OPERATIONS & threats demanding our collective attention in FY2013 and beyond include data breaches and GOVERNANCE emerging-market issues, including corruption and supply-chain risks. 7 Committed to making an impact WORLD-CLASS BUSINESSES Solving complex problems is our passion. Deloitte’s multidisciplinary portfolio— We’ve built our business to effect change that Consulting, Financial Advisory, Tax, Legal, matters, to have transformational impact for Enterprise Risk Services, and Audit—enable clients and the communities in which we work. member firms to deliver deep functional and industry capability across a broad spectrum of services. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Deloitte’s operating model and business structure enables sustained enhancement and Deloitte’s operating model and business structure enables sustained enhancement and innovations innovations to service to service capability capability and and delivery, delivery, and and talentand talent development deployment. and deployment. development Deloitte Brazil hosted an event in São Paulo for more than 450 entrepreneurs and emerging company HOME leaders to present the eighth edition of its annual study of small and medium size companies in Brazil Consulting OVERVIEW Executive message that have grown the most in the past year. C Human Capital Strategy & Operations Vision and values Technology FA Investment in quality Audit Financial Statement Audits World-class businesses Accounting Advisory Financial Advisory Locations Assurance Services Corporate Finance Advisory Integrated Services M&A Transaction Services Outlook and strategy Clients Forensic Strategic acquisitions Restructuring Services Performance numbers A Valuation Services CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Enterprise TL TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY Risk Services Governance, Tax & Legal ECONOMIES & Regulatory & Risk Global Business Tax Controls Transformation COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & & Assurance Security, Privacy ERS Indirect Tax Global Employer Services & Resiliency Legal GOVERNANCE 8 Committed to presence LOCATIONS As of 31 May 2013, there were 47 Deloitte Italy Romania Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms. Japan Russian Federation Member firms can serve clients in the following Jordan Rwanda countries, regions, and territories, as well as a Kazakhstan Saba number of others. Please visit www.deloitte. Kenya San Marino com/GlobalOfficeDirectory for the most up-toKuwait São Tomé and Principe date information on specific office addresses or Kyrgyzstan Saudi Arabia for service inquiries in countries or locations not Latvia Senegal Lebanon Serbia listed below: Lesotho Singapore Albania Costa Rica Libya Slovakia Algeria Côte d’Ivoire Lithuania Slovenia American Samoa Croatia Luxembourg Solomon Islands Andorra Curacao Macao South Africa Angola Cyprus Malawi South Sudan Argentina Czech Republic Malaysia Spain This Deloitte logo is 7 meters long and is used by Armenia Democratic Republic Mali St Eustatius Deloitte Portugal at their external and internal events. Aruba of the Congo HOME Malta St. Maarten Australia Denmark Marshall Islands State of Palestine Austria Dominican Republic Mauritania Sweden OVERVIEW Azerbaijan Ecuador Mauritius Switzerland Executive message Bahamas Egypt Mexico Syria Vision and values FY2013 PEOPLE BY REGION Bahrain El Salvador Monaco Taiwan FY2013 PEOPLE BY REGION Barbados Equatorial Guinea Mongolia Tajikistan Investment in quality Belgium Estonia Montenegro Thailand Benin Ethiopia World-class businesses Locations 202,885 PEOPLE Bermuda Federated States Morocco Mozambique Timor-Leste Togo Bolivia of Micronesia Namibia Trinidad and Tobago Outlook and strategy Bonaire Finland Netherlands Tunisia EMEA Bosnia and Herzegovina France New Zealand Turkey 71,826 Strategic acquisitions FYR Macedonia Botswana Nicaragua Turkmenistan Performance numbers Brazil Gabon Niger Turks and Caicos British Virgin Islands Georgia Nigeria Uganda Brunei Darussalam Germany Northern Mariana Ukraine CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Bulgaria Ghana Islands United Arab Emirates Burkina Faso Gibraltar Norway United Kingdom of  TALENT & Burundi Greece Oman Great Britain and OPP0RTUNITY Greenland Byelorussian Soviet Pakistan Northern Ireland Socialist Republic Guam Palau United Republic  ECONOMIES & AMERICAS Guatemala of Tanzania Cameroon Panama COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & 89,934 Canada Cape Verde Honduras Hong Kong Papua New Guinea Paraguay United States Uruguay Cayman Islands Hungary U.S. Virgin Islands GOVERNANCE ASIA PACIFIC Peru Iceland Uzbekistan 41,125 Central African Republic Philippines Chad India Poland Vatican State Channel Islands Indonesia Portugal Venezuela Chile Iraq Qatar Viet Nam China Ireland Republic of Guinea Yemen Colombia Isle of Man Zambia LOCATIONS Congo (Brazzaville) Israel Republic of Korea Republic of Moldova Zimbabwe 9 As of 31 May 2013, there were 47 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms. Member firms can serve clients Committed to tomorrow OUTLOOK AND STRATEGY Rare is the organization that is unaffected by • Competitive intensity—including continued market volatility and complexity. Rarer still is pressures from strong incumbent players. the group that can attack those challenges on We are increasingly watchful of new its own. Seeking insight and skilled resources, entrants and business models. many leaders turn to Deloitte for solutions to their most difficult issues. Deloitte professionals The accelerating pace of change and increasing help organizations be aggressive in the face of interconnectivity of these forces will result in severe external forces, providing capabilities further challenges and opportunities for us, and experience that allow member firm clients making a robust and flexible strategy critical. to focus on succeeding. In FY2013, we were guided by four strategic choices: Deloitte is effective because we remain proactive in staying one step ahead of evolving • Market leadership—creating or sustaining challenges. To ensure our own growth and a leadership position in each key market we ability to deliver services to clients, we work in serve by anticipating and rapidly responding tandem with social, government, community, to changing market realities and consistently Deloitte UK competing during Aberdeen Asset Management Cowes week. and business groups to anticipate threats and outperforming the competition. HOME affect positive change. We also continually motivate ourselves to improve our own • Focused market investment—growing and OVERVIEW potential, enhance member firms’ services, and expanding our business, especially in highExecutive message anticipate and address external forces before growth strategic markets. they can shape us. These forces include: Vision and values • Operate globally—complementing the Macro-economic and geopolitical inherent strength of Deloitte’s member firm Investment in quality • developments—including uncertain structure with a focus on operating more World-class businesses globally, while ensuring consistent, highglobal growth, shifting economic power Locations centers, instability and social unrest across quality client service. Outlook and strategy several markets, large-scale infrastructure • As One—combining our skills and work in investments, shifts in major sources of teams across geographic, functional, and Strategic acquisitions energy and resources, and climate change. business borders to strengthen member Performance numbers firms’ professional services and deliver a • Demand dynamics and supply trend evolution—including ongoing globalization market-leading client service experience. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS and complexity of the business portfolio, shifting demand from mature to emerging Deloitte continues to execute against these TALENT & markets, the growing importance and pace choices and has recently focused objectives on OPP0RTUNITY of technological developments, and the the areas we feel are most important to succeed During FY2013, Deloitte potential for labor substitution. in the evolving marketplace. These include: ECONOMIES & saw good results across all • Ensuring that we are consistently doing COMMUNITIES • Regulatory changes across several of the organization’s major industry sectors—including the likelihood everything we can to help achieve the highest OPERATIONS & possible level of quality in our professions. GOVERNANCE geographic regions, business for further changes in the length and scope of audit relationships with member firm • Further improving client focus and earning lines, and industry sectors over clients, and the potential for a markedly greater client share in key markets; a period when many of the different global regulatory landscape to • Leveraging innovation to raise our emerge at the end of a protracted period of major markets struggled for change across several markets. performance and outpace the competition; and growth. • Evaluating acquisitions to bolster capability 10 and drive growth in strategic areas. Committed to enhancing innovation, capabilities, and integration STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS Acquisitions can be an excellent way for an “Together we have created a dynamic new organization to add new competencies, grow practice with distinctive capabilities. We are market share, and diversify risk. Making smart deeply committed to helping clients create acquisitions is not just something on which new value and achieve transformational member firms advise their clients; it’s advice growth through actionable insights, analysis, Deloitte takes to heart. and leading-edge methods. We are now well positioned to serve clients from strategy all the Deloitte made nearly 30 acquisitions in key way through to execution,” says Bansi Nagji, capability areas and geographies across Global Co-Leader of Monitor Deloitte, Deloitte the network during FY2013, significantly Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.), and former augmenting member firm client service President of Monitor. offerings and global delivery. Key acquisitions included: More than 860 Monitor professionals joined the Deloitte global network in January 2013. • Bersin & Associates, LLC (Consulting) Based in more than 20 member firms in 14 countries, Monitor practitioners increased Doblin’s multi-disciplinary teams work in space built • IE Discovery (Financial Advisory) to enable collaboration. Deloitte’s Strategy consulting presence in HOME • Monitor Group (Consulting) priority markets such as Brazil, China, Middle East, France, Germany, and India. OVERVIEW • Raupach & Wollert-Elmendorff (Tax & Legal) “The demands posed by increased Executive message • Recombinant Data Corp. (Analytics) globalization, the search for new sources Vision and values • Vigilant (Enterprise Risk Services) of growth, and the opportunities created Investment in quality by business model innovation mean clients’ • Vivens (Consulting) needs for help are increasing,” says John Kerr, World-class businesses Deloitte Global Consulting Leader. “With Perhaps our most notable purchase was of Locations Deloitte ranked #1 in global leading practices in life sciences, marketing substantially all of the business of Monitor, strategy, and innovation strategy and Outlook and strategy consulting and management one of the world’s leading strategy consulting execution, Monitor Deloitte is well-positioned Strategic acquisitions consulting by Kennedy. firms, including Doblin, its innovation practice. to help clients tackle their most complex Operating under the Monitor Deloitte brand, business challenges.” Performance numbers Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; the marriage of Monitor’s talent and assets Global Consulting Index 2012; © 2012 Kennedy with Deloitte’s consulting service offerings The combined practice is working, collectively, Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS redefines the industry. Monitor brings offerings to help clients make bold, well-informed in innovation, strategy, marketing and sales, choices, take timely actions, and move TALENT & pricing, leadership and organization, and decisively from strategy to execution. For OPP0RTUNITY economic competitiveness, all of which example, the relationship with a global complement Deloitte’s existing world-class diversified industrial company, focused on ECONOMIES & Deloitte ranked #1 in global consulting by Gartner for the consultancy. creating and enhancing clean, safe, and COMMUNITIES efficient environments, is a good example of third consecutive year. how Monitor Deloitte is creating synergies to OPERATIONS & Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not benefit clients. GOVERNANCE advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Gartner, Market Share Analysis: Consulting Services, Worldwide, 2012, Jacqueline Heng, 20 April 2013. 11 Prior to 2013, Deloitte had engagements with this client in the areas of technology and finance, while Monitor had worked with the client’s executive leadership team—including the CEO and CTO—on business strategy and growth initiatives. By joining forces, Monitor Deloitte was named a Deloitte is able to provide a more holistic service approach. Already, Monitor Deloitte global leader in leadership is supporting the client with a business unit development consulting spinoff; has begun implementation of a growth services by Kennedy, which program focused on redesigning the product management role and activities; and started wrote, “The firm has invested considerable a refresh of the client’s enterprise business financial and intellectual resources in the strategy and multiyear implementation plan. development of a consulting approach designed to build leadership cultures in global “Deloitte had a very successful year in terms of organizations. These investments include the acquisitions. We completed a number of scale acquisition of Monitor Group in 2013, which HOME deals to benefit the global network and expect brought a number of leadership development to continue this momentum in FY2014, as consultants into its ranks. The acquisition of OVERVIEW acquisitions remain a key strategic priority for Bersin & Associates, also in 2013, gives the firm Executive message individual member firms and the network as a an industry-leading repository of research that whole,” said Ainar Aijala, Deloitte Global Chief not only advances the consulting conversation, Vision and values Corporate Development Officer. but also provides clients with tools and Investment in quality resources to sustain their leadership programs.” World-class businesses Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Locations Leadership Development Consulting Market; © 2013 Outlook and strategy Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. Strategic acquisitions Doblin’s multi-disciplinary teams work in space built Performance numbers to enable collaboration. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 12 Committed to growth PERFORMANCE NUMBERS FY2013 REVENUE RESULTS FY2013 REVENUE RESULTS $32.4 US$ Bn $16.4 $11.1 NORTH AMERICA / LATIN AMERICA EUROPE / MIDDLE EAST / AFRICA $4.9 ASIA PACIFIC $32.4 US$ Bn HOME $13.1 OVERVIEW AUDIT & ENTERPRISE $10.4 RISK SERVICES Executive message $2.8 $6.1 CONSULTING Vision and values FINANCIAL TAX & LEGAL Investment in quality ADVISORY World-class businesses Locations CONSULTING Outlook and strategy $32.4 Strategic acquisitions US$ Bn Performance numbers $9.1 $3.5 $6.4 CLIENTS & INSIGHTS $4.3 FINANCIAL $2.6 $3.0 $3.5 TECH, CONSUMER MANUSERVICES TALENT & LIFE SCIENCES ENERGY & PUBLIC MEDIA & BUSINESS SECTOR TELECOM FACTURING OPP0RTUNITY & HEALTH CARE RESOURCES ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 13 FY2013 PEOPLEFY2013BY YEARBY YEAR PEOPLE 202,885 193,359 10,189 181,566 partners and principals 9,948 35,192 partners and administrative staff principals 9,673 partners and 157,505 34,464 principals professional staff HOME administrative staff 33,103 administrative staff OVERVIEW 148,947 Executive message professional staff 138,790 Vision and values professional staff Investment in quality World-class businesses Locations Outlook and strategy Strategic acquisitions Performance numbers CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 2013 2012 2011 Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 14 FY2013 PEOPLE BY GENDER FY2013 PEOPLE BY GENDER GLOBAL PARTNERS, NETWORK PRINCIPALS, AND DIRECTORS 112,182 13,836 3,437 55% 90,703 80% 20% 45% HOME OVERVIEW Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality By region World-class businesses Locations Outlook and strategy 44% 45% 46% Strategic acquisitions Performance numbers CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & 56% 55% 54% COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC 50,770 39,373 22,039 39,164 32,453 19,087 Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 15 Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. FY2013 NEW HIRES BY REGION FY2013 NEW HIRES BY GENDER FY2013 NEW HIRES BY REGION (GLOBAL NETWORK) FY2013 NEW HIRES BY GENDER (GLOBAL NETWORK) ALL NEW HIRES AMERICAS 23,492 55% EMEA 45% HOME New hire rate AMERICAS 26% 17,394 EMEA 24% ASIA PACIFIC 10,519 OVERVIEW ASIA PACIFIC 26% Executive message FY2013 NEW HIRES BY GENDER (GLOBAL NETWORK) GLOBAL NETWORK 25% Vision and values Investment in quality ALL NEW GLOBAL NETWORK NEW PARTNER, 51,405 HIRES PRINCIPAL, AND World-class businesses DIRECTOR Locations ADMISSIONS Outlook and strategy Strategic acquisitions 55% 77% 23% Performance numbers CLIENTS & INSIGHTS 45% TALENT & Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 16 FY2013 COMMUNITY FY2013 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS INVESTMENTS TOTAL $179M (US$) 33 member firms + DTTL representing 93% of global workforce firm $45M donations* pro $28M traditional $44M bono Deloitte people volunteering $30M donations** HOME $20M skills-based volunteering OVERVIEW Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality World-class businesses Locations Outlook and strategy Strategic acquisitions VOLUNTEER AND DONATIONS MANAGEMENT Performance numbers PRO BONO WORK COSTS*** CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & $91M $75M $13M OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & These figures represent a lower bound for measures of community investment as not all types of donations can be tracked in our online system. COMMUNITIES These DTTL andfigures represent its member a lower firms observe bound standards from measures forthe community CommitteeofEncouraging investment Corporate as not Philanthropy andall thetypes London donations can ofBenchmarking Group. tracked beThe valueonline in our monetary system. of community activities was estimated OPERATIONS & according to the type of service performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that the member firms might otherwise sell but that GOVERNANCE DTTL was performed member free, hasfirms and its for observe been valued standards at rates fromofthe theCommittee representative local member Encouraging Corporate firms’ client service Philanthropy rates for comparable and the London Benchmarking Group. The services. monetary *Includes valueand monetary of community activities in-kind donations was estimated from member according firms and foundations to the type of service performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that the member **Includes partner and employee donations to member firm supported organizations firms might otherwise sell but that was performed for free, has been valued at rates representative of the local member firms’ client service rates for comparable services. ***Includes member firm/foundation costs for managing community investment programs Note: Because *Includes of rounding, monetary andnumbers in-kindmay not tally with donations the total. from member firms and foundations **Includes partner and employee donations to member firm supported organizations 17 ***Includes member firm/foundation costs for managing community investment programs The Deloitte Greenhouse in Canada. clients & insights Clients want to thrive, not just survive. To do so requires solving difficult challenges or exploiting growth opportunities ahead of the competition. Read on for compelling stories from around the Deloitte network that demonstrate the transformational impact of inventive and resourceful problem solving, a multidisciplinary service portfolio— Consulting, Financial Advisory, Tax, Legal, Enterprise Risk Services, and Audit—analystrecognized capabilities, deep industry know-how, and a truly global reach. HOME OVERVIEW CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Innovative solutions Financial leadership Multidisciplinary offerings Audit quality Ethical management Protecting client data Broader services Expanding clients’ horizons Advancing the greater good Connecting clients, customers TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 18 Committed to inspiring creative problem solving INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS In today’s world of exponential change driven Creative environments by new technologies, shifting demographics, Our culture of innovation is perhaps best and rapidly evolving market needs, innovation illustrated by Deloitte Greenhouses, a global is increasingly recognized as an imperative, network of member firm-owned flexible, not a choice. Clients, analysts, and prospective interactive physical spaces where clients solve employees demand it. Investors reward it. their most challenging issues in new and And competitors will overtake you if you don’t unexpected ways. Currently, there are nine achieve it. member firm Greenhouses offering a range of Nurturing a “what if” attitude among clients innovative capabilities, with Canada being the is a priority for Deloitte because it turns first country to integrate multiple offerings at incremental progress into leapfrog advances. one location. “Deloitte is developing the innovation programs, infrastructure, and cultural mindset to help ourselves and those who rely on us With more than 21,000 visitors to date, the Deloitte to drive innovation—both sustaining and Watch this video of Deloitte disruptive—as well as anticipate with greater HOME Analytics Highly Immersive Visual Environment (HIVE) (Deloitte U.S.) in Rosslyn, Va., provides a hands-on precision what’s around the corner,” says Canada’s Greenhouse launch. setting for U.S. firm professionals to work with clients John Levis, in his role as Deloitte Global Chief See how Deloitte Canada’s OVERVIEW to solve their most pressing business challenges Innovation Officer. “Deloitte has integrated through innovative approaches to analytics and data innovation capability by combining exceptional Greenhouse brings innovation, visualization. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS business strategy and management consulting analytics, and strategy Innovative solutions with leading design expertise. By doing so, we together, under one roof. Financial leadership are significantly differentiating ourselves from our competitors.” Multidisciplinary offerings “Greenhouses provide a unique and valuable Monitor/Doblin acquisition experience for clients, one that differentiates Audit quality Watch how Deloitte Deloitte’s abilities were enhanced in 2013 by Deloitte from its competitors,” says Terry Ethical management Southern Africa facilitates the acquisition of Monitor, one of the world’s Stuart, Chief Innovation Officer, Deloitte leading strategy consulting firms, and its Canada. “Greenhouses use a range of Protecting client data enterprise collaboration in its innovation practice, Doblin. “The acquisition of methodologies, facilitation techniques, and Broader services innovationZone™. collaborative technologies that accelerate the Monitor and Doblin allows Deloitte to expand Expanding clients’ horizons its client-facing innovation offerings through development of innovative solutions for clients Doblin’s differentiated methodologies,” says in any industry.” Advancing the greater good Mike Canning, Global Co-Leader of Monitor Deloitte, Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.). Connecting clients, customers “Innovation almost never fails due to lack of creativity. It’s “With expanded expertise in customer and market strategy, corporate and business unit almost always because of a lack of discipline. Successful strategy and innovation, and the life sciences TALENT & innovators use many types of innovation. There are ten distinct and consumer products industries, we have OPP0RTUNITY types of innovation that need to be orchestrated with some strengthened our ability to integrate strategy and implementation to deliver even greater ECONOMIES & care to make game-changing innovation.” value to member firm clients.” COMMUNITIES Larry Keeley, co-founder of Doblin, and author of Ten Types of Innovation: The Discipline of Building OPERATIONS & Breakthroughs GOVERNANCE 19 TOP Leveraging innovative approaches and spaces, six months. At the same time, Doblin helped Deloitte South Africa’s member firms not only are helping clients, but the organization build a new innovation innovationZone™, part of the Deloitte Greenhouse network, has they’re also demonstrating Deloitte’s broad function to enable more reliable and hosted over 200 strategic sessions, capabilities. For example: effective innovation going forward. since its opening in FY2012.The firm has received follow-on work from • Deloitte Southern Africa is working with 85 percent of these engagements. Inventive relationships Barclay’s Growth and Innovation Unit to Deloitte is developing a global “external BOTTOM develop six to eight new business models Deloitte UK’s iZone™, part of the innovation ecosystem” with leading innovators to improve customer centricity, focus on Deloitte Greenhouse network, has to improve our ability to sense, create, adapt held over 130 events—including the production of goods and services, to, and develop new opportunities for both nearly 100 client events—since its and monetize back-office capabilities. The Deloitte and member firm clients. These opening in FY2012. firm worked with its ecosystem alliance strategic relationships, formed by member company—FutureWorld—and used Doblin’s firms, are being, or have the potential to be, “Ten Types of Innovation” framework leveraged globally. to define long-term scenarios in which the client’s new businesses will need to Deloitte U.S. has formed a three-year exclusive compete. alliance with Singularity University and the HOME XPRIZE Foundation centered on an executive • The Australian firm’s Operational Excellence OVERVIEW initiative called the Innovation Partnership (OE) team has developed a “solutions Program. It aims to capitalize on emerging and room” concept to demonstrate Deloitte’s CLIENTS & INSIGHTS disruptive technological and organizational wide reach across the life cycle of a mining innovation to spur global economic Innovative solutions project that is being adopted across member development and business commerce, while firm mining practices. “In line with the Financial leadership supporting a mission to help humanity solve pragmatism of miners, brown paper was Multidisciplinary offerings its greatest challenges. Deloitte Netherlands placed on every available wall around the also has a contract with Singularity University Audit quality training room and furnished with 20 floorto advance innovation capability and inspire to-ceiling panels of real-life examples of Ethical management staff and clients with Singularity’s vision and work that we have done in the mining Protecting client data speakers. sector,” explains Bruce Williamson, the OE Broader services leader for Deloitte Australia. “The solutions room is designed to allow clients to identify Expanding clients’ horizons gaps in their operations, which stimulates Advancing the greater conversation. This tactile approach really good resonates with clients.” View Salim Ismail, Global Connecting clients, Ambassador, Singularity • Doblin worked with a healthcare alliance customers facing seismic changes in its technology, University, at “Growth Track: regulatory, and industry landscape. By The Technology Driven CEO,” TALENT & working with the client’s CEO and board, OPP0RTUNITY Doblin helped create and bring to market 24 January 2013. a radical new business, based on a more ECONOMIES & efficient, open, and digitally-enabled COMMUNITIES platform. The team worked collaboratively OPERATIONS & with clients to launch the pilot 50 percent Watch this video about faster than the client’s historical track GOVERNANCE record, and new customer adoption results the Innovation Partnership exceeded targets by 50 percent in the first Program. 20 • As a member of the MIT Media Lab, Deloitte U.S. gains access to pre-eminent faculty and more than 400 cutting-edge projects across 26 lab areas. It offers us a springboard for innovative ideas and allows us to bring business challenges to the Lab Deloitte ranked #1 in global and explore new technologies, products, services, and solutions. human resources technology • Since 2007, Deloitte Southern Africa has and transformation consulting worked with the global business and and was named a global technology think tank FutureWorld to help leader in change management CEOs and executive management teams understand, design, and create their future based on capabilities by business strategies. Kennedy, which wrote, • In an exclusive 10-year agreement with the “Deloitte is an innovation London Business School, Deloitte UK has HOME enabled the Deloitte Institute of Innovation leader and is pioneering OVERVIEW and Entrepreneurship. Through its extensive the use of data analytics in research, teaching, and outreach activities, change programs to develop CLIENTS & INSIGHTS the Institute allows member firm clients and Deloitte professionals to access the latest targeted strategies and create Innovative solutions insights and tools needed to lead innovation precise solutions that yield Financial leadership At Davos 2013, through “InnovationLive”—an within complex environments. open, online forum for debate—leaders from measurable outcomes.” Multidisciplinary offerings around the globe were able to share ideas around • For almost two decades, DTTL has taken business, innovation, and the impact on society. The Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Audit quality a leading role in advancing the World conversation was tracked through social media and Change Management Consulting Market; Economic Forum’s objective of “improving Ethical management the most insightful comments were transposed to © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced our Deloitte live scribe wall at Davos. the state of the world.” DTTL’s contributions under license. Protecting client data as a strategic advisor and its participation in Broader services summits throughout the year—including the annual meeting at Davos, Switzerland—has Expanding clients’ horizons helped produce fresh ideas, sparked needed Advancing the greater debate, and offered forward-thinking good approaches to some of the most vexing Connecting clients, Deloitte was named a global leader in Innovation Strategy issues confronting businesses, governments, customers and civil society. and New Product Development Consulting by Kennedy. In its TALENT & report, Kennedy noted “Deloitte’s service offering in this space For questions on Monitor Deloitte/Doblin OPP0RTUNITY is among the broadest, ranging from high-level corporate consulting and innovation services, please ECONOMIES & strategy integration and portfolio management to deep product email us. COMMUNITIES development process and related technology expertise. OPERATIONS & Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Innovation Strategy & New Product Development Consulting 2013; © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. GOVERNANCE 21 Committed to helping CFOs stay ahead FINANCIAL LEADERSHIP Want to understand pressure? Talk to a chief The journey begins with Deloitte’s Next financial officer. Generation CFO Academy, designed for highly talented finance executives who are nominated Today’s CFOs have plenty of challenges by their organizations to participate. This on their plates: changing regulatory first-of-its-kind experience offers future CFOs requirements, complicated tax laws, health a pragmatic curriculum and unparalleled care implementation, economic woes, and networking opportunities. The Academy is stakeholder demands among them. hosted by DTTL member firms in Australia, Few people truly understand the increasingly Spain, the UK, and the U.S.; it is under complex roles of CFOs. That’s where Deloitte’s development in Canada, China, and India. DTTL Global CFO Program comes in. member firms in Central Europe, Denmark, Ireland, the Middle East, Norway, South Africa, “Deloitte member firms advise CFOs as they Spain, and Sweden offer attendance at a Next manage the complexities of their roles, tackle Generation CFO Academy to their clients. their companies’ most compelling challenges, Among the CFO Program’s key offerings is Dr. Ajit Kambil, Global Research Director and and adapt to strategic shifts in the market,” the CFO Transition Lab™, which provides a Transition Lab Leader of Deloitte’s CFO Program, forum and a methodology for newly appointed HOME Deloitte LLP (Deloitte U.S.), facilitating a CFO says Sanford Cockrell, Deloitte Global CFO Program Leader. “Our Program harnesses our CFOs, including those with CFO experience Transition Lab at Deloitte Australia in FY2013. OVERVIEW organization’s broad capabilities to deliver at previous organizations, to focus on their forward-thinking and fresh insights for every agendas, establish priorities, and develop CLIENTS & INSIGHTS stage of a CFO’s career. In turn, Deloitte is able 180-day action plans. Emphasis is placed on to develop, improve, and sustain professional the three most important resources a CFO must Innovative solutions relationships with these key leaders at many manage—time, talent, and relationships. More Financial leadership multinational corporations.” than 300 labs have been conducted, globally. Multidisciplinary offerings Audit quality Ethical management “The lab experience helped Protecting client data me figure out what to tackle Broader services immediately and what could Visit CFO Connect to learn wait,” says Amit Singhi, CFO Expanding clients’ horizons more. of Ford Motor Company’s Advancing the greater good Support throughout the CFO journey South America Operations. Connecting clients, Deloitte’s multifaceted portfolio of CFO-centric “It’s hard for anyone in a new customers offerings brings together a cross-functional position—including a CFO— team of subject-matter specialists to help CFOs TALENT & throughout the continuum of their careers, to take the breathing time OPP0RTUNITY from being identified as CFO candidates to the needed to lay out a detailed height of their impact and beyond. ECONOMIES & plan. The lab allowed me to COMMUNITIES do just that.” OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 22 Established CFOs benefit from the CFO Program’s ongoing communication and networking events. For example, Deloitte’s CFO Vision Conferences, held across several markets, offer participants unique opportunities Deloitte named a leader in to hear insights and perspectives from thought global financial management leaders in business, politics, and the media, and engage in thought-provoking dialogue with consulting services. their peers. Similar leading-practice-sharing Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or opportunities are available at multiple CFO service depicted in its research publications, and Forums held around the world each year. We does not advise technology users to select only seek input through CFO Signals™ surveys that those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of are active across more than 20 member firms. Gartner’s research organization and should not be And we share CFO-centric articles through construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all both our CFO Insights publication and an warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this arrangement with The Wall Street Journal. research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. HOME For questions on the CFO program, please Source: Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Global Financial email us. Management Consulting Services, 2012, Jacqueline OVERVIEW Heng, John E. Van Decker, 8 November 2012. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Innovative solutions Deloitte U.S. Next Generation CFO Academy Financial leadership welcome reception. Multidisciplinary offerings Watch this video to learn how Audit quality Deloitte’s CFO Transition Lab Ethical management supports CFOs over the course Protecting client data of their career journey. Broader services Expanding clients’ horizons Advancing the greater good Connecting clients, customers TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 23 Committed to creating value across disciplines, geographies MULTIDISCIPLINARY OFFERINGS Some companies grow so fast that their team was selected. The two projects— business models, information systems, and involving integration across audit advisory, even their cultures can’t keep pace. Conversely, enterprise risk services, consulting, and tax mature businesses often are challenged to disciplines—ultimately will impact the client’s coordinate and simplify far-flung operations, operations in more than 80 countries. leverage their scale, find new paths for growth, “This was a case of an existing client needing and adapt to an ever-changing competitive an organization that combines global vision landscape. with local experience, actively collaborates No matter where an organization is on this across borders to provide outstanding client spectrum, Deloitte’s multidisciplinary offerings service, and acts As One to resolve issues and have made Deloitte the go-to brand for exploit opportunities,” says Steven Ehrenhalt, corporations, governments, and other groups Deloitte Global Finance Transformation Leader. that need thoughtful strategies and broad “The client was so confident in the U.S. firm’s proficiencies to tackle their most complex ability to execute the Finance transformation issues and succeed. that the U.S. firm actually displaced a Simon Gisby, U.S. Corporate Finance Partner, facilitates the inaugural learning program, “Success competitor midstream.” HOME When clients initiate any kind of large-scale in Global Mergers & Acquisitions.” Deloitte China and Deloitte U.S. practitioners partnered to deliver this activity, there can be a confluence of financial, Another well-known food industry client also OVERVIEW multidisciplinary program in Beijing in January 2013. tax, legal, human resources, technology, risk turned to Deloitte U.S. recently to re-launch management, and many other considerations. an initiative that failed to get off the ground CLIENTS & INSIGHTS “That plays to our strengths,” explains John with a competing firm. The client, which Levis, in his role as Deloitte Global Integrated boasts 15 power brands and does business Innovative solutions Market Offerings Leader. “Deloitte’s offerings in 21 countries, needed to operate more Financial leadership bring the full breadth of member firm consistently, effectively, and efficiently on a Multidisciplinary offerings capabilities together to provide issue-based global scale. solutions that help member firm clients uncover Audit quality “It was important for the client to maintain the new insights, improve performance, increase Ethical management integrity of its global template by minimizing competitiveness, create new futures, and look local customizations,” says Alan Langhals, Protecting client data past traditional ways of doing business.” Principal, Deloitte Consulting U.S. “Alongside Broader services Not only do Deloitte member firms offer a wide the technical deployment, we provided Expanding clients’ horizons Deloitte named a leader in range of important services in a coordinated business readiness and change management Advancing the greater global financial management manner, but the network also has professionals support for each local deployment, identifying in more than 150 countries who can guide and supporting change impact plans, from good consulting services. clients through local intricacies and implications. strategy to implementation.” Connecting clients, Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or Combining global, local knowledge The Deloitte U.S. firm’s cross-functional customers service depicted in its research publications, and approach and innovative, SAP-based solutions does not advise technology users to select only Deloitte U.S. already had demonstrated the those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner power of professional services integration helped the client standardize its global TALENT & research publications consist of the opinions of to one of the world’s leading food-service processes, increase productivity, reduce OPP0RTUNITY Gartner’s research organization and should not be retailers, helping with a broad human resource technical infrastructure costs, and improve its construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all transformation. So, when the client needed global data visibility and business intelligence warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this ECONOMIES & capabilities. research, including any warranties of merchantability a hand in late 2012 supporting one of its COMMUNITIES or fitness for a particular purpose. highest-priority strategic initiatives—a five-year, OPERATIONS & Source: Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Global Financial Oracle-enabled project in 25 countries—the GOVERNANCE Management Consulting Services, 2012, Jacqueline Deloitte U.S. firm’s Finance Transformation Heng, John E. Van Decker, 8 November 2012. 24 Answering varied challenges deliver services spanning the entire IC&P life cycle, from strategy and planning to disposal Deloitte’s offerings bring the full breadth of member firm Immediate growth isn’t every client’s goal. Sometimes, they need help from advisory and decommissioning. capabilities together to provide issue-based solutions that help professionals to exit noncore segments, Cost savings and revenue generation also member firm clients uncover new insights, improve performance, markets, and geographies and transform are the critical outcomes of two current operations. increase competitiveness, create new futures, and look past engagements led by member firms’ City Solutions offering, which helps cities around traditional ways of doing business. That was the case with a large global bank the world become more competitive and facing new economic realities as it sought to realign its global operating model and resilient. Deloitte Spain is working with a major re-focus on strategic priorities. Deloitte U.S., telecommunications company to provide with support from the UK and Hong Kong/ technology-enabled support services to a major China member firms and in collaboration with European city. And, Deloitte UK, with input the client, created a global transaction team from Deloitte U.S., is advising a major city on that is planning, executing, and managing a inward investment strategies and job creation portfolio of more than 45 global divestitures. for high-value manufacturing. “These Deloitte member firms are providing Helping organizations navigate the ongoing HOME client senior leadership with the crossevolution of digital technologies, including functional insights, tools, and expertise needed OVERVIEW Deloitte’s Governance, Risk to successfully execute an array of transaction mobile applications, social media tools, and cloud-based technologies, is another priority. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS and Compliance group types across businesses and cultures,” says Deloitte’s groundbreaking contributions in this Paul Legere, Deloitte Global FSI M&A and Innovative solutions recently surveyed more than Restructuring Services Leader. arena range from strategy development and tax planning to operating model design and Financial leadership 300 executives from major M&A planning. The U.S. firm is becoming the bank’s global Multidisciplinary offerings companies around the world resource for M&A and outsourcing, the latter Audit quality to understand how businesses together with the UK firm. The two firms Ethical management are managing strategic risk. also have begun important work on data Take this quiz to see how you analytics. In addition, joint U.S. and LATCO Protecting client data Get the results, filtered by firm initiatives on critical change management, stack up against your peers in Broader services region or industry. technology transformation, and cost challenges managing strategic risk. are evolving. “All of these are global client Expanding clients’ horizons priorities, further branding Deloitte as the bank’s transformation resource,” Legere says. The power of multidisciplinary offerings Advancing the greater is Deloitte’s ability to combine collective good Anticipating change knowledge to deliver holistic strategies that Connecting clients, Deloitte member firms are trusted by many anticipate security, trade, competitiveness, customers clients to assist them in identifying emerging resource, climate, and other issues that Learn more about Deloitte’s threats, unseen competitors, and new revenue will define the future. Each harnesses TALENT & multidisciplinary offerings streams so they may better position themselves Deloitte’s broad spectrum of experience, OPP0RTUNITY for the future. A good example is the work and demonstrates how Deloitte is constantly including Deloitte Analytics, being done to help both publicand privateexploring and developing new capabilities to ECONOMIES & Finance Transformation, sector clients maximize their investments in anticipate and meet changing markets and COMMUNITIES Governance, Risk & infrastructure and capital projects (IC&P), which client needs. include: mega projects, such as rail or bridges; OPERATIONS & Compliance and Mergers & major events; public-private partnerships; and For questions on integration, please GOVERNANCE Acquisitions. infrastructure funds. Member firm practitioners email us. 25 Committed to shaping the audit of the future AUDIT QUALITY Deloitte member firms pride themselves on Deloitte Audit has been implemented across consistently delivering world-class audits and 18 member firms and, in the upcoming year, fulfilling a public-interest role. As the financial its use will likely encompass more than 60,000 landscape evolves rapidly, Deloitte is executing member firm audit engagements worldwide. a wide range of innovative measures to continually raise the bar for future audits. Advanced analytics Deloitte Audit is also laying the groundwork “As leaders of the profession, we are devoted to support expanded capabilities, offering to instilling a culture of professional excellence compelling analytic potential for member into everything we do and are committed to firms to further examine and benchmark enhancing the trust of the investing public, the clients’ extensive data. New analytic tools are capital markets, and member firm clients,” says simplifying and expanding audit testing and Carlos Sabater, Deloitte Global Audit and ERS providing deeper insights to clients. “Applying Leader. “Audit quality will always be our top analytics in all aspects of an audit is key to priority with the utmost focus and attention delivering future audits in a smarter way,” across the entire organization.” Sabater explains. HOME Deloitte works actively with regulators around Enhanced analytic capabilities and tools are the world to contribute to policy development being piloted across the Deloitte network. OVERVIEW and advocate approaches and standards that One such innovative tool is Spotlight, patented promote objectivity, competition, investor CLIENTS & INSIGHTS In a first for a professional confidence, economic growth, and, therefore, by Deloitte UK, Spotlight allows auditors to use their own computers to configure and Innovative solutions services firm, Deloitte Australia the public interest. In addition, Deloitte is continuously run centrally defined analytics Financial leadership was awarded an Australian investing in a wide range of measures and on clients’ data. This institutionalization of programs to shape the audit of the future. knowledge via advanced technology truly Multidisciplinary offerings International Design Award™ This includes piloting extended audit reports brings analytics to the forefront in a gameAudit quality for its audit services. with a number of member firm clients to changing way. Spotlight also enables member provide valuable additional commentary firm teams to identify insights about their Ethical management The Australian firm was cited for applying design on the financial position of companies— thinking principles to better understand client needs clients and, using the Spotlight Hub, generate Protecting client data and harness the power of a new generation of offering further insights into the scope and benchmarks between clients and others on an technology, content, professional mindsets, and key factors impacting the audit—and reveal anonymous basis. Broader services behaviors to cut through complexity, identify risks, a more complete picture that will benefit all Expanding clients’ horizons and design a highly effective and different audit stakeholders. experience. Advancing the greater Transforming audit delivery good The Deloitte Audit, an integral, quality Connecting clients, Deloitte member firms are leaders in assisting companies enabler, is the latest generation of Watch a few of Deloitte customers with the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Deloitte’s transformed audit platform. This member firms’ emerging comprehensive suite of capabilities delivers Standards (IFRS). DTTL’s IASPlus website is renowned for an insightful, customized audit approach that audit leaders share their views TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY global accounting news and features an extensive collection focuses on the most important issues and about the audit profession. risks. This helps ensure consistent execution of resources, publications, and learning. A wide range of ECONOMIES & of Deloitte audits, leveraging scalable content COMMUNITIES corporate, educational, and professional organizations use the and technology, to provide quality service to For questions on audit quality, please OPERATIONS & popular complimentary Deloitte IFRS eLearning with more than member firm clients across the globe. email us. GOVERNANCE 5.6 million modules downloaded to date. 26 Committed to protecting human rights in global supply chains ETHICAL MANAGEMENT Around the world, millions of people— goods and services ranging from software including children—put their lives at risk to security services. Increasingly, we are daily working in unsuitable circumstances. asked by member firm clients how we work Earthquakes, floods, and other natural with our supply chain. DTTL is evaluating perils create obvious risks within company implementation of supply chain policies supply chains. Less evident, though, are risks to better address risks and provide more presented by associations with companies that consistency across the network. Some Deloitte put employees in jeopardy. member firms already have implemented supplier-procurement policies that cover “Deloitte helps its clients mitigate risks by sustainability, ethics, and other key areas leveraging their proficiency in labor rights, related to corporate responsibility. supply chain strategy development and management, risk profile analysis and compliance procedures, and their status as a In February 2013, Deloitte was global independent audit services network,” named a global leader in the explains Simon Brew, Deloitte Global Supply Chain Services Leader. “Deloitte helps leaders Kennedy Vanguard of Supply HOME understand that good business and social Chain Risk Management responsibility are not mutually exclusive.” OVERVIEW Consulting Providers. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS According to a report released by Deloitte U.S. Key findings reported in Kennedy’s Supply in 2013, supply chain risk continues to rank Chain Risk Management Consulting, 2012Innovative solutions among the top concerns of executives, 2015 report include: Financial leadership especially because of the potential impact to a company’s brand and reputation. More • “Of the multi-service firms that deliver Multidisciplinary offerings supply chain risk consulting services through than half of the 600 executives surveyed said Audit quality supply chain disruptions have become more supply chain, operations, and risk practices, costly over the last three years. Yet, 45 percent [Deloitte] achieves the greatest combination Ethical management admitted their supply chain risk management of breadth and depth” Protecting client data programs are only somewhat effective or not • “[Deloitte’s] “Risk Intelligent Enterprise” Broader services effective at all. approach to risk management emphasizes Expanding clients’ horizons integrating risk into companies’ decision“Supply chains are increasingly complex and making processes at the strategic planning Advancing the greater their interlinked, global nature makes them level and across the value chain. It’s good vulnerable to a range of risks,” says Kelly a comprehensive program that spans Connecting clients, Marchese, Principal, Deloitte Consulting U.S. governance, infrastructure, and processes customers “This increased complexity, coupled with a embedded in business units. Inasmuch greater frequency of disruptive events, such as this approach inculcates a common TALENT & as geopolitical events and natural disasters, organizational language around risk, it OPP0RTUNITY presents a precarious situation for companies facilitates the sort of cross-functional Download “The Ripple Effect” without solid risk management and supply capability that is instrumental in managing ECONOMIES & to learn more about how chain resiliency programs in place.” supply chain risk.” COMMUNITIES manufacturers and retail DTTL and its member firms are not immune OPERATIONS & executives view the growing to supply chain risk, either. With operations For questions on supply chain, please GOVERNANCE spread across the globe, Deloitte procures email us. challenge of supply chain risk. 27 Committed to advancing cyber resilience PROTECTING CLIENT DATA Striking with increasing frequency and “Cyber resilience is not a technical matter, but ingenuity, a new breed of criminal is waging rather that of societal and business leadership,” war online. The perpetrators of cyber attacks says Jolyon Barker, Deloitte Global Technology, are varied and evolving: criminal organizations Media and Telecommunications Leader. “This is motivated by money; foreign governments an area Deloitte can bring to bear the maturity, bent on stealing state secrets; “hacktivists” strength, and insights of member firms’ leading hoping to make high-profile political global security consultancy to progress the statements by destabilizing private and public cyber debate and make an impact.” infrastructures. Barker led an international team of specialists, Deloitte has been shining a light on the including participants from 70 companies dangers of sinister cyber activities for years, and government bodies from 25 countries, to helping countless organizations detect fraud, develop and publish the Principles for Cyber prevent computer crimes, and build the Resilience. Launched at the 2012 World resiliency to recover from intrusions and get Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, back to business quickly. But, recent and highly Switzerland, these Principles ask CEOs to CEOs signing the World Economic Forum’s Partnering for Cyber Resilience Principles during the Deloitte publicized cyber attacks on global financial, commit to a simple set of values to improve HOME Netherlands 2013 RiskLab in Amsterdam. government, media, and business institutions their organizations’ cyber-security posture. illustrate how the stakes have been raised. Through Deloitte’s leadership, more than OVERVIEW 100 CEOs and government ministers have “Increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks have signed the Principles. Leaders who commit to CLIENTS & INSIGHTS become the norm,” says Ted DeZabala, Deloitte the Principles get access to tools, materials, Global Security, Privacy, and Resilience Leader. Innovative solutions and meetings they can leverage to improve “With state-sponsored cyber terrorism and Financial leadership their resilience. corporate espionage on the rise, multinational Multidisciplinary offerings organizations need help to handle the scale and complexity of their cyber-security needs. Audit quality This is where Deloitte excels. We give them the Ethical management tools to become resilient.” Protecting client data In less than 300 seconds, As the largest information technology Broader services consulting practice in the world, Deloitte experience the speed and Expanding clients’ horizons member firms have the scale and scope to intensity of a cyber attack. combat the global nature of online crime. Advancing the greater Watch as the plot unfolds and Recognizing this distinct strength, the World good Economic Forum chose Deloitte to launch and learn from Deloitte United Deloitte named a leader in Information Security Consulting Connecting clients, lead a public-private initiative called Partnering Kingdom how companies customers Services: “Deloitte maintained its position in the Leaders for Cyber Resilience, a global, multi-industry, multi-stakeholder program aimed at improving can defend themselves, take category thanks to exceptional client feedback and TALENT & cyber resilience, raising business standards, and control of the situation, and comprehensive, sophisticated, and mature service offerings, creating a safer connected society. OPP0RTUNITY effectively fight back. with notable strengths in BC/DR [Business Continuity and ECONOMIES & Disaster Recovery] and network strategy and design.” COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & Source: Forrester Research, Inc. The Forrester WaveTM: Information Security Consulting Services Q1 2013”, Ed Ferrara and Andrew Rose, 1 February 2013 GOVERNANCE 28 “Deloitte’s support, collaboration, and • In October 2012, the Netherlands firm’s leadership went beyond anything I have seen team emerged as world champions at from a professional services organization the Global CyberLympics, where it pitted supporting one of the World Economic Forum’s its cyber-security prowess against teams projects,” says Alan Marcus, Member of the from around the world. Supported by the Management Committee, Forum USA, and International Multilateral Partnership Against Senior Director, Head of ICT Industries. “The Cyber Threats (IMPACT), the cyber security power of experience, insight, and research was executing arm of the United Nations’ remarkable.” specialized agency—the International Telecommunications Union (ITU)—this series To further highlight the seriousness of cyber of ethical hacking games comprised both threats, DTTL released its 2013 Technology, offensive and defensive security challenges. Media & Telecommunications Global Security Study. For questions on cyber resiliency, please email us. “Our research revealed that companies are underprepared and overconfident. About HOME 88 percent of the 120 companies surveyed believe they can prevent cyber attacks. Yet, OVERVIEW most of those same companies also reported a security breach of high or medium impact in CLIENTS & INSIGHTS the preceding year,” explains DeZabala. Innovative solutions You’ve been breached, or Financial leadership Deloitte Netherlands firm’s team emerged as world Deloitte’s global campaign to heighten you soon will be. Now what? awareness about cyber security among clients Multidisciplinary offerings champions at the Global CyberLympics. creates opportunities for member firms to help Find out from Deloitte U.S. why Audit quality them achieve cyber resilience. Among member there’s no such thing as hackerfirms around the world pursuing these efforts, Ethical management Deloitte Netherlands has taken an aggressively proof. Protecting client data proactive approach to serving its clients. Broader services • The firm developed “Hacking as a Service,” Expanding clients’ horizons an innovative approach to testing an Advancing the greater organization’s online presence that allows good direct insight into existing vulnerabilities. Connecting clients, Gartner ranks Deloitte #1 for worldwide Security Consulting • In January 2013, Deloitte Netherlands Deloitte named a global customers Risk Services hosted its second-annual Services, based on market share in 2012. RiskLab, which brought together more than leader in cyber security 200 member firm risk professionals and TALENT & Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner research 300 clients for a day of collaboration and consulting by Kennedy. OPP0RTUNITY publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as innovation. The event was designed and Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, ECONOMIES & co-created by the firm’s Innovation team. Cyber Security Consulting 2013; © 2013 Kennedy including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. One of the day’s highlights was a ceremony Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. COMMUNITIES Source: Gartner, Market Share Analysis: Security Consulting, Worldwide, 2012, Lawrence Pingree, in which nine CEOs signed World Economic OPERATIONS & 16 May 2013. Forum’s Principles for Cyber Resilience. GOVERNANCE 29 Committed to increasing competitive advantage BROADER SERVICES In a game of word association, “Deloitte” Deloitte Legal’s services focus on five areas: typically would evoke responses such as commercial law; corporate mergers and “consulting” or “accounting organization.” acquisitions; employment and pensions; Unless the game is being played in Europe. regulatory issues; and tax issues. Not every There, chances are good you’d hear “legal service is offered in all 55 countries, but services” associated with the brand. Deloitte Legal’s capabilities and reach continue to expand, providing an opportunity “Today’s businesses are challenged by to leverage the Deloitte organization’s globalization, continued economic volatility, multidisciplinary model to deliver greater value and a rapidly changing regulatory climate, to member firm clients. making their legal and tax needs increasingly complex,” explains Dan Lange, Deloitte Global Helping clients enter new markets Tax & Legal Leader. “Deloitte member firms Globalization presents tax implications, as well have earned a reputation for helping clients as legal ones. International Expansion Services, address intricate, cross-border regulatory and helps clients understand not only the tax cultural issues. Skilled and experienced Deloitte climate in a new market, but it also leverages Lawyers from the German law firm Raupach & Wollert-Elmendorff, who have been cooperating more lawyers and tax specialists work together Deloitte’s vast network to offer advice HOME closely with Deloitte Germany since late 2012, speak with other Deloitte professionals in consulting on infrastructure, government incentives, with potential recruits at a local recruiting fair, along and financial advisory to guide clients in a employment and immigration policies, and OVERVIEW with colleagues from Deloitte Germany. coordinated way around the world.” other key considerations. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Legal practices a growing force A global media organization has relied on Innovative solutions With 125 offices and 1,100 lawyers, Deloitte Deloitte’s assistance with entering new Legal* is able to offer holistic guidance to locations since it began expanding from the Financial leadership multinational corporations in 55 countries. United States into other countries in 1987. Multidisciplinary offerings Seventy-five of those established local offices “The organization’s leadership decided early on Audit quality are in Europe, where collectively they make that it did not want to burden its employees up the sixth largest legal services organization with administration, tax compliance, financial Ethical management on the continent. Deloitte Legal continued filings, and legal issues. Leadership wanted Protecting client data to grow in 2013 with the formal integration them to focus on their core business,” says of the German law firm Raupach & WollertEllie Patsalos, UK Lead Tax Partner and UK Broader services Elmendorff into Deloitte Germany. Lead Client Service Partner for the media Expanding clients’ horizons organization. “Deloitte services have become “It is difficult for most law firms, by themselves, Advancing the greater more sophisticated through the years and, to meet the expanding needs of today’s complex good today, encompass many more areas. But, our Learn more about organizations. Multinational corporations need mission of serving them “As One” has not Connecting clients, Deloitte Legal a global perspective when considering the legal changed. We have been right alongside their customers implications of business decisions—and they organization as they expanded into almost Deloitte.com/DeloitteLegal need their legal strategy to align with their 200 locations around the world.” TALENT & overall business and tax strategy,” says JeanOPP0RTUNITY Victor Prevost, Deloitte Global Legal Services Learn more about Tax Operations Leader. “Deloitte’s international For questions, please contact us at globaltax@deloitte.com or ECONOMIES & Deloitte.com/Tax network of lawyers, in conjunction with services deloittelegal@deloitte.com. COMMUNITIES addressing their enterprise-wide needs, can * “Deloitte Legal” means the legal practices of Deloitte serve clients’ legal needs well in multiple OPERATIONS & Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms or their affiliates jurisdictions, while also helping them address GOVERNANCE that provide legal services. For legal and regulatory their broader business needs.” reasons, not all member firms provide legal services. 30 Committed to promoting new opportunities EXPANDING CLIENTS’ HORIZONS No longer satisfied with merely exporting invaluable to our expansion,” according to products around the world, companies based a Toyota Motor executive. “Their ability to in China, South Korea, and Japan increasingly coordinate their support to Toyota around the are seeking to flex their financial muscle by world in a borderless and seamless manner acquiring or investing in operations outside makes them very valuable to us.” their national borders. South America is another priority market for Dealing with unfamiliar cultures and business Deloitte and its clients. In February, the Deloitte environments can be a barrier to progress, Country Services Groups organized a “trade which Deloitte’s local know-how and mission” that put leaders from China, Japan, connections can remove. “The Deloitte Country and South Korea face-to-face with industry and Services Groups excel at helping companies government leaders in Brazil, LATCO, and Chile discover business opportunities in markets to discuss opportunities in mining, oil and gas, with high inbound and outbound activity, and and other industry sectors. where success in relationship building and client-service excellence requires culturally aligned resources,” says Mark Robinson, “There was a high level of HOME former Deloitte Global Country Services Groups engagement among all Leader and current Chief Operating Officer of OVERVIEW Deloitte China. parties. Everyone took an active role in discussing and CLIENTS & INSIGHTS “The way member firms map their teams with Innovative solutions clients, taking advantage of a cohesive, global articulating the opportunities Financial leadership network, really gives Deloitte a leg up in the and committing to work market,” Robinson continues. “Member firms Multidisciplinary offerings have local-market expertise in many emerging together on executing the Audit quality countries that others don’t have.” plans for agreed actions,” Ethical management Nowhere is this cross-border cooperation says Hitoshi Matsumoto, Protecting client data more apparent than in Southeast Asia (SEA), Deloitte Japan Co-Leader, where Japanese and SEA consultants have Read how Deloitte’s Japanese Services Group. Broader services formed a joint venture to deliver services to the foresight—and the Chinese increasing number of Japanese manufacturing “Seeing all these networks in Expanding clients’ horizons Advancing the greater Services Group—gives it an clients with production operations in the action was very impressive.” ASEAN region. There is significant Japanese good edge in China. investment in Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, Connecting clients, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, For more information, please contact: customers and neighboring markets like Myanmar, where DTTL established an independent Country Services Group correspondent firm relationship with the Japanese Services Group TALENT & professional services firm, Myanmar Vigour Co. OPP0RTUNITY Korean Services Group Ltd., in 2013. ECONOMIES & Learn more about the Toyota has become the largest client of Chinese Services Group COMMUNITIES Japanese Services Group, the the SEA firm in less than a year. “Deloitte’s knowledge of our industry and of country OPERATIONS & Chinese Services Group, and markets, regulations, and cultures has been GOVERNANCE the Korean Services Group. 31 Committed to enabling more public benefit ADVANCING THE GREATER GOOD Deloitte seeks to improve the society we live have more than doubled the ministry’s and work in by joining forces with others who maintenance and repair productivity. In 2012, have that result as their core purpose. Whether after SAP implementation, the ministry did it’s a government body that needs a hand 600,000 square meters of sidewalk repair and responding to its citizens, or a company that 1.5 million square meters of construction on seeks guidance in managing its philanthropic the streets themselves. Before automation, efforts, we consider it a privilege to employ total construction was approximately our skills and resources to help others deliver 400,000 square meters. greater public benefit. Growing a charitable network Enabling responsive government Public service has never been an issue for For the city government of Buenos Aires Los Angeles-based TOMS. It has earned a (GCBA), the job of managing the municipality’s sterling reputation thanks to its “One For One” vast public spaces was made much more program, through which it gives a pair of shoes difficult by inadequate information technology. to an impoverished child for every pair of shoes Its systems weren’t able to support operations the company sells. And when TOMS sells a pair across multiple departments, leaving the of eyewear, part of the proceeds are used to HOME city unprepared to handle some basic save or restore the eyesight of an individual in Watch how Deloitte helped functions, such as directing service requests a developing country. OVERVIEW to appropriate areas for quick resolution. the Buenos Aires government TOMS relies on local giving partners that The GCBA also couldn’t properly coordinate CLIENTS & INSIGHTS to bring efficient solutions to incorporate shoe giving into their Orphaned projects with contractors, which affected Innovative solutions and Vulnerable Children programs, and also the Buenos Aires people. decisions on long-range infrastructure planning have the logistical capabilities to distribute Financial leadership and maintenance. The Argentine office of shoes. TOMS engaged Deloitte U.S. to expand Deloitte LATCO was engaged to improve Multidisciplinary offerings its network of credible local giving partners centralization and coordination among Audit quality within eastern and southern Africa. departments to better respond to citizens Ethical management and improve preventive maintenance and Deloitte U.S. has introduced more than coordination of contractors. 70 potential giving partners to TOMS—enabling Protecting client data Forrester named Deloitte a this social enterprise to deliver up to 30 million Today, all of the ministry’s departments are Broader services leader and “the gold standard” integrated onto a new SAP platform and the pairs of shoes in Africa—and is exploring ways to streamline TOMS’ supply chain and inventory Expanding clients’ horizons in IT organization redesign. city is able to integrate information to respond management to ensure that shoes reach Advancing the greater more quickly to citizen needs. The GCBA now Source: Forrester Research, Inc. The Forrester children’s feet as soon as possible. good has centralized incident management and Wave™: IT Organization Redesign Consultancies, Q4 2012, November 2012. maintenance for all city objects; streamlined “We helped TOMS expand its giving network Connecting clients, administrative and back-office functions; and make its processes more efficient,” says customers centralized registration and purchase Jerry O’Dwyer, Deloitte U.S. Lead Consulting management; and implemented new internal Partner for TOMS. “Our local knowledge, TALENT & controls. OPP0RTUNITY It was important to choose a reliable and trustworthy service stakeholder networks and global health capabilities were significant contributors to the provider—one that delivers results and can create the synergy Major efficiencies are being realized, due in project.” ECONOMIES & large part to the shift away from paper-based COMMUNITIES between SAP, the product, and the work team—no matter processes. In March 2013, approximately For more information about IT what happens. Deloitte was the perfect choice for us. 1,400 complaints were addressed and transformation and SAP implementation, OPERATIONS & resolved, compared to less than 100 claims please email us. GOVERNANCE Rodrigo Silvosa, General Director of Control Management for the Environment and Public Spaces Ministry in March 2012. And automated processes sector of GCBA 32 Committed to driving revenue with digital solutions CONNECTING CLIENTS, CUSTOMERS In the past year, Deloitte continued to During the past year, the Australia firm’s successfully combine creativity and industry cross-functional teams significantly raised knowledge with strategic insight and analytics the effectiveness of the client’s marketing to deliver a growing number of innovative campaigns and digital offers using detailed solutions to member firm clients. analytics and propensity modeling. They also rebuilt a number of the client’s mobile and Deloitte undertook a collaborative research Web assets, enhancing service and building project with a telecommunication services new revenue streams. And with the firm’s help, provider in the Asia Pacific region to more the client identified significant cost savings by effectively monetize customer data, particularly migrating customer transactions from highlocation data. It is estimated that during the cost payment and communications channels to next 10 years, personal location data has the digital alternatives. potential to create up to US$700 billion in value, including from highly targeted ads that reach mobile devices at the right time and location. Global Technology Services (GTS) recently designed, developed, and launched the Deloitte App Center, a HOME Deloitte Analytics Institute Asia (DAI), part of shared digital infrastructure to discover, share, and download mobile and Web apps. Featuring more Deloitte Southeast Asia, collaborated with the OVERVIEW than 150 apps from 23 member firms, App Center is telecommunication services provider to develop Deloitte was recognized in being used by Deloitte practitioners in 103 countries. actionable insights from raw location data. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS App Center also goes beyond apps, connecting DAI researchers went a step beyond the state 2013 by Forrester Research, Deloitte people and teams, designs, and ideas across Innovative solutions every function to catalyze innovation in Deloitte’s of the art in location analytics, incorporating Inc., as a leader in “The knowledge of key locations, modes of travel Financial leadership business and client service. between those locations (walking, driving, Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Multidisciplinary offerings etc.), and near real-time prediction of customer Mobility Services, Q1 2013” Audit quality movement for a variety of potential advertising report. and churn management applications. Ethical management By demonstrating how location data can Protecting client data Explore what’s ahead in be leveraged to enable a new paradigm Building a bolder e-commerce presence A Deloitte UK client, popular retailer John Lewis, Broader services tech, media, and telecoms— in targeted ads, DAI convinced the telecommunication services provider to take engaged the firm for guidance in selecting a Expanding clients’ horizons Download TMT Predictions the technology from research collaboration to new e-commerce platform to achieve its goal Advancing the greater 2013 midyear infographic or a nationwide rollout in 2013. of becoming, “Britain’s leading omnichannel good retailer.” After witnessing Deloitte UK’s crosslisten to the podcast. Transforming the landscape firm and cross-functional capabilities first hand, Connecting clients, Since its launch in 2011, one Australian the client ultimately selected Deloitte UK as the customers company has been working with Deloitte systems integrator for the new platform. TALENT & Deloitte’s Technology, Media & Telecommunications (TMT) Australia to define and deliver an innovative “We helped John Lewis define the required digital strategy that quickly has achieved OPP0RTUNITY group develops sector-specific solutions and market-leading enormous success in digital sales, service, and business and technology capabilities and software to deliver its business goals, and ECONOMIES & insights to help industry participants formulate informed and customer satisfaction. then acted as the implementation provider to COMMUNITIES effective strategic plans. Learn more about Deloitte TMT— replace the client’s e-commerce platform,” says Ian Geddes, Head of UK Retail, Deloitte UK. OPERATIONS & global practice overview, client case studies, and major “We wanted to deliver a solution that was not GOVERNANCE industry events. just market leading, but market beating.” 33 “I’ve always said that there are no IT projects, only business projects. So, major technology change in the Deloitte is ranked a Vanguard shape of a new website leader in Digital Strategy platform was always a critical Consulting Services by element in our business Kennedy: “Deloitte stands strategy,” explains Paul out for its ability to deliver Coby, IT Director, John Lewis. recommendations that are “Deloitte played a vital role aligned with clients’ particular in its successful delivery, from circumstances, demonstrate product selection through the achievability of results, HOME to implementation, bringing and generate excitement at OVERVIEW experience, capability, and an all levels of an organization CLIENTS & INSIGHTS understanding of the chosen around digital strategy.” TALENT & technology.” Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; OPP0RTUNITY Digital Strategy Consulting; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates © 2013 Kennedy ECONOMIES & Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. COMMUNITIES Leveraging creative and technical specialization from the UK, United States, and Australia, OPERATIONS & Deloitte UK worked with John Lewis’ internal GOVERNANCE team to implement new e-commerce and Web content-management software to deliver a new, mobile-friendly, customer-facing website. In 2013, Deloitte Digital For more information, contact Digital launched new studios in Enterprise or Deloitte Digital. Japan, South Africa and Canada, joining established studios in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, and India. 34 Fiesta de fin de Año takes place once a year in every offices of Deloitte Colombia. All employees are invited to enjoy a special day with different activities and programs. talent & opportunity One person can make a huge difference. We see that every day at Deloitte. Now, imagine the impact a global team of 200,000plus, working together, can make. Get a glimpse of what it means to be a member of the Deloitte network and how our people lead, develop, flex, and connect to reach their full potential and help others do the same. HOME OVERVIEW CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY The Deloitte Talent Experience Leadership International experience Workforce transformation Global talent security ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 35 Committed to helping talent lead, develop, flex, and connect THE DELOITTE TALENT EXPERIENCE What makes Deloitte unique? “It comes down leader as a coach for support through the to how the organization delivers on four program and learn and build connections key attributes of our talent experience: lead, through social media. develop, flex, and connect,” says Margot On cross-border teams, people learn about, Thom, Deloitte Global Talent Leader. “At its and how to benefit from, their differences. heart, this experience is about having unlimited Formal diversity and inclusion learning opportunities to do meaningful work and to programs, affinity groups, and diversity grow, learn, and lead at every point in your roundtables and events are among the many career. Deloitte people have the flexibility opportunities for people to develop the global to create the career and life experience they mindsets required to lead effectively. want and the power of being part of a global network of talented people.” Deloitte’s focus on diversity and inclusion earned the organization a third-place ranking Lead in DiversityInc.’s Top 10 Companies for At Deloitte, we value leadership at all levels Global Diversity. Member firm diversity efforts TOP and offer formal and informal avenues to help focused on factors—ethnicity, age, disabilities, Deloitte Canada summer interns in Vancouver. Photo professionals develop the skills and connections HOME and other dimensions of diversity—relevant credit: Tracy Tahara and Peter Stefanovski (Deloitte to lead at every stage of their careers. Canada). in their markets. Inclusion as a driver for OVERVIEW The Manager and Senior Manager Milestone representation of diverse talent at every level LEFT programs provide ongoing learning, of the organization, with a particular focus on Deloitte Australia Top Female Talent of 2013. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS development, and peer support to help newly women’s advancement, topped the diversity promoted Deloitte professionals transition to agenda, and in FY2013, 23 percent of newly TALENT & their new roles successfully. admitted member firm partners and directors OPP0RTUNITY were women. Select high-performing DTTL managers have The Deloitte Talent Flex the opportunity to participate in STARS, an Experience eight-month leadership development journey. The 200,000-plus people across the Deloitte Leadership Live, virtual, and on-the-job learning, executive network have the flexibility to define success International experience exposure, and mentoring are part of this on their own terms. At every stage of their accelerated development program. Working careers, people are encouraged to create Workforce transformation with senior DTTL leaders and colleagues the career and life experiences that excite Global talent security from around the world, managers hone their and challenge them. Achieving personal and leadership skills and expand their networks. professional satisfaction at Deloitte can mean ECONOMIES & dialing one’s career up or down over time, Develop creating an undulating journey of climbs and COMMUNITIES Professionals driven by a desire to learn and lateral moves. OPERATIONS & grow have unlimited access to learning that can be instructor-led, on-the-job, or virtual, Deloitte sponsors a variety of groups through GOVERNANCE using any device at anytime from anywhere. which people may share life and career experiences. One member firm example is Watch Margot Thom, Deloitte In Deloitte Australia, the D.Academy helps new Deloitte Canada’s Deloitte Dads, which was recruits learn by putting their newly learned inspired by its Career Moms group. Both Global Talent Leader, share nontechnical skills to the practical application organizations help participants successfully how she’s been able to lead, test of a two-day learning experience and a juggle the demands of work, parenting, and group project focused on improving client household management. develop, flex, and connect in experiences through the use of design, data, her Deloitte career. and digital. Participants are allocated a senior 36 THE THEDELOITTE DELOITTETALENTTALENT EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE Connect Everyone at Deloitte has access to thousands of other professionals across the member firm DEVELOP FLEX network who are eager to listen and share. CONNECT Deloitte has a respectful and collaborative Deloitte member firms take LEAD Deloitte is a place Deloitte is a place culture filled with people focused on working Deloitte is a place where development where you have Deloitte is a place and winning as a team and understand the a borderless approach to opportunities are options to create where everyone is unlimited for those who the career and life where there is need to keep the lines of communication open. recruiting top talent. The enabled to develop power in the and thrive as a are driven by a desire to experience you want network A talk-show-style event puts DTTL people in world-class technology of learn and grow leader direct contact with DTTL Chief Executive Officer the Careers website allows Barry Salzberg and other senior leaders. This kind of front-row access to conversations with graduates, experienced senior leadership about business and career professionals, and senior growth is just one of the ways people leverage the power of our network. executives to search and FY2013NEW FY2013 NEW HIRES HIRES BY LEVEL BY LEVEL apply for opportunities in HOME The DeloittePeopleNetwork (DPN) is a global profile system that lets professionals showcase 116 countries and locations. OVERVIEW 273 their experience and interests. DPN makes it possible for professionals to cut through During FY2013, more than CLIENTS & INSIGHTS PARTNERS the complexity of the organization, solve 1.9 million people submitted TALENT & 6,749 problems faster, and to make connections and collaborate effectively across borders and applications through the site, OPP0RTUNITY ADMIN STAFF functions. and Deloitte hired 51,400 The Deloitte Talent Experience 44,383 Yammer, the social media network, is where globally. PROFESSIONALS professionals from around the globe share Leadership ideas and engage in virtual conversations, International experience collaborations, and forums. Stories abound of professionals who use Yammer to find Workforce transformation resources, support, and even staffing for Global talent security member firm projects. DPN and Yammer are On 5 March 2013, DTTL just two examples of how we put the power of our network to work for people and member hosted the 5th annual ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES firm clients. International Women’s Day OPERATIONS & (IWD) webcast: Empower. GOVERNANCE Invest. Accelerate. Inclusive leadership as the missing link for advancing women. 37 Committed to building strong leaders at every level LEADERSHIP At Deloitte Canada, it’s not uncommon to Exploring inclusion in the 21st century see mentor and protégé relationships develop workplace was the theme of the March 2013 between experienced leaders and young two-day launch event of the Deloitte University professionals. What’s surprising is who is Leadership Center for Inclusion. Deloitte teaching whom. The member firm’s Digital also introduced the Inclusive Leadership Mentoring program pairs passionate social Program in FY2013. Focused on developing media experts with top leaders who are the multicultural competencies, mindset, and seeking to become adept users of LinkedIn, behaviors to lead inclusively and leverage Twitter, and Yammer. diversity to improve business decisions, the program is now part of the Global Lead Client The program is just one example of how the Service Partner Program. millennial generation is turning leadership on its head, and how Deloitte is enabling this new Newly admitted partners from across the paradigm. member firms begin their journeys as senior leaders at the Global New Partner Seminar. Millennials aren’t just entering the workforce; Held annually, this opportunity to hone skills Jen Steinmann, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and they’re beginning to advance up the ranks. Chief Talent Officer, Deloitte U.S., addressing the and build networks was hosted by Deloitte HOME According to the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu audience at the Deloitte University Leadership Center University in 2012. for Inclusion launch event. Limited (DTTL) Millennial Survey, half of OVERVIEW all respondents already are in leadership positions and 44 percent have four or more CLIENTS & INSIGHTS direct reports, in spite of having only threeTALENT & to-five years of work experience. Fewer than What does it mean to be a 40 percent of those surveyed felt ready for OPP0RTUNITY their new roles. At Deloitte, we are helping leader at Deloitte? Find out The Deloitte Talent Can leadership be evaluated, both young and experienced professionals here. prepare for leadership responsibilities through Experience developed, and strategically formal training and informal opportunities that Leadership utilized to drive business allow them inspire their peers, make an impact, Beyond the events, perhaps most impressive is the number of professionals—more than International experience performance? Find out what and build critical skills. 50,000 from 70 countries—who passed Workforce transformation Deloitte has learned about Deloitte University through the doors of Deloitte University during Deloitte’s commitment to growing leadership Global talent security effective leadership. the past year. It’s also noteworthy that 92 skills and providing member firm clients with percent of courses were facilitated by our ECONOMIES & the impactful solutions they need is exemplified leaders. by the Deloitte University campus in Westlake, COMMUNITIES Outside of the classrooms, Deloitte University Texas. FY2013 marked a number of important OPERATIONS & milestones for Deloitte University, starting with offers our people opportunities to connect in GOVERNANCE the celebration of its second anniversary and person, share ideas and insights, and develop or enhance their approaches to serving Deloitte is often recognized for the hosting of a number of spotlight events. member firm clients and doing business. During its leadership. See Deloitte’s the past year, more than 500 networking events were held, including fireside chats, team achievements in client service, building exercises, and leader receptions. corporate responsibility, operational excellence, and support of talent. 38 Looking to the future, Deloitte is further “At Deloitte, there are people throughout our expanding its investment in the success of its organization who are depended upon every people and member firm clients—making the day for their strategic thinking, innovative global Deloitte University learning curriculum capabilities, and global perspectives,” Kwan available in all regions and opening Deloitte continues. “We must constantly develop their University EMEA. technical, industry, global, and professional skills and create an environment where leaders Broad opportunities at all levels can thrive and grow.” Large numbers of Deloitte people are also embracing informal leadership opportunities around the globe. Through projects and LEARNING LEARNING events—including community outreach, Junior Achievement, Women’s Initiative Networks (WIN), Business Resource/Affinity Groups, and IMPACT Day—Deloitte professionals have ample opportunities to lead and develop their 5,000+ skills and networks. digital learning courses HOME available in 17 languages Selected individuals also experience leadership other than English OVERVIEW firsthand through formal development 30,000+ initiatives. For example, DTTL’s Leadership CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Shadow Program, piloted in December 2012, allows high-potential DTTL professionals to TALENT & experience life as a DTTL leader by participating OPP0RTUNITY online books and in a leader’s daily activities. abstracts available The Deloitte Talent Deloitte’s commitment to growing leadership skills 30,000+ Experience throughout the organization is exemplified by the Deloitte University and its over 700,000 square foot “Great decision makers Leadership campus in Westlake, Texas. and direction setters are International experience views of Deloitte needed at every level of Workforce transformation specific learning videos our organization,” explains Global talent security Alice Kwan, Principal, ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES Deloitte Consulting U.S. “Purposeful, selective 59,359+ unique attendees across OPERATIONS & investments in high-potential 5,266 virtual class room GOVERNANCE sessions leaders are a smart way to take steps to maintain a steady pipeline of top talent. But, leadership development can’t just be about the top leaders. 39 Committed to building a pipeline of global leaders INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE A little more than a year ago, Christopher Tun A world of opportunity was reading a social media discussion that Deloitte’s people gain international experience mentioned Deloitte was exploring possible in several ways: moving to and working in business opportunities to support clients in other geographies; shortand long-term Myanmar. Tun, a Deloitte U.S. consulting international business travel; and working manager at the time, is a native of the country on international teams or projects, often and had recently returned from a visit there. virtually from a variety of locations, thanks to So, he offered to get involved. technologies and tools that connect Deloitte Tun ultimately relocated to Myanmar, professionals around the world. joining the Southeast Asia member firm, People who want to learn more about working and, today, is helping build the Myanmar internationally have many options. Career practice, connecting clients to a full range of conversations can provide touch points for professional services, including tax, consulting, registering interest in foreign assignments. and financial advisory. Opportunities in virtually every region of Deloitte Green Dot advertising campaign in His experience reflects a new reality. the world are posted and searchable from Dusseldorf airport, Germany. Technology has made the world smaller, a dedicated intranet site. Our professionals HOME also have online access to information and eliminating barriers and enabling people everywhere to collaborate virtually and tools to help them before, during, and after OVERVIEW instantaneously. At the same time, there is no an international assignment. The Cultural CLIENTS & INSIGHTS substitute for being on site, experiencing the Navigator, for example, is a self-assessment culture, making personal connections, and program that helps people understand and TALENT & learning how markets function. manage assumptions about others from OPP0RTUNITY Read more about the different backgrounds. The Deloitte Talent anticipated impact of International opportunity is a cornerstone Deloitte’s commitment to international of our talent experience and is central Experience Deloitte’s investment in to Deloitte’s client, talent, and growth experience is evident in the visible and vocal support of member firm leaders. During Leadership 11 priority markets strategies. Clients depend on our member FY2013, the total number of international in Bloomberg Business Week’s interview with DTTL firm professionals’ skills and capabilities to International experience assignments—nearly 5,800—represented an 8 Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg. handle complex, cross-border issues. Clients Workforce transformation also expect Deloitte leaders and teams to have percent increase from the prior year. Many of international experience and global mindsets, these assignments were in emerging markets, Global talent security where diverse cultural skills and cross-border making them able to serve clients well TOTALNUMBER TOTAL NUMBEROFOFMOBILITY MOBILITYASSIGNMENTS ASSIGNMENTS wherever they operate. business experience are especially valuable in ECONOMIES & driving growth. COMMUNITIES We believe the best way to meet those Developing globally minded leaders and 5,795 demands is to make international experience OPERATIONS & a priority and have the learning, programs, borderless thinking are also objectives of the 5,356 GOVERNANCE and technology in place to facilitate it. This DTTL Global Advisory Council. Made up of 2013 commitment makes Deloitte member firms young partners from member firms around 4,429 (+8%) attractive not only to potential clients, but also the world, the council acts as a sounding 2012 to talented professionals. board and advisory group for the DTTL Global (+21%) CEO and the Executive. These international 2011 ambassadors promote global, As One behavior (+17%) by sharing leading practices, knowledge, and skills across the network. 40 Committed to promoting diversity and inclusion WORKFORCE TRANSFORMATION Half of all executive roles at leading French Taj received a Women’s Empowerment law firm Taj, a part of the Deloitte network, Principles Business Case for Action Award are filled by women. Five of its 10 highest2013 and won the “Best in France” category compensated employees are women, as are at Euromoney-Legal Media Group-European 42 percent of the firm’s partners. Women in Business Law Awards. That’s noteworthy because, despite significant advances in education and political participation, women in France remain underrepresented in “There has never been a business leadership positions. program for diversity at Taj; Just as impressive are the firm’s strong business we just do diversity. It’s just results. “During the past eight years, Taj has normal. There is no difference seen a sensational rise in the French market both in reputation and organic growth,” says between what work men and Taj CEO Gianmarco Monsellato. “We have risen women do here; everyone is TOP from a second-tier firm to a market leader and Some of Deloitte Norway’s professionals with their have grown 70 percent in a difficult economy treated like a professional. HOME Managing Partner Aase Aamdal Lundgaard and DTTL Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg. Photo and shrinking market.” This is just how we do OVERVIEW credit:Photo credit: Jan-Erik Eriksen, freelance photographer. Taj’s business success coincides with its efforts business.” to create a diverse and inclusive values-driven CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Senior Female Taj Partner LEFT culture. Gianmarco Monsellato, Taj Chief Executive Officer, TALENT & receives the WEPs Business Case for Action Award “Several years ago, we made a commitment to OPP0RTUNITY 2013 in recognition of the French law firm’s embed fairness, inclusion, and flexibility in the innovative and effective policies to drive gender The Deloitte Talent diversity and transform the company’s culture. Taj is workplace,” says Monsellato. “That provided Experience a part of the Deloitte network. the foundation for the empowerment and advancement of women to senior positions, and Leadership a culture that redefined the model for success How Taj did it: International experience for all employees, regardless of gender.” Seven diversity lessons Workforce transformation To better understand Taj’s strategy and Global talent security success, DTTL’s Global Diversity Team interviewed 15 women working in various ECONOMIES & positions at Taj. “They explained that what made a difference at the organization were COMMUNITIES respect, honesty, and transparency,” says Learn more about diversity OPERATIONS & Linda Buisson, Deloitte Global Tax & Legal at Deloitte.com/diversity GOVERNANCE Steve Almond, Chairman of Gender Diversity Community Leader. “Taj the DTTL Board, advocates for made a concerted effort to create a valuesbased culture, equipping people to behave gender diversity in leadership in an inclusive way, embedding diversity and as a key to business success. flexibility into talent and business processes, and measuring and recognizing progress.” Read his views on parity for women on boards and corporate leadership teams. 41 Committed to keeping our people safe GLOBAL TALENT SECURITY When an organization has more than 200,000 protocols, member firms are encouraged to professionals working in 150-plus countries, incorporate security into their travel programs there’s an ever-present risk that some of those and consult with the GSO before undertaking people may find themselves in harm’s way. travel to high-risk locations. DTTL’s Global Security Office (GSO) works When member firm engagement teams cannot diligently to minimize those risks and to assist avoid traveling to high-risk locations, the GSO in times of need. “We take our duty to keep can assist them with designing comprehensive Deloitte people safe very seriously, especially security plans, including location-specific during times of crisis or when client needs may security briefings, hotel and transportation take our people to higher-risk locations,” says recommendations, on-the-ground project Ted Almay, Deloitte Global Security Officer. logistics, and direct security support, as The GSO team tracks world events on a daily needed. In doing so, GSO leverages a network basis for potential impacts on Deloitte’s people of specialized security providers who are based and member firms. Whenever a crisis occurs in many high-risk locations. For example, anywhere in the world, GSO, in conjunction during the H7N9 outbreak GSO provided travel with DTTL’s Global Crisis Management Team, guidance to member firms and monitored the HOME is able to provide a swift response to help situation closely, leveraging third party expert member firms account for the safety of their resources, to provide Deloitte people with OVERVIEW people, provide necessary relief, and resume up-to-date risk assessments. normal business operations as soon as possible. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS DTTL maintains a global contract with a leading “Threats may come in many sizes and forms, emergency medical and security provider to TALENT & including geopolitical instability, crime, and quickly mobilize resources to assist Deloitte OPP0RTUNITY natural disasters. As one example, we had travelers and immediate family members The Deloitte Talent To supplement Deloitte’s more than 10,000 U.S. practitioners and whether they are on business or personal Experience international travelers in the path of Hurricane travel. The GSO team responded to more membership, International Sandy,” notes Almay. than 85 medical-assistance cases in FY2013, Leadership SOS has launched a mobile During the tragic Boston Marathon bombings, including emergency evacuations from remote International experience and higher-risk locations. application for easy access the GSO team worked closely with the U.S. Workforce transformation member firm’s Office of Security to account for Another important function of the GSO is to valuable travel, health Global talent security the safety of local and international Deloitte to ensure that Deloitte’s people are aware and security advice, and practitioners, including three international of particular risks before they travel. GSO ECONOMIES & emergency assistance. Deloitte partners who were participating in has developed a series of general travel the race. and country-specific e-learning courses. COMMUNITIES Deloitte professionals also have access to Promoting safe travel a comprehensive travel security website OPERATIONS & The extensive travel of Deloitte people GOVERNANCE GSO has produced a series of short videos to supplement the around the globe presents unique risks. containing the latest security bulletins, assessments, country risk ratings, and other travel security e-learning programs. Developed with a tool Deloitte member firms may have more than resources for travelers. In addition, DTTL 20,000 people traveling to serve clients on called BrainShark, these two-minute videos include topics from recently introduced a mobile application from any given day. GSO provided guidance and its emergency services provider, International resources available to the Deloitte traveler to information on security planning support in FY2013 for nearly SOS, which allows Deloitte practitioners to specific destinations. The videos can be launched and viewed 800 engagement teams that were considering receive the latest security and health alerts and work in potentially troublesome areas of the to access other resources. from a computer or smartphone. world. As part of DTTL’s global travel security 42 Deloitte Chile’s new corporate office is being built using LEED certification guidelines. It is the first building in Latin America to measure its carbon footprint from its foundations. economies & communities Being a leading global professional services provider brings both opportunity and responsibility. At Deloitte, we apply our skills and resources where we can make the greatest impact. Find out HOME how we are advancing economic OVERVIEW prosperity and social wellbeing in our communities by fighting CLIENTS & INSIGHTS corruption, promoting environmental TALENT & sustainability, helping young people OPP0RTUNITY gain access to education and employability skills, and supporting ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES humanitarian progress. Economic integrity Environmental sustainability Preparing youth for tomorrow Delivering social impact OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE 43 Committed to fighting against corruption ECONOMIC INTEGRITY Buying contracts. Bribing customs authorities and their anti-corruption and public-policy through agents. Lavishly entertaining experts to provide education and training on government officials. Ignoring violations and combating corruption, money laundering, and compliance requirements. Corruption takes fraud; and to build effective compliance and many forms and permeates business and internal-control programs. industry in many parts of the world. “We developed the Academy as a vehicle for “No country is immune to the corrosive unfettered dialogue about challenges faced effects of corruption, but in some places by multinational corporations operating in it is so endemic that it harms the lives of markets at risk for corrupt business behavior ordinary citizens and makes it impossible to and to provide a forum for collective action maintain a level playing field for business,” in addressing both the ‘supply’ and ‘demand’ says Steve Almond, Chairman of the DTTL sides of corruption and money laundering,” Board. “Tackling corruption would help says Dan Konigsburg, Deloitte Global Corporate enable companies to compete on equal terms Governance and Public Policy Leader. and in accordance with their declared value TOP Nina Gross, Academy Leader and Director, Jennifer Quartana Guethoff, Deloitte Global Deputy statements, help restore public trust, and HOME Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP Chief Ethics Officer, participates in a break-out benefit consumers and society at large.” discussion on the role of third-party due diligence in (Deloitte U.S.), who helped launch the OVERVIEW helping corporations fight corruption at the World Corruption drains resources, erodes the integrity Academy in Bogota, notes, “Through the Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption of markets, increases the cost of capital, Academy, Deloitte is able to engage decision Initiative (PACI) Task Force meeting. October 2012, CLIENTS & INSIGHTS and reduces the benefits of globalization for makers and add our voice to the debate.” Geneva, Switzerland. industrialized and developing countries alike. TALENT & Further, it is immoral and just plain wrong. Engaging others LEFT OPP0RTUNITY The first Anti-Corruption Academy took place on We also are highly involved in a number of 7 March 2013 in Bogotá, Colombia. Approximately For these reasons, Deloitte supports other anti-corruption initiatives. These include ECONOMIES & 100 board directors and senior compliance officers compliance functions, internal controls, efforts driven by the Business 20 (B20)—the attended. The Academy is sponsored by the Global and robust training that help organizations COMMUNITIES Center for Corporate Governance and supported by business advisory group to the G20 leaders, the Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte U.S.) recognize and resist corruption, and confront it World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Economic integrity quickly when it is identified. We also promote Corruption Initiative (PACI) and its Global Environmental principles that raise business standards and Agenda Council, the Business and Industry sustainability contribute to a transparent and accountable Advisory Committee to the OECD, and the UN global market. We do this through the services Global Compact. In addition, we’re engaged in Preparing youth for member firms provide to clients worldwide and anti-corruption tool and guideline development tomorrow How is your organization by working alongside government, civil society, for companies, and pro bono support to Delivering social impact clients, and other businesses to collectively industry groups in this space. faring in the battle against influence public policy and develop solutions OPERATIONS & corruption? that help fight corruption on the ground in “We appreciate the global leadership and GOVERNANCE local markets. efforts of organizations, like Deloitte, that Find out and get ideas for continuous have made a strong commitment to ethics, improvement with the UN Global Compact’s Seeking solutions integrity, and transparency in business,” says Self Assessment Tool and Guide for AntiAs part of that effort, we recently created Elaine Dezenski, Senior Director and Head of Corruption Risk Assessment, developed by our own Anti-Corruption Academy within the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. the Global Compact Working Group on the the Deloitte Global Center for Corporate “Corruption is a global problem that may 10th Principle and the Anti-Corruption Risk Governance, with support from member firms’ never be eliminated. But, there are many Assessment Task Force, with lead coordination Financial Advisory practices. The Academy private/public partnerships that are making a by DTTL. works with member firm governance centers difference in creating a true level playing field.” 44 Committed to minimizing ecological impact ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY If the Deloitte network was a sovereign state, Deloitte Australia, along with their Deloitte its population would be larger than almost Digital team, developed an iPhone app that a quarter of the countries and dependent promotes car pooling and taxi sharing across territories on Earth. That many people are the firm for its people. GreenRide™ integrates bound to have a measurable influence on with the internal social media platform the environment. Deloitte’s goal is to lessen Yammer, and users can search for nearby that impact and promote environmental rides or create their own rides by selecting sustainability. the meeting point, mode of transport, and available seats. The app can even calculate the Member firms also work vigorously to advance approximate carbon emissions saved. this agenda with their clients. Deloitte member firms have more than 800 sustainability Deloitte Canada introduced secure printing and specialists helping clients transition to purchased new printers to minimize waste. To sustainable business models and practices date, the firm has reduced printing from 101 that will deliver topand bottom-line financial million imprints to 89 million. growth for the long term. Deloitte UK teamed up with the social enterprise Deloitte Chile’s new corporate office is being GiveMeTap to provide Deloitte UK offices with 5,000 HOME We walk the transparency talk with our built using LEED certification guidelines. It is the reusable water bottles to reduce the 200,000 plastic cups that were thrown away every week. Proceeds clients in capital markets by reporting on first building in Latin America to measure its OVERVIEW from the water bottles fund GiveMeTap’s sustainable climate change risks, opportunities, actions carbon footprint for the construction process water, sanitation, and irrigation projects across and performance in our response to the and the life cycle of the building materials. the globe. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS CDP’s (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Deloitte Denmark’s Energy Lean program 2013 Investor and Supplier climate change TALENT & promotes energy optimization, retrofitting FY2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS questionnaires. Deloitte’s environmental OPP0RTUNITY and renewable energy. It contributed to a 49 METRIC TONNES C02e BY CATEGORY (INCLUDING OFFSETS) impact mainly comes from business travel and FY2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS our office buildings. During FY2013 Deloitte percent reduction in the firm’s carbon footprint ECONOMIES & METRIC TONNES C02e BY CATEGORY (INCLUDING OFFSETS) and the service is being offered as Energy Lean increased by 50% the number of member COMMUNITIES to customers in the Public and Private sector. firms reporting greenhouse gas emissions using environmental management software; member 851,973 940,751 975,229 Economic integrity Deloitte Finland is reducing office space and firms using this cloud-based system now investing in more sustainable ways of working. Environmental represent over 55% of aggregate member firm Expected benefits include a 36 percent savings sustainability revenue. In FY2013 our network’s absolute 2% 2% 2% in annual real estate costs and a 40 percent Preparing youth for emissions increased, but our emissions per decrease in its carbon footprint. tomorrow full time equivalent has remained relatively constant over the past four years. Deloitte India and Deloitte U.S. India support Delivering social impact the annual Monsoon Regatta, held to raise OPERATIONS & 28% 25% 26% awareness of the need to clean and improve the quality of Husain Sagar Lake in Hyderabad. GOVERNANCE 70% 73% 72% Learn more about Deloitte LATCO (Ecuador) donates recyclable paper, cardboard, and plastic to an organization Deloitte Sustainability. called “Fundación Hermano Miguel” (Brother Miguel Foundation), which uses money received Many member firms also are actively pursuing from recycling the materials to support a sustainability initiatives, both inside and outside hospital and care center where 700 patients are 2011 2012 2013 treated monthly. their physical office spaces. Business travel Buildings Other 45 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT METRIC TONNES C0 GREENHOUSE GAS 2 e/FTE (EXCLUDING EMISSIONS PEROFFSETS) FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT  Deloitte UK teamed up with the social enterprise METRIC TONNES C02e/FTE (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) GiveMeTap to provide Deloitte UK offices with METRIC TONNES C02 e/FTE (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) 5,000 reusable water bottles to reduce the 200,000 plastic cups that were thrown away Deloitte was named a every week. Proceeds from the water bottles 5.0 5.0 4.9 fund GiveMeTap’s sustainable water, sanitation, and irrigation projects across the globe. global leader in Sustainable Technology Services, based on 4.8 4.9 In January 2013, DTTL and the U.S. firm’s capabilities, by Verdantix. 4.8 offices at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York was awarded the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Source: Green Quadrant® Sustainable Technology Services (Global), March 2013, Verdantix Ltd © 2007-2013. Reproduction Prohibited. Design (LEED) Certification at the Gold level for Commercial Interiors. “LEED certification FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 was a critical consideration when moving into Deloitte assisted the UN this new office space,” says Tracey Edwards, FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Deloitte Global Business Services Leader and Global Compact to prepare HOME Chief Knowledge Officer. “The design of our for its Rio+20 Corporate OVERVIEW newly renovated office space promotes many environmental benefits, such as energy and Sustainability Forum (CSF) CLIENTS & INSIGHTS GREENHOUSE GREENHOUSE GAS GAS EMISSIONS EMISSIONS PERPER DOLLAR DOLLAR OF REVENUE OF REVENUE carbon reductions.” by providing subjectMETRIC TONNES GREENHOUSE METRIC TONNES C0C0 GAS e/$000 EMISSIONS 2 e/$000 USDUSD (EXCLUDING (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) PER DOLLAR OFFSETS) OF REVENUE TALENT & 2 matter knowledge, session METRIC TONNES C02e/$000 USD (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) OPP0RTUNITY development, large-scale ECONOMIES & planning, and logistics COMMUNITIES support. Economic integrity Environmental sustainability 33.9 33.9 Deloitte U.S. was named a leader in Sustainability Consulting, based on Member firm sustainability practitioners collaborated with the Global Compact on an output document for the CSF intended as capabilities, by Verdantix. 30.2 30.2 Preparing youth for a blueprint to establish and scale up more tomorrow effective UN-private sector engagement. 30.2 30.2 Source: Green Quadrant® Sustainability Consulting The practitioners and Global Compact also Delivering social impact (US) 2013, May 2013, Verdantix Ltd© 2007-2013. Reproduction Prohibited. co-developed the Caring for Climate Progress OPERATIONS & Report 2012, which provides an overview of GOVERNANCE how Caring for Climate member companies have progressed against agreed upon FY2013 commitments to address climate change. FY2011 FY2012 The 2012 CSF convened more than 2,700 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 participants and offered 120-plus sessions designed to inform and stimulate commitment and joint action across government, civil society, academia, and the private sector. 46 Committed to helping young people reach their full potential PREPARING YOUTH FOR TOMORROW Deloitte aims to make a difference in the lives Last year, member firms directed more than of more than one million young people by US$91 million in pro bono services and 2015. Working alongside educators, nonprofit volunteer time to local programs. leaders, and governments, member firms are leading the development and delivery Responding to the challenge of solutions to local education and skills For the last two years, Deloitte has provided challenges. Deloitte-supported programs are additional support and investment to two helping to develop citizenship, employability, programs tackling pressing needs—youth professional, and entrepreneurial skills that will unemployment in the Middle East and access last a lifetime. to education for young women in India. Together, local Deloitte staff and organizations “We’re committed to making a positive designed and launched innovative new impact in education and skills because society programs. depends on the success of today’s young people. They must to be prepared to excel in Deloitte Middle East collaborated with INJAZ today’s knowledge-based economy,” says Barry al-Arab, a member of Junior Achievement Deloitte Middle East collaborated with INJAZ al-Arab, Worldwide, to design and launch Be a member of Junior Achievement Worldwide, Salzberg, DTTL Chief Executive Officer. “Our goal HOME to design and launch Be Entrepreneurial, an is to provide underserved young people with Entrepreneurial, an entrepreneurial skills entrepreneurial skills program. better opportunities so they can fulfill their hopes program. To date, more than 3,300 high OVERVIEW and potential. school and university students in six countries have participated. Deloitte Middle East CLIENTS & INSIGHTS “Education systems have to adapt to the professionals are bringing their real-world ongoing shift to a knowledge economy, which experiences to classrooms and serve as TALENT & has already contributed to widespread youth mentors. Next year, Deloitte Middle East and OPP0RTUNITY unemployment in many countries,” Salzberg INJAZ will launch a business plan competition continues. “Deloitte member firms have with an online app that enables cross-border, ECONOMIES & established close to 120 high-impact education pan-Arab cooperation and competition, as well COMMUNITIES and skills programs in local communities. as skills development. Economic integrity Watch this video about the They’re helping governments, nonprofits, and In India, DTTL and Deloitte U.S. have supported educators to give young people the skills they Environmental Be Entrepreneurial—INJAZ need to thrive for decades to come.” Pratham USA to open six Achievement Centers. sustainability More than 900 young women who had Al-Arab Program. Deloitte’s global impact Preparing youth for previously dropped out of school enrolled in tomorrow Our focus is on collaborating with high-impact the program. Their coursework prepared them programs and continually assessing the results for secondary school examinations, taught Delivering social impact we are helping those programs achieve. Last them vocational and employability skills, and year, Deloitte member firms contributed helped them gain personal confidence. The OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Be Entrepreneurial feedback: more than 350,000 aggregate hours of pro women also are imparting their knowledge to bono and volunteering to education and skills others, teaching courses to more than 4,000 “This program made me programs. primary students. realize that I want to become Deloitte professionals actively volunteer by In 2011, INJAZ al-Arab and Pratham USA a great businesswoman and delivering workshops and mentoring young were each recipients of DTTL grants that have enabled the activation of these programs, in make my business last by people to achieve their education, career, and life goals. We also serve as catalysts, convening addition to the support provided by the U.S. following the steps I learned.” with others to address challenges and envision and Middle East member firms. solutions. Jihane Chaalan 47 Impact across other member firms Deloitte Chile—Preparing My Future Deloitte Australia—High Resolves Deloitte professionals in Chile deliver a skills The High Resolves Global Citizenship and management program for disadvantaged Leadership Programs provide a three-year young people in technical schools. Through curriculum for more than 32,000 students participation in mentoring sessions and in secondary school in Australia. Through workshops, students are encouraged to interactive workshops and mentoring, which accomplish their work aspirations. More than Deloitte Australia professionals volunteer to 50 percent of the students completing the support, students develop the mindsets, skills, program were offered opportunities to join and confidence needed to become purposeful Deloitte Chile. The majority of them will also global citizens. pursue university studies. Deloitte Brazil—Projeto Comunidade Deloitte China—A Village Adoption Project in Yunnan Deloitte Brazil has helped more than 200 young people in disadvantaged neighborhoods Deloitte China is advancing the development of in Sao Paulo develop and strengthen their education, healthcare, and sustainable economic HOME employability skills. Deloitte Brazil professionals systems in its two adopted villages in Yunnan. serve as mentors to program participants, help Its pioneering private-public collaboration has OVERVIEW them prepare their résumés, and guide them in reached more than 340 families since 2007, job interview skills. engaging 100-plus Deloitte China professionals CLIENTS & INSIGHTS and 120 students from the Lingnan University. Deloitte Canada—The Learning Partnership (TLP) Last year, volunteers helped develop the firstTALENT & ever library facilities and reading program, and Deloitte Canada and TLP have collaborated OPP0RTUNITY provided scholarships to four students who for 16 years to support public education in Canada. Deloitte Canada played a major role are the first from their community to pursue ECONOMIES & In India, DTTL and Deloitte U.S. have supported university studies. in TLP’s Education Summit, which gathered COMMUNITIES Pratham USA to open six Achievement Centers. senior leaders from business, education, and Economic integrity government to generate innovative ideas and Environmental recommendations on how to strengthen the sustainability public education system and prepare students Preparing youth for for the global economy. Watch to learn more about tomorrow Deloitte Caribbean and Bermuda (Cayman how Deloitte China and Islands)—Deloitte Employability Initiative Delivering social impact 73 million young people worldwide are looking for work Lingnan University have Since September 2012, more than 250 students and young people are three times more likely to be teamed up to pilot and OPERATIONS & have participated in the Deloitte Employability GOVERNANCE unemployed than adults. The economic and social costs of Initiative at the Cayman Islands Further develop a model for the unemployment, discouragement, and low-quality jobs for Education Center. Initially launched by Deloitte sustainable development of UK, the program enables secondary and college young people continue to rise and undermine economies’ students to develop the personal skills, attitudes, a rural community in China growth potential. and behaviors to succeed in the workplace. through academic research, corporate social responsibility, Source: International Labour Organization, Global Employment Trends for Youth 2013: A generation at risk, 2013. and voluntary services. 48 HOURS HOURSOFOFVOLUNTEER VOLUNTEER AND PRO AND BONO PRO BONO WORK WORK BYBYDELOITTE DELOITTE PEOPLE PEOPLE  Deloitte LATCO (Ecuador)—Quick Skills Deloitte LATCO (Peru)—La Compañia CONTRIBUTIONS TO NON-PROFIT AND NON GOVERNMENTAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO NON-PROFIT AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS ORGANIZATIONS Deloitte Ecuador, along with Universidad San Deloitte professionals in Peru volunteer with La Francisco de Quito, launched an innovative, Compania, a program of Junior Achievement. online training initiative. Courses, led by The program reaches more than 3,000 young TOTAL 873,000 hrs/$91.1M (US$) senior Deloitte professionals in Ecuador, focus on technical subjects including tax advisory, corporate responsibility, and financial advisory. people every year. By participating in workshops that foster citizenship and entrepreneurial skills, high school students are better prepared to Of which 350,000 hours were contributed to education and skills programs. Also, Deloitte Ecuador’s “University Education establish and run their own businesses. Program” has provided leadership awards Deloitte Southern Africa—TEACH South Africa to more than 60 high school and university 24% ($43.5M) students and helped more than 5,000 students prepare for work since it was launched in 2005. Each year, more than 50 TEACH South Africa ambassadors are recruited to instill leadership, pro bono work 41% ($27.5M) Deloitte France—Winning Twinning communication and entrepreneurial skills in under-resourced schools. Deloitte Southern traditional volunteering Since 2010, this program has reached more Africa professionals developed the strategy for than 1,500 secondary school students in the program, supported its implementation, HOME suburbs around Paris. It currently provides serve on the board, support fund-raising, about 200 students with mentors from and mentor program participants. TEACH has OVERVIEW Deloitte France and supports them to develop engaged more than 50,000 young people in its employability and entrepreneurial skills. The programs the past five years. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS program, supported by 250 Deloitte France Deloitte Spain—Empieza por Educar volunteers, is a pioneering exchange between TALENT & public secondary schools and the private Deloitte Spain has been supporting Empieza OPP0RTUNITY sector. The program has been scaled to six por Educar, an affiliate of Teach for All, since ECONOMIES & 35% ($20.1M) schools across France. its launch in 2012. Deloitte Spain provides advisory support on human resources COMMUNITIES skills-based volunteering Deloitte Germany—Horizontec matters and helps nurture the organization’s Economic integrity Horizontec brings in an innovative approach relationships with universities so it can recruit to education in six Bavarian secondary schools. talented students to become teachers in highEnvironmental Launched in 2012, the German Deloitte need schools. sustainability Foundation contributes its skills and expertise Preparing youth for to strengthening the impact of this project. To tomorrow date, it has reached more than 400 students, Delivering social impact supporting them to develop science and technology skills. OPERATIONS & Deloitte Netherlands—IMC Weekend School GOVERNANCE Each year, 900 children from some of the Netherland’s most disadvantaged neighborhoods attend the IMC Weekend School, supported by Deloitte Netherland’s “Fair Chance Foundation.” This 2.5-year curriculum focuses on broadening 10to 14-year-olds’ perspectives, increasing their self-confidence, and helping them establish stronger connections with the rest of Dutch society. 49 Committed to driving humanitarian, ecological, economic progress DELIVERING SOCIAL IMPACT At Deloitte, we work every day to help build a Galvanizing collective action prosperous society. Enhancing lives and driving Before organizations can act or even develop social progress is more than an aspiration, strategies to drive societal progress, it’s critical it’s an intention that’s hardwired into our that they understand the areas that are organizational mindset. advancing or slowing progress in a country. To “We believe business plays a fundamental help uncover these factors, we entered into an role in shaping and creating the society of exclusive agreement with the Social Progress the future,” says Heather Hancock, Managing Imperative (SPI). It has established an index, Partner, Client Experience, Deloitte UK. designed by an advisory board led by Harvard “Using our advisory capabilities, we work with Business School Professor Michael Porter, to organizations to help solve the big issues we measure societal progress. As a nonprofit face today—globally, regionally, and locally.” organization, SPI is striving to help decision makers in government, civil society, and the We focus our efforts where our skills can private sector to collaborate more effectively make the greatest impact, aligning ourselves to solve pressing social and environmental The United Nations Office for the Coordination with organizations that share our goal of challenges. of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and Deloitte HOME changing the way social impact is measured Leadership Summit for Humanitarian Coordinators, By leveraging our global presence and our a collaboration between OCHA, Deloitte Touche and delivered. people’s skills, and tapping into experts and OVERVIEW Tohmatsu (DTTL), and Deloitte LLP (Deloitte U.S.). Strengthening crisis leadership leaders in business, Deloitte will convene and CLIENTS & INSIGHTS One such organization is the United Nations create networks of influencers to collectively Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian design and deliver innovative solutions to TALENT & Affairs (UN OCHA). OCHA identified support SPI’s mission. OPP0RTUNITY leadership—particularly crisis leadership— “We believe the Social Progress Index will as the area where the Deloitte network provide a framework that will aid a different ECONOMIES & could have the greatest positive impact on conversation, making it easier for business COMMUNITIES the humanitarian sector. With OCHA, we to understand where and how it can more co-created an innovative leadership summit Economic integrity actively get involved,” says Hancock. “This will for the UN’s most senior leaders responsible Environmental help to prioritize social investment decisions, for coordinating life-saving assistance during sustainability galvanize collective action, and ideally, unlock humanitarian responses. future growth and competitiveness.” Preparing youth for Deloitte is prepared to act. The UN OCHA and Deloitte Leadership tomorrow Innovating across sectors Learn more at Deloitte.com/ Summit for Humanitarian Coordinators was Launched in June 2013, the Deloitte Delivering social impact held in October 2012 at Deloitte University humanitarian. in Westlake, Texas. A one-day follow-up Humanitarian Innovation Program aims to enhance the humanitarian system’s OPERATIONS & session was then held at the Humanitarian Coordinators annual retreat in Switzerland in preparedness to respond to crises by using GOVERNANCE May 2013. the core business skills of our people. Through the Program, DTTL and select member firms “By joining forces with DTTL and Deloitte U.S. will deliver two global, pro bono projects Watch to learn more about and building on our organizations’ respective for humanitarian organizations. It marks the positive impact of the UN skills and scale, we can strengthen the a new approach in how Deloitte supports humanitarian sector’s ability to prepare for and OCHA and Deloitte Leadership humanitarian crises and natural disasters. We respond to crises,” says Valerie Amos, Underwill collaborate with the sector to co-create Summit for Humanitarian Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and innovative solutions to help them better Coordinators. Emergency Relief Coordinator. prepare for crises. 50 Another groundbreaking initiative, Social Responding in times of need Innovation Pioneers, was developed by Deloitte Year after year, Deloitte professionals and When it comes to societal problem solving, Deloitte and its UK to help social businesses grow to scale and their member firms contribute generously to member firm clients are no longer constrained by traditional become investment-ready. An independent disaster-relief efforts in their local communities. evaluation of the program’s first year showed sector boundaries. Sustainable solutions that deliver intended Pioneer businesses averaged 45 percent “These crises impact Deloitte professionals, public outcomes are only possible when an entire ecosystem revenue growth, and 85 percent of those clients, their communities, customers, and businesses increased employment, creating supply chains,” says David Pearson, Deloitte of problem solvers—including business, government, social more than 120 new jobs. The program also Global Chief Sustainability Officer. “With the enterprises, and even citizens—work together to erase the brought together 1,000-plus Deloitte UK scale and frequency of disasters increasing— boundaries of public and private interest. professionals who contributed more than and humanitarian organizations being 4,000 skills-based volunteer hours to deliver stretched to do more with fewer resources— Paul Macmillan, Deloitte Global Public Sector Leader and co-author with William D. Eggers, Deloitte U.S. 32 pro bono projects. the need to be prepared and then respond Public Sector Research Leader, of The Solution Revolution: How Business, Government and Social Enterprise during emergencies has never been greater.” are Teaming up to Solve Society’s Toughest Problems Delivering our skills and knowledge Recent examples of our efforts include: In 2013, New Profit Inc., and Deloitte U.S. announced a multimillion dollar collaboration • Two years after the Japanese earthquake HOME to help scale social innovations that are and tsunami, many businesses are still dramatically improving opportunities for struggling to restore operations in stricken OVERVIEW children, families, and communities. This areas. Deloitte Japan provided US$2.5 initiative will support novel solutions in areas million this past fiscal year in pro bono CLIENTS & INSIGHTS such as education, workforce development, consulting and advisory services to help TALENT & public health, community development, and companies restore business and livelihoods OPP0RTUNITY poverty alleviation. to these communities. The firm also launched a five-year scholarship fund in “Deloitte is one of the most philanthropically ECONOMIES & January 2012 for children who became minded businesses in the world, and we are COMMUNITIES orphans as a result of the disaster. Fiveso proud to be working with them,” says Tripp hundred fifty local Deloitte partners and staff Economic integrity Jones, managing director, New Profit. “By contribute a monthly donation to the fund leveraging the best of what both organizations Environmental from their salaries. sustainability Watch Social Innovation have to offer, our collaboration will significantly Preparing youth for Pioneers tell their impact enhance our ability to drive innovation, • In April 2013, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake outcomes, and scale in the social sector.” struck the Chinese province of Sichuan. tomorrow stories. Deloitte China made an immediate The U.S. firm is also leading an effort to Delivering social impact contribution to Amity Foundation for the mobilize billions of dollars of skills-based purchase and delivery of much-needed rain volunteer services to help nonprofits across OPERATIONS & covers to 885 households. Deloitte China America. As founding sponsor of A Billion staff added personal donations which have GOVERNANCE Watch how Deloitte + Change, Deloitte U.S.’s leadership has been put into an earthquake-relief fund Changemakers—Sai Prasad resulted in more than 500 companies to date to support the longer-term rebuilding and committing to provide nonprofits more than Vishwanathan (Deloitte U.S. US$2 billion worth of skills-based services. rehabilitation of the affected area. India) and Pete Williams Deloitte U.S.’s pro bono commitments, including support of such initiatives as Share (Deloitte Australia)—are our Strength, City Year, and College Summit, making an impact in their are a leading example of how private sector can support nonprofits. local communities. 51 operations & governance Trust—fostered through quality, integrity, and consistency in every interaction—is at the heart of how we work. Here are some examples of how Deloitte works diligently to earn the trust and confidence of firm clients, our people, regulators and HOME policymakers, and the investing public. OVERVIEW CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Organizational structure Leadership and governance Influencing public policy Risk management Ethics Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 52 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE The Deloitte network is made up of firms that Global cooperation are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Deloitte member firms support and adhere to Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited the purposes and policies of DTTL by: by guarantee. This structure allows the member firm network to be a leader at all levels— • Conducting themselves in a manner that locally, nationally, and globally—because its sustains the reputation of the Deloitte central governance policies are sensitive to member firm network; the professional environments and cultures of individual countries. Individual member • Aligning national plans, strategies, firms have access to the skills and knowledge and operations with those of DTTL, as of other member firms, the ability to consult appropriate, in consultation with DTTL’s with the entire Deloitte network, and the executive management; benefit of the network’s market recognition • Adhering to DTTL’s requirements regarding and reputation. DTTL itself does not provide professional standards, shared values, services to clients. methodologies, governance, and systems of Member firm structure quality control and risk; and HOME The partners of Deloitte member firms are • Advising DTTL of all proposed joint generally the sole owners of their respective ventures, joint practices, mergers, and other OVERVIEW member firms. Their member firms are cooperation arrangements and combinations organized on an individual country or regional of any type with other member firms, as well CLIENTS & INSIGHTS basis, and each operates within the legal as practice activity in jurisdictions other than TALENT & and regulatory framework of its particular those assigned to the member firm. OPP0RTUNITY jurisdiction. They are separate and independent firms that are owned and managed locally. ECONOMIES & These firms have come together to practice COMMUNITIES under a common brand, methodologies, client service standards, and other professional OPERATIONS & standards and guidelines. GOVERNANCE The member firm structure fosters compliance Organizational structure with rules of local ownership and management Leadership and governance governing the accountancy profession in many countries. It also reflects the fact that Influencing public policy the member firms are not subsidiaries or Risk management branch offices of a global parent. Rather, Ethics they are separate and distinct locally formed legal entities that have voluntarily joined the Independence network to coordinate their approach to client Data privacy and security service. Metrics This structure confers significant strengths: a Reporting process deep understanding of local markets and a sense of responsibility among member firms professionals, who have a direct stake in the integrity and growth of their local practices. 53 Committed to fostering trust through diligence LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE Strong governance and leadership structures The DTTL Board help Deloitte member firms maintain high The Board of Directors is DTTL’s highest levels of quality and integrity, allowing them to governing body. The Board addresses DTTL’s sustain the trust of their clients, their people, most important governance issues, such as the capital markets, and the public. global strategies, major transactions, and the election of the CEO. During FY2013, the Board’s 32 members represented 15 member As a global network firms covering more than 50 countries. comprising Deloitte Touche Among the Board’s committees is a standing Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), Governance Committee, which exercises oversight of DTTL’s management. its member firms, and their Steve Almond is the current Chairman of the affiliates in more than DTTL Board. Like Salzberg, he began his four150 countries and locations, year term of office on 1 June 2011. DTTL Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg presenting to the partners, directors, and managers Deloitte has governance and Board members are appointed by individual HOME of Deloitte Spain. management structures in member firms that are themselves selected based on size, the number of significant clients OVERVIEW place at both the global and they serve, and other factors. The Board also member firm levels. includes three regional seats, ensuring smaller CLIENTS & INSIGHTS member firms are represented. Members of the The DTTL Executive DTTL Board are senior member firm partners or TALENT & principals and are usually on the executives or OPP0RTUNITY The 20-member Executive comprises DTTL’s boards of their member firms. most senior leaders. It is responsible for ECONOMIES & establishing DTTL’s vision and strategy. Its Determinations regarding the allocation of COMMUNITIES members, who include senior DTTL and DTTL Board seats are made by the Board member firm leaders from various regions Composition Committee every four years OPERATIONS & around the world, were appointed during with an interim review after two years. Board GOVERNANCE FY2013. The group works in a collegial style composition is multicultural with proportionate Organizational structure and reaches decisions through consensus. representation of member firms. Leadership and governance DTTL Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg In FY2013 there were three women board Influencing public policy leads and manages the DTTL Executive. He members. Gender is considered by member sets the strategic course of DTTL and has firms as they elect individuals to these Risk management executive authority for the management of positions. There is an increased female Ethics Gender diversity may be a DTTL. Salzberg began his four-year term of presence in the boardroom in FY2014 with Independence common issue around the office at the start of DTTL’s 2012 fiscal year on four women board members. Moreover, 1 June 2011. His appointment was ratified by the CEOs of the Canada, France, UK, and Data privacy and security world, but the challenges the partners of DTTL’s member firms. Salzberg U.S. member firms, who hold board seats, Metrics differ from country to country. chooses the members of the Executive subject have exercised their rights, under DTTL’s to approval by the Governance Committee of constitutional documents, to designate Reporting process Read about the challenges the DTTL Board of Directors. alternates, all of whom in FY2014 are women. in Japan of bringing women perspectives into the boardroom. 54 Members of the Governance Committee are Member firm leadership drawn from the 12 member firms that are To foster effective and responsive management considered to have the greatest impact on within member firms, DTTL has adopted the network based on a number of metrics standards describing specific leadership and including, but not restricted to, revenue. The governance structures to be implemented by Committee engages in open discussions of member firms, including: issues and matters within its purview and makes recommendations to the Board of • A formal management structure, including Directors. Each committee member has one an elected chief executive officer or vote on matters considered by the committee, managing partner who is responsible for except for the CEO, who is ex-officio. To managing the member firm and working avoid conflicts of interest, no member of the with the member firm’s leaders to align its Governance Committee may also serve on the functional and client strategies with DTTL; Executive, except for the CEO. • A governing body, such as a board of The Board’s other sub-committees are directors, to facilitate sound governance of responsible for considering and recommending the individual practice, including, among HOME action on a wide range of issues falling within other things, the establishment of a formal their remit. They include Board Composition, nominating committee process to select the OVERVIEW Succession, Risk, Audit & Finance, Membership chief executive officer or managing partner Affairs, and Chairman and CEO Evaluation and of the member firm; and CLIENTS & INSIGHTS CEO Compensation. • A representative, typically the chief executive TALENT & officer or managing partner to represent the OPP0RTUNITY The Board performs an annual member firm at the DTTL World Meeting. The World Meeting is held annually to ECONOMIES & self-assessment to gather discuss strategy and initiatives proposed by COMMUNITIES feedback on its collective DTTL management. Representatives vote on OPERATIONS & performance from individual specific DTTL matters, such as approval of Board members, financial statements, voting GOVERNANCE Board members and to entitlements of the member firms, and Organizational structure identify potential areas for changes in the governing documents. Leadership and governance operational improvements. Influencing public policy Risk management As its name suggests, the Chairman and CEO Evaluation and CEO Compensation Committee Ethics objectively evaluates the goals and objectives Independence of the CEO and Chairman, performs half year Data privacy and security and full year evaluations of their performance, and recommends appropriate compensation for Metrics the CEO. Reporting process 55 Committed to promoting confidence and economic growth INFLUENCING PUBLIC POLICY Deloitte is committed to the public interest Coordinated initiatives and is an active participant in the dynamic Through the combined efforts of professionals regulatory and public-policy arenas around across Deloitte, the Global Regulatory and the world. Member firms contribute to Public Policy Group continues to strengthen policy development that promotes investor engagements with external policy makers, confidence, a level playing field, and economic including the G20/B20 and the Asia-Pacific growth, which has a positive effect on society. Economic Cooperation (APEC), that share We focus particularly on areas where our concerns on issues impacting sustainable Deloitte has considerable expertise, including economic growth and development. audit quality, taxation, financial markets We also worked during FY2013 to collaborate infrastructure, women in the economy, and with key policy-influencer groups—such as the anti-corruption, among others. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Deloitte remains committed to collaborating Development (OECD) through its Business and with stakeholders, including member firm Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC), the World TOP regulators and other government groups, to Economic Forum, and the German Marshall Deloitte joins other businesses at the annual OECD improve audit quality and strengthen auditor Fund of the United States—in an effort to HOME Business meeting, March 2013. contribute positively to policy development that independence. Much of this effort is focused on the future role of auditors and developing fosters long-term growth. OVERVIEW LEFT Deloitte Global Corporate Governance and Public audit reports that provide information that Member firm participation Policy Leader Dan Konigsburg (Chair, Corporate CLIENTS & INSIGHTS investors need and want. To this end, Deloitte Public-policy development varies by geography Governance Committee) joins BIAC team members (left to right) Jennifer Son, Hanni Rosenbaum and continues to be engaged in various financial and so, too, does the level of Deloitte member TALENT & Courtney Haseley. market standard-setting and public-policy firm engagement. In FY2013, member firms OPP0RTUNITY forums where we collaborate with government built deeper and stronger local engagement and business stakeholders, sharing our insights ECONOMIES & programs in order to provide more valuable and professional experiences. contributions to myriad socio-economic policy COMMUNITIES “Deloitte is committed to helping shape the challenges. Issues member firms focused on OPERATIONS & development of strong and functioning capital this year included skills and mobility, education, GOVERNANCE markets; this means improving audit quality productivity, technology and connectivity, and and strengthening reporting,” says Jeff Potts, unemployment. Organizational structure Deloitte Global Regulatory & Public Policy Leadership and governance To support public-policy development within Leader. “It also means sharing the insights the member firms, DTTL has developed a Influencing public policy and experiences of our 200,000-plus member stronger collaboration infrastructure that firm professionals, whose experiences provide Risk management includes a community of practice for publicvaluable insights into a broader public-policy Ethics In FY2013, Deloitte development agenda.” policy leads, a dedicated intranet, and tools that can be adapted across member firms. Independence supported the development Deloitte utilizes cross-border working groups Data privacy and security of accounting education on key policy issues, including women in the economy (e.g., women on boards), taxation, Metrics and corporate governance bank audits, and anticorruption. Through Reporting process practices though initiatives these and similar combined activities, Deloitte such as the Deloitte IAAER member firms are delivering on their publicinterest commitment to the marketplace and to scholarship and ICGN Deloitte society at large. scholarship programs. 56 Committed to maintaining a standard of excellence RISK MANAGEMENT Risk is everywhere and touches every person Consistent, rigorous processes in the Deloitte network. Literally thousands of The DTTL Policies Manual (DPM) comprises national and international regulations must be a set of global policies that provide the basis followed to the letter. Client information must for functions (Audit, Tax, Financial Advisory, be protected. Conflicts of interest must be Consulting) and member firms to establish avoided. Any misstep could lead to sanctions, consistent and rigorous quality and risk lost client trust, and a damaged reputation. management processes and procedures. We work extremely hard to avoid mistakes and The DPM is designed to help member firms maintain our high standards. Deloitte Touche address unique considerations associated Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) and the member firms with the delivery of high-quality services while use a multitude of controls and procedures challenging member firm professionals to encompassing professional, regulatory, do the right thing under any circumstance, business, economic, social, and environmental even if that means declining a prospective conditions to reduce risk exposure and ensure client or engagement or terminating a client we are serving the public interest. relationship. Group workshop during the Global New Partners seminar at Deloitte University. During FY2013, we took a number of actions The policies of the DPM require all member HOME firms to assign a “reputation and risk leader” to sustain our commitment to quality and risk management. They include: who leads his or her member firm’s risk OVERVIEW program, with support from risk leaders in CLIENTS & INSIGHTS • Enabling local enterprise risk management each of the member firm’s functions. These assessments by the member firms to senior member firm leaders are responsible TALENT & supplement and inform those at the for developing and implementing policies OPP0RTUNITY global level. This encourages moreand procedures that address specific quality thorough evaluations and creates greater control considerations for their functions and ECONOMIES & accountability within the member firms; for the member firm overall, monitoring and COMMUNITIES determining compliance with these policies and Leading analyst firm Gartner • Implementing new policies to enhance procedures, and facilitating risk management OPERATIONS & security and confidentiality processes and learning. GOVERNANCE once again rated Deloitte a prevent data breaches; Organizational structure “strong positive”—the highest • Increasing our focus on quality and risk in Certain DPM policies specify processes to help ensure that member firms evaluate the Leadership and governance possible rating given—for emerging markets, which present special acceptability of every client and engagement Influencing public policy global risk management risk-management challenges; and and the related engagement risk. These processes include identifying and addressing Risk management consulting services. • Growing cooperation among DTTL Risk, matters related to independence and potential functional risk leaders in the member firms, Ethics and subject-matter experts throughout conflicts of interest and classifying the risk Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and DTTL—in ethics, independence, security, associated with the engagement. DPM policies Independence does not advise technology users to select only privacy, regulatory, and other areas—to can be supplemented by member firm policies Data privacy and security those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner that take into consideration local market research publications consist of the opinions of enhance practice reviews, increase their Metrics consistency, and monitor higher-risk practices, local laws, and regulations within Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all activities. their jurisdictions. Reporting process warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Source: Gartner, MarketScope for Global Risk Management Consulting Services, August 20, 2013. 57 Practice reviews Each member firm is responsible for conducting practice reviews under the guidance and oversight of DTTL. Held at least once every three years, these reviews consider whether member firms’ own policies and processes comply, at a minimum, with DPM policies and are operating effectively in practice. The practice review process also assesses the quality of work performed and services delivered by the member firm. Findings and recommendations from a member firm’s practice review are presented in a report and management letter to the member firm’s leadership. In response to the report, the member firm establishes a detailed action plan HOME to address findings and recommendations together with a mechanism for monitoring the OVERVIEW resolution of the findings. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Enterprise risk framework The ongoing success of DTTL and the member TALENT & firms depends, in part, on maintaining a OPP0RTUNITY current understanding of how changes to ECONOMIES & internal and external conditions may impact the services member firms provide and how COMMUNITIES they make strategic and operational decisions. OPERATIONS & DTTL’s enterprise risk framework is a core GOVERNANCE process that allows DTTL to monitor business, economic, social, and environmental risks Organizational structure and provides leadership with the information Leadership and governance and insights needed to effectively manage Influencing public policy and mitigate such exposures. The risks encompassed by the enterprise risk framework Risk management are reviewed semiannually. Risk intelligence Ethics is a key success factor for organizations. Independence Deloitte member firms offer enterprise risk management services to clients. Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 58 Committed to leading by example ETHICS “Think what would happen to an economy if Building “ethical muscle” no one trusted anyone else. Commerce would At Deloitte, “we work hard to build ethical come to a halt.” muscle in our people. That is the ability to A principled culture begins at the top. During recognize ethical issues when they arise, his 2012 speech at the Notre Dame Deloitte handle difficult situations with sensitivity and Center for Ethical Leadership, DTTL Chief judgment, and raise our voices when things Executive Officer Barry Salzberg addressed the just don’t feel right,” Salzberg explained to the importance of ethical leadership and integrity Notre Dame audience. “We build this muscle in business. “The diminished trust in business through dialogue and practice, using cases and throughout the world is a very worrying simulations to work through dilemmas and development, since trust between consumers learn the power of consultation with others.” and business is one of the cornerstones of a For example, Deloitte has embedded ethical healthy, vibrant economy,” he said. issues and dilemmas into the business Salzberg was at Notre Dame for the dedication simulation experienced by all incoming member DTTL Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg giving a ceremony of the facility that will house the firm partners at the Global New Partner speech at Notre Dame University during the launch Center, which emphasizes individual character Seminar, an annual three-day leadership HOME of the Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. Photo conference for this group of new leaders. credit: Matt Chashore, Notre Dame photographer. and values to advance ethical leadership in business. Deloitte U.S. joined with Notre DTTL Ethics aims to work with learning teams OVERVIEW Dame’s Mendoza College of Business to launch throughout Deloitte to incorporate similar CLIENTS & INSIGHTS the Center, just one member firm example of exercises into new-hire orientation, manager external programs created to promote moral training, and other programs during FY2014. TALENT & business behavior. Our “Ethics in Action” e-learning course OPP0RTUNITY focuses on ethical sensitivity, judgment, and decision-making skills. The course has ECONOMIES & been customized by 29 member firms and COMMUNITIES completed by more than 30,000 professionals Watch DTTL Chief Executive since its launch in 2012. OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Officer Barry Salzberg’s speech Measuring impact Organizational structure at Notre Dame. In FY2013, more than a third of our member Leadership and governance firms were visited by the DTTL Ethics team Internally, DTTL’s Ethics team and the and other ethics leaders from the member firm Influencing public policy member firm ethics officers are responsible network, as part of the ethics practice review Risk management for designing and implementing programs program, to measure compliance with global to promote and sustain ethical conduct by policy and support continuous improvement in Ethics Deloitte professionals. During FY2013, “We ethics program management. This exceeded our Independence made it a priority to integrate ethics messages goal of visiting 25 percent of all member firms. Data privacy and security into new and existing processes throughout the organization, with a particular emphasis In addition, the annual member firm ethics Metrics on leadership and learning,” says Chuck survey, which measures awareness and Reporting process Horstmann, Deloitte Global Chief Ethics Officer. effectiveness of member firm ethics programs, “Engagements like the Notre Dame event not reached out to nearly 150,000 Deloitte only are useful in spreading our core messages, professionals in 37 member firms. Results but they also demonstrate Barry’s passion for showed higher awareness of our ethics ethical behavior. He sets the tone from the top.” program and a greater belief that we have a strong ethical culture. 59 Jennifer Quartana Guethoff, • A global ethics policy that sets out the • Conference Board. Deloitte Global Deputy Deloitte Global Deputy Chief requirements for member firms’ own ethics Chief Ethics Officer serves as a member of Ethics Officer, leads a World Economic Forum Partnering Against programs; the Executive Committee for the Conference Corruption Initiative (PACI) working Board’s Global Council on Business Conduct. • A global anti-corruption policy that group to develop good practice guidelines for conducting thirdaddresses matters such as bribery, • B20 Business Summit. Deloitte is a party due diligence. October 2012, facilitation payments, political and charitable member of the B20 working group on antiGeneva, Switzerland. contributions, and gifts and entertainment; corruption and transparency. Chairman of the DTTL Board Steve Almond, with support • Ethics training programs, including an from Deloitte CIS, participated in the 2013 introductory online course, classroom Summit in Russia. programs, facilitator-led interactive case discussions and online training course; Ethical Principles of the member firms • Support activities, including communications, of DTTL workshops, and webinars to facilitate best All of the Deloitte member firms have adopted practice sharing among member firms; the following Ethical Principles, which provide • Provision of a survey and self-assessment the foundation for their ethics programs: HOME questionnaire to allow member firms to measure their program’s effectiveness; and • Honesty and integrity. We act with honesty OVERVIEW and integrity. • A practice review program to measure CLIENTS & INSIGHTS The DTTL Ethics team worked with member tone at the top is essential to creating a • Professional behavior. We operate within compliance with global ethics policies and firms in FY2013 to redesign and refresh the culture of integrity throughout the Deloitte encourage collaborative discussions and the letter and the spirit of applicable laws. TALENT & survey, which had featured the same format organization and has been demonstrated and continuous improvement over time. OPP0RTUNITY • Competence. We bring appropriate skills since 2009. The new survey, launched in June reinforced by the messages delivered (both and capabilities to every client assignment. 2013, will create greater understanding of internally and externally) by Salzberg. ECONOMIES & In addition, DTTL plays a role in various emerging ethical risks in our member firms and • Objectivity. We are objective in forming our COMMUNITIES The DTTL Ethics team and the member firm multilateral efforts to promote ethical conduct across the Deloitte network. professional opinions and the advice we give. ethics officers work closely with senior Deloitte in the business world. The efforts in which OPERATIONS & DTTL participates include: Confidentiality. We respect the DTTL Ethics continues to seek opportunities leaders to carry out the organization’s ethics • GOVERNANCE to raise awareness of ethical conduct and programs. These programs are designed confidentiality of information. Organizational structure business practices, as well as available to help member firm people understand • World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). • Fair business practices. We are committed Leadership and governance resources. To that end, the team is working on expectations for ethical behavior, develop Deloitte Global Deputy Chief Ethics Officer to fair business practices. risk-assessment tools and guidance to support skills for ethical decision-making, and gain Influencing public policy the implementation of global and member firm the confidence to speak up about challenging led a PACI working group to develop good • Responsibility to society. We recognize and Risk management anti-corruption programs. ethical situations. practice guidelines for companies to conduct respect the impact we have on the world third-party due diligence. DTTL Ethics has around us. Ethics More about ethics at Deloitte DTTL has a requirement, established in 2012, also been invited by PACI to participate in a Independence Deloitte member firms strive to uphold that all member firm people annually confirm senior-level working group to redefine the • Respect and fair treatment. We treat all the trust placed in them by clients and the their compliance with member firm antiPACI Principles for fighting corruption. our colleagues with respect, courtesy, and Data privacy and security corruption policies. fairness. capital markets and to build a similar sense of Metrics • UN Global Compact. Deloitte U.S. partners trust among their professionals. One of the Accountability and decision-making. We DTTL’s formal ethics program comprises the led the Compact’s Sub-Working Group on • Reporting process most important responsibilities of DTTL and lead by example, using our Shared values as following elements: Anti-Corruption Risk Assessment and played member firm senior leaders is to emphasize our foundation: integrity, outstanding value an instrumental role in creating a new risk our commitment to ethical behavior and to markets and clients, commitment to each • The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared assessment guideline. reinforce the responsibility of everyone in the other; and strength from cultural diversity. Values of the Deloitte member firms; organization to act with integrity. Setting this 60 Committed to ensuring impartiality INDEPENDENCE Independence and quality are the foundations Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by upon which Deloitte is built. They are essential the International Ethics Standards Board for to our integrity, our impartiality, our obligation Accountants. When the national professional to serve the investing public, and our member requirements that apply are more restrictive firms’ ability to retain and attract clients. than the requirements in the DTTL policies, member firms must follow those requirements, as well. Standards for independence are shaped by legislation, Maintaining internal compliance Deloitte member firms frequently serve regulations, professional the same clients in multiple jurisdictions. guidance, and public Each member firm considering whether to expectations. Maintaining accept a new audit client must consider the independence of other member firms. For independence, therefore, is existing audit clients, a member firm must both a matter of compliance evaluate the independence implications of other member firms’ relationships with that HOME with rules and regulations and client, including the provision of non-audit a matter of appearance. services. OVERVIEW Each member firm has a partner assigned CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Protecting the public interest with responsibility for the independence Deloitte member firms comply with wellquality controls in the member firm, including TALENT & established policies and implement appropriate monitoring compliance with those controls. OPP0RTUNITY procedures to help safeguard their objectivity On an annual basis, all member firms report to and independence. These policies and DTTL that they have conducted procedures for ECONOMIES & procedures help ensure member firms act determining that each firm and its professionals COMMUNITIES in the interests of both the public and their are in compliance with DTTL’s independence clients, as well as protect Deloitte’s brand and policies. These procedures require all member OPERATIONS & reputation. firm personnel to confirm that they have GOVERNANCE The DTTL Board of Directors has adopted complied with DTTL’s independence policies Organizational structure during the year. robust independence policies and processes Leadership and governance to help DTTL and its member firms, and their The independence specialists of DTTL assist Influencing public policy people, safeguard their objectivity. DTTL member firms in creating, implementing, and requires all of its member firms to follow monitoring quality controls over independence. Risk management DTTL’s independence policies and procedures, They provide member firms with information Ethics which address potential conflicts, within and guidance on independence issues Independence or among member firms, arising from the and management approaches, including proposed acceptance of client engagements or frameworks and sample materials for Data privacy and security proposed business or financial relationships. inspection and testing programs. Metrics DTTL’s independence policies and procedures Reporting process are designed to allow member firms to comply with international independence standards and achieve excellence in professional performance. These policies and procedures are based, for the most part, on the Code of 61 Committed to securing client and Deloitte information DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY Few organizations are as active as Deloitte in as LinkedIn, Facebook, and others. The U.S. helping business and government institutions member firm created additional videos on fight online attacks and build cyber resilience. phishing, as well as laptop and PDA security, Our vigilance begins at home, where it’s critical that were made available to all member firms. that we protect our own data and can assure Additionally, role-based security, privacy, and privacy for our people and member firm clients. ethics roadmaps with sample courseware and other materials have been developed for Like many companies, DTTL and its member member firms to use as a framework upon firms are reviewing new technologies and which to build local awareness curricula. services and have established robust processes to assess the suitability of cloud and other Safe Harbor Certification solutions to ensure they can meet our internal In November 2012, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu privacy and security standards. Services, Inc. (DTTS), recertified its adherence to the Safe Harbor Framework, which bridges Built-in compliance differences between U.S. and European Union DTTL and its member firms have moved rapidly Group workshop during the Global New Partners privacy laws. DTTS goes through an extensive to keep their privacy and security policies and seminar at Deloitte University. privacy-verification process each year before HOME practices up-to-date with global mandates and making this annual recertification for Safe stakeholder expectations. DTTL’s global policy Harbor. The Safe Harbor Framework between OVERVIEW on information security requires member firms the U.S. Department of Commerce and the to institute a wide range of security measures, European Commission gives U.S. organizations CLIENTS & INSIGHTS covering areas such as virus protection, data a set of requirements for complying with the backup and recovery, encryption, password TALENT & European Directive on Data Protection, which authentication, access to systems, and network OPP0RTUNITY governs the transfer of personal information security. from the European Union (EU) to third ECONOMIES & Deloitte member firm compliance with countries such as the United States, among COMMUNITIES security policies is tracked through an annual other issues. This framework is designed IT Standards, Risk and Maturity Assessment. to bridge differences between the privacy OPERATIONS & Compliance with security policies at the global protection approaches of the United States and GOVERNANCE hosting center level is monitored through the the EU. Organizational structure Global Technology Services (GTS) Security Forum. During FY2013, improvements were made Leadership and governance During FY2013, DTTL developed a privacy to internal safe harbor privacy compliance self-assessment system to monitor privacy verification processes, including the Influencing public policy DTTL’s comprehensive global privacy policy took effect in program maturity across our organization using development of an automated system to Risk management 20 different criteria. This will help DTTL and assess compliance with policy and safe harbor Ethics August 2011. This policy requires every member firm to put the member firms understand which tools, requirements. Our new tools make it possible Independence in place: if any, could further strengthen information to maintain better historical records, make protection and privacy within Deloitte. DTTL’s year-over-year comparisons, and identify and Data privacy and security • A privacy policy that defines principles to be followed in all data handling processes and information security specialists provide retrieve privacy information on demand. systems and that meets the requirements of local laws, customs, and regulations; guidance to member firms to strengthen their Metrics During the past year, DTTL has also moved • A designated privacy leader; information security regimes when necessary. Reporting process forward significantly on a new effort to • A process for responding to privacy incidents; The DTTL Global Information Security Office further strengthen its compliance processes • Regular privacy communications and training programs for member firm people; and released a series of short videos to Deloitte to facilitate the movement of internal and professionals around the world to reinforce member firm client data in line with global • An annual self-assessment of compliance with the DTTL privacy policy. legal requirements. the safe use of online social networks such 62 METRICS FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 GLOBAL PRESENCE Number of member firms 47 48 53 REVENUE (US$ Billion) Aggregate revenues Aggregate member firm revenue 32.4 31.3 28.8 By functional area Audit and Enterprise Risk Services 13.1 13.0 12.3 Financial Advisory 2.8 2.7 2.3 Consulting 10.4 9.7 8.6 Tax 6.1 5.9 5.6 By region Americas 16.4 15.5 14.3 HOME Europe/Middle East/Africa 11.1 10.9 10.3 Asia Pacific 4.9 4.9 4.2 OVERVIEW By industry group (1) CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Consumer Business 6.4 6.4 5.4 Energy & Resources 3.0 2.8 2.2 TALENT & Financial Services 9.1 9.0 7.8 OPP0RTUNITY Life Sciences and Health Care 2.6 2.3 1.9 ECONOMIES & Manufacturing 4.3 4.1 3.8 COMMUNITIES Public Sector 3.5 3.3 3.0 OPERATIONS & Technology, Media & Telecommunications 3.5 3.4 3.0 GOVERNANCE Other 0.0 0.0 1.7 Revenue growth (Percentage growth in US Dollars) Organizational structure Aggregate member firm revenue growth 3.5% 8.6% 8.4% Leadership and governance By functional area Influencing public policy Audit and Enterprise Risk Services 0.5% 6.1% 4.7% Risk management Financial Advisory 4.7% 15.0% 15.1% Ethics Consulting 7.1% 13.5% 14.9% Independence Tax 3.8% 3.9% 5.2% Data privacy and security By region Metrics Americas 5.7% 7.9% 10.4% Europe/Middle East/Africa 2.1% 6.4% 3.2% Reporting process Asia Pacific -0.2% 16.3% 15.8% Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 63 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 TALENT Aggregate talent Aggregate Deloitte people 202,885 193,359 181,566 By level Partners and principals 10,189 9,948 9,673 Professional staff 157,505 148,947 138,790 Administrative staff 35,192 34,464 33,103 By region Americas 89,934 84,855 78,957 Europe/Middle East/Africa 71,826 68,317 65,298 Asia Pacific 41,125 40,187 37,312 By level and region HOME Americas Partners 4,335 4,228 4,159 OVERVIEW Professionals 68,328 63,685 58,225 CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Administrative staff 17,270 16,941 16,573 Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) TALENT & Partners 3,389 3,357 3,229 OPP0RTUNITY Professionals 56,428 53,232 50,700 ECONOMIES & Administrative staff 12,010 11,728 11,369 COMMUNITIES Asia Pacific OPERATIONS & Partners 2,465 2,363 2,285 GOVERNANCE Professionals 32,748 32,029 29,864 Organizational structure Administrative staff 5,912 5,794 5,162 Leadership and governance Talent by gender Influencing public policy By region and gender—male Risk management Overall 112,182 106,866 n/a Americas 50,770 47,649 n/a Ethics Europe/Middle East/Africa 39,373 37,392 n/a Independence Asia Pacific 22,039 21,825 n/a Data privacy and security By region and gender—female Metrics Overall 90,703 86,492 n/a Reporting process Americas 39,164 37,205 n/a Europe/Middle East/Africa 32,453 30,925 n/a Asia Pacific 19,087 18,361 n/a Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 64 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Percentages of women in Deloitte network Overall 45% 45% 44% Among partners, principals, and directors 20% 19% 18% Among managers 35% 35% 34% Among new hires 45% 46% 45% Among new partners, principals, and director admissions 23% 22% 22% Percentages of women in DTTL leadership and governance bodies On DTTL Board of Directors 9% 6% 11% On DTTL Executive 0% 0% 0% On DTTL leadership team 20% 19% 9% Turnover rate Aggregate turnover rate 19% 20% 21% HOME By region Americas 19% 18% 19% OVERVIEW Europe/Middle East/Africa 18% 20% 22% CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Asia Pacific 20% 24% 24% By gender TALENT & Male 19% 19% 20% OPP0RTUNITY Female 20% 21% 23% ECONOMIES & New hires COMMUNITIES Aggregate new hires 51,405 51,440 49,152 OPERATIONS & Aggregate new hire rate (2) 25% 27% 27% GOVERNANCE By region Americas new hires 23,492 21,639 n/a Organizational structure Americas new hire rate (2) 26% 26% n/a Leadership and governance Europe/Middle East/Africa new hires 17,394 17,250 n/a Influencing public policy Europe/Middle East/Africa new hire rate (2) 24% 25% n/a Risk management Asia Pacific new hires 10,519 12,550 n/a Ethics Asia Pacific new hire rate (2) 26% 31% n/a Independence By level Data privacy and security New partners and principals 273 285 273 Metrics New managers 4,980 4,952 5,408 New staff 39,403 39,466 36,255 Reporting process New administrative staff 6,749 6,737 7,215 By gender Percentage of women among new hires 45% 46% 45% Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 65 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 LEARNING Hours of training per member firm full-time equivalent (3) 49 44 44 MOBILITY Total number of mobility assignments 5,795 5,356 4,429 Increase in mobility assignments 8% 21% 17% GLOBAL CAREERS WEBSITE Number of RMS (Recruitment and Mobility System) student applications received per day 2,016 1,653 1,160 Visits to website 13,041,824 10,328,940 10,028,940 Average visits per day 35,731 28,300 27,476 Largest number of jobs posted on a given day 20,373 20,939 15,313 Member firm locations with searchable positions 116 116 92 Total number of RMS applications 1,906,234 1,604,805 n/a HOME SOCIETAL IMPACT (US$ million) Number of reporting entities. Societal impact metrics are for reporting entities, and estimates have 33 member firms and DTTL 33 member firms and DTTL 18 member firms and DTTL OVERVIEW not been made for non-reporting entities. (representing 93% of global (representing 90% of global (representing 73% of global workforce) workforce) workforce) CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Monetary value of community investments (US$ million) TALENT & Aggregate Deloitte community investments 179.0 165.1 157.5 OPP0RTUNITY By source Aggregate donations 74.9 74.1 76.3 ECONOMIES & Member firm/foundation donations (monetary and in-kind) 44.8 44.6 47.9 COMMUNITIES Member firm partner and employee donations (to member firm-supported organizations and 30.1 29.5 28.4 OPERATIONS & fundraisers) GOVERNANCE Aggregate member firm/foundation costs for managing community investment programs 13.0 9.2 9.1 Organizational structure Aggregate value of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 91.1 81.8 72.1 Leadership and governance Member firm pro bono work 43.5 34.2 33.7 Skills-based volunteering 20.1 26.4 20.9 Influencing public policy Traditional volunteering 27.5 21.2 17.5 Risk management By contribution area Ethics Contributions toward education and skills-building organizations 37% 29% 29% Independence Value of pro bono and skills-based volunteering as percentage of value of all volunteering and pro 70% 74% 76% Data privacy and security bono work Hours of community investments (Thousand hours) Metrics Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 873 884 709 Reporting process Member firm pro bono work 209 198 193 Skills-based volunteering 308 377 275 Traditional volunteering 356 308 241 Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 66 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Number of member firms reporting on environmental sustainability. Environmental metrics are 29 member firms and DTTL 32 member firms and DTTL 21 member firms representing 76% extrapolated to represent all member firms and DTTL. representing 91% of global workforce representing 93% of global workforce of global workforce Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions including offsets 975,229 940,751 851,973 Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions not including offsets 977,761 944,870 859,026 By source (Metric tonnes CO2e) Buildings: electricity 220,382 204,812 201,739 Buildings: other sources 31,811 35,008 35,916 Business travel: air travel 436,121 437,970 360,339 Business travel: other sources 273,275 250,167 242,293 Resources 16,171 16,913 18,738 Offset credits (2,532) (4,119) (7,053) HOME By GHG Protocol scope (Metric tonnes CO2e) OVERVIEW Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions 98,115 83,797 80,910 Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions 228,571 217,768 212,060 CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 651,074 643,306 566,056 TALENT & Intensity measures (Metric tonnes CO2e) OPP0RTUNITY Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time employee (metric tonnes CO2e/FTE) excluding offsets 4.9 5.0 4.8 Greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of revenue (kg CO2e/$000 USD) excluding offsets 30.2 30.2 33.9 ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES Energy usage (GW) Aggregate usage of purchased electricity in Deloitte facilities 448 418 423 OPERATIONS & Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (TJ) GOVERNANCE TJ of natural gas 269 202 233 Organizational structure TJ of gasoline 254 262 304 Leadership and governance TJ of diesel fuel 352 517 276 Influencing public policy Indirect energy consumption by primary source (TJ) Risk management TJ of electricity 1,611 1,506 1,524 Ethics TJ of district heating 89 138 110 Independence TJ of district cooling 28 27 41 Material usage (Metric tonnes) Data privacy and security Paper usage 5,519 5,413 6,590 Metrics Percent of recycled input materials used based on estimate of recycled content paper 19% 9% 7% Reporting process Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. A detailed description of this report’s boundaries and the performance measurement methods used is available here. (1) FY12 industry values were restated to reflect an updated methodology (2) Per the Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Protocol, the rate is calculated using the total Deloitte people at the end of the reporting period (3) Represents a lower bound for measures of learning because certain types of training are not tracked in the online learning platform 67 REPORTING PROCESS The Deloitte 2013 Global Impact Report aims A detailed description of this report’s to provide Deloitte stakeholders with a truly boundaries and the performance measurement global and balanced picture of Deloitte’s methods used is available in the Basis for impact on society and ongoing commitment to reporting section. remain a leader in our professions. In accounting for Deloitte’s contributions MATERIALITY MATRIX MATRIX FY2013 MATERIALITY and performance, we strive to intertwine the interests and concerns of our stakeholders Issue is of critical strategic interest to Deloitte member firms and stakeholders with our own motivations, approaches, and Issue is actively managed priorities. Stakeholder groups identified as most Frequent interaction with key important to engage are those that: stakeholders occurs Client satisfaction/value of service • Help influence Deloitte’s success; Corporate responsibility commitment Issue is actively managed by Deloitte and discussed Diversity and fair treatment with constituents that have a direct stake • Are highly affected by Deloitte’s endeavors; CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS Employee development • Alter the markets, regulatory settings, and Ethics and integrity Issue of concern to select member HOME industries in which Deloitte operates; and Governance, risk, and compliance firms and stakeholders Privacy and data security Affect the supply of resources that are Generally managed through member firm programs OVERVIEW • Protection of public interest critical to Deloitte’s business. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Deloitte conducts ongoing stakeholder Community engagement TALENT & engagement to maintain a pulse on what is Environmental performance OPP0RTUNITY important to groups we impact, as well as Physical security those groups that impact us. We also perform Work-life balance ECONOMIES & occasional, complex “deep dives,” such as last COMMUNITIES year’s multi-variant stakeholder analysis for Compensation Health and safety OPERATIONS & Deloitte people and member firm clients. A full Human rights GOVERNANCE list of the stakeholders with whom we engage Labor rights and their priority issues are available in the Organizational structure Supply chain risks/issues stakeholder engagement summary table. Leadership and governance Material issues for corporate responsibility Influencing public policy shaped the scope and content of this report. Risk management Materiality was determined by considering CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON MEMBER FIRMS stakeholder issues analyzed through Ethics stakeholder engagement and with respect to Independence Deloitte’s business strategy. In the resulting CATEGORY AREAS INCLUDED materiality matrix, issues are classified into Ethics Anti-corrpution Data privacy and security three categories according to their overall Protection of Transparency, public policy positions, professional standards, Metrics importance. public interest professional performance Reporting process Community Includes range of community engagement Stakeholders likely to read the Global Report engagement activities, for example, youth education include current and prospective employees, member firms’ clients and suppliers, media, Environmental Includes greenhouse gas emissions, market analysts, and civil society organizations. performance energy usage, water, material usage and waste 68 FY2013 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative groups Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder typical frequency of interaction or organizations across Deloitte) concern Member firm clients Ongoing • Publicly traded company clients, • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity • Client interaction during including their audit committees • Independence • Organizing client service around • Client satisfaction engagements and boards of directors • Ethics industries • Governance risk and compliance • Client satisfaction process • Closely-held company clients • Security and privacy concerns • Lead client service roles and • Protection of public interest • Business development activities • Government clients responsibility • Value of trusted advisor • Anti-corruption • Conferences • Non-profit clients • Adoption of anti-corruption relationship policy • Corporate responsibility • Proposal responses and follow up • Past and potential clients • Need for industry understanding commitment on losses • Adoption of policy regarding • Sustainability reporting privacy programs and leadership • Privacy and data security • Client questionnaires • Supply chain risks and standards • IT security policies • Environmental performance • Voluntary sustainability reporting • Supply chain risks/issues • Supply chain policies and codes • Value of service of conduct Deloitte people and Ongoing • Current, former, retired, and • Job satisfaction elements • Flexible work arrangements • Employee development their families prospective employees • 24/7 support and emergency • Work-life balance • Benefits package changes • Diversity and fair treatment hotlines • Spouses/partners, children, and • Career advancement • Extension of certain services to • Ethics and integrity • Internal discussions family members of Deloitte • Fair treatment family members employees • Client satisfaction • Alumni network • Mentoring programs • Privacy • Privacy and data security • Social media, external and • Coaching programs • Security • Governance, risk, and compliance internal • Contributions to society • Opportunities for global • Corporate responsibility HOME • Recruiting events deployments • Environmentally sustainable commitment from leadership • Exit interviews • Industry training OVERVIEW operations • Protection of public interest • Confidential ethics hotline • Wellness programs • Access to technology • Public policy positions CLIENTS & INSIGHTS • Training sessions • Updates to software and • Diversity • Environmental performance • Community involvement and hardware TALENT & • Ethics • Health and safety volunteering opportunities • Education, safety and support OPP0RTUNITY • Travel and mobility mobile applications • Community engagement Multiple times a year • Volunteering programs • Labor rights ECONOMIES & • Performance reviews COMMUNITIES • Compensation • Employee councils • Work/life balance OPERATIONS & • Advisory councils • Professional standards GOVERNANCE • Town-hall meetings • Professional performance Organizational structure • Affinity groups Leadership and governance Annual basis Influencing public policy • People survey Risk management • Partner meetings Ethics Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 69 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative groups Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder typical frequency of interaction or organizations across Deloitte) concern Governments and Ongoing and/or ad hoc • National financial market • Auditor independence • Participation in advisory and • Protection of public interest regulators regulators advocacy groups • Contribution to shaping of new • Transparency • Anti-corruption regulation • Audit oversight bodies • Independence policies and • Quality • Public policy positions • Collaboration on policy • Finance ministers and central monitoring • Competitiveness of markets • Ethics and integrity • Participation in development of bank governors • Audit standards • Diversity • Diversity and fair treatment standards • Responses to reviews • Corporate governance • Governance, risk, and compliance • Web site and current event • Employee diversity programs monitoring • Privacy and data security • Supplier diversity programs • Responsiveness to inquiries • Health and safety • Issuance of transparency reports • Transparency Annual or regular recurring basis • Environmental performance • Quality/performance reviews Professional Ongoing • Associations of certified/chartered • Governance • Standards for engagement • Professional standards associations accountants acceptance and performance • Involvement in committees and • Barrier-free trade • Professional performance working groups • Associations of tax professionals • Peer reviews • Sustainable development • Employee development • Representation on leadership • Management consulting • Commentaries on proposed • Adherence to professional • Public policy positions councils professional associations standards performance standards • Ethics and integrity • Attendance at conferences • Financial advisory professional • Training • Standards for auditing of associations • Governance, risk, and compliance Ad hoc non-financial information • Thoughtware • Protection of public interest • Collaboration on industry white • Strategy formulation papers HOME • Speaking engagements • Participation in development of OVERVIEW standards Non-profit Ongoing • United Way Worldwide • Training • Skills-based volunteering • Youth education and CLIENTS & INSIGHTS organizations • Board representation • Junior Achievement • Performance improvement • Community volunteering unemployment and community TALENT & • Pro bono engagements • Teach For All • Funding • IMPACT day • Diversity and fair treatment organizations OPP0RTUNITY • Collaborations • Accounting for Sustainability • Marketing • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity • Volunteering • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure • Specific agendas germane to • Foundation and firm monetary • Anti-corruption ECONOMIES & Project) their cause (e.g. sustainability, and in-kind gifts • Human rights COMMUNITIES • Social media • Local business organizations education, water, diversity, etc.) • Electronic mail • Voluntary sustainability reporting • Transparency OPERATIONS & • Local business promotion • Meetings and conferences • Corporate responsibility GOVERNANCE • Transparency in reporting commitment Organizational structure • Speaking engagements • Public policy position Leadership and governance • Privacy and data security Influencing public policy • Environmental performance Risk management • Community involvement Ethics • Protection of public interest • Social progress and equality Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 70 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative groups Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder typical frequency of interaction or organizations across Deloitte) concern International Ongoing • United Nations • Establishment of and adherence • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity multi-stakeholder to international norms • Steering committee memberships • World Economic Forum • Internal and external training • Anti-corruption organizations • Organizational stakeholder • World Business Council for • Understanding of frameworks • Thoughtware • Public policy meetings Sustainable Development and initiatives • Working towards integrated • Protection of public • International Integrated Reporting • Economic, social, and reporting for Deloitte humanitarian development • Diversity and fair treatment Committee • Voluntary reporting on • Education • Global Reporting Initiative sustainability • Youth unemployment • International Business Leaders • GHG reduction targets in place Forum or in development (varies across • Governance, risk, and member firms) compliance • Cross-industry business alliances • Corporate responsibility commitment • Privacy and data security • Environmental performance • Human rights • Health and safety • Community engagement • Physical security • Social progress and equality Suppliers Ongoing • Software suppliers • Contract terms including pricing • Establishment of alliances • Ethics and integrity and payment • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers • Establishment of preferred • Anti-corruption HOME • Features and functionality vendors • Meetings • Travel service suppliers • Diversity and fair treatment • Issue resolution • Establishment of green OVERVIEW • Proposals • Consultants • Privacy and data security • Confidentiality purchasing practices • Industry meetings CLIENTS & INSIGHTS • Sales projections • Contracts • Opportunities for (mutual) • Supply chain audits TALENT & sustainable solutions OPP0RTUNITY • Opportunities for collaboration ECONOMIES & Industry and market Ongoing • Forrester • Client and market trends • On-going executive/ subject • Competitive landscape COMMUNITIES analysts matter specialist relationships • Global and member firm-specific • Gartner • Competitive landscape • Client value delivered OPERATIONS & program-based engagement • Dialogue and shared insights • IDC • Capabilities • Client satisfaction GOVERNANCE strategy involving Deloitte • Kennedy • Growth strategies • Best practice exchanges executive leadership, subject • Ethics and integrity Organizational structure matter specialist, and priority • Market trends analysis • Verdantix • Leadership • Governance, risk, and compliance Leadership and governance analyst stakeholders • Participation in signature • Innovation • Anti-corruption evaluative research Influencing public policy • Priority markets • Corporate responsibility Risk management commitment Ethics Educational institutions/ Ongoing • Students of high potential that • Subject matter knowledge • Volunteering • Education academia receive scholarships from Deloitte Independence • Participation in programs • New perspectives • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity Data privacy and security • Collaborations • Leading research • Matching gifts • Diversity and fair treatment Metrics • Recruiting • Career placement • Guest lecturers • Employee development • Guest lecturing and speaking • Funding of chairs and • Anti-corruption Reporting process engagements scholarships at universities • Human rights 71 BASIS OF REPORTING This document provides additional details about the and downstream emissions across all sources. FY2013 • Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator GHG emission factors and system information (such scope and calculation methods used in the Global environmental performance data in this report was (www.papercalculator.org) as equipment type) associated with district heating Impact 2013 report (the “Report”), available at directly collected from 29 member firms and from and cooling are seldom available through the utility • The Carbon Neutral Company www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport. It should be read in DTTL. These entities represent 91 percent of aggregate provider. In instances where emission factors and conjunction with the Report and all definitions used Deloitte people and 94 percent of aggregate member system information were unavailable, benchmark therein also apply to this document. In this document firm revenues. Extrapolations were used to account for A compilation of emission factors used to calculate the emission factors from the U.S. DOE were used. Deloitte refers to DTTL and its member firms. the emissions of the remainder of the organization that data in the Report is included at the end of this section. Note that for FY2013 the default emission factors Fugitive emissions of refrigerants used in building did not directly report data. FY2013 societal impact Scope and methods for performance data was reported by 33 member firms and by DTTL, were only updated for major emission sources such as cooling systems were included as a GHG emission measurements which represent 93 percent of aggregate Deloitte airlines. source. To determine refrigerant leakage from a system, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) adhered to the refrigerant volume readings from the beginning people and 97 percent of aggregate member firm widely accepted standards in developing this report. Global warming potential and the end of the fiscal year are needed along with revenues. No estimate was made for the member firms These standards define a systematic approach to The 100-year global warming potentials (GWP) of the any volumes added or removed. For most systems that did not report due to the variations in societal understanding the issues that the report should cover Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental and equipment at DTTL member firm facilities, this impact activities across member firms. It should be and measuring and documenting performance with Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR4) were used in complete data set cannot be obtained and data is recognized that this limits the year-to-year comparability regard to those issues. Performance measures for calculating carbon dioxide equivalents. limited to refrigerant additions. In such instances, the of the data. Comparability is expected to improve over HOME societal impact and environmental sustainability are assumption is made that all refrigerant added in a time as the number of non-reporting member firms Building-related emission sources based on widely recognized guidelines. For reporting given year replaces refrigerant leaked during the same decrease. Data that formed the basis of the reporting OVERVIEW on societal impact, DTTL and its member firms observed Building-related emission sources included in the GHG year. This method likely overestimates actual emissions was obtained from financial reporting systems, standards from the Committee Encouraging Corporate emissions data of the Report were those associated in some years and underestimates them in others, CLIENTS & INSIGHTS other internal records, and outside sources such as Philanthropy and the London Benchmarking Group. The with the use of electricity, natural gas, district heating, but over time captures the fugitive emissions of the travel agencies, utilities, and property managers. In monetary value of community activities by member firm and district cooling and those arising from the fugitive system. A similar simplifying assumption is used for TALENT & addition to adhering to the UN Global Compact and emissions of refrigerants in the office buildings and people was estimated according to the type of service calculating the volume of diesel fuel used for backup OPP0RTUNITY Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 frameworks for performed. The value of volunteer work was based on data centers that DTTL member firms either own or power generation; that is, it is assumed that diesel fuel reporting, this report was prepared according to the local member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined over which they have operational control. Upstream purchased during the fiscal year is used that year. ECONOMIES & principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness as work that the member firms might otherwise sell but building-related emission sources, such as those COMMUNITIES from the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard associated with electric transmission and distribution Business travel — Air that was performed for free, has been valued at rates (AA1000APS). OPERATIONS & line losses, were not included in the GHG emissions Reported GHG emissions are those resulting from air representative of the local member firms’ client service Emission factors inventory. travel by professionals flying for business reasons in GOVERNANCE rates for comparable services. Estimates of carbon accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. GHG Organizational structure emissions were prepared according to the Greenhouse DTTL member firms are encouraged to select the Some of the activity data associated with buildingemissions from flights taken by non-employees are Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and most accurate, source-specific, localized, and recently related emission sources was available directly to the Leadership and governance also reported in instances where flight activity data Reporting Standard created by the World Resources published GHG emission factor available for each DTTL member firms. For example, some facilities have is captured in DTTL or member firm travel systems Influencing public policy Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for emission source, such as specific emission factors for direct utility meters or sub-meters from which DTTL and reimbursed or paid for by DTTL or a member firm Sustainable Development (WBCSD) with emissions a local electric utility. Member firms are also provided member firms obtain readings. For facilities that have Risk management (such as travel by family members in accordance with accounted for on the basis of operational control. with default emission factors from the following no available meter data, activity data for the entire Ethics policies or travel by prospective DTTL and member DTTL and the member firms have applied recent, sources: building was typically allocated on the basis of the firm professionals). The majority of business air travel Independence authoritative, and locally specific GHG emissions factors percentage of total building floor space used (based • The GHG Protocol published by the WRI and data was obtained from DTTL and member firm travel as available and as appropriate for the countries in the on rentable square meters) by the DTTL member firm. Data privacy and security report’s scope. In 2011, the WRI and the WBCSD issued WBCSD systems. Much of the rest was obtained from travel Where building-specific data was unavailable, DTTL expense records. Metrics a new standard, the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) • The International Energy Agency (IEA) member firms estimated electricity and fuel usage using Reporting process Accounting and Reporting Standard. Deloitte continues actual data from a similar building or an average from a The default GHG emission factors used to calculate to evaluate the methodologies set forth in the Scope • The UK’s Department for Environment, Food and recognized source. emissions from air travel were based on information 3 standard for consideration in future reporting. While Rural Affairs (DEFRA) published by DEFRA. Flight segments were identified by the reporting for FY2013 includes a significant number distance, and emission factors were applied according • The U.S. Department of Energy (US DOE) of Scope 3 sources, it does not consider full upstream to whether the flight segment was categorized as 72 long haul (more than 1108 km), medium haul (463 A very limited amount of employee commuting activity included in the inventory. Paper data was obtained Not every DTTL member firm has the capacity to report to 1108 km) or short haul (less than 463 km). Where data was available from member firms. Where available, from procurement records and grouped by sheet size, activity data for GHG emissions, and some member data on seat class was available class-specific emission this information was added to the emissions total. percentage of recycled content, and paper type and firms report on some, but not all, of the activities within factors were also applied (e.g., First, Business, As more member firms collect this data, reporting is weight. Default emission factors were selected using the report boundaries. Ratios of emissions per FTE Premium Economy, Economy). An uplift factor of 1.08 expected to grow in future years. the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator (average full-time equivalent for FY2013) by emission was applied to airline distance data to account for based on the percentage of recycled content and source were calculated for the member firms that non-direct routes, delays, and circling. The emission Business travel — Rail applied to the purchased weight. Where a specific reported, and averages of these ratios were calculated factors used did not include radiative forcing or indirect Rail travel accounts for GHG emissions from employee percentage of recycled content could not be identified, based on clusters of geographic location and size. emissions. trips on subways, railways, and trams, with different the most conservative possible assumption was made Using the appropriate cluster ratio, missing data was GHG emission factors used for each type of rail system. (for example, 30 percent recycled content was assumed extrapolated based on the known FTE data. Business travel — Road Activity data sources included travel agency reports, if the paper source was identified as having 30 percent Reported GHG emissions from business travel by employee expense reports, company accounting Consistent with other GRI indicators, emissions intensity or more recycled content). automobiles includes travel in Deloitte-owned vehicle systems, receipts, and other records indicating the per FTE was calculated using the FTE total at the fleets (personnel driving in vehicles owned by DTTL and/ distance and location of trip segments. In cases where Estimations reporting year-end (31 May 2013). or the member firm), reimbursed driving (personnel actual distance was unavailable, estimates were made In calculating emissions, various estimations and While the above description is intended to be as driving in personal cars for which they are reimbursed), using travel expense data and average travel costs per extrapolations were made to account for known data accurate as possible, invariably the inventory will rental cars (personnel driving in rented/hired cars, unit of distance traveled. gaps. contain some exceptions to this reporting basis. None for which the member firm pays); buses and taxis Accommodations For many travel activities, activity information and of the known exceptions are considered to materially (reimbursed personnel trips in buses, taxis, car-service The GHG emissions inventory in the report includes cost data were available both from travel providers change the total emissions reported. vehicles, and limousines). emissions from accommodations at hotels, guest (reservation systems, travel agencies, or travel vendors) Emission factors For road travel, activity data was gathered from expense houses, and apartments for business reasons and in and from DTTL or member firm expense systems. The table below shows emission factors that were used reports, rental agency records, travel agency records, accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. Data Travel expenses recorded in DTTL or member firm in the inventory. company accounting systems, fuel receipts, odometer was collected from corporate travel agency records, expense systems often exceeded the corresponding logs, and receipts or other records indicating distance employee travel expense reports, and internal records. expenses recorded by travel providers because of travel Note: Some values below may differ slightly from and location of trip segments. When fuel information The emission factors were applied according to the arrangements made outside of reservation systems or the published reference source due to the use of the was available, GHG emissions are calculated on the location of the accommodation. without travel agencies. In cases where such differences IPCC AR4 GWPs rather than the GWPs of the Second basis of mobile combustion factors for the given fuel were identified, the travel activity data associated with Assessment Report of the IPCC. Where factors are HOME Paper type. When only distance information was available, the incremental cost was estimated based on the same used in specific countries only, these are listed after the OVERVIEW GHG emissions were calculated on the basis of average Emissions associated with paper used in business proportion of cost to activity that was reflected in the emission source. emissions factors (emissions per kilometer traveled) for by DTTL and member firm offices, mainly printer original travel system reservation. CLIENTS & INSIGHTS vehicles according to vehicle type (bus or car), fuel type paper, were included in the inventory. Paper used (diesel, petrol, hybrid, or unknown), and location. in documents produced by outside vendors was not TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Air Travel – Various lengths and seat classes 0.087 0.350 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2013 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (June 20) – with 9% uplift ECONOMIES & and AR4 GWP; various factors used depending on class and distance COMMUNITIES Air Travel – Various lengths (Belgium) 0.22 0.66 Passenger km Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) OPERATIONS & Air Travel – Various lengths (Finland, Germany) 0.131 0.213 Passenger km Travel agency records GOVERNANCE Air Travel – Various lengths (Japan) 0.98 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2011 Organizational structure Bus (Europe) 0.149 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Leadership and governance Bus (Japan) 0.051 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2011 Influencing public policy Bus (Outside Europe) 0.067 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Risk management Bus (U.S.) 0.107 Passenger miles WRI – GHG protocol emission factors from cross sector tool set v 1.1 (June 2011) Ethics District Cooling 0.887 Ton-hour (Short ton) U.S. DOE EIA-1605 (18 November 2010) Appendix N Independence District Cooling (Japan) 57 GJ Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Data privacy and security District Heat 88.56 MMBtu U.S. DOE EIA-1605 (18 November 2010) Appendix N Metrics District Heat/Steam (Germany) 0.257 kWh Deloitte Germany emission factor based on DEFRA Reporting process District Heat/Steam (Japan) 57 GJ Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Electricity (Australia) 260 1190 MWh Australian Government Department of Climate Change National Greenhouse Energy Reporting System (NGERs) Technical Guidelines (July 2012). Table 7.2 Indirect (scope 2) emission factors for consumption of purchased electricity from a grid. Page 425 73 Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Electricity (Belgium) 0 MWh Electrabel Alp Energy – Hydro energy Electricity (Belgium) 227 MWh Estimation based on Luminus energy mix and EF for energy production by energy source (Source Manicore) (20%) Electricity (Canada) 2 840 MWh Environment Canada National Inventory Report 1990-2010 Electricity (Chile) 391 806 MWh Ministry of Energy of Chile Reporte de Emisiones para el SING 2012 Electricity (Finland) 250 MWh Finnish Electricity Company Electricity (Germany) 562 MWh Umweltbundesamt, Strommix Deutschland, UBA 2010 Electricity (India) 838 943 MWh India Environmental Portal CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector – User Guide – v 8.0 January 2013 Electricity (Japan) 514 932 MWh Various Japanese Power Companies Electricity (New Zealand) 120 210 MWh New Zealand Ministry of Economic Development – Quarterly Energy Update Electricity (Norway) 307 MWh Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) Residual Mix (nve.no) Electricity (South Africa) 1027 MWh Eskom’s 2012/2013 data Electricity (UK) 445.4 MWh DEFRA/DECC’s 2013 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (June 20) Electricity (U.S.) 226 828 MWh USEPA eGRID 2012 Version 1.0 Subregion Data (Year 2009) Electricity (Various countries) 2.7 761.0 MWh IEA Statistics, “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights.” 2011 Edition Hotel Stays 31.93 33.45 Nights Carbon Neutral Company (legacy source) Hotel Stays (China, Australia, U.S.) 40.91 Nights Private study based on IEA 2005, DEFRA 2005, DTI 2004, and DOE 1997. Hotel Stays (Japan) 7 Nights Carbon Offset Japan Hotel Stays (New Zealand) 2.56 7.97 Nights Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2011 Calendar Year Hotel Stays (South Africa) 19 Nights Deloitte 2008 “Qualified Greenhouse Gas Inventory” Report: Emissions factor provided by UNEP World Meteorological Organisation Climate Change And Tourism Report; A2.2.3 Accommodation; 9 July 2008 HOME Mobile Combustion – Black Car/Limo 0.157 Vehicle km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 OVERVIEW Mobile Combustion – Bus (Europe) 0.112 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Diesel) (Finland) 0.139 km Actual information from the fleet company CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Diesel) (Europe) 0.187 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 TALENT & Mobile Combustion – Car (Diesel) 2.668 Liter DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 OPP0RTUNITY Mobile Combustion – Car (Diesel) (Belgium) 2.947 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) ECONOMIES & Mobile Combustion – Car (Hybrid) 0.135 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 COMMUNITIES Mobile Combustion – Car (Luxury) (unknown fuel) 0.313 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (Belgium) 2.835 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (Germany) 0.135 0.207 km Rental company Organizational structure Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (Japan) 2.322 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Leadership and governance Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (New Zealand) 2.31 2.33 Liter Landcare – CarboNZero emissions factor database Influencing public policy Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (Outside Europe) 0.237 km WRI (2011) GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion v 2.3 Risk management Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol/Gasoline) 2.314 Liter DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Ethics Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) 0.248 km DTTL estimated using data from WRI (2011) GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion v 2.3 Independence Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (Australia) 2.289 Liter Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2011) National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Data privacy and security Table 4 Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (Australia) 2.289 Liter Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2011) National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Metrics Table 4 Reporting process Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (New Zealand) 0.235 0.237 km Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2011 Calendar Year Mobile Combustion – Car average (unknown fuel) (U.S.) 0.392 Mile WRI – GHG protocol emission factors from cross sector tool set v 1.1 (June 2011). US Environmental Protection Agency default fuel economy for generic car transport Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Diesel) (France) 2.4 Liter Government of France 74 Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Petrol) (France) 2.7 Liter Government of France Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (various fuels) (Europe) 0.141 0.207 km Specific fleet and rental car information Mobile Combustion – Europe Car (Average) (Petrol) 0.209 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Europe/Car (Average) (unknown fuel) 0.194 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2013 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (June 20) Mobile Combustion – Europe/Car (Average) (unknown fuel) 0.195 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Motorcycle 0.119 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe Car (Average) 0.280 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) (Diesel) Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car (Average) 0.237 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) (Petrol) Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car-Average 0.152 0.193 km Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with (Unknown fuel) (Japan) Global Warming Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car-Average 0.187 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2013 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (June 20) (Unknown fuel) (South Africa) Mobile Combustion – Taxi 0.147 Vehicle km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Australia) 0.235 Vehicle km Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2012) National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Schedule 1 Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Japan) 0.170 Vehicle km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2011 Mobile Combustion – Taxi (New Zealand) 0.308 Vehicle km Landcare – CarboNZero emissions factor database. June 2013 Mobile Combustion – Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.143 0.252 Passenger km Specific information from service providers Mobile Combustion – Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.230 0.406 Passenger miles Specific information from service providers HOME Mobile Combustion – Taxi/Car service (UK) 0.176 0.234 Vehicle km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion – Van (Diesel) 0.226 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 OVERVIEW Mobile Combustion – Van (Petrol) 0.212 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 CLIENTS & INSIGHTS Mobile Combustion – Van (UK) 0.269 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2013 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (June 20) Paper resources 1.688 3.012 kg Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator v 3.1 (www.papercalculator.org) TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY Paper resources (Belgium, France) 1.32 kg Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) 2010 Paper resources (Germany) 1.06 kg German initiative for paper production. Source: www.initiative-papier.de ECONOMIES & Paper resources (Japan) 1.52 kg Japan Paper Association LCA Inventory (published in FY2011） COMMUNITIES Paper resources (South Africa) 1.58 1.72 kg Average factors provided by Mondi and Sappi Paper OPERATIONS & Rail – Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.072 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 GOVERNANCE Rail – Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.102 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Organizational structure Rail – National Rail 0.115 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Leadership and governance Rail – Subway 0.102 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Influencing public policy Rail – Subway (U.S.) 0.164 Passenger mile Derived from the U.S. EPA Risk management Rail (Belgium) 0.01 Passenger km ADEME (Train en France, Moyenne) Ethics Rail (Eurostar) 0.015 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Independence Rail (Germany) 0.038 0.075 Passenger km Direct information from Deutsche Bahn Data privacy and security Rail (Japan) 0.021 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2011 Metrics Rail (National Rail) 0.056 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Reporting process Rail (Netherlands) 0.03 Passenger km National Rail Rail (Subway) 0.074 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Rail (UK) 0.015 0.058 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6, Table 6k), Version 1.0 Rail (U.S.) 0.185 Passenger mile Derived from the U.S. EPA Refrigerant – HFC-134a 1430 GWP Fourth Assessment Report (2007) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 75 Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Refrigerant – HFC-143a 4470 GWP Fourth Assessment Report (2007) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Refrigerant – R-403a 1400 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Refrigerant – R-404a 3260 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Refrigerant – R-407c (Australia) 1526 GWP Australian Government Department of Climate Change National Greenhouse Energy Reporting System (NGERs) Technical Guidelines (June 2010). Appendix C. Refrigerant – R-407c 1774 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Refrigerant – R-410a 2088 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Refrigerant – R-427a 1800 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Stationary Combustion – Diesel 2.676 Liter WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Stationary Combustion – Diesel or Heating Oil (Low 74.53 GJ WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Heating Value) Stationary Combustion – Heating Oil (Japan) 2.71 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Stationary Combustion – LP Gas (Mexico) 0.002 Liter National GHG Inventory Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (High Heating 5.342 Therms WRI GHG Protocol (September 2011) Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools Value) (U.S.) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Japan) 2.149 3.132 Cubic meters HV-gas company Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Low Heating 1.89 Cubic meters WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Value) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Low Heating 56.26 GJ WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Value) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (New Zealand) 0.191 kWh Landcare – CarboNZero emissions factor database (ending 30 June 2013) HOME Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Switzerland) 0.198 kWh Swiss department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communication OVERVIEW Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (UK) 0.185 kWh DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6) CLIENTS & INSIGHTS TALENT & OPP0RTUNITY ECONOMIES & COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS & GOVERNANCE Organizational structure Leadership and governance Influencing public policy Risk management Ethics Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 76 Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport Stay connected Produced by DTTL Global Brand & Communications Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte has in the region of 200,000 professionals, all committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by—or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Each of these separate legal entities is liable for its own acts or omissions and not those of other separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these U.S. entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). The 2012 Deloitte Global Report is available here. © 2013. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. Rev4
