HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals • Fortune International fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. • Fortune International recognizes individuals’ right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion including freedom of opinion and expression without interference. • Fortune International regards a diverse workforce as an asset. We hire on the basis of talent and personality and offer the same opportunities to all employees, regardless of their background, religion, political conviction, gender or age. Implementation • A box has been installed in the company’s two offices in Yangon and in the branch office in Mandalay for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are then revised by top management and discussed immediately. • Fortune International has adopted a Code of Conduct that outlines the importance and responsibility of every employee to treat colleagues with respect and consideration. It prohibits improper behavior including, but is not limited to, discrimination or harassment in any form such as bullying, intimidation, threats, ridicule, sexual, racial or verbal abuse, insults, gestures, willful or serious insubordination, physical violence etc. The Code clearly states that Fortune International will not tolerate these behaviors and will take disciplinary action including termination or dismissal. • Furthermore, the management team regularly obtains employee feedback on the overall climate through the annual employee survey. Measurement of Outcomes • We, at Fortune International, believe that transparent communication on the general company climate will contribute to maintaining a healthy company culture. So far, there has not been a single case of Human Rights abuses and complaints that have been reported in our company. It reflects the employee’s full awareness of the importance and significance of human rights and putting them into practice in their work life. 2 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals • Fortune International fully supports the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including non‐ discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labor, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. • Fortune International regards a diverse workforce as an asset. We hire on the basis of talent and personality and offer the same opportunities to all employees, regardless of their background, religion, political conviction, gender or age. • We have also stated our policies clearly in writing, detailing employee rights and responsibilities, their compensation and benefits, wage standards, working hours, holiday and leave entitlements, rights to equal treatment, job security and standards of conducts. All employment contracts are prepared and written to meet the Labor Law of Myanmar and all our employees are entitled and encouraged to register themselves in the Social Welfare Scheme of the Ministry of Labor. Implementation • Fortune International clearly states the terms and conditions of the employment in job advertisements and provide clarification during the job interview. In addition, employees are provided with written employment contracts which clearly outlines the terms and conditions of the employment including salary & benefits, leave policies, working hours, rights & responsibilities and disciplinary procedures. • We conduct annual performance appraisal and salary review where all employees are consulted on their performance, career plans and training requirements. All appraisals are recorded on a standard form and annual pay increase and bonus payments are made accordingly in recognition of their contribution and future potential. • A box has been installed in the company’s two offices in Yangon and in the branch office in Mandalay for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are then revised by top management and discussed immediately. Employees can also choose to voice their concern through the annual employee survey. 3 Measurement of outcomes • We have had satisfactory compliance on approved working contracts and fewer cases of job‐hopping. • On the whole, there have been no cases of breaches, violations, or complaints during this reporting period. 4 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals • Being mostly office based, the nature of our operations makes relatively small environmental impacts. • Fortune International is committed to realizing the importance of the environment and is aware of the impact it has on the globe as a whole. • We are devoted to reducing Fortune International’s carbon footprint as much as possible by adhering to the 3 R’s of the environment: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. Implementation • Our green initiatives include: • The conservation of each computer’s energy by setting the computer to sleep mode when one is away for short periods of time and to turn off all computers, printers, photocopiers and other equipment whenever it is not in use, especially when leaving work. We are also in the pursuit of replacing desktop computers with laptops as they consume less energy. • Reducing our paper waste by going paper‐less with emails and reviewing documents online instead of printing them out. We also implement the use of recycled papers and the use of old sheets of paper for scrap or note taking. • The encouragement of all our employees and top management to use reusable water bottles instead of plastic bottled water. • We have also replaced old, energy‐consuming lights with new LED ones to save energy consumption. Measurement of outcomes • The management team monitors issues such as electricity and water consumption and also conducts monthly checks in the workplace to insure that employees comply with the company’s policies on environmental issues. 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Fortune International has a zero‐tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. In the company’s Code of Conduct we clearly state the company’s policy to pursue all of its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner, without the use of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain an unfair advantage. • Irregular activities will be investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law, as well as the application of appropriate prevention and detection controls. Any breaches of the Code will result in disciplinary action including termination or dismissal, as well as compensation for damage caused. Implementation • An employee who suspects or reports suspected dishonest activity is given the right to remain anonymous should he/ she so requires. • Senior managements such as Finance, Administration and HR take the responsibility to check all transactions and to report of any misconduct. • Our 2014 goal for the company is to continue to provide education for all levels of employees about corruption, as well as the measurements to take when one should encounter it. Measurement of Outcomes • Fortune International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. • Depending on the nature and magnitude of the incident, any employee who is found participating in corruption practices, will be resorted to appropriate disciplinary actions such as termination, dismissal and at the most, be subject to legal action. 6
