UNGC Index Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. has been a signatory to the United National Global Compact since 2004. With this Communication on Progress, we reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. UNGC Principle Human Rights Report Section 1 Resilient Supply Chains: Factory Assessments; Resilient Supply Chains: Supplier Guidelines; Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Resilient Supply Chains: Food Security; 2 Resilient Supply Chains: Building Stronger Communities Through Agricultural Standards; Sustainable Products: Reducing Product Waste; Reports and Disclosures: Keurig Green Mountain Water Policy Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Sustainable Products: Energy Use and Greenhouse abuses. Gas Emissions Labor Standards 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Resilient Supply Chains: GMCR Supplier Guidelines; 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Thriving People and Communities: Diversity and employment and occupation. Inclusion Environment 7 Resilient Supply Chains: Working with Farmers; Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Resilient Supply Chains: Food Security; 8 Resilient Supply Chains: Water Stewardship Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Resilient Supply Chains: Caring for Agricultural responsibility. Ecosystems; 9 Resilient Supply Chains: Building Stronger Businesses should encourage the Communities Through Agricultural Standards; development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainable Products: Reducing Product Waste Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Resilient Supply Chains: GMCR Supplier Guidelines
