São Paulo, November 08, 2012 The Secretary-General United Nations Dear Sir, I would like to confirm the support of DM9DDB to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the area of human rights, labour, environmental protection and the fight against corruption in all its forms. With this report we wish to express our intention to support and disseminate these principles within our sphere of influence. We also wish to reinforce our commitment to adopting the Global Compact and its principles as part of our strategy, culture and day-today operations, in addition to making efforts to publicly disclose this commitment to our employees, partners, clients and the general public, so as to foster engagement in collaborative projects that advance the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. We acknowledge that a fundamental requirement for participating in the Global Compact is the submission of a Communication on Progress (COP), in which we describe our efforts to implement the ten principles. We support accountability and transparency of information, as a result of which we are committed to presenting this and future annual reports in accordance with the Global Compact’s COP policy. Truly yours, Paulo Queiroz Alcir Gomes Leite Joint CEO, DM9DDB Joint CEO, DM9DDB 1 Background Founded in 1989, DM9DDB is one of Brazil’s largest and most award-winning communications agencies. Its shareholders are two of the world’s largest communications groups: Publicis Omnicom and Grupo ABC, the largest Brazilian communications group and one of the world’s top 20, according to Advertising Age. Its customer list includes brands such as Banco Itaú, Whirlpool, Ambev and Johnson & Johnson. The agency is headquartered in São Paulo, with an office in Brasilia and two autonomous agencies: DM9Sul, in Porto Alegre, and DM9Rio, in Rio de Janeiro. It has been in business in Brazil for 25 years, with over 300 employees and track record of corporate success built on solid values and commitment to its clients, society and Brazil. The highlight of its values is its concern for sustainability in its widest sense. DM9 is working to build a long-lasting business that contributes to the creation of an increasingly egalitarian, just and economically strong society. Embracing the Global Compact’s ten principles is an inherent part of that commitment and the search for a relationship based on governance and transparency with all its stakeholders. Thus, for yet another year DM9DDB is reiterating its commitment to the following principles set out in the Global Compact: Human Rights This document strengthens DM9DDB’s commitment to the two principles in the area of Human Rights: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 – Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In line with the two principles, DM9 warrants that it complies with the rights assured by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948, and that it is strictly compliant with the Brazilian Constitution, which ensures the universality of the principle of human dignity and human rights in this country. DM9 is also a partner of UNICEF and UNESCO, having engaged in several studies for the organizations in Brazil and around the world, reaffirming alignment of the agency’s values with said organizations. DM9 also takes pride in being a pluralist, multicultural communications agency that fosters and encourages diversity in terms of sex, gender and beliefs. We do not condone any type of discrimination, whether implicit or explicit, nor do we allow any kind of human rights abuse by our staff or partners. On becoming aware that any abuse has been committed, 2 DM9DDB reserves the right to break off any partnership relations with those committing the abuse, taking the applicable punitive measures. Labour This document strengthens DM9DDB’s commitment to the four principles in the area of Labour: Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association the and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In its operations in the Brazilian market, DM9DDB abides by the Labour Laws enshrined in the Brazilian Constitution and adopts policies that are in line with those of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the multilateral agency linked to the United Nations Organization, specializing in labour matters. Each employee is assured the right to freely associate with class entities, parties or any other ethical and reputable organization. The right to collective bargaining, a healthy work environment, fair remuneration and equal treatment for all employees are also guaranteed. These rights, together with several unacceptable practices, are documented in our Code of Conduct, which stipulates, among other items, that:  At DM9DDB we are totally against child labour. The use of children in advertising will strictly adhere to the laws and rules governing their participation  DM9DDB prohibits and is absolutely against any form of slave labour  DM9DDB will not tolerate any verbal, gestural or physical insinuation or actions considered to be moral or sexual harassment against any persons. The Environment This document strengthens DM9DDB’s commitment to the three principles in the area of the Environment: Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3 DM9 is one of only two Brazilian agencies to publish Sustainability Reports in Brazil. Abiding by the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative, DM9DDB has been classified at B level, which vouches for its commitment to transparency and its determination to become an increasingly sustainable business. On-going practices include: Elimination of plastics: DM9 has removed from circulation plastic cups and plastic beverage bottles, in addition to replacing water bottles with water purifiers, leading to the elimination of over 200,000 cups and 30,000 bottles a year. As a service provider, DM9 produces no industrial waste. As it has no kitchen installed, organic garbage is also insignificant. Annual consumption is around 80,000 sheets of virgin A3 and A4 sulfite paper, recycled or not. All the material is picked up by a recycling company registered with São Paulo city hall. 74% of the virgin paper consumed by the agency comes from recycled sources, 100% of our printers are programmed to print on both sides and there are specific selective waste disposal bins on all floors. Artificial lighting is for the most part cold, low-consumption lighting. Taking lights and electrical and electronic equipment together, our consumption is around 86,000 KW a month. As we have no industrial production, water consumption is basically for cleaning and the restrooms. Taps and toilets are equipped with intelligent water use technology. Corruption This document strengthens DM9DDB’s commitment to the principle regarding the Corruption: Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption is unacceptable and severely punishable at DM9DDB. As part of the DDB Worldwide network, 100% of our employees receive annual on-line anti-corruption training. It should go on record that in 25 years of business, DM9DDB has never been the subject of complaints or investigations regarding corruption or any other conduct that violates the Global Compact’s principles. lag-i/63252.doc 1/10/14 4
