10th June 2014 Statement of Continued Support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Aloe Private Equity reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption during the period from June 2013 to June 2014. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Jean-Pascal Tranie Co-founder and Managing Partner June 2014 Aloe Private Equity 1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We, Aloe Private Equity, support and adhere to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. Aloe and its investment portfolio companies uphold and comply with these human rights principles through out the entire life cycle of our businesses. Implementation: In the process of making new investments, Aloe carries out thorough and detailed due diligence on investment targets in order to ensure the compliance with the Human Rights principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations. Aloe is required to fill a Social and Environmental checklist and perform detailed inspections on labour law and working conditions during the due diligence, which identify the areas of the targets that need to be improved after the acquisition. After the investments are made, Aloe introduces the Social and Environmental Code of Conduct and a comprehensive annual ESG Reporting system to all investment portfolio companies in order to ensure the Human Rights principles will be disseminated and complied. On the top of that, portfolio companies are encouraged to develop their own code of conduct and procedures. During the investment-holding period, Aloe closely monitors and carries out annual reviews on the social and environmental performances of all its portfolio companies from the companies’ annual ESG reports. Practical examples: • Greenko AMR has successfully distributed 18 pump sets and it’s accessories to farmers at Narikombu Grama Panchayat. It also distributed 100 Nos of Street lights sets with accessories to the local community in Narikombu Grama Panchayat. • Greenko Rayala Wind Power Company have constructed a temple in Muttala village and distributed computers & benches to the students of Jyankari Kendra School. • Greenko is committed to help with various needs of the local communities in areas of Education, Healthcare, Rural Development and etc. The company has been working consistently with local governments, NGOs and other likeminded 2 organizations in order to bring cumulative improvements to the local communities so that permanent value can be created. Measurement of outcomes: No violation of human rights has been identified during the period from Aloe Private Equity or its portfolio companies. No conviction or a fine has been imposed for a violation of human rights. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals: Aloe Private Equity supports and complies with the principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and particularly the conventions on the protection of workers, the prohibition of forced labour and child labour. Implementation: In the process of making a new investment, Aloe carries out thorough and detailed due diligence on investment target in order to ensure its compliance with the Labour Principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations. Aloe’s the Social and Environmental checklist and the due diligence on labour law and working conditions identify the areas of the investment target need to be improved after the acquisition. After the investments are made, Aloe introduces the Social and Environmental Code of Conduct and a comprehensive annual ESG Reporting system to all investment portfolio companies in order to ensure the Labour Principles will be disseminated and complied. On the top of that, portfolio companies are encouraged to develop their own code of conduct and procedures. During the investment-holding period, Aloe closely monitors and carries out annual reviews on the social and environmental performances of all its portfolio companies from the companies’ annual ESG reports. 3 Practical Examples: • Aloe Private Equity ensures the compliance with respect to local labour laws, for example in France via the mandatory posting on the fight against discrimination and sexual harassment. At our portfolio companies: • Recupyl implemented specific procedures and staff training to avoid accidents in the recycling of lithium batteries charged (which can lead to explosions and the release of toxic gases). • Polygenta has established a procedure for employees to raise their comments and complaints to management, which is committed to respond within 48 hours. • Polygenta has also communicated internally on the freedom to form unions • Greenko devised a “4PS” process to help its employees to identify the health and safety risks associated; and to comply with a rigorous safety plan Measurement of outcomes: • Ploygenta has been certified by OHSAS 18001 for its health and safety management standard • Polygenta received Greentech Safety Gold Award 2013 • Recupyl has also been certified by OHSAS 18001 for its health and safety management standard Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals: The environment lies within at the heart of Aloe Private Equity’s investment philosophy: Aloe Environment Fund I and Fund II are strategic funds whose mission is to create value for its shareholders through active investment in companies working to preserve, enhance or restore them global environment. Investments in 4 companies developing technologies, processes and innovative business models in the areas of recycling (batteries, PET bottles, WEEE), renewable energy and sustainable agriculture. Aloe has always been adhered to the principles of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development Implementation: In the process of making a new investment, Aloe carries out thorough and detailed due diligence on investment targets in order to ensure its compliance with the Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact of the United Nations. Aloe’s the Social and Environmental checklist identifies the areas of the investment target need to be improved after the acquisition. After the investments are made, Aloe introduces the Social and Environmental Code of Conduct and a comprehensive annual ESG Reporting system to all investment portfolio companies in order to ensure the Environmental Principles will be disseminated and complied. On the top of that, portfolio companies are encouraged to develop their own code of conduct and procedures. During the investment-holding period, Aloe closely monitors and carries out annual reviews on the social and environmental performances of all its portfolio companies from the companies’ annual ESG reports. Practical Examples: Aloe implements actions to reduce the environmental footprint within the management company to reduce its environmental footprint: recycling of printer toners, recycling of drink bottles and cans, recycling waste batteries and recycling Nespresso capsules ... At our portfolio companies: All Aloe’s portfolio companies participate directly in the preservation of the environment. • Greenko Roshni Powertech PVT. Ltd captures the fly ash produced in the process; and the fly ash is then used by local brick manufacturers for brick production. • Polygenta commissioned an EG recovery unit, which purifies the spent EG and take the material back into its ReNew process. 5 Measurement of outcomes: • Greenko Roshni Powertech PVT. Ltd recycles and reuses 20% of metallic solid waste. In addition, the biodegradable waste produced on the site is being composted and used as fertilisers for its green belt development. • Polygenta is now certified for ISO 14001 environmental standard • Recupyl is now certified for ISO 14001 environmental standard Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Aloe Private Equity strongly supports and strictly adheres to the UN Convention against Corruption. Aloe pays a lot of attentions to monitoring the compliance of the Anti-Corruption Principle especially as some of Aloe’s investments operate in countries where the level of corruption is high. Implementation: In the process of making a new investment, Aloe carries out thorough and detailed due diligence on investment targets in order to ensure its compliance with the Anticorruption principle of the Global Compact of the United Nations. Aloe’s the Social and Environmental checklist identifies the areas of the investment target need to be improved after the acquisition. After an investment is made, Aloe ensures the Anti-corruption Principle of Global Compact of the United Nations will be disseminated to the portfolio companies through the introduction of Social and Environmental Code of Conduct. In addition, portfolio companies are encouraged to develop their own code of conduct and procedures. During the investment-holding period, Aloe closely monitors and carries out annual reviews on its portfolio companies’ social and environmental performance from the company’s reporting Practical examples: • Aloe implemented a detailed Anti Money Laundering procedure for several years and it has been updated regularely to match the French and European AML framework evolution. 6 At our portfolio companies: • The Employees Handbook Greenko focuses on compliance with laws and regulations. • The board is responsible for the internal control Greenko for all operations, including anti-corruption struggle. Measurement of outcomes: No implicated in corruption cases identified during the period. 7
