Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2013 STEELCASE 2013 CSR REPORT T HE 2013 S T E E LCASE C O R P O R AT E SU STA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O RT STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Our Vision Clarity of vision. It’s often what makes the difference between good intentions and creating sustainable change. At Steelcase, our sustainability vision is clear: to bring lasting value to our customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. Ambitious, yet fully achievable, we aim to strengthen the economic, social and environmental systems that sustain us all. We aim to strengthen the economic, social and environmental systems that sustain us all. These goals are intricately entwined, providing us with an unwavering sense of purpose, a touchstone to guide our decisions and a benchmark against which to measure our progress. In the coming years, sustainability will become even more integrated into our business, as we redefine fitness in the context of increasing global demands and new performance horizons. Achieving this vision is no small task, but it’s one that humbles and inspires us as we evolve our sustainable enterprise. 2 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Contents Note from Our CEO 04 Our Sustainability Promise 05 Targets and Performance 07 08 16 Customers Partners 21 25 Communities Employees 32 41 Environment Ourselves 3 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Note from Our CEO Sustainability today is at a crossroads. Companies like ours, who aspire to lead the way, are expanding their efforts beyond environmental impacts into meeting global social needs. Our environmental efforts are far from complete but we’ve made dramatic progress and At its heart, sustainability is about people. And so is we’re well on our way to reaching our ambitious goals. our company. Steelcase is built on deep understanding In that respect, we’ve delivered on our promise. of people – how they work, how they create and how they interact with the environments around them. But that’s only part of the picture. We believe it’s We study people, design for them, and work to unlock our responsibility to help strengthen the economic, their promise to create lasting change. Serving humanity environmental and social systems that sustain us. is the red thread that runs through everything we do. That means we’re committed to making sure Steelcase is in good economic health – which it is – but also So it makes perfect sense that today our focus is making sure that we’re making a positive contribution on further elevating the social side of sustainability – to the greater good of humanity. What we do, how wellbeing, human rights, and community involvement. we do it, the decisions we make, the impacts we We’re investing in new social initiatives and programs create, that’s our responsibility to the world. That’s while not taking our eye off the environmental ball. our responsibility to the future as we work to humanize sustainability. To us, this expanded definition of One of the most important things we’ve learned along sustainability is a strategic reset and a glimpse the way is that sustainability must not be something at our company’s future. separate – it must be an integral part of our company. We can’t unravel sustainability from the core of our business because we believe sustainability is central to achieving our mission of unlocking human promise. At its heart, sustainability is about people. And so is our company. Meaningful change happens as a result of collaborative effort. The stories in this report reflect a fraction of the efforts and successes of many different individuals, and we offer our deep thanks to those who share our commitment – our customers, dealers, employees, shareholders, partners and communities. Together, we’ll continue to forge a path of lasting change through every decision, every deed, every day. I invite you to look at what we’re doing to help us create a more sustainable future where human promise is realized. Thank you, Jim Hackett CEO 4 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Our Sustainability Promise Every day, in every decision, we work hard to deliver on our purpose and create real world results. We know our intentions and actions shape and influence the lives of others, including our customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment we all share. We continue to dream big and set high aspirations. As we work to amplify our positive impact, we will rely on the strengths that have led us thus far: translating keen insight into innovative products that unleash human potential. This insight is directed not only toward products and applications, but also toward global sustainability solutions that help our company live up to its responsibilities as a world citizen, now and in the years to come. As we work to amplify our positive impact, we will rely on the strengths that have led us thus far: translating keen insight into innovative products that unleash human potential. VALUES THAT UNITE US Although our company stretches across the globe, there are common ideals that bind and unify us. As you’ll hear us say throughout this report, we believe From Malaysia to Mexico, Grand Rapids to Rosenheim, that people are at the heart of sustainability. Shared we all adhere to values that provide a foundation for values help create a common bond, an expectation our daily decisions and actions. of behavior, mutual respect and trust. We know that some of the most important work we can do is to  Act with integrity foster a human-centered culture, from the ways we  Tell the truth treat each other to the products we make. That’s why  Keep commitments we take our culture very seriously – it’s what makes us  Treat people with dignity and respect who we are, and more importantly, who we can become.  Promote positive relationships  Protect the environment  Excel This is where we start – every day, every decision, every deed. These values inform our actions, and guide our business strategy. They are at the heart of how we approach sustainability as an asset of our company that we continue to strengthen. You’ll see these values, and our latest work to nurture and bolster our culture, expressed throughout this report. 5 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Just as our corporate values strengthen us, we also KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES hold deep beliefs around sustainability. These beliefs We’re widening our aperture as we continue to elevate stem from our unwavering commitment, provide a sustainability as a lens for innovation throughout our north star for our actions and keep us striving for globally integrated enterprise. Tackling the challenges more. We believe in: of today and tomorrow demands a global perspective – and as a global company, we’re developing new strategies, T  ransparency and authenticity: When we meet our programs, policies, and initiatives that allow us to goals, we’ll stop for a moment to celebrate, but leverage our leadership position. quickly move on to the next challenge. When we miss our targets, we diagnose what didn’t work, Our commitment is to: correct our approach, and push toward resolution  Strengthen sustainable development in our world Products and solutions designed to benefit people wide operations and supplier partners, including  Actions that further the science and practice of environmental and human health, social responsibility sustainability through collaboration and cooperation and economic prosperity with key partners including customers, suppliers and E  nsure operations protect the environment and thought leaders health of our employees, neighbors and customers  Socially responsible operations through actions that conserve resources, reduce  Collaboration with and increasing expectations waste and promote a closed loop system of our supply chain partners  Invest in education and training to increase stakeholder  Reporting of global metrics to show our progress engagement as well as employee ownership and and guide our focus for improvement stewardship  Our potential to reduce our global environmental  Engage with suppliers, dealers, customers, researchers, footprint by another 25% by 2020 and environmental agencies  Create deeper partnerships and collaboration with all ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS our stakeholders to form shared priorities and leadership We’re setting our sights high as we think about what it decisions that will create lasting positive impacts means to create holistic value as a globally integrated company operating in a globally connected world. We’ve been on a quest for insights and understanding around sustainability and its impact on and meaning to our stakeholders now and in the future. Beginning in 2011 and continuing into 2012 we have: E  mbarked on a company-wide corporate social and environmental responsibility diagnostic We’re setting our sights high as we  Surveyed our customers and studied their inquiries to understand their corporate priorities around think about what it means to create sustainability  Hosted workshops to listen to architect and design holistic value as a globally integrated partners, customers and other thought leaders on their vision for the future of sustainability company operating in a globally  Completed an internal culture survey to help us further understand the expectations of our employees connected world. The purpose of all this work is to help Steelcase advance our social and environmental performance to match the expectations of our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. In addition, we’ve formalized a Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee, a diverse group of dedicated and passionate senior leaders who will be responsible for leveraging business insights, and providing leadership, direction and accountability for a global sustainability experience platform. Read more about this in the Governance section. 6 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Targets and Performance Careful measurement is We’re committed to measuring and reporting on our progress in a transparent and authentic way. key to managing impact This is a snapshot of the information we’re using to measure ourselves against social, environmental and economic domains. We’ll continuously strive to expand our reporting as we begin tracking metrics in areas we haven’t addressed before, refine existing metrics for global accuracy and improve our focus on sustainability and comprehensive progress reporting. For more metrics, please see the GRI index. SOCIAL FY 2012 FY 2013 FOR MORE INFORMATION Volunteer hours reported 5,361 6,538 Employee Impacts Employee retention 76.5% 80.4% Social Investment Monetary and in-kind $1.1 million (Steelcase Inc.) $1.54 million (Steelcase Inc.) Social Investment donations $3.9 million (The Steelcase FDN) $3.86 million (The Steelcase FDN) Number of women in 24% Americas 32% Americas Social Investment management globally 22% Europe, M.E., Africa (EMEA) 25% Europe, M.E., Africa (EMEA) 03% Asia Pacific 05% Asia Pacific ENVIRONMENT GOAL BY END OF CY 2020 CY 2012 FOR MORE INFORMATION Greenhouse 25% reduction 04% reduction Energy Use and Efficiency gas emissions VOC emissions 25% reduction 13% reduction Energy Use and Efficiency Water use 25% reduction 26% increase Water Conservation Waste 25% reduction 51% reduction Waste Reduction GOAL FY 2013 Renewable energy Continue investments 25% of electricity use in U.S.; Renewable Energy commitment in renewable energy 100% of electricity use in WorkLife and WorkLab centers in Paris and Strasbourg, France; 100% of electricity use in factories in Germany Percentage of products sold No official goal 90% (Americas) Innovative Products with sustainability certifications and Applications ECONOMIC FY 2012 FY 2013 FOR MORE INFORMATION Revenue $2.7 billion $2.9 billion Investor Relations Gross Profit 29.4% 30.2% Investor Relations Net income $56.7 million $38.8 million Investor Relations 7 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Customers J ONAS PRI S I N G / P R ESI D EN T, MA N P O WER G R O U P 8 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 10 Real Estate Optimization Our Workspring locations allow travelling employees the opportunity to work in an office setting. PG. 12 End of Use Strategies Our product take back program is one of the longest standing in the industry. O UR PROM ISE TO CU S T OM E RS Helping our customers succeed in their business and meet their sustainability goals is priority #1 at Steelcase. We deliver on that commitment with research-backed PG. 13 strategies, innovative end of use solutions, a robust supply chain, and products that help unlock the Sustainable Procurement promise of our customers’ employees. That’s our promise to customers. Strategies There were a total of 182 environmental metrics reports completed in 2012. PG. 14 Employee Wellbeing and Productivity On many of our products, we examine their chemical makeup down to 100 parts per million. 9 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Real Estate Optimization Optimizing space starts with understanding how people PROMISE Use our research-based expertise to help businesses maximize real work today, their evolving needs, and what they need to estate as well as employees’ workplace experiences and performance. do their best work. As a human-centered company, we Offer innovative products and services that meet the changing space needs of today’s businesses using fewer natural resources. spend considerable time and resources researching and designing products and experiences that help companies RESULTS get the most from their real estate, even when space Higher utilization rates, increased collaboration and solutions for different is compressed. After all, a smaller real estate footprint work modes all in a smaller, optimized footprint. Flexible new workplace experience options that allow people to use space only when needed. means a more sustainable one – with less construction cost and impact, less energy use, and fewer greenhouse gas emissions. RECLAIMING WORKSPACE ENGAGING THE MOBILE WORKFORCE Traditional office space is undergoing a radical One of the most dramatic shifts in the workplace is transformation. In today’s economy, businesses the rise of the mobile worker. Today, employees can continue to scale back. Now, companies, employees be located anywhere, connected through technology. and spaces must work harder than ever. Workplaces Teams are spread across offices, time zones, and are now held to higher standards – they must continents. Modern collaboration is a balancing act simultaneously maximize space utilization, foster of virtual and physical presence, enhanced by seamcollaboration, reinforce the brand and culture, and less work solutions including home office or third place contribute to talent retention. Buildings consume co-working locations. These innovative approaches nearly 40 percent of the world’s energy. At the same reduce commuting and airline travel, conserving time, work styles and staff levels have fluctuated, energy and greenhouse gas emissions. With these often leaving between 40-50 percent of workspace tools in place, today’s mobile workers can spend empty or underutilized. By any measure – business, more time thinking and innovating, and less time environmental, or social – this is simply unacceptable. away from home. SOLUTIONS FOR DIFFERENT WORK MODES Our Workspring locations allow travelling Our deep insights into how people work have revealed four fundamental work styles. People collaborate. employees the opportunity to work in They focus. Learn. Socialize. And each work style demands its own tools and space design. By thinking an office setting. of spaces in a comprehensive way, each need is met in a range of options and places, no matter what the employees’ task. From private pods to team spaces, assigned places to shared environments, we design We’re working with companies to make their spaces each space to enhance the users’ experience, helping more efficient, more collaborative and more engaging. to unlock the potential of each person. As we re-create Every square foot is considered part of a holistic spaces to work harder, utilization and productivity space portfolio, designed to accommodate employees’ rise, functionality increases and people feel more various modes of work, from mobile workers to longsupported. No matter what the need, Steelcase’s term, team-based collaboration. With this approach, insight-based solutions enrich the workplace and fully we’re helping companies reimagine their old cafeterias realize human promise, one smart space at a time. into modern work cafes used throughout the day for meeting, socializing and cultural transformation. We’re abandoning the old paradigm of individual private offices in favor of unassigned, shared settings. We create spaces that facilitate communication through proximity, technology and shared experiences. This is the future of the workplace, and we’re at the forefront of the revolution. 10 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T SUCCES S S T ORY A New Way to Work: Workspring Redefines Office Space In Chicago’s busy Inland Steel Building, on the 4th floor, there’s a quiet revolution underway. This is where you’ll find entrepreneurs, established business leaders, international sales people, individual consultants, building tenants and dedicated project teams all together. Designed as a complete workspace experience, Workspring® builds on the idea of collaborative consumption – the idea of access instead of ownership. Members may not need permanent office space, but do need a medium-term location, better solutions for their mobile employees than the local coffee shop, or room for an event. Workspring caters to these increasingly common needs with a range of options from collaboration spaces to social spaces. Our current locations provide important insights into how to scale up Workspring. We’ve installed one new location in partnership with Marriot, with another two in the plans. Builders are also showing great interest in providing Workspring locations to their tenants as a differentiated building amenity. Other companies realize the sustainability benefits – encouraging urban-based workers to stay in the city and work at Workspring instead of commuting to suburban headquarter locations. Workspring is truly the workspace of the future as more workers go mobile, and as more companies embrace a sustainable footprint and work style. 11 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T End of Use Strategies Every year, we extend the useful life of thousands of products. PROMISE Help customers reduce waste and find new uses for their used office Through our end of use program, we’re helping businesses furniture, keeping it out of landfills. dispose of their surplus office furniture in socially, economically and environmentally responsible ways. First, we work with RESULTS them to understand the situation. Then, with our partners, Steelcase offers customers a range of responsible options from reuse to recycling, refurbishing to donating, helping customers meet their we present options that meet their goals, whether it’s sustainability goals and fulfilling our sustainability promise. income, landfill diversion or charitable donation. Our end of use program is proof that the threads of sustainability are woven into every stage of our business. SELLING MATERIALS RECLAMATION For customers who want to generate revenue from We live in a world of finite resources. That’s why we their used office furniture, we help them establish fair take the time to reclaim and recycle materials from market value and can act as a sales agent on the office furniture, despite the complexity involved. To open market. In other cases, we can provide credit make this process more efficient, we start with product against new Steelcase furnishings. design, including components and materials that are easily recycled. By closing the loop with materials, REFURBISHING we’re making the best use of natural resources so future generations can have what they need to thrive. By applying new fabric, new finishes or adding new components, furniture can take on a productive ASSET MANAGEMENT second life. In fact, reusing existing furniture can contribute to LEED certification credits. Tracking inventory and needs across multiple locations can be a time-consuming task for businesses. We help CHARITABLE REUSE by managing our customers’ inventories and matching need with stock items, making their investments By matching businesses’ unused furniture with nongo further. profit and charitable organizations, we help people and the environment. Our reach extends beyond these businesses’ backyards, and in some cases, we can connect globally, sending furniture to where it’s needed most. Whether it’s to repair damage caused by natural disasters or simply to support an organization in need, we provide assistance from beginning to end. S UCCESS STORY Walking the Walk What happens when the customer is your own company? That was First, Steelcase’s corporate relations team arranged for multiple exactly the case when we relocated employees from our Corporate items to go to local charities that couldn’t otherwise afford them. Development Center (CDC) to another campus. Suddenly, Steelcase Recipients included the Urban League of Grand Rapids, Community had seven floors of furniture with nowhere to go, and we didn’t Media Center and Heart of West Michigan United Way. want it to end up in a landfill. Then, a local buyer purchased the remaining furniture for a set price So, just as we do for our customers, we turned to our experts and resold it to organizations in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, in ReMarket, our used furniture division, and Phase 2, our Illinois, Ohio, Missouri, Texas and other parts of Michigan. decommissioning program that helps customers understand the value of their existing furniture and develops strategies used Most importantly, we avoided sending CDC furniture to the landfill. in the product migration phase. With stories like these, it’s clear that we not only talk a good game In our case, we had: when it comes to sustainability, we’re actually living it and experiencing  More than 550 tables the same things our customers do every day.  More than 600 lateral files  More than 600 mobile pedestals  Storage cabinets, bookcases, lighting, towers and metal shelving  Plus many, many workstations, such as Post and Beam, Answer and Elective Elements 12 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Sustainable Procurement Strategies We’re serious about reaching our sustainability goals, PROMISE Add value to every customer relationship by but our real passion is helping our customers meet theirs. helping them achieve their sustainability goals. It’s our biggest opportunity to scale our impact. With products designed to support human and environmental RESULTS health, and the wellbeing of both people and the planet, Products that can contribute to LEED credits, metric-based decision-making tools and we’re providing real value to every purchase. With our third-party certified products. suite of tools, we help our customers understand their impacts, from real estate to furnishings, and help them make more informed, more responsible decisions. DESIGN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT We take a closed loop approach to design. We begin by examining the chemical profiles of proposed product components to 100 parts per million, to ensure they meet our strict standards around human and environmental health. And, when we encounter materials of concern, we actively work to eliminate them. There were a total of 182 environmental We measure impacts of key products at every phase – metrics reports completed in 2012. design, manufacture, delivery, use and reuse, recycling, and end of use – always on the lookout for ways to improve. We design for maximum flexibility, so as customers’ needs change, they can more easily adapt our products to fit. Finally, when our customers are ready for new furnishings, they can take part in our end of use program. For more information, please ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS see the Innovative Products and Applications section and End of Use Strategies sections. Better decisions are made when you know more. By collecting and analyzing the details, we help LEED CONTRIBUTIONS customers measure the human and environmental impacts of their office furniture purchases. We not LEED certification continues to be of great interest only measure their past purchases, but look forward to many customers, and we provide expert guidance to future needs, applying rigorous recognized and and training programs to help identify the products respected sustainability certifications, recycled content, and programs that can help contribute to LEED criteria. We counsel customers on: material makeup and product weight. Although this is currently offered only in the Americas, we plan to  M  aterials and resources make environmental metrics reporting available globally in the coming year.  Indoor environmental quality and innovation  Ergonomic training CERTIFICATIONS  Sustainability training  Innovation in design From indoor air quality to materials chemistry, textiles  Low-emitting materials to sustainably harvested wood, we work with numerous  Systems furniture third-party certifiers to ensure our products meet or exceed environmental and social sustainability For more information on our products’ environmental standards. We don’t design to any singular standard; attributes, please refer to the Product Environmental rather, we set our own criteria. Our work contributes Profiles section of our website (www.steelcase.com/ to many certifications, providing external assurance pep) in the Americas. This information is also available of our progress. While it’s rewarding to be recognized, by request in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and we’re focused on exceeding today’s standards and Africa) and AP (Asia Pacific) regions. inspired by a higher standard of leadership performance. 13 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Employee Wellbeing and Productivity PROMISE Use our insights to create workspaces that holistically address the wellbeing and productivity of our customers’ employees Our commitment to enhancing the overall wellbeing and and positively influence the way they feel and how they perform. productivity of our customers’ employees starts at the very beginning – in the product creation process. Together RESULTS Products and applications that provide ergonomic support, with our research partners from leading universities and encourage movement and support the physical, mental and institutes, we’ve uncovered meaningful insights into how social wellbeing of people. to best support people at work. As our products and applications are integrated into workspaces, our customers are experiencing lower health care costs, improved productivity and a more innovative culture – setting the stage for economic growth and new solutions to pressing global challenges. Never before has wellbeing been so A RANGE OF SETTINGS important, and Steelcase is providing meaningful solutions When workers control how and where they work, their wellbeing is greatly enhanced. There are three keys to companies can use immediately. this delicate balancing act: P rovide spaces that support a wide range of tasks M ake it easy to switch between work modes AVOIDING MATERIALS OF CONCERN A llow people to migrate between collaborative and When it comes to what goes into our products, private environments so they can focus, re-energize we care. We not only examine the chemical makeup and de-stress as needed of many of our products, we’re also continuously scouting sustainable options to support human and We incorporate design elements and product solutions environmental health. As more innovative materials to meet each need, taking into account the particular come online, we’ll be testing them to see if they meet work styles and culture of each customer and their our standards for exceptional performance. Where workforce, to provide a complete palette of settings. they don’t exist, we’ll work with material manufacturers We know that when you provide the right work to create them. We work to make sure that only the environment for the task, better ideas result. best will make it into our products, so customers and their employees can be assured that their office DRIVING PRODUCTIVITY environment contributes to their overall wellbeing. In the current economic climate, wellbeing is a financial imperative. The success of businesses today depends on the health and wellbeing of employees, and we’re On many of our products, we examine applying our knowledge to create environments that go well beyond safety – they encourage better health their chemical makeup down to and wellbeing. With spaces that promote interaction, movement and productivity across different types of 100 parts per million tasks, the stage is set for success. Employees function at a higher level, leading to innovation, creativity and ultimately, better business results. ENCOURAGING MOVEMENT WELCOMING NATURE Sitting all day contributes to a sedentary lifestyle. Our As technology becomes more embedded in work research, as well as that of leading medical researchers, environments, we’re working to balance that with the documents the physical benefits of movement, including human connection to the natural environment. Studies increased blood flow to limbs, and a steady flow of have shown that people respond very positively to oxygen and energy-providing glucose to the brain. natural light, outside views and fresh air. So our products That’s why we design products that not only allow and applications allow for transparency to allow light for, but also encourage, movement as one of our flow, easy access to walkways, patios, and terraces signatures. Our products work to share the load to strengthen employees’ feelings of wellbeing. among muscles, ligaments and nerves, so people We also bring the outdoors in with natural materials, who use our products benefit from the opportunity colors and textures, so there’s a seamless connection to move and engage their bodies in more active ways. to the outdoors. We’re not just thinking about workspace We want them to swivel, lean, stretch and fidget and as a built environment, we’re thinking about its connection we designed products so they can. to the larger environment. 14 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T SUCCES S S T ORY Turning Heads with a turnstone Makeover Not every business can afford to outfit their space R  ural Iowa’s first co-working space, Veel Hoeden, with new office furniture – but every business deserves opened its doors in Pella with bootstrapped furniture a work environment that creates happier, more reclaimed from people’s homes. In no time, the productive employees. That was the inspiration for outsized, cluttered collection became a distraction an innovative contest, called “Win A Sweet New Office” for the small businesses, entrepreneurs and startups sponsored by turnstone®. that use the space. Like many others, the company’s founder used to think of real estate in terms of The contest encouraged entrepreneurs from across square footage. Not any more. “Our space became the country to submit a short video demonstrating the opportunity for people to collaborate and build why a great workplace would make a difference. Five relationships,” he said. “Every time I walk around the lucky winners from a pool of more than 200 entrants space, I say ‘That’s my favorite thing.’ But then two each received a $25,000 office makeover, transforming minutes later, I’m like ‘No, that’s my favorite thing.’” their spaces to ones they can be proud of. As one of the winners put it, “Look at us now.” F  racture, a small business in Gainesville, FL prints photos on glass. A combination e-marketing and manufacturing company, they needed creative collaboration areas. Thanks to turnstone, their space transformed from dumpster-dive décor to a sleek, modern, hipster hangout that’s truly reflective of their vision.  Infomedia, a 25-person digital marketing agency headquartered in Birmingham, AL literally changed the way they do business after their turnstone makeover. Their old collection of mismatched desks embarrassed them, and they never brought clients to their office. But now, they invite people in to see their exciting new space. “It’s unleashed the power of our people,” said one of Infomedia’s owners.  Two-person startup HopeFULL Company makes and sells whole food popsicle kits for chemotherapy patients who are having a hard time eating. The St. Paul, MN duo outgrew their home office, and decided to get their first official workspace which needed kitchen space as well as product development  IncubateNYC has always had plenty of enthusiasm, and marketing space. “We used to kick people out connections and great ideas for startup businesses. of their kitchens,” said one of the partners. “Now our What they were missing, however, was a space to new space feels like home, but we have more focus call home. Their passion for building a community and intention. We didn’t have that before.” of entrepreneurs needed a space that provided more than just an office – they wanted a space that would also inspire. After their turnstone makeover, IncubateNYC has become a hub for forward thinking and collaborative spirit. Many of their colleagues say they prefer working at IncubateNYC’s redesigned offices instead of their own space. IncubateNYC is getting it done, right in the heart of Harlem. When people walk in their door, anything is possible. 15 | C ustomers STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Partners JEAN-MARIE MURPHY / VICE PRESIDENT, CHANNEL DEVELOPMENT & WORKPLACES SERVICES 16 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 18 Key Partners Collaboration is key to making true and lasting change. PG. 19 Suppliers More than 300 suppliers attended this year’s Supplier Conference. O UR PROM ISE TO PART NE RS Creating lasting change takes a committed team, and we’re fortunate to work with some of the finest partners in the industry. From universities to suppliers, dealers to community PG. 20 organizations, we’re forging a more innovative, sustainable future through collaboration. That’s Dealers our promise to our partners. 650 dealers worldwide creating a dynamic network of experts. 17 | Partners STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Key Partners PROMISE Working together is almost always more powerful than Collaborate closely with all our key partners to develop working alone. When you work together with partners pioneering ideas that will lead to the next breakthrough. of the caliber we’re privileged to work with, the results are especially powerful. Working with some of the world’s RESULTS leading change agents and innovators, we’re designing More frequent and transparent communication, innovative partnerships leading to new ideas that create lasting change. what’s next. CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Our relationship with customers extends far beyond Our sustainability story may be said to start with our any mere transaction. Simply put, customers are a suppliers. We’re working hand in hand with our supply deep source of inspiration. Their changing needs and chain on pressing issues like materials assessment, insights, evolving sustainability goals and leadership worker safety, technology, process improvements, aspirations motivate us to push harder. For more, avoiding chemicals of concern, and strategies for please read our Customer sections – Real Estate energy and waste reduction. With our supply chain Optimization, End of Use Strategies, Procurement partners, we’re creating lasting change that starts at Strategies and Employee Wellbeing and Productivity. the very beginning, before anything is created. Keep reading in our Supplier Partners section. EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES Employees are our competitive advantage and path to future success. We’re taking bold steps to increase When you’re a global company, every community is employee wellbeing, build trust and ensure all of our your hometown. Supporting healthy, diverse, thriving colleagues reach their full potential. We rely on the communities is part of our long history, and we’re imagination, passion and commitment to excellence proud of the hundreds of ways we contribute to our employees bring to the job every day. Around making the world a better place, one neighborhood the world, we’re creating working environments and at a time. It’s a virtuous circle – when we give back cultures that support the whole person, and encourage to the communities that support us, they lend us their personal and professional growth. Want to learn support in return. Our innate commitment to being more? Read our Employee sections – Wellbeing, a responsible world citizen is who we are today and Training and Development, Workplace Health and in the years to come. Read about our community Safety, and Diversity. involvement in the Communities section. DEALER NETWORK ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH PARTNERS Dealers are our direct link to the communities and Change flows from original thinking, so we partner customers we serve. They do more than sell furniture. with trusted academic and research entities to create They’re our partners, our eyes and ears, hands and new ideas and infuse them into our company. Together, hearts. They bring our products and philosophy to life. we’re undertaking exciting, cutting edge research that They bring their entrepreneurial spirit to our enterprise. helps us improve our practices, reach our sustainability Together, we’re supporting worthy organizations and goals and create actionable ideas. causes – creating thriving communities and a spirit of true collaboration. Read more in our Dealers section. SU CCE S S S T ORY incorporate solar power into her practice? How could she use this new approach to provide power One Good Idea Leads to Another in the operating room during frequent blackouts? How could she get a solar powered medical In conjunction with professors from Grand Valley emergency system? State University, Steelcase researchers recently began investigating the feasibility of a solarThe mental gears started churning, and soon, powered desk. The idea was to configure a solar plans were being reviewed by team members, power system that could power a laptop for including representatives from Steelcase’s IT eight hours in an outdoor environment. Together Innovation Management office. Today, many of with students, GVSU professors developed a the doctor’s patients are benefitting from this two-panel solution that is now being tested. amazing interaction through solar-powered lighting and a solar-powered surgery suction But during conversations with Steelcase, machine. They say that necessity is the mother a different problem emerged from an unlikely of invention, and in this case, two much-needed source – one of the professor’s cousins, a medical situations were improved through the power doctor in Malawi, Africa. How could she of collaboration. 18 | Partners STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Suppliers Our products are only as good as the parts that go into PROMISE Source materials from suppliers based on strict standards for quality, them. That’s why we see our suppliers as true partners technical competence, innovation, price, sustainability, performance in innovation. We’re discerning about teaming up with the and on-time deliveries. Collaborate with our suppliers to invent better processes and materials solutions. best suppliers, knowing that our suppliers’ performance RESULTS directly impacts our performance. And performance isn’t A new Supplier Code of Conduct outlining our expectations. Continually something we ever compromise. Period. searching the globe for suppliers who share our values around social and environmental responsibility. OUTLINING EXPECTATIONS SU C C ESS ST O RY As we continue to push ahead together with our Bringing It All Together: suppliers, it’s important that we each have clear expectations of one another. That’s why we unveiled Supplier Conference a Supplier Code of Conduct that explicitly states our requirements, values and approach to sustainability. The Code of Conduct covers:  Performance requirements  Organizational governance  Human rights  Fair labor practices  Environment  Fair operating practices  Consumer issues  Community involvement Every year, Steelcase hosts a meeting with The Code of Conduct is already in place in North our key suppliers to discuss our go-forward America, and will be rolled out in Europe and Asia strategy. These discussions help align our Pacific in the coming year. mutual interests and help us all compete more effectively in the marketplace. More than 300 suppliers attended In 2012, more than 300 suppliers and 200 Steelcase employees attended the this year’s Supplier Conference. North America conference and heard from Steelcase CEO Jim Hackett, and President as well as Chief Operating Officer Jim Keane. Over the course of a day and a half, attendees Why have we gone to all this trouble? So our partners also enjoyed additional breakout sessions understand our high standards, and so we deliver on the new code of conduct, business continuity on our promise to be a responsible manufacturer at planning and social networking that also every step. We are continually searching the globe offered new ideas and insights. for suppliers who share our values around social and environmental responsibility. While it’s our suppliers’ job to provide us with the highest quality products and services, we believe it’s our job to supply them with a clear set of objectives and expectations so we can all succeed together. 19 | Partners STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Dealers Dealers help us realize our full potential. They provide PROMISE Support our network of independent dealers as they bring the valuable local knowledge, skilled talent, expert installation Steelcase experience to life in their showrooms and communities. and regional asset management. They bring our insights to life, providing valuable workplace recommendations RESULTS to businesses. Some even offer a full suite of services, A dynamic team of dealers backed by a diverse collection of Steelcase employees. A new level of recognition for outstanding from turnkey installation of audio-visual technology, performance in sales, diversity and environmental responsibility. to floor coverings, ceilings and other interior fittings. We’re here to support these energetic entrepreneurs as they help us achieve our goals while they achieve theirs. BACKED BY EXPERIENCE ENHANCING DIVERSITY We do everything we can to ensure our dealers’ We encourage all dealers, regardless of partner status, success. From education and training to providing to embrace diversity. To us, that means the workforce industry-leading research and insights, we’re arming should reflect the community in which it operates. We them with what it takes to do an exceptional job. believe the more diverse we are, the more voices that We’re proud to offer dealers attractive sales incentives participate in the conversation, the better the results and ongoing training, including modules on merger will be. And we’re proud of the symphony of voices integration and new dealer sales training. In North in our dealer network. America, more than 40 people support the dealer network across multiple departments: from IT to TRACKING SUSTAINABILITY finance, operations to sales. Our dealers are stepping up their sustainability efforts across the board with innovative ways to reduce their RECOGNIZING EXCELLENCE environmental footprint. Here are some examples of For the third consecutive year, Steelcase is pleased individual dealer impacts: to offer dealers a higher level of recognition – Platinum Partners. This exclusive status is only being offered to G  oing carbon neutral by purchasing carbon offsets dealers in the US and Canada that meet high standards for their business usage as well as their employees’ in quality and performance. To qualify, dealers must commute demonstrate achievement of criteria within three  Refurbishing more than 1,000 workstations categories: Drive Success, Inspire Great Experiences,  Helping customers donate their used furnishings and Build A Strong Organization. to worthy local organizations  Donating trucks to deliver emergency supplies and food in disaster areas Dealers’ efforts extend our own commitments, creating a greater ripple effect in the communities we serve. SU CCE S S S T ORY  In the last three years, the dealership has recycled more than 1.58 million pounds of Bringing It All Together: materials including metals, cardboard, paper, Supplier Conference EPS, HDPE, aluminum and plastics.  In 2012, income earned from recycling offset all waste removal fees by more than double. About six years ago, a small group of employees  All interior lighting and warehouse fixtures have at one of our dealers embarked on a mission been upgraded to more energy-efficient lighting. to improve their company’s sustainability results. Interior lighting energy usage plummeted from Specifically, they wanted to expand their reduce, 5290 watts to 758 for all fixtures. Warehouse recycle and reuse practices, cut their energy use, fixtures have already paid for themselves after and incorporate more sustainable products in two and a half years. their daily business operations. What started as a handful of people is now a company-wide initiative When it comes to results, what really matters with impressive results. is the size of your commitment. No matter how big or small your business, your team, or your  In 2010, these employees set a goal to reduce operating budget, sustainability drives tangible waste going to the landfill, and today, they’ve benefits to business and the environment. gone from 20 dumpsters a year to two. 20 | Partners STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Communities DE B BAI LE Y / DI RE CTO R , C O R P O R ATE C O MMU N I T Y R EL AT I O N S 21 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 23 Social Investment Steelcase Inc. and The Steelcase Foundation together donated more than $5 million dollars O UR PROM ISE TO CO M M UNI T I E S to local and international organizations. We value our global relationships, sharing our resources, talents, materials and leadership to tackle entrenched issues like education and environment. Change happens on the local level, and we’re working PG. 24 hard to make a difference for individuals, communities and all of humankind. That’s our promise to communities. Employee Impacts Our employees volunteered a total of 6,538 hours in 2012. 22 | C ommunities STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Social Investment CORPORATE GIVING – ON A GLOBAL SCALE PROMISE Create positive impacts in the communities where we live, For more than a century, responsible corporate serve and share through our time, skills, and global resources. citizenship has been a hallmark of Steelcase’s philosophy. Historically, our focus has mainly been centered in the Americas, but that’s changed as we RESULTS Increased corporate, local and employee involvement; have become a true globally integrated enterprise. expanded global focus; developing new reporting and giving This is an exciting time for us, as we continually take policies; thriving communities and hundreds of lives touched. on new challenges in new areas of the world, and find ways to invest in a better future for us all. Today, as a global company, we’re developing more formalized internal processes to inspire, track and create opportunities to help all the communities we touch, everywhere we work. Internal process improvement is imperative, but we remain committed to and inspired by our hands-on contributions. SU C C ESS ST O RY Here are a few highlights of what we’ve accomplished in 2012: Dreaming Big  Identified more than 20 employees, each from a For years, Steelcase’s involvement with different community, to be global champions of United Way has been a role model for Steelcase’s local grassroots efforts. These champions other companies. But for Steelcase CEO will help identify community involvement opportunities, Jim Hackett, local leadership simply isn’t organize projects, track and report progress. enough. In July, Hackett gathered leaders  Led a community immersion day with global champions of global companies headquartered in to learn best practices from Grand Rapids, MI-based West Michigan to discuss global expansion organizations Steelcase supports. The global with United Way. This group, which includes champions are incorporating what they learned top regional organizations, is exploring a into their local communities, building social capital pilot program in Europe to encourage new and expressing our global values. avenues of giving. It’s conversations like  Created and shared quarterly reports on global these that lead to large-scale positive activities with local champions, senior leadership, change – and it all started with Steelcase. the Steelcase Foundation, and Steelcase’s Board of Directors. Steelcase Inc. and The Steelcase OUR CORPORATE GIVING PHILOSOPHY For us, corporate giving isn’t simply checkbook Foundation together donated more philanthropy. In place of making a one-time contribution, we prefer to invest in more meaningful ways that create than $5 million dollars to local and healthier organizations, solve immediate problems and build long-term bridges to the future. We believe international organizations. in helping our partners create capacity for growth, success and self-sufficiency. Steelcase has donated $1.54 million to local and global organizations in the last year. But we contribute more than just money – we donate time, expertise and other valuable resources. We begin by asking how we can create change, often sparking critical conversations that lead to new opportunities and new ways to help. FOUNDATION GIVING The Steelcase Foundation, an independently operated organization, is a major philanthropic force in West Michigan, with its emphasis on human service, health, education, community development, the arts, and environment. In 2012, our partners received $3.5 million in grants to support programs. 23 | C ommunities STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Employee Impacts We believe in the power of the individual to influence PROMISE To provide opportunities and support to employees in their efforts to change. That’s why we encourage our employees to create lasting change in the communities where we live, work and serve. give back to their communities with their time, talents and resources. These projects, both large and small, RESULTS touch the lives of those most in need across the globe, Grassroots efforts that are improving conditions and creating hope. providing vital assistance, collaboration and most importantly, hope. This is how, every day, in every region, we’re unlocking human promise so we can share a brighter future. EMPLOYEE IMPACTS SU C C ESS ST O RY Time after time, our employees go above and beyond Commitment in Cluj to help create better communities around the world. We celebrate their passion, encourage their involvement and support their ideas no matter where they may be. The Romanian city of Cluj is home to more Here are a few examples: than 300,000 people and a thriving Steelcase Global Business Center. Sustainability E  urope: Sponsored Saint Odile House, providing is also thriving at the Center thanks to protection for homeless children; Red Cross blood the actions of a committee which organizes drives; fulfilling Christmas wishes for needy children numerous events throughout the year to  Hong Kong: Volunteers cleaned up Tung Wan beach serve the local community.  Latin America: Ongoing volunteer involvement with Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos, an orphanage in U nwrapping Happiness: Christmas is Monterrey, Mexico supposed to be a time of smiling faces  US: Biggest corporate United Way contributor in and surprises. But for some of the less Grand Rapids, Mich. despite being the 17th largest fortunate children of three Romanian villages, area employer last Christmas looked pretty bleak. The committee partnered with WorldVision to answer the holiday wishes of 64 local children, aged three to twelve. Our employees volunteered Committee members coordinated fundraising, a total of 6,538 hours in 2012. collecting 3,105 RON to buy gifts for the children. Volunteers wrapped the gifts and helped Santa Claus himself deliver them to the villages. Bubbles, dolls, racecars and other toys brought bright smiles and Christmas cheer to everyone – not just the children. K icking It Up A Notch: Steelcase employees formed a football (soccer) team to compete in a local charity tournament. The team, comprised of six employees, helped raise 9,870 RON for Asociatia Familia Regasita, a local organization that benefits underprivileged children. That’s one CSR team that’s really living up to its goals. O pening Minds: In rural Romania, children’s access to books and libraries is extremely limited, but thanks to Cluj employees and WorldVision, there are new books available. The program, called “You can change a life with a book,” reached more than 15,000 children through direct book and cash donations. Steelcase employees donated 44 books and redirected 2 percent of their income taxes to support this important initiative. 24 | C ommunities STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Employees LAURE NT BE RNARD / VI C E P R ESI D EN T, G L O B A L TA L EN T MA N A G EMEN T 25 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 27 Wellbeing Our new Why Weight? Program is helping more than 100 Steelcase employees lose weight and be healthier. PG. 28 Training and Development Our Global Business Standards course has been taken by over 80% of our global workforce, representing 376,776 hours of O UR PROM ISE TO EMPLOY E E S employee training. We honor the unique talents, skills and perspectives of our employees, knowing full well that their contributions are what propel us. We value the whole person, and seek to help each PG. 30 employee fulfill their highest potential through policies, practices and honest engagement. That’s our Workplace Health and Safety promise to employees. 100% of our global security personnel are trained in Steelcase’s human rights policies and procedures. PG. 31 Diversity and Inclusion Over 40% of Steelcase’s Executive Officers are women. 26 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Wellbeing A BROADER VISION PROMISE Help our employees and their families enjoy a happy, healthy We have made the commitment to a more holistic life through work-life balance, competitive salaries and benefits, and broader approach to employee wellbeing. Our confidentiality and respect. strategy is to incorporate all aspects of wellbeing into each local plan around the world, ensuring employees RESULTS Increased employee engagement; expanded offerings. are engaged, healthy, productive and happy. As part of that work, our teams are exploring ways to help employees address issues dealing with diet, exercise and alcohol and tobacco use. It’s one more step we’re taking to help improve the overall health and wellbeing LAUNCHING WELLPOOL of our employees. Another exciting development is Wellpool, our new crowdsourcing platform which asks our employees to PROMOTING HEALTHY HABITS contribute innovative ideas to improve their wellbeing, We’re committed to helping our employees reach and vote on the suggestions they think are best. It’s their health and wellbeing goals, so we’re putting a great way to engage employees who are passionate some exciting new ideas into action. In several North about wellness, and tap into their imaginations for American locations, experiments are underway to creative ideas. help employees live healthier in every part of their lives. For example, employees at these beta sites Participants are encouraged to answer a set of can now enjoy: questions to help ensure their idea will be one that sparks widespread participation best optimizes time O  n-site chair massages to relieve stress and and financial investment. and keeps people motivated. muscle pain We’re currently working on implementing our first  Exercise areas outfitted with weights, yoga mats, two winning suggestions on the Grand Rapids, MI balls and a trainer campus – outdoor meeting spaces and healthy take Dynamic stretching programs home dinners. With ideas like these, and all those to  And outdoor walking paths to encourage movement. come, we’re aiming to make a positive impact on our employees’ work, lives, and wellbeing every day. Our new ‘Why Weight?’ Program is helping more than 100 Steelcase SU C C ESS ST O RY Creating a Culture of Weight employees lose weight and be healthier. Loss and Fitness In the future, we aim to expand these programs Obesity is an epidemic, and in many cases, it’s a preventable throughout our global locations, learning from condition. To address this serious issue, we’re rolling out new these early experiments and improving on the idea. programs that encourage employees to take control of their weight. Taking the first step is often the hardest, but each In addition, our Why Weight? weight-loss program successive one gets easier. We’re here to help employees attracted ten times as many initial volunteers as were stay on their path to a healthy weight through exercise, expected, and is helping nearly 100 people hit their diet and lifestyle changes. healthy weight goals. Positive results like these keep us inspired and motivated to do even more – and In several locations throughout the Steelcase footprint, we’re eager to roll out these programs on a larger employees are taking their first steps in a fitness journey. scale in the coming years. O  ur Why Weight? program at the Grand Rapids Wood plant: Kicked off in April, 19 participants met with coaches to establish personal baselines and set individual goals. By the end of the program in July, the group lost 275 lbs., or an average of 14.5 lbs. per person. But weight loss wasn’t the only result of the program. Participants’ blood pressure and cholesterol went down, prescribed medication was reduced, and energy levels increased.  Tennis anyone? In Strasbourg, France, 15 WorkLab employees practice tennis together twice a week, ultimately competing in two annual corporate competitions representing Steelcase. In addition to getting exercise, team leaders say it reinforces teamwork, networking and just having fun with co-workers.  Paying half of Weight Watchers cost: All U.S. employees and their spouses/domestic partners are now eligible to receive the 50% discount on the Weight Watchers at-work program, off-site meetings or online plan. 27 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Training and Development BUILDING A MORE RESILIENT CULTURE PROMISE To value each of our employees as individuals, and help them realize There are three main components at the heart their full potential. of a vibrant and resilient corporate culture – trust, collaboration, and innovation. We know that trust RESULTS and collaboration are the bedrock – you must have New training programs and ideas are moving the company’s culture both to drive innovation. Trust must be earned and forward across national boundaries, building cross-cultural capabilities continually nurtured, and collaboration helps build and understanding so we can achieve our strategic intent of being a it. That’s why every single day, we’re committed to truly integrated global company. creating an environment where every employee feels they can fully contribute because they trust in their leadership and colleagues. And it’s also why we want employees to know that their best interests and their voices, both personally and professionally, are being considered in decisions. This level of trust and collaboration makes us a better company, and ultimately, a stronger corporate citizen. The principle of innovation DEVELOPING LEADERS is what ultimately drives us to search for insights, constantly adjust our actions, and have an insatiable Global corporate citizenship requires a new breed desire to create and improve every process, product, of leadership, and we’re preparing the next generation or opportunity we touch to meet users’ needs. to face the challenges. Our new Global Leader Development experience is focused on providing We take this commitment very seriously. Several years interested employees with the resources and skills ago, we embarked on a long-term, global organizational necessary to become effective, positive leaders within culture project to build and strengthen trust, collaboration, and innovation. We continue to explore areas of opportunity, actively seek employee input and create sustainable solutions. Currently, our leaders and employees are actively involved in synthesizing the results of their work and designing the next steps of this research project. We’re looking forward to learning from this experience, and sharing how we can apply these insights to ourselves, our customers and business Our Global Business Standards partners across the globe. course has been taken by over 80% AMPLIFYING AWARENESS of our global workforce, representing As we move toward becoming a mature globally integrated enterprise, we face many inherent challenges 376,776 hours of employee training. and opportunities, including gaining greater crosscultural understanding. Learning to work across cultures, languages and experiences is key to our future success, and we’re investing a lot of time, energy and thought into this key transition. the company. The experience contains self-directed One of the most visible and exciting programs we’ve elements, allowing participants to personalize their introduced is the Global Awareness Workshop to learning experience while building greater self-awareness employees and leaders around the World. Every and shoring up skills and capabilities. In particular, employee also has access 24/7 to an online tool and we’re focusing on women in leadership, and are resource called the Culture Wizard, which includes actively working with experts on creating a global assessments, country-specific information, cultural program to provide support and training. It’s a new information and online courses. In the future, we plan world, and we’re preparing the leaders of tomorrow to offer expanded language training accessible to our to tackle the challenges of the future. employees. With this new training, employees will enjoy higher levels of collaboration, productivity, delivering better results for our customers, our company and our world. 28 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T TEACHING CRITICAL THINKING CONTINUOUS LEARNING In today’s hyper-speed business environment, we’re Our unquenchable thirst for knowledge means barraged with information and asked to make decisions we’re constantly learning and researching new ideas. that can have long-term impacts. Knowing how to But we don’t stop there – we believe in sharing our prioritize, analyze, understand and act on this information knowledge with others. Our robust suite of continuing is essential for continued success. Here at Steelcase, education courses (CEUs) offers architects, designers, we think critical thinking skills are so important that educators and students insight into the latest thinking. we’ve developed our own model of critical thinking. There are five major topic areas: Over the past several years, Steelcase employees have received training on the first part of the process – S  ustainability – global warming and carbon footprint aptly named Think, a multi-phased process that reduction, materials chemistry, certifications and focuses on deep research and insights to ensure waste management strategies. solutions designed to fit the opportunity or challenge  Industry-specific – hospitality, legal, and private office. at hand. Today, we’re rolling out a new module on the H  ealthcare – adult acute level, evidence-based next phase – Plan to Implement. This module emphasizes design, design for healing, environments for cancer iteration, prototyping, testing and co-creation with care, experiences in outpatient care, and pharmacies. those people most affected by the proposed solution. S  urface materials – sustainable fibers for interiors G  eneral learning – acoustics, call center trends, We know ideas are powerful, but action is what global culture code, ergonomics for the mobile creates true change. As more and more Steelcase workforce, the evolution of benching, Gen Y in the employees become fluent in the Plan to Implement US, India and China, Innovation in the workplace, phase, we’re excited about the positive impacts we wellbeing at work, and numerous others. can make around the globe. After all, when you act on great ideas, great things happen. Why do we share what we’ve learned? Because it’s another opportunity to amplify positive change INTRODUCING NEW IDEAS in the world – and to gain new partners on the path Exposure to thought leaders, best practices and cutting to sustainability. It’s a long path, and we welcome edge innovation fuels our intellectual curiosity. To feed the company. our appetite, we regularly invite our own employees and outside experts to share their ideas, creating a cycle of continuous learning and practice. For instance, the Curious Minds speakers series continues to bring well-respected thought leaders to Steelcase to share their wisdom and spark conversations. During the 2012-2013 Curious Minds season, for example, Steelcase hosted Susan Cain, author of Quiet, the Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking, to discuss introversion and extroversion. Steelcase employees also delivered provocative presentations, SU C C ESS ST O RY sharing their experience and learning from one another. So that all can learn, each presentation is recorded Teaching Leadership and made available to all employees, because you never know where the next big idea will come from. Leadership is a journey with no end. For 12 Steelcase employees from the Beijing and Shanghai offices in China, their journeys are just beginning. For the last year, these emerging leaders in training attended an intensive, hands-on program that helps individuals gain the skills they need to unlock their personal human promise and the promise in others. Completing this program is no easy task. Participants immersed themselves in six months of fundamental leadership skills training, and designed their own CHANGE project to deliver better business performance. This year, we celebrate their graduation from the program. Completing the course requires prolonged commitment, and we expect our newest leaders to make positive changes in their time at Steelcase. To mark the occasion, they gathered to share their leadership project results and personal growth visions. They received personal coaching, advice and congratulations from company leaders, as well as leadership development program certificates and a management book. Congratulations to our newest graduates – we look forward to hearing more ideas and seeing all their future accomplishments! 29 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Workplace Health and Safety TAKING CARE OF OUR PEOPLE PROMISE Create and maintain a safe, healthy, enriching workplace When it comes to safety, we leave nothing to chance. environment that meets or exceeds all applicable laws, environmental and corporate requirements. All our facilities have established safety programs, and we work hard to ensure that all health and safety RESULTS standards are observed. We track accidents, injuries Examining global issues, and addressing local concerns; and correct unsafe practices to make sure that our initiating a strategic shift from compliance to total wellness greatest resource – our people – are healthy, safe in all aspects of employees’ lives. and productive. As a global company, that means we’re responding Solving safety issues requires looking beyond the to a wide variety of conditions and taking on leadership immediate environment. Our approach to reducing roles in local communities where health and safety are repetitive motion injuries examines multiple factors not foregone conclusions. This is a powerful opportunity beyond job functions: we’re looking at all the stressors for us to improve the lives of our employees – an to help reduce incidents. We’ve incorporated dynamic opportunity we embrace with great excitement and pride. stretching exercises, as well as new diet, exercise and education programs that reduce the chances of injury. ACTING LOCALLY We’ll do whatever it takes to ensure that our employees In our Dongguan, China manufacturing facility, food return to their families safe and healthy. safety is a basic and important need. For our hundreds of employees there, Steelcase is rising to the call. ACCESSING INFORMATION Steelcase’s Chinese leadership is working hard to Making best practices and incident reports available provide better food, living conditions and workplace to all locations is an important priority for us because experience. For example, Chinese plant leaders toured it leads to a safer work environment for all our employees. US locations to understand how facility changes were Sharing best practices, seeing patterns, and gaining made. Now, a new WorkCafé environment is being built greater understanding lead to better solutions. This offering higher quality food and a better workplace year, we expanded access to our global database. experience for our Chinese employees. That’s the In addition, we’re investigating more robust technology power of global knowledge applied locally. platforms to make the user experience more efficient. After all, knowing more is the key to doing more, EXPANDING FOCUS and doing more means a safer work environment In the past, our energies had been largely directed for everyone. toward compliance in mature markets, ensuring we meet all health and safety standards. Now, we’re thinking about health and safety in broader terms. SU C C ESS ST O RY Over the years, manufacturing practices have changed, and will continue to evolve. It’s our challenge to ensure Employee Suggestion Improves we empower our people and strengthen our culture in order to be high performers. That’s why we’re Safety in Tijuana Plant expanding our focus to include wellbeing, with a vision toward creating a healthy, fully realized workforce After a new assembly process rolled out at our Amex de in more holistic ways. Read more about this shift in Mexico plant in Tijuana, an employee noticed a potential problem the Wellbeing section. during the second phase of work. Fabric needed to be pulled back, but this process might break the fabric and injure PREVENTING INCIDENTS employees. As a maintenance mechanic, he suggested We’re taking numerous proactive steps to avoid injuries. he could instead design and build a machine to complete To address two common injuries – saw-related and the operation, reducing risk of injury. repetitive motion – Steelcase is taking a preventative approach. Throughout our US and European After several weeks of design and construction, the machine manufacturing plants, new high-tech safety equipment is now improving safety on the production line. It not only is being installed on power saws, and is expected to automates and speeds up the assembly process, it also decrease accidents significantly. In the next several eliminates potential accidents. As the winner of our “Best years, this new equipment is planned to be rolled out Suggestion for FY13” program, this imaginative and resourceful around the globe, further improving our safety record. employee received a reward for his idea – but the real winners are all the assembly line workers who now have a safer work environment. 30 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Diversity and Inclusion As a global employer, diversity is a strategic imperative. PROMISE Create and foster a workplace that embraces and celebrates We know we’re only as strong as the employees we hire differences, and helps employees realize their full potential. and develop. That’s why we go to great lengths to ensure our workforce is a reflection of all the markets and RESULTS customers we serve. It’s why we seek to attract and A work environment that promotes respect and understanding; attracts and retains top talent; unlocks human promise. retain the best talent possible to create conversations with distinctly different points of view. A CORE FOCUS A FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE For decades, we’ve championed diversity within our We know the importance of a vibrant, creative and organization, but also within our suppliers, dealers and diverse workforce to our future success, and we have the communities we support. We’ve made significant policies and procedures in place that ensure fair hiring investments in urban education, hoping to create a and promotion, protection of vulnerable groups and more academically prepared workforce and a more anti-discrimination including: self-sufficient economy. Across our company footprint, we’re working with community organizations to bring  Global Business Standards sorely needed expertise, materials and hope to help  Equal Employment Opportunities build a brighter future for the global marketplace.  Assistance for Employees with Life-threatening Illnesses  Harassment Prevention Policy When it comes to a diverse workforce, compliance is  Core Values not enough. We make sure every employee receives  Corporate Diversity Statement training and offer rewards and incentives to minority  Integrity Line for Ethical Concerns and women-owned dealers across the United States.  Employment Equity (Canada) We’re leading the way on important issues including Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender rights, offering domestic partner benefits and supporting state legislation to expand benefit coverage. Diversity is key to our culture of innovation and our belief that everyone has an important role to play in creating our community, company and global future. CONNECTED BY VALUES When you create a corporate culture that welcomes different points of view and treats people fairly, it’s more than just good business. It’s good corporate values. And as a global citizen, we understand that Over 40% of Steelcase’s diversity and inclusion take on different shades of meaning depending on geography. Executive Officers are women. When we define diversity and inclusion, we include culture, country, race, background, gender, generation, abilities, worldviews, religions and sexual orientations. We not only abide by all employment laws, we also support the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and related international convenants. We’re committed to treating every individual with dignity and respect. 31 | E mployees STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Environment J E S S I E S T OREY / SEN I O R I N D U ST R I A L D ESI G N ER 32 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 34 Innovative Products and Applications We’ve screened more than 1,500 materials in over 600 categories to understand their impact. PG. 36 Renewable Energy Purchased renewable energy credits equivalent to approximately 100% of our electricity use in our German factories and two of our French offices. PG. 37 Energy Use and Efficiency All but one of our Steelcase plants are ISO 14001 registered. O UR PROM ISE TO EN VI RONM E NT We’re working to leave a legacy of positive change that benefits us all. Simply complying with standards isn’t enough any PG. 38 more. We’re working to conserve more, use less, find better ways, source more responsible materials, and Water Conservation leave a legacy of positive change that benefits us all. There has been a reduction of our total That’s our promise to the environment. water use by 68% since we began measuring it in 2001. PG. 39 Waste Reduction There has been a 51% decrease in global solid waste since 2011. PG. 40 Transportation and Packaging As many as 60% of our products can shipped without packaging, saving thousands of trees every year. 33 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Innovative Products and Applications Sometimes, the best way to look forward is to look back. PROMISE Leverage materials chemistry, life cycle thinking and closed loop As we continue to rigorously examine the raw materials design thinking to minimize impact on human and environmental health. we use to make our products, identify opportunities for product improvement, and design for the entire lifespan, RESULTS we’re constructing a more sustainable future by starting We’ve screened well over 1,500 materials across more than 600 categories and multiple product lines. We’ve completed life cycle at the beginning. assessments on over 35 products since 2003, and we’re supporting customers with a comprehensive end of use and reuse programs, all designed to keep products out of the landfill. MATERIALS CHEMISTRY LIFE CYCLE THINKING We take a comprehensive approach to understanding For us, innovation begins before we ever start to design. what goes into our products – we’re both precautionary By using an eco-design strategy that considers each and proactive. Together with suppliers, we’ve removed stage of the product’s life span, we work to understand or are phasing out many materials of concern, including the social and environmental impacts of the materials brominated compounds and polyurethane foam made we use, how we manufacture product, how we from HCFCs, PVC and heavy metals. For the last two transport product and end of use options. This years we’ve used a more environmentally-friendly valuable insight leads us to make more sustainable catalyst in the polyester fabric manufacturing process, decisions that conserve energy and resources. replacing antimony, a metal of concern that can bioaccumulate. In Europe, we’ve switched from hexavalent Our eco-design strategy leads us to: chromium to trivalent chromium, a preferable alternative for chair and desk legs.  Include the highest possible amount of recycled content in our products while maintaining our high quality standards R  educe the number of parts for quick and easy We’ve screened more than 1,500 disassembly and recycling C  hoose materials that optimize product recyclability materials in over 600 categories W  ork to eliminate harmful substances to protect people’s health and natural ecosystems to understand their impact. M  inimize packaging to improve transportation efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide emissions On the proactive side, we’re partnering with Sharklet Over the last 10 years, life cycle thinking has driven Technologies to explore how we can promote constant improvements and innovation within wellbeing in the workplace without the use of chemical Steelcase including: agents. Enter Sharklet®, a nature-inspired solution modeled after natural sharkskin. Sharklet’s unique T he Solar Powered Outdoor Desk: The Workspace texture, comprised of an intentional pattern of millions Futures group is working with Grand Valley State of tiny diamonds, creates an inhospitable environment University to develop integrated solar panels that for bacteria, preventing microbial growth on surfaces. would collect and generate enough power to run a laptop for eight hours. For years, we’ve led the industry – and in fact, have led  In partnership with Cluster Research Excellence every industry – in Cradle to Cradle CertifiedCM products in Ecodesign and Recycling (CREER), we helped from the Cradle to Cradle Innovations Institute. The develop a comprehensive training brochure about certification includes stringent materials chemistry lifecycle assessments to help guide others toward criteria that covers human and environmental health best practices. Initially published in France, it’s been factors. At present, we have nearly 60 products bearing widely translated and is now in worldwide use by Cradle to Cradle certification with several more in the leading organizations. process to become certified. Our products also carry certifications such as BIFMA level®, NF Environnement, END OF USE AND RECYCLING Blue Angel, and SCS Indoor Advantage™. These We make products built to last, and sometimes, certifications aren’t the accomplishment, just a reflection they even outlast our customers’ needs. Even though of our commitment. we design our products to be adaptable, many times customers are ready for something new, and that’s where we can help them make responsible choices. See our End of Use Strategies section for more information on how we’re working with our customers to manage their furniture inventory, keeping products out of landfills by selling, refurbishing, donating, or recycling them. 34 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T SUCCES S S T ORY Gesture, Seating for the Tech-enabled Workspace People are using technology in new ways – creating new workspace challenges and unhealthy, even painful, positions. Steelcase is taking on the challenge with Gesture™, seating specifically designed to accommodate today’s mobile technology and promote healthier postures. We identified nine common postures people held while interacting with their mobile devices – and all nine led to pain because their furniture didn’t accommodate their need for new postures. That’s why we designed Gesture to address the range of postures people use during the day when handling mobile technology. Globally designed and produced to meet differing certification standards, 92% of all the materials in the Gesture chair can be reclaimed. 35 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Renewable Energy For us, energy management is a systemic issue: we PROMISE In tandem with our energy efficiency and conservation efforts, tackle it from multiple angles including energy efficiency, we promise to invest in, support and explore renewable energy conservation and investment in renewable energy sources. sources to advance the world’s growing portfolio. Around the globe, we’re working to use cleaner energy, RESULTS to reduce the embedded energy in our products, and A corporate energy portfolio that emphasizes renewable energy sources. to support the growth of the global supply of renewable energy technologies. When it comes to sustainability, much of our energy is focused on energy. A RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO AN EYE TOWARD THE FUTURE The renewable energy industry is expanding in exciting Our commitment to renewables is a natural outgrowth new ways with new energy sources, new technologies of our passion for innovation and the environment. and new ways for companies like ours to participate. By investing early in renewable energy, we’re not We rely on multiple sources – including wind, biomass only helping our company reduce our environmental and hydroelectric – to power our operations around impacts, we’re also helping grow a new industry that the world. Here are a few examples: will ultimately benefit the entire world. As demand for fossil fuels begins to outpace global supply, we’ll know that we’ve played an important role in developing a market for clean energy. That’s time and money well Purchased renewable energy credits spent today for a cleaner energy future. equivalent to approximately 100% of our electricity use in our German SU C C ESS ST O RY factories and two of our French offices. One Good Idea Leads to Another W  e purchase green power produced at wind farms In conjunction with professors from Grand Valley State University, in the U.S. equivalent to approximately 25% of our Steelcase researchers recently began investigating the feasibility U.S. electricity use. of a solar-powered desk. The idea was to configure a solar  We purchase nearly 12,400 MWh of hydroelectric power system that could power a laptop for eight hours power renewable energy credits (RECs) that equal in an outdoor environment. Together with students, GVSU approximately 100% of our electricity usage in our professors developed a two-panel solution that is now three German facilities in Durlangen and Rosenheim. being tested.  In France, we purchase biomass RECs equivalent to approximately 100% of the energy usage at our But during conversations with Steelcase, a different problem WorkLab centers in Strasbourg and Paris, totaling emerged from an unlikely source – one of the professor’s more than 1,400 MWh. cousins, a medical doctor in Malawi, Africa. How could she incorporate solar power into her practice? How could she We’re constantly looking for new ways to strengthen use this new approach to provide power in the operating room our portfolio, further reducing our impacts and during frequent blackouts? How could she get a solar powered creating new opportunities to meet the world’s medical emergency system? energy appetite. The mental gears started churning, and soon, plans were being reviewed by team members, including representatives from Steelcase’s IT Innovation Management office. Today, many of the doctor’s patients are benefitting from this amazing interaction through solar-powered lighting and a solar-powered surgery suction machine. They say that necessity is the mother of invention, and in this case, two much-needed situations were improved through the power of collaboration. We’re constantly looking for ways to diversify and expand our involvement, with an eye toward creating a more robust renewable energy industry for everyone. 36 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Energy Use and Efficiency As we embed sustainability into every aspect of our business, we’re PROMISE To take a multi-dimensional approach to optimizing continuing to take a hard look at energy. Yes, we’ve surpassed our initial energy use through reduced consumption and conservation. goal of 25% energy reduction from 2006 to 2012. And we did it while increasing sales and production. But that’s not where we stop. Instead, we’re asking our energy management systems to do more – to save RESULTS more while using less. In fact, our new goal is to reduce our greenhouse A 4% drop in greenhouse gas emissions and gas emissions another 25 percent by the end of 2020. corresponding energy consumption since 2011. Before embarking on any new initiative, we ground ourselves in important questions:  W ill it sustain a productive work environment?  W ill it Support our energy reduction goals?  W ill it Reduce greenhouse gas emissions?  Will it Lead to greater insight about more ways to conserve? MEETING INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS As a global leader in manufacturing, we look to the highest international standards to guide us. All but one of our Steelcase plant operations are ISO 14001 When you start with smarter questions, registered – and as it’s recently opened, we’re on you wind up with smarter solutions. schedule to have it registered by the end of fiscal year 2014. This means our environmental management system meets the stringent requirements of the International Standards Organization and assures GLOBAL OPERATIONAL IMPACT we can systematically manage impact and risk with Optimizing energy use and efficiency requires a internationally accepted protocols. suite of strategies to achieve real change. To keep ourselves on track to meet our ambitious goals, we’ve In addition, our plants in Durlangen and Rosenheim, created a worldwide comprehensive measurement Germany are Eco-management and Audit Scheme and reporting system with expanded capabilities, (EMAS) III certified. Holding ourselves to our own high including monthly greenhouse gas inventory tracking. standards means meeting the toughest standards We’re actively pursuing numerous initiatives to drive no matter where we operate. energy conservation and greenhouse gas emission reductions around the world by: ENERGY AND PRODUCTS Embodied energy is the total amount of energy used to make a product, from the extraction of resources through the final manufacturing process. This inherent All but one of our Steelcase manufacturing energy is an opportunity area for us. We’re working to decrease the amount of embodied energy across plants are ISO 14001 registered. all phases of our products’ life. One tool we rely on is Life Cycle Assessments. It helps us understand the impact of a product across its whole life span. Through insights gained, we can improve product  Continuing to modernize our manufacturing system performance and take actions to use less energy to optimize where products are made in their creation. You can read more about our efforts  Applying lean manufacturing principles to enhance to reduce embodied energy in the Innovative Products facility productivity and minimize or eliminate excess and Applications section as well as the Transportation capacity and Packaging page.  Updating procurement standards to purchase the latest, most efficient equipment COLLABORATING WITH SUPPLIER PARTNERS  Engaging employees through regular updates, More than ever, we’re working with our suppliers training and conversations on energy efficiency to create shared objectives because we know that’s and conservation where smarter, more sustainable practices start.  Increasing the percentage of full truck loads, reducing We’re working closely with our supplier partners to the number of truck trips quantify their energy and water use to enable them  Purchasing renewable energy credits (RECs) that to calculate greenhouse gas emissions and track their represent approximately 25% of our electricity use environmental footprint reductions. These efforts help in North America, and 100% for our WorkLab centers us earn sustainability certifications for our products in Strasbourg and Paris, France and meet reporting expectations for the Carbon Disclosure Project and our many customers who  Maintaining manufacturing and office equipment ask us to report emissions. for peak performance and powering down during non-work hours We recognize that while energy powers everything we do, it’s within our power to use it responsibly. 37 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Water Conservation In some parts of the world, water is a scarce resource. PROMISE To conserve one of the planet’s most precious resources through Unfortunately, this harsh reality will only get worse in the innovative solutions and reduced consumption. years to come as growing populations, developing economies and climate change increase the strain on limited supplies. RESULTS Compared to other industries like agriculture, power We’ve made significant progress and drastic reductions in water use – nearly 68% since we began tracking our progress in 2001. generation and others, we use less water, but that doesn’t mean our commitment to conserve is any less sincere. Never before has the phrase “every drop counts” meant so much around the world, or here at Steelcase. In 2012, our production and sales activities increased and new production facilities were brought online. As a result, we saw an increase water resource consumption by 26%. Fortunately, we’re no strangers to monitoring our systems and evaluating methods for reducing our water use we’ve reduced our total water use by 68% since we began measuring it in 2001. So while we have a temporary increase in our usage figures, we’re focused on implementing best business practices, perfecting our strategies and utilizing the resourcefulness of our people to reduce our water consumption. There has been a reduction of our total water use by 68% since we began measuring it in 2001. We’re scouting new ways to use less or eliminate water use altogether, like the way we pre-treat our metal parts. This innovative method reduces water use by half or more. But we’re also concerned about the water that leaves our facilities. Wastewater discharged to local municipal water treatment systems and processes generating wastewater are carefully monitored to ensure discharges meet all local standards. Beyond manufacturing, we utilize stormwater collection and retention systems to manage water flow and water facility lawns. As the idea of a water footprint began to emerge, we’ve responded to this new impact metric by seeking greater understanding of where our opportunities may be. By partnering with research organizations, we’re learning how our products impact water use during their life cycles, and then taking action to reduce our water use. 38 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Waste Reduction When you lead with action, results inevitably follow. Truth PROMISE Be creative with manufacturing processes and product is, we’ve had some near misses as well as some remarkable design to reduce waste and improve material utilization rates. successes when it comes to waste reduction. But we believe that goals beg to be reached, so we’re redoubling RESULTS our efforts to ensure we reach our target of reducing A 51% decrease in global solid waste since 2011. global waste by another 25% by the end of 2020. EFFICIENT MANUFACTURING CREATING LESS WASTEFUL OFFICES To ensure our facilities are operating at peak performance, Keeping our workspaces clean and green, our “Greening we’re constantly employing strategies to avoid waste, the Office” initiative removed trash containers from from recycling to composting to incinerating with individual workstations and installed color-coded energy recovery. All along the reduce, reuse, recycle recycling and composting containers in shared break spectrum, we’re hard at work tracking operations with areas and mail stations. yield-based metrics that give us the ground up view. Food waste is another area of focus for Steelcase. These data points inform us about how much waste is In our Grand Rapids, MI locations, we’ve implemented reduced, reused, or recycled, as well as how efficiently a comprehensive food-waste composting program. we’re using purchased materials like powder paint, In these locations, all café to-go containers and tableware steel, laminate and veneer. We’re continually improving are biodegradable, allowing our food waste to be and adding more metrics to make sure we’re creating turned into nutrient-rich material that promotes a lasting impact by leaving a lighter footprint. That’s healthy garden growth. Over 350,000 pounds of improvement you can see – in the factories, in the organic materials are composted each year. That’s environment and in the bottom line. how we take something disposable and turn it into something valuable. Outside the office, Steelcase is helping employees S UCCESS STORY lighten their footprint. One initiative involves encouraging active commuting: walking, carpooling or taking public Loop to Loop: A Virtuous Cycle transportation as a way to both reduce environmental impact and encourage healthier lifestyles. Additionally, we’re helping employees with items that can be Designtex, a Steelcase company, is a leading textile designer difficult to dispose of responsibly. Each Earth Day, focused on innovation, sustainability and extreme performance. Steelcase partners with local organizations to offer Loop to Loop is their latest big idea – a fabric that’s destined employees at Grand Rapids locations a venue for to repeat itself. responsibly disposing personal electronics, such as computers and printers. This year, we collected 4,178 Working closely with Victor, a Canadian textile manufacturer, pounds of electronic waste – a success for both our Unifi, the maker of the recycled fiber REPREVE, and Steelcase, people and the planet. Designtex created a closed loop program that represents supply chain collaboration and waste reduction at its best. IMPROVING PRODUCT AND PACKAGING For years, all four companies have been offering sustainable product lines, but several barriers prevented closed-loop From the design phase to the shipping phase, textile recycling to become standard practice. Issues like the we challenge ourselves to find every opportunity to complex logistics of waste collection and segregation, and reduce waste in our products and packaging. When a lack of needed infrastructure. But in 2012, these four we design products, we design with disassembly and companies established a program that delivers a closed-loop recyclability in mind. When we ship products, we process, a first for the contract fabrics industry. The new explore new ways of reducing or eliminating packaging, fabric, used on Steelcase furniture, became available in replacing traditional materials with more sustainable March 2013. choices whenever possible. And, when it’s time for Steelcase furniture to be replaced, our end of use It all begins with plastic bottles that are ground up, processed program assists customers cycle out end of need and re-spun into yarns and made into thread. These threads pieces responsibly, keeping useful furniture out of are woven into textiles, which are then used to make furniture landfills. Another example of how less is sometimes coverings at Steelcase plants. During the manufacturing more – more sustainable, more efficient, and process, excess fabric is collected and shipped to the more innovative. same recycling facility as the plastic bottles, where it’s ground up into smaller bits and converted into new thread. And thus the cycle begins again, reducing waste, reusing material and providing new from the old. 39 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Transportation and Packaging It’s not just about trucks, although trucks play an important PROMISE To deliver our products and our people safely to their destinations, role. It’s not just about packing materials, or better gas keeping an eye toward reducing our environmental footprint. mileage or telecommuting. Reducing our transportation and packaging footprint requires a coordinated effort RESULTS that starts at the very beginning – with product design. Innovative new packing and shipping solutions, more efficient operations and increased use of telepresence instead of travel. FROM CONCEPT TO CONTAINER ON THE WAY THERE Early design decisions impact products’ economic Whether it’s on the road or on the rails, we’re weighing and environmental performance at every life stage, the advantages of different transportation modes. from initial sketch to final delivery. By integrating strategies We’re optimizing travel routes for better fuel efficiency. for more efficient packaging and shipping from the We’re rewarding drivers for less down time. And we’re beginning, we reduce costs and waste. For instance, saving fossil fuel by the hundreds of thousands of we’ve created office chairs that ship “knocked down” gallons every year. In the U.S. alone, we’ve increased for more efficient shipping. Practical ideas like this one fuel efficiency in our fleet by 13%, saving more than allow us to ship more product in less space, meaning 222,000 gallons of gas and diesel. We’ve also increased fewer miles on the road and less emissions. This our average shuttle cube by 35%, meaning more is one way we’re doing more with less, and seeing product, less air, less fuel and fewer trips. In Europe, great results. 50 hybrid cars are a part of our sales fleet, and even the tour buses we use at Global Headquarters are PACKING IT ALL IN fueled with biodiesel. With initiatives like these, we’re definitely on the road to meeting our ambitious What can we ship without packaging? It’s a question transportation efficiency goals truckload by railcar load. we challenge ourselves to answer on a continuing basis. In the U.S., several product lines can be shipped uncartoned – and whenever practical, we ship using reusable blankets and containers, resulting in less waste. And when it’s practical, our work surfaces are shipped on wooden pallets, meaning better use SU C C ESS ST O RY of space, more products per truckload, fewer trips, and less packaging to dispose of. And, when cartons Fewer Trips are needed, we’ve switched from heavy to lightweight corrugated paper, saving nearly 1,000 tons of paper It’s not just our trucks taking fewer trips – it’s also our people. waste each year. Turns out, there’s a lot we can ship Through our high definition HD videoconferencing technology without packaging, and we’re working on making the and alternative work locations, we’re minimizing employee list longer. travel and reducing our environmental footprint. We’re saving an estimated $69,000 each month on travel, and last year BETTER MATERIALS avoided more than 575 trips, saving more than 2,125 tons of Sometimes, packaging is unavoidable. That’s why greenhouse gas emissions. The good news is that there’s an we’re replacing traditional synthetic materials with additional benefit: employees get to see their families more – more reusable earth-friendly options that still provide an important part of supporting our people. Fewer trips equals superior shipping protection. For instance in the happier families, less fuel burned, and our employees burn US, we’ve eliminated 80% of our polyurethane less midnight oil. packaging and replaced it with paper. We’re replacing styrene-based packaging with preferred plastics like polyethylene and polypropylene. And, we’re using more recycled and recyclable materials. The expanded polyethylene foam used in our workspace packaging is made of 28% recycled content, and the reprocessed polypropylene used on corners is totally recyclable. But we haven’t stopped there. We’re continually changing packaging design to use fewer materials, and are piloting advances in proprietary compostable packaging. In this case, better almost always means less – less materials, less impact. 40 | E nvironment STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T O U R P R O MI SE T O Ourselves J I M O’ CONNO R / A SSI STA N T G EN ER A L C O U N SEL 41 STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T PG. 43 Ourselves/Governance Eleven of the thirteen members of Steelcase’s Board of Directors are independent. O UR PROM ISE TO OU RS E LVE S We’re taking a hard look at our actions, putting sustainability at the center of the decision wheel, and implementing organizational change to be the most economically, socially and environmentally responsible company we can be. That’s our promise to ourselves. 42 | O urselves STEELC AS E C ORP ORATE S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P OR T Ourselves/ Governance In the years to come, sustainability will play an even PROMISE Foster a dynamic, ambitious and independent leadership team larger part in who we are as a company. To fully integrate committed to helping Steelcase unlock human promise, create sustainability into every facet of our global operations, we long-term shareholder value and a more sustainable world. need keen strategic thinkers navigating the ever-changing RESULTS realities of business. Our leadership team is ambitious, An energetic, capable and experienced group of leaders guiding Steelcase into a more sustainable future poised for success. inspired and determined to fully infuse sustainability into our daily decisions, no matter what level they occur. LEADING BY EXAMPLE Our corporate leadership structure begins with our dedicated Board of Directors. This group blends third-generation members of our founding families with proven business leaders, merging to create a guiding vision based on knowledge, insights, and experience. Of our thirteen directors, eleven are independent, ensuring diverse opinions, accountability and a wealth EVERYONE’S A LEADER of expertise. Our executive officers, four men and Beyond the scope of the Steering Committee, each three women, keep us on track with our promises and every Steelcase employee is accountable for and inspire us to dream bigger, push harder and abiding by our social and environmental sustainability look deeper. policies in his or her particular role. We’ve instilled these ideas into our business ethics, which are intended to foster individual and corporate conduct that’s Eleven of the thirteen members beyond reproach. of Steelcase’s Board of Directors These ideas are also articulated in our Steelcase Global Business Standards, Code of Business Conduct are independent. and Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers, providing a triple layer protection mechanism. These policies clearly express our expectations for our employees, no matter what their CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY title or responsibilities, to be responsible stewards, STEERING COMMITTEE to contribute toward overall safety and wellbeing In 2011, we formalized a Global Sustainability Steering of fellow workers, their communities and the Committee and staffed it with leaders from administration, natural world. human resources, procurement, environmental operations, environmental strategy, community involvement, legal Our sustainability aspirations are ambitious, and it and corporate relations. This cross-functional team will take everyone’s participation to strengthen our is leveraging their business insights and providing performance, surpass our goals, and lead Steelcase leadership, direction and accountability on global into what’s next. sustainability strategies and objectives to deliver an integrated sustainability experience platform. EXTENDING OUR VOICE Steelcase has been involved with public policy making In 2012, we’ve taken an important step forward for more than twenty years in the US, and in today’s by establishing a charter for this internal organization, global business climate, we’re amping up our efforts. outlining roles and responsibilities. As a centralized As we continue to become more globally integrated, managing node for the company’s sustainability business we will face larger, more complex legal issues, and platform, the Steering Committee is tasked with greater opportunities for influence. We’re taking a informing the community, inspiring action, connecting proactive stand on important business, social and stakeholders and projecting trends that will shape political issues like tax reform. As a sustainability our decisions. In addition, the Steering Committee leader, we’re committed to having a voice and is responsible for outcomes, including reports, tools, a seat at the table where important decisions analytics and events. are made. 43 | O urselves
