Valley Fastener Group LLC Valley Rivet Division Forgo Fastener Division North Coast Rivet Division ISO 9001 2015 COP Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals The Valley Fastener Group fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Implementation The Valley Fastener Group has an open door policy defined in the employee handbook. We utilize a suggestion box to report incidents or issues anonymously as well as regular informational meetings for the employees. Human Resource provides the employees an EEOC and a clearly defined Harassment Policy in the employee handbook Measurements and Outcomes: The Valley Fastener Group monitors the suggestions regularly and reinvests annually to continually improve working conditions for its employees. Employees are offered competitive wages along with additional health and retirement benefits that make the Valley Fastener Group a desirable employer. Labor Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals VFG’s is an Equal Opportunity Employer and its policy as part of its employee handbook is not to discriminate against any employee or applicant because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, citizenship, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, mental or physical disability or any other status protected by law. Valley also provides a wide range of benefits that exceed most of our competition. Implementation VFG use a suggestion box, documented policies and an open door policy regarding Harassment and Discrimination for our employees to assure we are meeting their needs. 1490 Mitchell Road P.O. Box 2790 Aurora, Illinois 60507 Telephone (630) 299-8910 Fax (630) 892-4916 Valley Fastener Group LLC Valley Rivet Division Forgo Fastener Division North Coast Rivet Division ISO 9001 Measurement Human Resource continually evaluates our policy to assure compliance with our posted company policies. VFG is a diverse organization with managers and supervisors from different countries and backgrounds. Any incidents are dealt with accordingly using the policies posted in the employee handbook. Environment Assessment, Policy, and Goals The VFG continually reviews the working environment for its employees in order to improve working conditions and increase productivity. Implementation 1. Increased use of conveyors for material handling to reduce lifting by employees 2. Added new smoke units to clean the air in the header room 3. Moved away from gas powered forklifts to battery run units. Air quality for the employees was improved. 4. An employee recommended the installation of an AED unit for lifesaving needs. Management agreed and a unit was installed at all three facilities and a team was trained in its use Measurement of Outcomes Improvements to Environment are measured with the following criteria: 1. Environmental impact 2. Cost savings 3. Quality enhancements 4. Productivity improvements Additional safety improvements are submitted by the VFG safety committee made up of members from around the company. All ideas are reviewed by management using the above criteria before approval. 1490 Mitchell Road P.O. Box 2790 Aurora, Illinois 60507 Telephone (630) 299-8910 Fax (630) 892-4916 Valley Fastener Group LLC Valley Rivet Division Forgo Fastener Division North Coast Rivet Division ISO 9001 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals VFG has a business ethics policy communicated to all employees and documented in the employee handbook. Implementation As a small company to constantly reinforce our anti-corruption policy in team meetings. Continuous improvement without corruption is a strategy for our continued growth. Measurement All company expenses are reviewed and justified and there are no incidents of internal or external corruption. 1490 Mitchell Road P.O. Box 2790 Aurora, Illinois 60507 Telephone (630) 299-8910 Fax (630) 892-4916
