2014 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Banarra Contents 1. Introduction .................................................................................................................. 3 1.1 About This Report .......................................................................................................... 3 1.2 Who we are ................................................................................................................... 3 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact’s ten Principles ..................... 3 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director ......................................................... 5 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles........................................... 6 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals ........................................................................................ 6 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 6 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles ...................................................... 8 4.1 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 9 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles ........................................ 10 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals .......................................................................................10 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................10 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles ...................................... 11 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals .......................................................................................11 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................11 7. Feedback ..................................................................................................................... 13 This Report is available online at www.banarra.com © 2014 Banarra Page 2 of 13 1. Introduction 1.1 About This Report This is Banarra’s third United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report (COP) covering all our activities for the 18 months period from 1 January 2013 to 30 June 2014. This COP is submitted to fulfil Banarra’s communications and reporting responsibilities under the Global Compact. In 2013, we changed our broader business planning processes from a calendar year to a financial year basis which has resulted in our reporting cycle also changing. Our future COP Reports will report on a financial year basis. Banarra became a Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact) in 2011 and for the last seven consecutive years, Banarra has been using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as the basis for publicly reporting on its sustainability impacts and related performance. The reporting process helps us to ‘walk the talk’ and keeps us mindful of our own sustainability impacts that we need to manage. 1.2 Who we are Banarra is an Australian-based small-to-medium sized enterprise (SME) providing specialised professional services to organisations looking to strengthen the way they manage and account for their sustainability impacts. Based in Sydney, Australia, we deliver our services primarily to businesses in the mining, property, retail and financial sectors within Australia and overseas. We also pride ourselves on thought leadership and we work closely with leading organisations such as the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA), the Shared Value Initiative, the GRI Focal Point Australia, and the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). Our extensive expertise across the sustainability spectrum means Banarra’s service offerings enable clients to effectively manage and realise their sustainability challenges and opportunities. Our current service offerings include:  Social Impact & Human Rights Management;  Community Investment and Shared Value;  Sustainability Management;  Communicating Performance;  Land Access and Cultural Heritage;  Supply Chain and Labour Practices;  Stakeholder Engagement; and  Environmental Impact. We offer industry and the community our broad knowledge and real-world expertise. We are flexible and adaptive, designing and delivering solutions to meet specific needs. 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact’s ten Principles Banarra believes a sustainable future for people and the planet is possible when organisations and their stakeholders relate more equitably. Through listening, insight and action, Banarra enables organisations and individuals to integrate sustainability considerations into their business, thereby promoting sustainable outcomes well beyond Banarra’s immediate sphere of influence. Our commitment to the ten Global Compact Principles is formalised in our policies and procedures. Performance is measured on an on-going basis for most of these Principles and reported annually according to our annual reporting cycle. © 2014 Banarra Page 3 of 13 Because of our strong ethics, Banarra’s people imbue the workplace with a social and environmental consciousness. As Banarra is only an SME, our real contribution to sustainability and to the promotion and implementation of the Global Compact’s ten Principles is through the advice, capacity-building and support we provide to our clients. Our primary objective is to make a greater impact by supporting our clients in their contribution to a more sustainable future. Banarra’s active involvement in sustainability-related national and global debates and initiatives, such as the development of the GRI G4 Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Integrated Reporting Framework by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), further enables us to promote core sustainability principles. In addition, Banarra has significantly contributed to the United Nations Global Compact Network Australia during 2013-2014. Our Managing Director continues to be on the Board of the Australian Network, thereby demonstrating Banarra’s commitment to, and leadership role within, the UN Global Compact. Team members of Banarra also attended, and in some cases presented at, the Leadership Groups on human rights, anti-corruption and environment. The following sections elaborate on how we specifically promote and implement the ten Principles through Banarra’s daily work. © 2014 Banarra Page 4 of 13 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director This third UN Global Compact COP Report clearly restates Banarra’s ongoing commitment to the Global Compact and its Principles in our day-to-day work, with our clients and through other avenues of endeavour. Our involvement with the Global Compact also strengthens our commitment to sustainability in relation to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With sustainable and responsible business practice being at the very core of what we do, and of what we enable our clients to do, I am pleased with our progress during 2013-14 to further promote and integrate the Global Compact Principles into the way we and our clients work. This Report communicates those outcomes and what actions we have taken to implement the ten Global Compact Principles, and to support broad UN development goals. Our primary means of promoting and supporting the implementation of the Principles is through:  Supporting our clients, particularly other Global Compact signatories, through our range of services – particularly around human rights, ethical sourcing, sustainability management and accountability related services we have delivered in the last 12 months. It has become a significant body of work that we have seen directly influence our clients’ approach and performance; and  Providing thought leadership and advocacy such as through our work on labour practices and supply chain performance, materiality and reporting and, of course, human rights. In particular, my own Directorship of the UNGC Network Australia is a high priority in my professional life and one that I am particularly proud of in terms of having that opportunity.  Where possible for a business our size, leading by example in terms of how Banarra identifies and manages our impacts on people and the environment – detailed here and in our online sustainability reports Although there is much of how we manage the business and deliver our services that aligns with the Global Compact Principles, I don’t for one minute want to assume, or have you believe, that we are resting on our laurels. There is always more we can and should do, as opportunity and resources allow, and to avoid the risk of complacency. We are but a small cog in the bigger scheme of delivering the promise of the UNGC, but we are determined to contribute what we can to seeing that outcome through. Richard Boele Managing Director, Banarra © 2014 Banarra Page 5 of 13 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra respects and supports the protection of international human rights standards through our performance and monitoring of potential risks. Being a small office-based consultancy, Banarra’s direct business activities are low risk in relation to violating human rights and our own material issues identification process has, over several years, not detected any human rights risks as material to our business. Some human rights risks are certainly relevant for Banarra however. These are related to antidiscrimination, labour rights, health and safety and employee well-being. We monitor, manage and respond to these potential risks as further discussed in the “Promotion & Implementation of Labour Rights” section of this COP. Banarra’s People Manual includes reference to international human rights standards and also includes our formal internal complaints and grievance mechanism. Banarra delivers a number of Social & Human Rights service offerings:  Conducting human rights risk and impact assessments;  Designing and implementing human rights and community relations management systems;  Conducting audits relating to community relations management systems; and  Designing and testing of community complaints and grievance mechanisms. Banarra’s approach to the above services takes into account stakeholder perceptions, listening to and responding to identified risks and impacts, and building internal capacity and understanding of human rights issues, in the delivery of our services in Australia and internationally. 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Banarra has a robust induction process for all employees which includes induction into Banarra’s own human rights risk management approach through our “People Management Policy”. This policy is fully implemented across the business. Banarra’s contribution to the promotion of the UN Global Compact’s human rights principles and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights is best realised through our service offering of Social Impact and Human Rights Management. Through these services we assist our clients in understanding and responding to their human right-related responsibilities. We work with clients to develop and implement human rights management systems, to identify and reduce human rights risks and impacts, and to respond to human rights violations. Banarra often undertakes such work in countries with complex governance and structural issues, which can result in poor human rights records and high risks of human rights violations. Our work in this area has been predominantly through various projects for companies in the resources sector, usually based in Australia but often with overseas operational sites. Banarra is conscious of and cautious to respect human rights in these challenging contexts. Over the past year we have conducted a number of projects supporting the rights of Indigenous Peoples, particularly through cultural heritage and stakeholder engagement. Banarra worked with an Australian Indigenous corporation to develop a Law and Culture plan and provided expert advice and evidence to progress a native title claim. © 2014 Banarra Page 6 of 13 Banarra’s Managing Director, Richard Boele sits on the Board of Directors of the UN Global Compact Network Australia and is also active as a steering committee member. In this capacity, as a Director he has contributed to the GCNA’s strategy and overall direction. This has included seeing the GCNA successfully deliver, with the Australian Human Rights Commission, Australia’s first National Dialogue on Business and Human Rights. He was also a very active member of the Human Rights Leadership Group which successfully delivered a range of events and initiatives. Most notable was Banarra’s contribution to the joint GCNA-MCA publication of a series of case studies on respecting human rights in the mining sector. Banarra also made significant contributions to the GCNA’s work in the area of security and human rights. Banarra was also a member of the UN Global Compact’s Indigenous Engagement Working Group. Banarra furthers its commitment to human rights through our active participation and knowledge sharing at international conferences. The Banarra team has presented at recent conferences including:  The Minerals Council of Australia Sustainable Development Conference in Brisbane in 2013;  The 2nd International Seminars on Social Responsibility in Mining, Chile;  Society of Petroleum Engineers HSE conference in USA;  The International Association of Impact Assessment’s (IAIA) annual conferences in Canada and Chile; and  The Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand annual conference. Banarra was a member of the Minerals Council of Australia’s Gender in Communities Dialogue, endeavouring to promote and raise the awareness of women’s rights in communities. The impact that we have on our clients through our project work is assessed and determined through our post-project client surveys with the high-level survey outcomes then publicly disclosed through our sustainability report. © 2014 Banarra Page 7 of 13 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Banarra recognises its employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining (Principle 3) and supports diversity and non-discrimination (Principle 6) within the team. This reflects Banarra’s recognition of the importance of employee well-being and the positive impact of a well-balanced team. Forced and compulsory labour (Principle 4) and child labour (Principle 5) are not applicable risks to Banarra directly due to the nature of our work and the size of our operation and supply chain. Banarra looks to ensure suppliers are aware of our expectations in relation to labour related risks through its Purchasing Policy. Banarra has grown over the past year and we have focused on formalising and streamlining our processes and procedures relating to labour. Banarra has responded to the changing needs of our employees, and changing labour practice expectations and requirements, with significant changes made relating to:  Aligning our Parental Leave Policy to the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010 and the National Employment Standards;  A review and update of our “Banarra People Manual” to incorporate updates on Bullying and Harassment Policy, Expense Policy, inclusion of Banarra Emergency Evacuation Procedures, inclusion of Professional Development Funding process, considerations for leave approvals, and update to Personal Leave in compliance with Workplace Relations Amendment (Work Choices) Act 2005;  Implementation of emergency evacuation procedures & related training; and  Formalisation of the Banarra’s learning and development process, including the implementation of a professional development funding approval process. Last year, Banarra conducted its first ever learning and development forum for its team over two days, and intends this to be an annual event. Work-life balance and employee wellness continue to be identified as material issues to the business and, in the past year, employee well-being was addressed through a number of initiatives. This includes the formalisation of key performance indicators in our people management approach and our revised project resourcing approach. Furthermore, we continue to operate a social committee to better facilitate opportunities for the team to come together socially and to strengthen social inclusion, particularly of newer team members. Over the past year, Banarra’s supply chain management and ethical sourcing service areas have rapidly expanded and provided us with the opportunity to promote and protect labour rights through our client work. Working alongside a range of corporate clients we have delivered audits of supply chains, particularly of sub-contracted low skilled workers and internationally in higher risk countries such as India. We have also steered and supported an industry-initiated “Cleaning Accountability Framework” which seeks to develop a standard for cleaning services in the property services sector with a focus on fair working conditions and assessing performance. © 2014 Banarra Page 8 of 13 4.1 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Banarra communicates all changes to labour policies to its employees clearly and in a timely manner to provide space for employee feedback and participation. Any changes to legislation, Workers Compensation, or other regulatory changes affecting employee rights, are shared with all employees through our weekly team meetings and office-wide email. Banarra monitors and evaluates its labour practices performance through a number of approaches, particularly in relation to diversity. Our annual Sustainability Report includes data relating to gender, age, and place of birth. As of June 2014, our business comprised predominantly of women (75%) with a majority of our workforce 30 years of age or under. Worker health and safety (WHS) is important to Banarra and is monitored on an ongoing basis. Weekly team meetings provide an opportunity to communicate any WHS safety matters and incident reporting, which have also been regularly reviewed at our monthly Management Team meetings. Other means of monitoring and evaluating performance include our annual employee survey, and our professional development process. © 2014 Banarra Page 9 of 13 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra incorporates its early action and response to environmental challenges (Principle 7) in its Environmental, Procurement, and Travel and Accommodation policies. We work both internally as well as with our clients to promote greater environmental responsibilities (Principle 8) and we encourage the use of environmental friendly technologies (Principle 9). Banarra focuses on minimising our environmental impact where possible through the formalisation of our Environmental Policy, which includes improved behaviours and purchasing practices. Our Environmental Policy outlines our environmental objectives and this in turn is bolstered by our Procurement Policy. All staff are encouraged and supported in making appropriate decisions around the sourcing of key materials used within the business. Office waste, paper usage and greenhouse gas emissions from the purchase of utilities such as electricity and the consumption of transport fuel (e.g. flights, taxis, and hire cars) are the biggest contributors to our environmental footprint. The nature of Banarra’s work also requires frequent employee travel domestically and internationally. Our Travel and Accommodation Policy, supplemented by our carbon offset policy, encourages the use of public transport wherever possible and hybrid or fuel efficient cars where public transport is not an option. 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Within our office, paper usage is minimised through applying default printer setting to double sided and black and white. Banarra also purchases 100% recycled and purchase recycled stationery where possible. Recycling initiatives within the office are implemented with staff provided with the means to recycle paper, glass, plastics, metal and e-waste. Our annual Sustainability Report details publically our total waste and recycling generated, energy use, carbon emissions associated with all business related travel and paper usage. For office energy needs, Banarra purchases GreenPower, a government managed scheme enabling businesses to purchase an equivalent amount of certified renewable energy as their ongoing electricity costs. Banarra ensures that all tea and coffee available on the premises is Fairtrade. Banarra employees also participated in the Australia-wide Business Clean Up day. We continue to review and revise our practices in order to minimise and better manage our environmental footprint. Employees have the ability and option to work remotely when needed and Banarra encourages the use of teleconferencing facilities and mobile applications available to all staff. In certain project work, Banarra has assisted clients in articulating and delivering on their environmental objectives as relevant to their business, for instance through data verification in sustainability reporting including environmental indicators, as well as Sustainable Supply Chain Management assessments of environmental policies, standards and practices of suppliers against a company’s Supplier Codes of Conduct. © 2014 Banarra Page 10 of 13 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals As in previous years, we continue to consider our risk of exposure to corruption and bribery within our business as low. Banarra employees’ conduct is governed by our Personal Conduct Policy which forms part of Banarra’s People Manual. In addition, the policy also provides guidance on accepting gifts and gratuities. All decision-making, including that of our leadership and management, must be in accordance with Banarra's Conflict of Interest Policy. Management of any behaviour in conflict with these policies and guidelines involves immediate notification of our Managing Director or COO. In our client work, Banarra promotes awareness and builds capacity in relation to linking the management of corruption, bribery and related issues to an organisation’s culture and ethical awareness among its employees. Our involvement in thought leadership has included our contributions to the development of the anti-corruption and business ethics disclosures in the current GRI G4 Guidelines, and through our own internal people management processes. As a values-based business, Banarra places significant importance on ensuring strong values and an ethical conscience amongst our people; we believe ethical leadership needs to occur at all levels rather than only top-down. To ensure this view is consistently demonstrated in practice, our annual performance reviews formally include how well individuals demonstrate Banarra’s values in their daily conduct at work. Furthermore, for the last four years we have averaged an ethics score of 99% in our annual employee survey. Beyond our own walls, and particularly given our low risk in this area, Banarra’s biggest opportunity to make a positive impact with regard to corruption and bribery prevention or incident response management is through our work with our clients, as well as our broader involvement in industry and our regular contributions to thought leadership. In the last 18 months Banarra has seen corruption and fraud become an explicit risk in relation to ethical sourcing and sustainable supply chain management. For a number of years, Banarra has worked with clients that operate in high risk countries in the Asia Pacific and Africa to help manage sustainability risks across their global supply chains. 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes All relevant Banarra policies and manuals are fully implemented and included in both our induction process and annual performance review. Formally, our managers carry responsibility for monitoring the conduct of our employees, although informally, everyone at Banarra carries this responsibility. Last year, we committed to keeping our annual employee survey ethics score at a consistently high level; our latest survey results saw us achieve an ethics score of 94%. In last year’s COP, we reported our intent to further integrate considerations of personal values and ethics into our recruitment process; an area particularly important due to the continuous growth of our business. During the reporting period, we were able to progress in this area with the commencement of our Human Resources Coordinator, a newly created role within the Banarra structure that has helped formalise and streamline Banarra’s recruitment process including placing increased focus on finding new employees that can demonstrate the right cultural and ethical fit. In terms of our client work over the last 18 months, we have been actively raising awareness amongst our clients through ethical sourcing events that we host. While only being a first step, creating awareness across various stakeholders is paramount both for those that rely on social © 2014 Banarra Page 11 of 13 compliance audits to manage their risks, and those that use audits as a means to have confidence when making purchasing decisions. Banarra also works with our clients to identify possibly responses to this risk; they can include engaging trustworthy audit providers that have strong systems in place to manage the risk of their auditors offering or accepting bribes, and that also rely on experienced auditors that are more likely to uncover audit fraud when being presented with documentation. As outlined in our last COP, we were invited to join the GRI G4 Working Group on Anti-Corruption and that happened throughout 2012/13. We are encouraged by the fact that the current G4 Guidelines, which were launched in May 2013, for the first time include a stand-alone section on business ethics disclosures. © 2014 Banarra Page 12 of 13 7. Feedback We commend this report to you and all enquiries regarding or feedback on this Report are welcomed and encouraged, and can be directly addressed to: Richard Boele, Managing Director 768 Pacific Highway Gordon NSW 2072 Australia Tel: +61 2 9418 2656 Email: richard@banarra.com © 2014 Banarra Page 13 of 13
