Participant since: 2010-04-14 COP Due Date: 2014-03-1 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 29. February 2014 Jordan Select Tours will continue to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights for the UN Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Seif Saudi Managing Partner / CEO Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Jordan Select Tours supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Jordan Select Tours is committed to upholding all of our employees’ basic human rights and treating our employees with respect and dignity. Jordan Select Tours provides employees with a safe and healthy workplace. Jordan Select Tours committed to making certain that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Jordan Select Tours is dedicated to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination or harassment based on race, colour, religion, creed, gender (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity, national origin and ancestry, genetics, citizenship status when otherwise legally able to work, age, disability (including HIV), veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. Jordan Select Tours has 93% local employment from Jordan and 7% international. Implementation Jordan Select Tours has a Human Resources department and a customer care service for our clients. Measurement of outcomes It is vital that Jordan Select Tours employees treat each other with respect. Jordan Select Tours will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. If you engage in such conduct, you will be subject to discipline and you may expose yourself and Jordan Select Tours to liability. Jordan Select Tours is committed to upholding the basic human rights of our employees and of workers within our supply chain and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same high standards. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Jordan Select Tours does not use forced or compulsory labour. Employment is voluntary. Jordan Select Tours complies with local minimum age laws and does not employ child labour. Jordan Select Tours respects the rights of workers to join, form or not to join worker organizations including labour unions Jordan Select Tours corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Implementation All members of staff are issued with contracts of employment stating their terms and conditions of service, the freedom to leave, affirming the voluntary nature of their employment and providing clarity for the terms associated with departure or cessation of work. Jordan Select Tours are committed to the principles of achieving a good work – life balance for all our employees. Measurement of outcomes The Company takes appropriate action to ensure that we have the correct level of resources to perform the activity required. Environmental Assessment, Policy and Goals Jordan Select Tours is committed to protecting the environment through sustainable business practices. As an employee of Jordan Select Tours, one is expected to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Jordan Select Tours is a member of the JITOA (Jordan Inbound Tour Operators Association) and therefore support projects for the environment and spread awareness and take a stand against climate change. A last year projects included a cleanup day at Aqaba “don’t mess with Nature Initiative” where volunteers helped clean up the site to get rid of litter and sorting of solid waste to collect it for recycling. This will repeated for this year again. Implementation Care for the Environment (we advise our clients with following examples) Dear clients, looking after the environment is extremely important for us at Jordan Select Tours and you can also do your bit by following simple steps on your holiday! In your Hotel: You can try to use less energy and water simply by following the steps below: • Please make sure you switch the light off any time when not needed. • By using your towel the next day again, only leave it on the floor when you like a new towel, the hotel then replace it on your request! • By informing them about the lack of water in Jordan and the need to save it Landscapes and Heritage: • Please take your litter with you until you can dispose it properly. • Jordan Select Tours believe in responsible tourism, please respect wildlife and the landscapes by staying on trails and please respect local communities and their heritage. Travel: We make sure that the cars for our tours have regular maintenance for the safety of our clients and the maximum efficiency for the vehicles for a better environment. We are also switching to hybrid models Water: Please see our policy for our clients in Hotels. Waste: Jordan Select Tours does recycle in the office and we don’t use plastic bottled water, instead we have filtered water and no plastic cups just normal glasses for drinking. We use old paper for receiving faxes and energy light bulbs. Resource use: We use for our office non chlorine bleached paper. Jordan Select Tours has long term relationships with local suppliers and service providers. Our tour guides are local and our drivers for tours too. We have long term relationships with the desert camps we use for our clients in Wadi Rum. Measurement of outcomes Jordan Select Tours has continued its tree planting efforts, and our tree planting count has reached over 4500 trees. We started planting trees in Gilead in the north of Amman a few years back and are proud that we are now the custodians of one of Jordan's youngest forests. By travelling with us you can help Jordan become a greener place. Working closely with local partners and suppliers who have the same vision and commitment to environmentally and socially responsible operations: We believe in responsible tourism, promoting low impact environmentally sensitive operations to maximise visitors' enjoyment, understanding, awareness of wildlife and landscapes, and due respect to local communities and their heritage. Future Actions Plan: Planting more tree’s in the area of Gilead for this year 2014 Reduce energy we use in our office (instead of turning the air condition on we open the window for a fresh breeze, we turn lights off and leave blinds up for natural day light! We turn all computers off when we go home after work. This is happening now and will continue for the daily basis. We recycle our waste (plastic bottles and paper) This is happening now and will continue for the daily basis. Encourage our clients to keep the environment clean and to respect to local communities and their heritage (our tour guides mention this on beginning of each tour). Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Jordan Select Tours expect all employees to behave in a professional, ethical manner both internally and externally. As a company we are strictly non-political in all our activities. We make no contribution to political parties, and we have no political association with any party. Implementation Jordan Select Tours Ethical Code for Suppliers is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact. Measurement of outcomes No disciplinary action taken on any of our employees.
