Tameer Bank Micro Finance UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 01 October 2014 Letter of Commitment from Tameer's Chief Executive Officer This is second year of Tameer's commitment to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. Our commitment to the Compact's ten principles outlines our corporate responsibilities within human and labour rights environmental protection and anti-corruption remains firm. In this second Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we discuss developments against our corporate citizenship goals during calendar year 2013 (January December 2013). Tameer is ISO 14001, 27001 and OHS&A 18001 standard compliant. Since we have no requirement by regulator for certification, Tameer has ensured that it remains compliant to ISO and OHS&A standards and becomes a benchmark for the local banks. Tameer's mission is to work toward financial inclusion of the unbanked population of Pakistan and our commitment to the Global Compact is an integral part of fulfilling that objective. We'll continue to strengthen this partnership in the years to come to ensure our contribution in socio-economic development of the marginalized BOP population. In the following pages you will read about Tameer's progress against the 10 principles of the UNGC. We are committed to expanding and extending our corporate citizenship efforts, moving forwards creating sustained impact in the communities we operate. Sincerely ;(11.4~u.t., Founder, President and CEO , HUMAN RIGHTS Tameer Bank supports internationally recognized human rights including UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to avoid human rights abuses and complicity in accordance with the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework. The bank strives to identify, address and manage human rights related risks and impacts resulting from its activities. For further information, please visit tameerbank.com Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Processes Targets 2013 Performance 2013 Targets 2014 Promote a Tameer has initiated To set up ethic and discrimination-free training and compliant Hot Line workplace where people orientation sessions ‘0911’ where employees Tameer Code of Conduct of all races, religions and with revised Code of are able to raise gender can work with Conduct for all concerns regarding any harmony. employees. discrimination. Courtesy calls are Implementation of carried out to clients business analytics for Conduct a survey for with a purpose to Organizational Values of transparency in devising banks’ client to ensure ensure optimum level Equal opportunity and incentives. Training of that these values are of service delivered to meritocracy employees to ensure beneficial to them. them and to resolve gender and minority any issues that they sensitivity. may have faced. Reference Document: Group policy Ethics and Compliance LABOUR RIGHTS Tameer adheres to the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization related to freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced labor, child labor and discrimination at the work place, as set out in Code of Conduct and Local Policy People. Tameer promotes employee involvement through dialogue with employees or their representatives, as mentioned in Local Policy People. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Processes Targets 2013 Performance 2013 Targets 2014 Revision of benefit Provision of fuel Graduate third party Tameer Remuneration policy and provision of allowance to female contractual employees Policy fuel allowance for and sales staff. to Tameer’s payroll. female and sales staff Inspection to be carried Agreement of out by Tameer in 2014 Pledge to be signed by responsible Business 2014 to ensure all suppliers and Conduct (ABC) is signed compliancy of supplier Supplier Conduct vendors recruited in the by all suppliers before principles. These Principles year to adhere to the recruitment. ABC inspections are bank’s policy regarding ensures suppliers’ classified into three no child or forced labor compliancy to Tameer’s categories announced, group code of conduct unannounced and normal visits. Reference Document: Group Policy Supply Chain Sustainability ENVIRONMENT Tameer is committed to minimize its environmental impact. Reasonable efforts will be made to minimize use of resources i.e. energy, water and raw materials. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Processes Targets 2013 Performance 2013 Targets 2014 To migrate 10 branches to solar power during the Conversion of branches to year. LED lights 100% implantation of the pilot Pilot of three hybrid Solar Energy setup to be project solar branches introduced in 1 branch for energy conversion purposes. E-database has been established where all To reduce paper Tameer acquired scanning and the archive data has Reduction in paper usage usage by 50% bank storage platform license to been scanned and wide reduce paper work stored. Implementation of centralize printing. Financed 32 solar home Finance 300 solar Finance 1,200 solar systems to off-grid areas of home system Promotion and financing of home systems across Pakistan. Currently, working on through alternate solar and biogas products Pakistan Pay As You Go model to serve delivery channel in off grid areas. off-grid areas Installation of state of the art video conferencing systems Complete Reduction in business To reduce travel that are to be placed at implementation by traveling related expenses regional offices for effective end 2014 communication To ensure our Procurement-Suppliers To ensure maximum suppliers are Majority suppliers are ISO Follow environmental suppliers are ISO compliant with ISO 14001 compliant suppliers 14001 compliant 14001 ANTI-CORRUPTION Tameer is firmly opposed to all forms of corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Processes Targets 2013 Performance 2013 Targets 2014 To continue to Introduction of new Antiincorporate changes in Tameer’s Anti Refine the AntiCorruption guidelines Anti-corruption policy Corruption Policy Corruption guidelines provided by Group made by regulator and global standard 10% of Pakistan’s M2 To open mobile account (money in circulation) to and over the counter be transected through (OTC) fund transfer Moved 1% of Pakistan’s Money laundering formal channels like verified through GDP in 2013 branchless banking and Biometric Verification international remittance System (BVS) in gateway 2014/2015 Reference Document: State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) Anti Money Laundering Guidelines
