2013 Responsibility Report Part 1 Operations and Sustainability Report Systembolaget is there for everyone. We make a difference. Everyone should be able to rely on us to sell responsibly and that our aim is to protect public health. We have summarised our approach in our customer promise: you should always feel welcome, you should always feel that you can learn something from us, and you should always be able to rely on us to sell responsibly. This customer promise summarises what Systembolaget is all about. Packaging Price/litre Price 750 ml 118:67 89:Contents This is Systembolaget ............................ Tab Our strategic key performance Indicators....................................................... 1 The President’s Statement ......................... 2 Signiﬁcant events in 2013 .......................... 6 Corporate Social Responsibility ............... 8 Stakeholders ................................................ 10 Society ............................................. 12 Customers ...................................... 22 Employees ...................................... 34 Suppliers ......................................... 42 Owners ............................................ 52 The Board of Directors............................. 60 Company management ............................ 62 Organisation .............................................. 63 Systembolaget in ﬁgures ......................... 64 Ten years in brief...................................... 65 GRI index ..................................................... 66 Deﬁnitions .................................................. 68 Systembolaget’s 2013 Responsibility Report Our mandate is to sell responsibly, to offer a high quality service, and to provide information on the risks associated with alcohol. This Responsibility Report integrates our annual accounts and our Corporate Governance Report with our Sustainability Report. The 2013 Sustainability Report is published in two complementary parts: Part 1 Presenting... • a general description of our mandate, vision, customer promise, and responsibility • an in-depth look at our work from a variety of perspectives: society, customers, employees, suppliers and owners Part 2 Presenting... • a comprehensive ﬁnancial report, including the Corporate Governance Report (formal Annual Report) • an in-depth sustainability report including details of our reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI About the Sustainability Report The ﬁnancial reporting refers to Systembolaget AB. The in-depth sustainability report includes the Parent Company, Systembolaget AB, and the wholly-owned subsidiary company, IQ-initiativet AB. Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines are applied in the report for level B+. A review of the GRI Report has been carried out by Ernst & Young AB. For a full list of contents, see pages 66–67. Our vision Our mandate Our vision is of a society in which alcoholic Alcoholic beverages are not just another product. If you drinks can be enjoyed with due regard for drink in moderation, it can enrich your life, particularly health considerations so that no one is harmed. if you enjoy it as an accompaniment to good food. But it This is, in practice, a zero tolerance vision can also cause a range of problems. And that’s why when it comes to alcohol-induced harm, and Systembolaget exists. The starting point for the mandate might seem rather utopian. The point of the Systembolaget has received from the State is that we have vision is, however, that it clearly states what a sole right on retail sales of strong beer, wine and spirits, we are striving to achieve. The vision entails and other fermented alcoholic beverages in Sweden. This a far-reaching responsibility and it covers sole right limits availability, which is one of the most every single person in Sweden. effective ways of reducing the harmful effects of alcohol. This means that we do not sell to anyone under the age of 20, or to anyone who is noticeably intoxicated, or to anyone whom we suspect will resell the products. It also means that we do not attempt to persuade anyone to buy more than they had originally intended, that we do not advertise our products, and that we have no requirement to maximise our proﬁts. Our mandate – as an alcohol policy tool – is to sell alcohol, offering a high quality service and providing ? 20+ information about the risks associated with alcohol. Our values Our values permeate the entire company and everything we do. We shall be considerate, knowledgeable and inspirational. We shall show, through our genuine commitment, that we care. We show respect and thoughtfulness for our customers and one another. Our expertise includes our products, their use and their risks. Our inspiration is drawn from our mandate. We think innovatively, are proactive and committed, and this inspires those around us. We offer enjoyable taste experiences from our extensive product range while simultaneously inspiring people to be aware of and to think about their alcohol consumption. Our customer promise: you should always feel welcome, you should always feel that you can learn something from us, and you should always be able to rely on us to sell responsibly. We make a difference Systembolaget is an integral part of Swedish • 2,000 lives saved per year. Under the current alcohol policy. Researchers have shown that alcohol policy, approximately 4,200 people die Systembolaget’s monopoly and our responsible every year from alcohol-related causes. approach to selling contributes to: Without Systembolaget, this number would • 11 million fewer days of sick leave per year. increase to approximately 6,100 per year. There is a link between alcohol consumption • 6,600 fewer cases of DUI (driving under the and diseases such as high blood pressure, liver inﬂuence) reported per year. 18,100 cases of damage, cancer, diabetes and depression. DUI are currently reported every year in • 20,000 fewer crimes of violence per year. Sweden. It is estimated that if alcohol were Alcohol is usually part of the picture. sold in food shops, this ﬁgure would increase to 24,700 cases of DUI per year. 1 Norström T. et al. Addiction, Potential consequences of replacing a retail alcohol monopoly with a private license system, 2010 Our strategic key performance indicators Stakeholders Strategic orientation Goal Result Goal 2013 2013 2014 We shall actively contribute to the realisation Alcohol index 1 62 66 62 Society of a responsible alcohol policy and achieve Proof of age checks 95 96 95 strong popular support. We shall develop a cutting edge offering OPI, % 70 72 72 Customers and shall invite participation in a dialogue CSI 81 82 82 on alcohol and health. We shall have skilled and committed ESI 79 79 — Employees employees and managers who carry out and Short sick leave, % 2.3 2.1 — communicate our mandate. We shall be professional and transparent and, Suppliers in dialogue with our suppliers, live up to our QSI 93 93 93 customers’ expectations. We shall be sustainable and cost-effective Trading margin 2, % 22.5 21.2 21.0 Owners in every process and decision. Operating margin 1 2, % 1.5 1.1 1.0 1 New strategic key performance indicator, as of 2013. For deﬁnitions of the key performance indicators, see Deﬁnitions on page 68. 2 Excluding alcohol tax. The goal has been achieved. The goal has not been achieved. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 1 The President’s statement Systembolaget makes a difference Alcoholic beverages are not just another product. And that’s why Systembolaget exists – as an alcohol policy tool. We exist to help limit the harmful effects of alcohol in society. Alcoholic beverages are not just another product during the year, showing how many associate and Systembolaget is not like other chain stores. their work with job satisfaction and motivation. We are a company with a public health mandate. Sales increased slightly during the year in We do some things that other chain stores do, terms both of volume and income, and totalled but we do them for completely different reasons 468 million litres and almost SEK 26 billion, and with completely different goals. Our role is respectively. The operating proﬁt, adjusted for to handle all retail sales of strong beer, wines the negative effect of a provision made to and spirits in Sweden. Which means that we do Systembolaget’s pension foundation, improved not sell alcoholic beverages to anyone under from SEK 270 million to SEK 330 million. the age of 20, or to anyone who is noticeably TNS SIFO measures public support for intoxicated, or to anyone whom we suspect will Systembolaget’s monopoly in the form of an illicitly resell the products. It also means that we Opinion Index, which continued, in 2013, to show never try to persuade people to buy more than a record high level of 72 per cent. The Customer they had originally intended, that we never, for Satisfaction Index rose to a new record level of example, have “three for the price of two” offers, 82. The target ﬁgures for the Customer and also that we never advertise our drinks. We Satisfaction Index and Opinion Index were 81 are a different company that puts public health and 70 per cent, respectively, and we hence ﬁrst, not proﬁts. Our owners, the Swedish State, exceeded the goals we had set for 2013. I see these also demand that our operations are conducted ﬁgures as proof that our work is appreciated in a sustainable and economically effective and that Swedes see the need for Systembolaget. way with no effort to maximise our proﬁts. Our aim, in 2014, is to see if we can make further improvements to our customer interaction by Considerate, knowledgeable and means of measures such as increased proactivity, inspirational responsibility and further improvements to our Our work is guided by our values – considerate, product range. knowledgeable and inspirational – which permeate everything we do both in our interaction Alcohol consumption in Sweden with the customer and our methodologies. The Systembolaget’s products are often associated values also describe how we want others to with mealtimes, socialising and parties. But perceive us. Systembolaget has continued, in alcohol is also at the root of a great deal of 2013, to work with our internal management violent crime and of numerous accidents and skills in order to ensure a customer interaction diseases. Sweden has come a long way – our that impresses by its responsibility and the high alcohol consumption levels are amongst the standard of service we provide. lowest in the EU1, but research shows that the Systembolaget’s 5,000 or so employees have abolition of Systembolaget’s monopoly would completed an employee satisfaction survey lead to an increase in alcohol consumption2. 1 Andersson P, Moller L & Galea G (2012). Alcohol in the European Union: Consumption, harm and policy approaches. WHO Regional Ofﬁce for Europe. http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_ﬁle/0003/160680/e96457.pdf 2 Harold Holder (ed.), Alcohol monopolies and public health: what would the effects be of the abolition of Systembolaget’s retail monopoly? Public Health Agency of Sweden, 2008. 2 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 The President’s statement And the people who would suffer most are young people and those whose alcohol consumption levels are already high. Systembolaget is needed and it makes a difference. A smarter approach to alcohol Systembolaget’s mandate to handle all retail sales of strong beer, wine and spirits also includes a duty to provide information on the risks associated with alcohol consumption. We are involved in a large number of preventative activities and partnerships, such as our collaboration with the police in conjunction with our anti-bootlegging campaigns, and via our subsidiary company, IQ-initiativet AB, which works to help promote a smarter approach to alcohol. Positive results include the postponement of young people’s alcohol debut: in 2000, approximately 80 per cent of young people in grade 9 were alcohol consumers, while by 2012, this ﬁgure had fallen to 56 per cent – the lowest levels measured since measurements began in 19713. Systembolaget carries out proof of age checks on everyone we believe is under the age of 25 to ensure that we are not selling to people under the age of 20. Approximately 5,700 control support for alcohol research, an expression of our purchases were made in our stores in 2013 by an ambition and our view that research ﬁndings will, independent survey company. Systembolaget in the longer term, generate the preconditions asked for proof of age in 96 per cent of the for better public health. The Board of Directors The postponement control purchase instances, which is an has consequently decided to increase our improvement on the ﬁgure for the previous year. support for alcohol research from SEK 3 million of young people’s Compliance with our selling rules is of the utmost to SEK 5 million per annum. alcohol debut is importance to Systembolaget and we have consequently set a target ﬁgure of 95 per cent – Sustainability work is key for very good news a ﬁgure that we will continue to aim for in 2014. Systembolaget indeed. The alcohol index is a combined measurement Taking responsibility for working conditions, of people’s attitudes to alcohol in different human rights, environmental issues, antisituations and, as of 2013, a new strategic key corruption and equal opportunities is a given ratio for Systembolaget. In 2013, the Alcohol for us, both within our own operations and Index ﬁgure was 66, in comparison with one of throughout the drinks supplier chain. 62 in 2012. The goal for 2013 was 62. The Alcohol Achieving real results demands a systematic Index will also, as of 2014, be one of our overall and long-term approach to the work. Systemsustainability goals. bolaget’s long-term sustainability work is based Alcohol researchers and representatives of on the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten stakeholder organisations and authorities met principles for human rights, working conditions, up at Systembolaget’s learning centre on Skarpö the environment and anti-corruption. Systemto attend the annual alcohol research conference. bolaget has supported the principles of the The conference is, along with Systembolaget’s Global Compact, which underlie our overall 3 Leifman, H. (ed.), School student’s drug habits, 2012 – CAN rapport 133, The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 3 The President’s statement business strategy, since 2013, and has also been we accordingly intend to conduct a total of 17 coordinating its sustainability work with the such audits in 2014. other Nordic alcohol monopolies since 2008. Systembolaget has provided training courses We also report our sustainability work in for its suppliers and producers and has now accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative started monitoring Code of Conduct compliance (GRI) guidelines. by means of producer audits. The Code of Systembolaget has chosen, as its framework for sustainability We have noted a number of trends in the Conduct, which is based on the principles of the work, the ten principles of the outside world and on which we must take a UN’s Global Compact initiative, is scheduled for UN’s Global Compact initiative stance when it comes to sustainability. These revision in line with new international on human rights, working conditions, the environment include an increased focus on human rights in conventions. The aim is to complete work on and anti-corruption. high-risk countries when it comes to such areas both the sustainability strategy and the revised as a living wage, food, water and children's Code of Conduct during the ﬁrst half of 2014. rights. Looking forward, we anticipated Systembolaget’s Board of Directors and certain increased work to counter corruption, an members of the management team visited increased focus on the ecocycle, and a growing South Africa in March as part of our work and interest in sustainability information, including in order to further our knowledge of a country the quantiﬁcation of and compensation for CO2 that is one of our biggest supplier countries emissions. And in addition an increased when it comes to wine. The aim of the trip was awareness of health and welfare and a public to learn more about actual working conditions opinion for value-driven companies. in the country and, at the same time, to make It was in the light of, amongst other things, it clear to our suppliers just how important the above-mentioned factors, that in November, sustainability issues are to us. the Board approved two overall sustainability Systembolaget prioritises the promotion of goals to be monitored by the Board and the equal rights for all in society when it comes to owner: our contribution to reducing the harmful work, developmental opportunities at work, effects of alcohol in society, measured by means terms of employment and other conditions, and of the Alcohol Index, and a reduction in Systemthe Board has drawn up an equal opportunities bolaget’s environmental footprint. The Alcohol plan during the year in order to progress this Index target ﬁgures for 2017 and 2020 are 63 and work. We have identiﬁed a number of areas in 64 (using 2013 and 62 as the base levels), while which we can improve: the percentage of the environmental footprint target ﬁgures are a foreign-born Systembolaget employees is, for reduction in CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalents) example, considerably lower than the national of 7,000 and 14,000 tonnes, respectively. average for Swedish ﬁrms. This is something We have identiﬁed these areas as being the we want to change. I believe that just as we need most relevant ones with which to work, based on to make the most of both men’s and women’s our risks and opportunities, which include the expertise, we also need the expertise of people risk of encountering corruption and unacceptable with different experiences and backgrounds. working conditions in the supplier chain, in This is important, not least in our interaction that several of our wine producers are located with the customer. in high-risk countries, such as South Africa and Chile, in terms of human rights and working Worrying e-commerce and conditions. aggressive marketing A great deal of work remains to be done before The growing commercial sales of alcohol online we see the results of our work, as is conﬁrmed may, in the long term, give rise to additional by the Swedwatch4 report. We need, for example, alcohol-related problems in Sweden5. Given the to carry out more supplier audits in that it is sharp increase in aggressive, proactive here that we see the greatest potential for marketing, effective and proactive supervision inﬂuencing development in a positive way, and of Swedish alcohol regulations is becoming 4 Edoff, P. (2013) Report #67, Wine’s route from grape to glass, Swedwatch, presented 12 December 2013. 5 Blom, C & Arnberg, J (2013) Sales of alcohol online, HUI Research, 4 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 The President’s statement even more urgent6. A Government Investigative Our objective is to develop our offering in a Committee that reported in early 2013 decided sustainable way, to contribute to a more that the legislation governing private imports informed consumption of alcohol, and to develop of alcoholic drinks should be reviewed and that our methodology, our management skills, and Customers expect supervisory activities should be expanded. our partnerships. Systembolaget’s response to the request We see three main challenges ahead of us. to be able to circulated for comment by the Committee The ﬁrst is our customers’ increased expectations complete their included a request for a similar type of regulation in relation to our mandate. Customers expect to to that found in Finland and Norway, and stated be able to complete their business, whatever business, whatever that when it comes to the supervisory proposals, their preferred channel – whether in store or their preferred they must be preceded by a clariﬁcation of what online. This increase in customer expectations channel. is and is not permitted in conjunction with is apparent in the surveys7 we conduct and in private importation of alcohol. our daily customer interactions. We have noted In June, the City Gross and Wineﬁnder a slight decline in alcohol consumption8, but companies launched sales of alcohol together that there are still substantial gaps in people’s with pre-packed bags of food. Systembolaget knowledge when it comes to how alcohol affects regarded these operations as incompatible with health. And it is here that we see our second the provisions of the Swedish Alcohol Act and challenge: to inform people and thereby reduce consequently decided to report the companies to the harmful effects of alcohol. Systembolaget’s the police. The Prosecutor decided, however, not monopoly is also facing a challenge in the form to proceed with the preliminary investigation. of online sales of alcohol, often accompanied by Systembolaget was pleased, in early 2014, by aggressive and proactive marketing – something the Government’s announcement that it intended that could have major consequences in the to appoint a new Committee (Dir. 2014:1) to future. A trend in which alcoholic beverages conduct a review of the regulations governing are depicted as just another product is an e-commerce and home deliveries of alcoholic unfortunate one, and one we deplore. beverages to consumers. It is my hope and belief that Systembolaget is well-positioned to continue playing an Systembolaget now in every local important role in Sweden’s future alcohol authority area in Sweden policy – a policy that is designed to reduce the The opening of a new Systembolaget store in harmful effects of alcohol. Systembolaget Knivsta means that Systembolaget now has a stands for a concept: restrictions for the beneﬁt retail presence in every single one of Sweden’s of all and in order to promote public health, 290 local authority areas. There are, in addition and more informed choices for the individual. to the stores, just over 500 agents located Our expertise covers not only our products but throughout the country and from whom their usage and their associated risks. We help customers can order goods for collection. create a healthy drinking culture by presenting In September, we adjusted our product range good taste experiences and a high quality to increase the level of local customisation in product range, while simultaneously inspiring line with customer demand in-store. people to think about their consumption, to be aware and informed, and to be responsible. Future challenges for Systembolaget In June, the Board of Directors adopted a strategic plan that runs until 2017 and which is designed to further our efforts to realise our vision of a society in which alcoholic drinks are enjoyed with due regard to health considerations – and Magdalena Gerger where no one jeopardises their well-being. President 6 IQ report 2013:2, Online alcohol advertising primarily affects young people. 7 See the Customers section on page 26, 8 Ramstedt, M (ed.), Alcohol in ﬁgures, 2012 – a statistic report from the SoRAD (the Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs) Monitor project. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 5 Signiﬁcant events in 2013 Signiﬁcant events in 2013 • In March, a team made up of Members of the Board of Systembolaget and individuals from the company management team travelled to Q1 South Africa. The aim of the trip was to learn more about actual working conditions and, at the same time, to make it clear how important sustainability issues are to us. • Systembolaget introduced two new strategic key ratios, namely the Alcohol Index and the Operating margin excluding alcohol tax. • January saw the opening of a new store in The Alcohol Index measures Swedes’ attitudes Knivsta, and Systembolaget consequently towards alcohol in different situations, while now has a presence in all 290 of Sweden’s the operating margin ratio shows the local authority areas. By the end of the year, operating proﬁt as a percentage of income, Systembolaget had a total of 426 stores. excluding alcohol tax. • We support alcohol research through Systembolaget’s Alcohol Research Council. Q2 In the spring, we held our annual alcohol conference, which was attended by representatives of stakeholder organisations and various different authorities. The points under discussion included young people’s consumption patterns, alcohol advertising, and online sales of alcohol. • Systembolaget’s subsidiary company, IQinitiativet, sent Tonårsparlören (“The Teenage Phrasebook”) out to 93,285 parents of children born in 1999. The booklet provides facts, arguments to use and tips when talking with their teenager about alcohol. • The Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) metric – the key ratio we use to measure the things that are important to our customers and how well we are living up to their expectations – reached 82 during the ﬁrst six months of the year. 6 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Signiﬁcant events in 2013 Brief facts 2013 • Net sales: SEK 25.7 billion • Approx. 120 million customer visits to • 5,087 employees the stores and 24 million visits to systembolaget.se • 426 stores and approx. 500 agents • Customer service answered 116,000 • Approx. 800 active drinks suppliers emails and phone calls • 15,957 items: • The app Search & ﬁnd was used – 2,496 in the ﬁxed range 10 million times. – 13,155 in the available-for-order range – 306 in the temporary range • We implemented a new product range control system in the autumn of 2013 that will result Q3 in a localised and faster adaptation in line with customer demand. It will also mean that our in-store shelving for wine is now sorted ﬁrst by country of origin and then by price bracket. • A ﬁlm entitled “Avdramatisera” (“It’s no big thing”) on the subject of illicit supply was shown on TV and social media. It was subsequently awarded ﬁrst prize in the 2013 Best advertising ﬁlm category of SF Media’s advertising impact awards. • Home delivery trials were expanded during the year to include the available-for-order range, and the ability to order for home delivery was also extended to additional post code areas and counties. The trial is being Q4 evaluated by independent alcohol researchers. • Swedwatch conducted a review of Systembolaget’s sustainability work and Code of • A total of approximately 5,700 control Conduct, producing a report detailing their purchases were made in Systembolaget ﬁndings in December. The review highlights stores during the year in order to ensure the challenges faced within the wine-producing that we are not selling to people under industry and expands our knowledge of the the age of 20. The results for 2013 ﬁeld, while simultaneously helping to boost achieved a new record level, with proof Systembolaget’s work and strengthen its of age requested in 96 per cent of control commitment in this area. purchases made. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Our responsibility goes beyond Systembolaget is an alcohol policy tool and the reason we exist is to limit the harmful effects of alcohol in society. We do not sell to anyone under the age of 20, or to anyone who is noticeably intoxicated, or to anyone whom we suspect will illicitly resell the products. We also work to promote good working conditions, human rights, environmental issues and anti-corruption, not just within our own operations, but throughout our drinks supplier chain. Human rights and working conditions at the to monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct producer stage of the chain have come by carrying out producer audits. The past year increasingly under society’s spotlight in recent has seen this partnership strengthened still years. Poor working conditions, deﬁcient health further and we have begun work on the and safety routines, child labour, and various development of a new Nordic platform for our kinds of discrimination have been discussed, joint efforts up until 2018. This platform includes as has the question of corruption. There is also not only working conditions, but human rights an increased societal interest in environmental and anti-corruption work in the supplier chain, and climate change issues. There is a growing together with a strong focus on the environment. realisation on the part of companies, authorities Find out more about our systematic efforts to and organisations that these complex issues establish a sustainable supplier chain on page 44. demand work on a multitude of fronts, both in parallel and by many different stakeholders Systembolaget’s working in collaboration. Systembolaget works environmental plan systematically and takes a long-term approach In 2011, Systembolaget adopted a long-term in these areas, both on its own initiative and in environmental plan that extends until 2020. Our partnership with others. work over the past year has mainly focused on waste management, transport, increasing the Nordic partnership number of products and packaging types that Systembolaget has worked in partnership with have a lower environmental impact, and the other Nordic alcohol retail monopolies in increasing the recycling of our packaging. Find Norway, Finland, Iceland and the Faeroes since out more about our systematic environmental 2008 in order to identify ways of establishing a work on pages 47 – 49 of Part 2 of this Report, sustainable drinks supplier chain. Together, we or at systembolaget.se. are a sizeable and signiﬁcant purchaser with substantial potential for inﬂuencing the Risk and opportunities producers. Over the past ﬁve-year period, we The risk of encountering corruption in the have, in partnership with the other Nordic course of our operations is relatively substantial, monopolies, drawn up both a Code of Conduct as is the risk of unacceptable working conditions and a monitoring system. We have held training occurring somewhere in our worldwide supply courses for suppliers and producers, and begun chain. We know, when it comes to environmental 8 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Corporate Social Responsibility ENVIRONMENT THE I CS We break our corporate social responsibility down TH Ana E into three working areas: our alcohol policy mandate, lic S ES SIN ho ly our commitment to the alcohol issue, and our Non-a /BU sustainability work. & sis -CORRUPTION HUM lco The AN RIGHTS mandate Research Limit the harmful effects of alcohol. ANTI Extended commitment to the alcohol issue. Th e IQ W i n it iative Sustainability work. O R Eq KIN Conduct our operations in line with the principles ua G C of the UN’s Global Compact initiative. lity O and NDITIONS divers ity issues, that our operations, including the value sustainable development, e.g. by reducing their chain, have a substantial climate impact in the environmental impact, generating good working form of packaging, cultivation, production and conditions, and combatting corruption. Two CEO transportation. This overall impact is the reason meetings and three working meetings have been why Systembolaget prioritises sustainability held during the year and will result in concrete issues and ranks them amongst the most collaborative projects in 2014. important when carrying out company-wide mapping of the risks we face. The focus of our CSR work The Board of Directors and company management have agreed on a number of priority action areas within the following overall areas: human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption, the environment, and equal opportunity. It is within the supplier stage of the drinks chain that we have the greatest potential for making a difference and inﬂuencing developments in the right direction. We will also continue our internal work with business ethics issues in order to ensure that we live up to the standards we demand of our suppliers. Find out more on page 39. Leadership for sustainable development In May, the Overseas Development Agency, SIDA, invited Systembolaget and 20 other major Swedish companies to attend its new initiative, “Leadership for sustainable development”. The aim is to work together on identifying ways in which the companies can work to promote 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 9 Stakeholders Open dialogue with stakeholders Systembolaget’s various stakeholders make demands on our operations in line with their respective perspectives, and we maintain an open dialogue with them in order to ensure we are up to date with their views, requirements and expectations, which is an important tool in the context of our strategic work. This dialogue takes the form of meetings and seminars, and we also employ surveys, business intelligence, and analyses in order to monitor trends and expectations. We are keen to build and strengthen a mutual, long-term and transparent relationship with all of our stakeholders. Society Owners Customers Suppliers Employees 10 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Stakeholders Society The Employee Satisfaction survey, which is carried out annually, shows how employees rate Systembolaget’s operations shall be conducted their ability, given their working conditions to in a socially, environmentally and ethically carry out their duties. Every employee has a sustainable way. Alcoholic beverages are not just personal development plan and our aim is to another product and we exist because alcoholensure continuous improvement in staff skill related problems are reduced if alcohol is sold levels and ongoing skill development. Short with no effort to maximise proﬁts. We take periods of sick leave, which are one of our responsibility for our alcohol policy role through strategic key performance indicators, is a range of alcohol-prevention partnerships and monitored monthly. Our work is based at all times by providing information on the harmful on our core values: considerate, knowledgeable effects of alcohol. Our annual alcohol research and inspirational. We also work proactively with conference highlights the latest ﬁndings in the diversity, equality, working conditions and work alcohol research sphere and the results are environment issues. used when we inform people about the effect that alcohol has on health. Suppliers The Alcohol Index measurement is carried out once a year and provides a metric for Systembolaget is a major purchasing player and Swedes’ attitudes towards alcohol. We also work we have done business with over 800 different continuously with control purchases carried drinks suppliers during the past year, giving us out by independent companies. The control a unique opportunity to inﬂuence the drinks purchases are carried out by test subjects aged industry towards a sustainable approach. between 20 and 24 in order to ensure that we The drinks we sell shall be produced under are complying with our selling rules. conditions that are responsible in terms both of people and of the environment. The Quality Customers Supplier Index (QSI) measurements are taken every quarter and show how our drinks suppliers Systembolaget has a responsibility to ensure it help provide customer value. Systembolaget provides a ﬁrst rate service, a broad product operates a brand-neutral approach to its range, and a high quality offering across the purchasing and neither discriminates against board. We work actively to counteract the nor favours any individual supplier. negative effects of alcohol by offering our expertise in a way that makes it easier for our Owners customers to make informed choices. All of our sales are conducted in a responsible way. The alcohol policy-based mandate is the TNS SIFO measures Swedes’ attitudes towards foundation of our very existence. We shall help Systembolaget and our monopoly on the retail limit the harmful effects of alcohol by selling sale of alcoholic beverages, producing the alcoholic drinks responsibly. Sweden has a Opinion Index (OPI). We also measure customer long-standing tradition of responsible alcohol satisfaction continuously through the Customer policies and Systembolaget is an important tool Satisfaction Index (CSI) in order to improve and in limiting the harmful effects of alcohol in develop the service we provide, both in-store society. Our operations are guided by the and at systembolaget.se. State’s Owner’s Directive, the agreement with the State, the Swedish Alcohol Act, and the Employees EU’s legislative regulations. Our operations shall be conducted in a sustainable and Highly trained, committed employees are vital economically efﬁcient way with no attempt to to responsible selling and satisﬁed customers. maximise proﬁts. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 11 Society Systembolaget’s operations are based on a clearly deﬁned social responsibility. We are involved in a number of preventative activities and partnerships, including our subsidiary company, IQ-initiativet, and a nationwide collaboration with the police in conjunction with our anti-bootlegging campaigns. The downsides of alcohol ....................................... 14 Commitment to alcohol research ......................... 14 The high cost of alcohol to society ...................... 15 Scrupulous proof of age checks ........................... 16 Countering illicit supply ......................................... 16 IQ-initiativet ............................................................. 18 Swedes’ attitudes towards alcohol ....................... 19 Ongoing focus on our environmental work ....... 20 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 13 Society The downsides of alcohol Alcohol has direct consequences for health, even at moderate consumption levels. Systembolaget’s commitment to alcohol research supports our mandate to provide information on the risks associated with consuming alcoholic drinks. The information we provide must always have a scientiﬁc base. Commitment to alcohol research Magdalena Gerger, Our commitment shall help inform Chair at the University of Lund and since President of Systembolaget customers, decision makers and social 1999, we have awarded a travel grant to representatives alike about the link between young alcohol researchers working in the alcohol and ill health. We take part in and ﬁeld of youth and alcohol. organise alcohol research conferences and Systembolaget’s Alcohol Research Council Sweden has continuously monitor international research invests SEK 3 million every year in research that gives us access to the latest information. and this amount will, in future, be increased come a long way Systembolaget co-ﬁnances a research to SEK 5 million per year. – our alcohol consumption levels are amongst the Total consumption must be limited lowest in the Alcohol researchers worldwide have demonstrated and reduce consumption in all groups in society. that there is a clear link between the amount of Amphora (Alcohol Measures for Public Health EU.” alcohol consumed by a population and the scale Research Alliance) has been commissioned by of alcohol-related injuries and disease1. The risk the EU to conduct an extensive and collaborative of suffering a problem is naturally less for programme of research in the member states those who drink less alcohol, but even moderate in order to provide decision makers with a consumption can increase the risk of disease knowledge base for alcohol-related issues. and injury. A large percentage of the harmful In a comparison between the member states, effects caused by alcohol can be found in the Amphora stated that those countries that have large group of people who over-consume alcohol a stricter and more comprehensive alcohol without ever becoming alcohol abusers or policy generally have lower consumption levels2. alcoholics, which is why it is important to try 1 Sully Lederman, The Total Consumption Model, http://www.can.se/sv/Tidskriften-AoN/Alkoholskador-ovantatstabila/Totalkonsumtionsmodellen/ 2 Alcohol in the European Union, Consumption, harm and policy approaches. WHO Regional Ofﬁce for Europe, 2012. 14 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Society Systembolaget’s alcohol research conference Alcohol researchers and representatives of stakeholder organisations and various authorities came together in May to take part in Systembolaget’s annual alcohol research conference. Systembolaget’s conference is a meeting place for dialogue on the latest alcohol-related research ﬁndings. This year’s alcohol research conference included the presentation of a report on the link between alcohol and cancer, trends in youth drinking, and alcohol damage to third parties (such as domestic violence) and a lack of safety in public spaces. We will make use of the facts that emerge during the conference in the course of our operations and when we provide people with information on the ways Magdalena Gerger, President of Systembolaget, in which alcohol affects health. at Systembolaget’s Alcohol Research Conference. SEK 66 The high cost of alcohol to society Alcohol misuse is estimated to cost society around SEK 66 billion per annum, according to the Swedish Government’s Special Commissioner, Gerhard Larsson1. The expenditure on problems caused by alcohol far exceeds the tax income generated by sales of alcohol. Several thousand Swedes die every year from diseases or injuries related to alcohol consumption and approximately one ﬁfth (20 per cent) of all patient admitted to A&E have alcohol problems. The corresponding billion ﬁgure in the mental health care sector is around 40 per cent2. The cost to society of alcohol misuse is estimated at SEK 66 billion per year. Cancer risk increased, even by small amounts of alcohol The link between alcohol and the risk of can result in cancer. The results of the research3 developing cancer is becoming increasingly being conducted by Dag Jenssen and is addressing established, but the mechanism is, to date, far the issue of what happens to our bodies when from clear. Professor Dag Jenssen from the we drink wine with our meals every day. It has School of Genetics, Microbiology and Toxicology been suggested in a wide variety of contexts at the University of Stockholm, has successfully that this is “absolutely ﬁne, health-wise”, but demonstrated that even small amounts of as the study shows, daily alcohol consumption alcohol cause damage to our DNA – damage that is generally speaking not a good idea. 1 Wiklund. H. et al. (2011) SOU 2011:35, Volume 2 Alcohol Abuse Committee. 2 CAN, The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs. 3 Kotova. N. et al (2012) http://carcin.oxfordjournals.org/content/34/2/325.abstract “Genotoxicity of alcohol is linked to DNA replication-associated damage and homologous recombination repair”. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 15 Society Scrupulous proof of age checks 96% One of the cornerstones of Systembolaget’s operations is irreproachable compliance with the selling rules: we do not sell to anyone under the age of 20, to anyone who is noticeably intoxicated, or to anyone who will, we suspect, illicitly resell the alcohol they buy. This is why we always ask for proof of age from anyone we believe to be under the age of 25 and proof of age refuse to sell to anyone who cannot provide proof of age. checks in stores We commission an independent company that tasks young people with making control purchases in our stores, in order to monitor how we are doing in this respect. The measurements are carried out every month by test subjects aged between 20 and 24. A total of approximately attempted 5,700 control purchases were made during the year in our stores, with a further 600 or so made at our agents. The in-store target ﬁgure was 95 per cent of test subjects asked for proof of age. The actual ﬁgure achieved was 96 per cent. The corresponding ﬁgure for our agents during the year was 94 per cent. Countering illicit supply One of Systembolaget’s most important tasks is Alcohol and Other Drugs) survey on school actively countering illicit supply. We collaborate students’ drug habits from 2013 shows that with the local police in conjunction with our fewer than half (44 per cent) of boys and half information campaigns, e.g. at the beginning (50 per cent) of girls in the ninth grade had and end of the school year. We also provide drunk alcohol, which is the lowest ﬁgure ever information in our stores and via our agents. recorded since measurements began in 1971. Teenage drinking levels have declined, and the But the survey also shows that almost 16.5 per CAN (The Swedish Council for Information on cent of teenagers get alcohol from their parents1. There are a number of studies showing that there is a clear link between parents’ attitudes Award and young people’s alcohol consumption. Best advertising Teenagers who are offered alcohol by their For the fourth year in parents run a higher risk of drinking heavily succession, Systembolaget ﬁlm, 2013! won the Best advertising g than teenagers whose parents do not offer ﬁlm award in SF Media’s ie them alcohol, according to research from the ﬁl clip advertising impact awards. m f “A rom Karolinska Institute and elsewhere. This risk Our aim, through the ﬁlm, vd r a t he which is entitled m a at dv continues into adulthood2. “Avdramatisera” (It’s no big is er er t a” isi This is the issue we addressed in our “It’s no deal), is to support parents ov n in discussions about alcohol M big deal” campaign ﬁlm in August. The ﬁlm was with their teenagers. shown on TV and in social media. 1 Gripe, I. (2013) Skolelevers drogvanor 2013 – CAN rapport 139, Centralförbundet för alkohol och narkotikaupplysning. (School students’ drug habits, 2013 – CAN report #139, the The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs). 2 Anna-Karin Danielsson, doctoral thesis from the Karolinska Institute, investigating 1,200 Swedish teenagers’ alcohol habits between 2001 and 2006. 16 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Society Promillekoll app The IQ Inspirers... wins awards ... is the name we give to a collaboration between Systembolaget and our subsidiary company, IQThe Promillekoll app was initiativet, which became a permanent part of launched in 2012 with the our operations in 2013 after being conducted on aim of increasing people’s a trial basis in 2012. The Inspirers are Systemawareness of their own bolaget employees who, over and above their alcohol consumption Award regular duties, are tasked with meeting with a and of helping people Golden Egg 2013! range of people in society at large and inspiring who wanted to drink them to prevent alcohol-related problems. They alcohol, but not to drink work with local conditions to create networks too much. The app has been and to provide inspiration with the aid of the just downloaded over 700,000 times since over 1,000 IQ projects currently running. An IQ its launch. Inspirer can, for example, work in conjunction The app has also won a number of with a range of festivals and in collaboration We have an prizes during the year, including a Golden with the police, schools, drug coordinators and incredibly Egg from the Swedish Association of various companies. We had 12 Inspirers during Communication Agencies, and a Bronze the year. important part Lion in the Mobile Lions Not for Proﬁt and Birgitta Nilsson has, in her role as an IQ Inspirer, to play as a Public Information class in the prestigious successfully persuaded the Ängelholm local Cannes Lions communications competition. authority to run a campaign aimed at restaurateurs link between The competition had over 36,000 entries called “Every other drink a water”. As an employee from more than 90 countries. of Systembolaget, her contribution has included Systembolaget Promillekoll also won a design gold in demonstrating alcohol-free alternatives. and society.” the Swedish Design Prize competition “We have an incredibly important part to play Birgitta Nilsson, where the app was entered in the Device as a link between Systembolaget and society. We Store manager in Råå, – smart phone class. The app was fulﬁl a function and are a sought-after resource Helsingborg and the IQ Inspirers upgraded at the end of 2013 and now also for a range of different operators out there – includes a calorie counter. everything from local authorities and restaurateurs to the sports and athletics community.” The beneﬁts of Systembolaget The aim of the ﬁlm “En julsaga” (“A Christmas Tale”) We conducted a number of surveys on the was to talk about and explain why Systembolaget exists subject of Systembolaget’s social responsibility and to increase awareness of in the spring, and it was clear that many people what our mandate is about are unaware of the purpose of Systembolaget. and the difference we make. One of our primary tasks in the years ahead will, therefore, be to explain and demonstrate ov “A ie c the difference we make to public health, but Ch lip ri fr also to boost people’s know-how when it comes st om m as t h to alcohol and the ways in which it affects ta e ﬁ le l m M ” their health, and thereby help ensure better informed consumption. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 17 Society A smarter approach to alcohol SEK 25 IQ-initiativet is our subsidiary company and it works to change people’s attitude to alcohol, building a smarter and healthier approach to alcohol. IQ-initiativet uses information campaigns to encourage reﬂection and to increase awareness of the risks associated with alcohol. million The amount invested by Systembolaget in its IQinitiativet subsidiary in 2013. In 2014, this amount will be increased to SEK 30 million. We launched a new website in conjunction with the “Tonårsparlören” (Teenage Phrasebook) re-launch in April. “The Teenage Phrasebook” – a guide for teenagers’ parents “Tonårsparlören” (The Teenage Phrasebook) offers parents facts, arguments and tips on how to talk about alcohol, amongst other things, with their teenagers. The guide was reworked and re-launched in April, when the book was sent to the home address of 93,285 parents with children born in 1999. Just over 200,000 copies of the book were also distributed in Systembolaget’s stores. 93 per cent of the parents who received the book had heard of or seen “Tonårsparlören”, and 62 per cent had discussed the book with their teenager. A survey of the impact of the campaign in the media showed that 92 per cent of respondents thought it was important that society provides information on issues involving teenagers and alcohol. 18 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Society Campaign for young adults Why is it so hard for other people to accept a M “no” when the norm is that “everyone” drinks? ov a d ie ve cli One of IQ-initiativet’s long-term projects rt p f is r o in m entails attempting to reach out to young adults g ﬁ l IQ m ’s with messages that encourage them to think about their alcohol consumption. Alcohol Index – Inspirational network measuring Swedes’ for people who care attitudes to alcohol passionately The Alcohol Index is a combined measurement The number of members of the IQ-initiativet’s of Swedes’ attitudes to alcohol in different network is steadily growing, and now also situations. The higher the index, the more includes Systembolaget’s IQ-Inspirers. The moderate the attitude to alcohol. The Alcohol network welcomes everyone who is actively Index is presented by Systembolaget’s subsidiary, involved in alcohol-prevention work and is IQ-initiativet, and the survey on which it is attracting members nationwide. The aim of based is carried out annually by an external the network is to offer committed people the company. The Alcohol Index is, as of 2013, a opportunity to swap good ideas, to offer a strategic key performance indicator for community in which to think about and Systembolaget and at an overall level, has discuss the issues, and to provide inspiration. shown an increase from 62 to 66 between 2010 and 2013. The target ﬁgure for 2013 was 63. Evaluate your alcohol habits 100,000 people evaluate their alcohol habits using the online tool, “Alcohol proﬁle”, every year. 100,000 people take an Users answer 14 questions and then receive a personal “alcohol proﬁle” that shows them any risks they may be running. Alcohol Proﬁle New features introduced in 2013 include the suggestion that anyone taking the test who would like to know more or is worried about their alcohol proﬁle talk to their doctor. IQ-initiativet test every year published a report in late 2013, based on the over 500,000 Alcohol Proﬁle tests that had been taken between 2009 and 2012. The ﬁgures showed, amongst other things, that one in every ﬁve people to evaluate their who take the test has a high-risk proﬁle, and that young adults (aged 18-25) drink more heavily drinking habits. and have riskier drinking habits than older people. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 19 Society Ongoing focus on our environmental work Systembolaget’s goal is to reduce our environmental footprint, not just through the measures we take in-house, but through measures that have an impact elsewhere in the value chain. Which is why we conduct our environmental work on several fronts. An environmental audit was carried out in 2011 and addressed both Systembolaget’s direct Electricity consumption impact on the climate as a result of its own Systembolaget has a long tradition of operations, and the environmental impact of working systematically to enhance its the products we sell. The audit conﬁrmed that energy efﬁciency. Systembolaget’s products have a considerable Electricity consumption by our “set to impact on the climate. zero” stores fell by 8 kWh/m2 in 2013 (ﬁnd Our internal environmental work in 2013 out more about this on page 58 of Part 2). has continued to focus on waste management The installation of LED lighting in more and energy consumption, and on reducing the and more stores was amongst the measures negative environmental impact of our drink taken during the year, and 2013 saw LED packaging and transports. We will continue to ﬁttings installed in 25 stores during the focus backwards up the supplier chain in the year, resulting in LED lighting having been years ahead, looking at transport, production installed in 85 stores in total by the end of and cultivation. the year – corresponding to an annual saving of almost 619 MWh. A switch to LED lighting is planned for a further 30 stores in 2014. Systembolaget’s total climate impact Electricity consumption per m² guidelines 360,000 tonnes CO2 have been drawn up during the year for a Systembolaget’s own emissions, 2% variety of store formats. Electricity metering is being installed in more and more stores and the goal is for all stores to have Transport, 18% introduced metering by 2016. Packaging, 32% The installation of energy-saving software in stores and ofﬁces has been completed Production, 19% during the year. 1,200 older computer components have been replaced by new, more energy-saving equipment – a measure Cultivation, 29% that led to Systembolaget being nominated for the “Sustainability project of the year” The chart shows that packaging accounts for 32 per cent at the 2013 CIO Awards. Our measures in of our total climate impact, cultivation for 29 per cent, production for 19 per cent, transport for 18 per cent, and 2013 resulted in the equivalent of a reduction Systembolaget’s direct emissions for 2 per cent. in emissions of approximately 1,815 MWh. Source: Systembolaget’s environmental audit, 2011. 20 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Society Waste management Systembolaget has reviewed and improved its brief training course for in-store personnel and management of waste products during the year the goal is for all stores to institute an efﬁcient in order to reduce the environmental impact sorting-at-source system in which the majority from packaging and from our own operations. of the waste products are sorted and optimally Our recycling services supplier has provided a processed by 2020. Measures to increase recycling and reduce littering The packaging from Systembolaget’s products lives on, even once it has left our stores, and DEPOSIT/ can either be a problem or a resource, depending on how it is managed. We are, therefore, keen RETURN to contribute to this stage of the chain as well and, to this end, Systembolaget has an ongoing for collaboration with Returpack in order to increase the extent to which our packaging is PET too! recycled. The partnership with Returpack during the past year has focused on park-based projects designed to make it easier for park visitors to sort their waste when they leave the park. Cutting packaging weight is a weighty matter As the 2011 environmental audit shows, types of packaging, including returnable packaging is still the biggest single source glass bottles. The weight of the packaging of environmental impact, and Systembolaget is very signiﬁcant in that it is the amount is consequently working in a variety of of material involved that is the key factor. ways to reduce the overall weight of its Systembolaget’s mandate is to limit the packaging. harmful effects of alcohol in every respect Lifecycle analyses show that when it and we are, therefore, working hard to comes to the various different types of ensure that we do not increase the number packaging we use, liquid packaging board, of large volume packagings. bags, returnable glass and aluminium cans By the end of year, the number of items have a lower environmental impact than in PET packaging in the range had risen to single-use glass bottles. PET bottles come 40, and we consequently failed to achieve between single-use glass bottles and other our goal for 2013 of 50. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 21 Customers Systembolaget stands for selling alcohol responsibly all over Sweden. And we are here for everyone in Sweden, not just for those who visit our stores. It is our responsibility to ensure we provide good service, a broad product range, and high quality goods. We are also tasked with helping to counter the negative effects of alcohol and we offer our expertise in order to help our customers make informed choices and to drink with moderation. Better and better for our customers .................... 24 Adapting the range to local demand ................... 25 A proactive interaction ........................................... 26 More meeting places, more opportunities .......... 28 Service, expertise and responsibility .................. 30 Alcohol-free increasingly popular ....................... 32 Sustainability focus products ............................... 33 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 23 Customers Better and better for our customers Award We have a responsibility to constantly develop and improve our service Best in service! in line with customer and external expectations. For us, it’s all about providing a service, passing on our know-how, and selling responsibly in every customer interaction, and about doing it in such a way that In a survey of just over 2,000 customers’ conﬁdence in Systembolaget remains high. Our customer customers by ServiceScore in April 2013, Systembolaget was interaction mantra describes this perfectly: rated as Sweden’s Best Service Company and the Best Retail Company. • You should always feel welcome • You should always feel that you can learn something from us • You should always be able to rely on us to sell responsibly Increased know-how and informed choices As a customer, you should always feel that you can come to us with any questions you may have about the products we sell. We are happy to share our expertise and the advice you receive will be impartial and brand-neutral. This means that we will never favour a particular product or supplier – our advice will be based entirely on what the customer is looking for and on our expertise when it comes to the drinks in question. It’s important to Systembolaget that we help our customers make informed choices and that we share our knowledge of how alcohol affects health. 24 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Customers Adapting the range to local demand Our customers are becoming more and example, be more types of beer from which more knowledgeable about drinks. And it is to choose, or more wines from a particular customer demand, coupled with seasonal, country of origin or in a particular price festive and – not least – international class in one store than in another. trends, that provides the foundations for The range in every individual store is the way in which we structure our range. continuously evaluated and updated, and The fundamental principles behind the new products are given shelf space, in Jens Bjöörn, Täby range structure is that it should be of a order to ensure a rapid adaptation of the high quality, have both breadth and depth, products the store carries in line with what and that it should enhance the food and the customers want. There are also, in drink experience. addition to Systembolaget’s quality assured, The range is planned and procured using tried and trusted ﬁxed range, just over I usually buy our combined expertise when it comes to 13,000 products in the available-for-order drinks from all over the world. range. wine and my The starting point for our range manageIt should be easy for customers to search ment is that we must work transparently, for and ﬁnd the product they are looking for local store objectively, and in a brand-neutral way in any of our stores, and this is why we have carries a wide that starts from customer demand. changed the way we display our products. We have spent the last two years working We have made the change in response to range. The new on improving our range and adapting it customer surveys and to trial runs by breakdown more quickly on an individual, store-tocustomers and employees of the new product store basis in line with customer demand, breakdown in two stores, where the suits me better, in order to improve the ways in which we consensus was that the change was for the meet customer requirements and demand. better. We wanted our customers to ﬁnd it because I This is why the range in the different easier to both search for and choose products mainly look for stores has changed slightly – there may, for when they shop at Systembolaget. wine by its country of origin.” The adaptation of the range in line with local demand was made in conjunction with a change in the product breakdown in all of our stores. Wine, for example, is now displayed by country of origin and price. Products not displayed in store can be ordered and collected at a later date. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 25 Customers A proactive interaction According to our customers, we are doing a good job and doing it responsibly, and their appreciation for what we do is growing more and more. Our Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) survey, which is conducted by the CFI Group and which involves just over 32,000 interviews every year, tells us what is important to our customers and how well we are living up to their expectations. The CSI survey shows that customers are reason why the latest CSI results have reached increasingly appreciative of Systembolaget, that record levels. Previous CSI surveys showed that they feel welcome, that our service has, in their our youngest customers – those aged between eyes, improved, and that they are more satisﬁed 20 and 29 – were slightly less satisﬁed, which with our range than ever before. Two of the key is why the past year has seen us launch a factors behind the overall result are proactivity programme aimed at improving the interaction and interaction. Previous surveys have shown with these customers. We must be proactive in us how important the interaction is and we have the interaction, contribute our expertise when worked very hard to increase accessibility in our they are choosing a product, and be more stores and to be prepared, in terms of know-how, considerate in the context of proof of age checks. when a customer needs help. The most recent We are delighted to see that our hard work in survey shows that the percentage of customers this respect has yielded results in this year’s who feel they had a good interaction with our survey and for more information about the store personnel has risen from 22 per cent to results, see page 42 in Part 2. 49 per cent in just a few years, which is a major 26 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Customers Laying the foundations for future improvements The CSI survey shows that our range and offering are an area where there is on the interaction with the customer instore – offering high quality service in the 82 Customer Satisfaction considerable potential for increasing form of knowledgeable personnel who are customer satisfaction levels. Customers’ expectations of Systembolaget increase both willing and able to help when choosing a drink to go with a meal, for example. Index as their interest in and knowledge of the Systembolaget’s customers have never The Customer Satisfaction drinks we sell increases. Customers’ been more satisﬁed and the CSI ﬁgure for Index is one of our strategic key performance indicators, ratings of our range have remained 2013 rose by one point to a new record high and is measured and reported unchanged for several years now and we of 82. The areas which have the biggest every quarter by CFI Group. A total of 32,000 randomly have consequently changed the way we impact on the CSI trend all improved in chosen respondents across all manage our range in the past year in order 2013, with Range and offering increasing of our stores were surveyed. to improve the extent to which we meet by one point, Perception of Systembolaget our customers’ expectations1, and we will and Systembolaget’s social responsibility continue, in future, to work to improve both increasing by two points, and In-store our customer interaction and develop our employees increasing by one point to a new range towards greater sustainability. record level. The graph shows the CSI trend over a tenyear period. Self-service and our focus on the interaction with the customer in-store have helped bring about the rising trend. The upturn during the initial years of the graph period was largely due to the development of Systembolaget into a modern retailer. Rebuilds and the launch of new, self-service stores were appreciated Customer Satisfaction Index 2004—2013 by the customers who felt that it was easier to see what we stocked and that queuing 82 times at checkouts had been cut. A successive transition to self-service 79 also generated greater scope for the staff 76 to work with the customers in a more customer-focused and proactive way. 73 The other biggest factor in the continued 0 upturn in subsequent years was our work 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 1 Find out more on page 25. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 27 Customers More meeting places, more opportunities Customers nowadays expect to be able to interact with Systembolaget, •Service even outside of the stores’ or Customer Service Department’s opening •Expertise hours, e.g. by ordering and paying for items via digital channels. And because Systembolaget has a sole right on retail sales of alcohol, •Responsiit’s important that our offering reﬂects customers’ requirements and bility expectations. Wherever and however you meet us – in a store or on Systembolaget has 426 stores all over Sweden, currently around 500 Systembolaget agents, systembolaget.se, via your mobile, an agent or our and in 2013, there were 120 million separate which is a slight fall in the number from last Customer Service Department, customer interactions. Virtually all of the stores year. the interaction shall be characterised by service, offer self-service, but all of the stores shall live expertise and responsibility. up to our customers’ expectations in the best possible way, and shall house Systembolaget’s offering in a customised way. We also have a variety of specialist stores, such as our wine cellar stores – one each in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö – and the two Food Hall stores in Stockholm. Our store network is constantly under development and the past year saw us establish stores in Knivsta, Idre, Hemavan, Borlänge, Malmö and Stockholm. There are Drinks auctions Tasting sessions inspire Systembolaget organises drinks auctions in and educate about food partnership with Stockholms Auktionsverk, enabling everyone in Sweden to buy and sell and drink valuable drinks as collector’s items. We have Our in-store tasting sessions are popular, been arranging drinks auctions since 2004 and 11,000 customers have taken part in and they are now held online. Eight drinks approximately 650 tasting sessions in 23 stores auctions, each lasting three days, were held after hours during the year. Our tasting session in 2013 at which approximately 4,100 items package, available from systembolaget.se, also changed hands. enables customers to learn more about drink by organising their own tasting sessions at home. 28 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Customers Advice from Systembolaget’s Index Customer Service Department Systembolaget also has, in addition to our knowledgeable in-store staff, a Customer Service Department that offers free, professional advice. The Customer Service Department staff conduct dialogues with customers, stores and agents on a daily basis by phone, email, Facebook and Twitter. Over the past year, the Customer Service department 86The Customers Satisfaction Index regarding our Customer Service Department measures the services we provide for our customers and is based on interviews with just over Award Mr Callcenter! answered 36,000 emails and 80,000 telephone calls. 32,000 customers. A multi-stage Sigge Johansson, a Communicator customer interaction in our Customer Service Department, was named “Mr Callcenter” at the 2012 Swedish telephony championships award ceremony. Our customers are increasingly using Systembolaget’s digital channels, primarily as preparation for a visit to an actual store. In 2013, systembolaget.se had approximately 24 million visits, corresponding to a year-on-year increase For me, it’s all about of 3 million. the personal customer It’s also becoming increasingly common for interaction. people to visit us via their mobile phones, and in Search and ﬁnd The customer should 2013, visits via mobiles and tablets accounted for 40 per cent of all visits. The corresponding ﬁgure with the app be able to expect me in 2012 was 26 per cent. We are currently in the Our Search & Find app is becoming to be committed and process of developing a new website that will offer increasingly popular and has been service-orientated, the same level of functionality, whether customers downloaded over 1.2 million times are using a desktop, tablet or mobile phone, in since 2011. In 2013, the app was and to provide correct, order to keep pace with this trend. upgraded with functions that allow clear information.” users to search a speciﬁc store’s range and to locate the closest stores that have the product in stock. Dialogue on the customers’ terms Systembolaget has increased its social media presence in order to improve the way in which we interact with the customers in the channels and on the occasions that they prefer. Our Facebook page has over 45,000 “Likes” and our Twitter account has over 3,500 followers. The Twitter-based advisory service, which was launched in 2012, gives our customers a direct channel to our expert in-store personnel who engage in a dialogue with the customers and are able, based on the customers’ requirements, to guide the customers, enabling them to make informed choices from our range – wherever the customer may be. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 29 Customers Service, expertise & responsibility Alcohol consumption has fallen in recent years at the same time as Systembolaget has improved the service it provides. These improvements include the transition to self-service and Saturday opening, both of which changes were preceded by trial periods. We do not anticipate that home deliveries will increase consumption: what we have noticed is a change in customers’ buying patterns such that they sometimes prefer to buy via systembolaget.se, rather than visiting a physical store. We stand for When we improve our service, we always weigh however, according to CAN, declined since then. selling alcohol up the potential improvement against the risk of Calculated as consumption of pure alcohol, responsibly.” increased consumption, and monitor the reports every Swede over the age of 15 consumed a by CAN (The Swedish Council for Information total of 9.2 litres in 2012. CAN has not, as of the on Alcohol and Other Drugs) carefully. These publication date, published any consumption reports were formerly provided by SoRAD (the ﬁgures for 2013. Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs), but since 1 July, they have been produced by CAN. Alcohol consumption, 1994–2012 (litres of 100 per cent pure alcohol per head of population The graph shows total alcohol consumption age 15 and above) and the source from which the alcohol was 12 Systembolaget acquired, including Systembolaget’s share (other 9 Other registered sources include private imports by travellers, consumption restaurants, etc.). These reports show a 6 Personal import downwards trend when it comes to overall by travellers consumption. Consumption of alcohol acquired 3 Other unregistered consumption from Systembolaget has increased slightly, while 0 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 Total consumption of privately imported alcohol has declined. Alcohol consumption in Sweden reached Total alcohol consumption in Sweden has fallen in recent years. a peak in 2004 as a result of the drastic changes Source: Ramstedt, M. (red.) (2013) Tal om alkohol 2012 – en statistisk årsrapport från Monitorprojektet, SoRAD (Alcohol in ﬁgures, 2012 in import quotas within the EU introduced in – a statistical annual report from the Monitor Project, the Centre for that year. This type of consumption has, Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs, SoRAD). Online ordering and home deliveries – a timely service A home delivery trial was launched in the ensure compliance with our selling rules. We are autumn of 2012 as part of our efforts to keep evaluating customers’ opinions of the service and up with changes in customers’ buying patterns. independent alcohol researchers are studying The service is available in, amongst others, whether Systembolaget’s home deliveries affect the following places: Stockholm, Västerbotten, total alcohol consumption. To date, no such Västernorrland, and Skåne counties, and in effect has been reported. A decision will be made Gothenburg, Borås and Uppsala. on whether to make a home delivery option part The products are delivered by specially trained of Systembolaget’s standard service offering and certiﬁed transport personnel, in order to once this evaluation work is complete. 30 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Customers 72% Strong support for Systembolaget The Opinion Index is one of our strategic key performance indicators and is measured every month by the TNS Sifo survey organisation. A representative selection of the population is asked, “Do you think that Systembolaget and the monopoly on the sale of strong beer, wine and spirits should be retained, or would you like strong beer, wine and spirits to be sold in other stores?” support Support for the monopoly is strong and seven out of every ten Swedes would like to see Systembolaget’s monopoly retained. The main reasons for the support are that people Systembolaget think it is important that sales are controlled, that alcohol is sold responsibly, and that The strong support for our monopoly shows that we are young people are protected by means of restricted availability. Fewer than one in four working on the right lines. Swedes would like to see the monopoly abolished. Some are critical of monopolies in general, while others, for reasons of convenience, would like to see increased availability and hence think that grocery retail stores should be allowed to sell alcohol. High expectations and real conﬁdence The last few years have seen Systembolaget working purposefully to improve the customer interaction with regard both to service and expertise, and to responsibility. We can see from the customer surveys we carry out, that our social responsibility also gives rise to a higher sense of expectation on the part of our customers. The customers want us to do even more to demonstrate the beneﬁts that we bring in terms of public health. One of our most important tasks involves preventing young people under the age of 20 from gaining access to alcohol. To this end, and with the aid of independent companies, we conduct continuous control purchases, and during the last year, approximately 5,700 such control purchases were made in our stores and approximately 600 from our agents. We also counteract illicit supply through our information campaigns and during the personal interaction in stores or with agents. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 31 Customers Alcohol-free increasingly popular Our aim, by providing an alcohol-free range, is to help people make more informed choices and to offer high quality, alcohol-free drinks with an adult taste as a clear alternative to our alcoholic drinks. The alcoholfree range includes everything from alcohol-free beer to a variety of unfermented drinks that are excellent alternatives to red or white wine. 48alcohol-free In 2013, we sold just over 2 million litres of alcohol-free products, corresponding to a yearon-year increase in sales of 9.5 per cent. Sales of alcohol-free products have continued to increase but are now increasing slightly The increase is due to the continued strength of society’s health trend, coupled with the fact that many people see alcohol-free alternatives as important and the constant improvement in the range, which now includes approximately more slowly, due to the fact that the number of 48 alcohol-free products. products in products has not been increased, but sales by the range volume have. What does alcohol-free Information for mean? customers means more When we say, alcohol-free, we mean drinks informed choices with an alcohol content of between 0.0 and We identify organically cultivated, eco-labelled 0.5 per cent. The relevant market legislation and Fair Trade products for our customers by for foodstuffs states that the alcohol content means of an additional dark green, light green of a product must be displayed on its label or lilac label, respectively, on the edge of the if it exceeds 1.2 per cent, but Systembolaget shelf where they are displayed. Organically has set its own lower limit – a product’s cultivated and Fair Trade products are identiﬁed alcohol content may not exceed 0.5 per cent on systembolaget.se ALCOHOL-FREE if we are to classify it as alcohol-free. Our and the Search & Find requirements are, in other words, stricter app by means of a than those required by law. 0.5 per cent is green and a lilac 1 We recommend 0.0 per cent regarded as negligible for drivers, for symbol, respectively. alcohol for pregnant women as example, or for those who want a healthy it is impossible to set a lower limit at which there is no effect lifestyle. The reason that we sell drinks that on the foetus. Source: Sven contain up to 0.5 per cent alcohol is that Wåhlin, Consultant Physician, Stockholm Addiction Centre; alcohol is a ﬂavour carrier and that even Ihsan Sarman, Consultant a very small amount of alcohol intensiﬁes Physician, Neonatology Section Director, Sachs’ Children and the ﬂavour. This is why we did not set an Youth Hospital. across the board limit of 0.0 per cent1. 32 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Customers Sustainability focus • Organically cultivated products • Fair Trade Systembolaget’s goal is to increase the number launched in the Fair Trade range during the • Eco-labelled of organic and Fair Trade certiﬁed products year, while others were removed from the whose packaging has a reduced environmental range, and by the end of the year, therefore, We use these three supplementary messages in addition to the regular impact. the range included 32 Fair Trade products. information we provide in order We launched 27 organic products in 2013, The target ﬁgure was 30. to make it easier for our customers to ﬁnd them in stores. The product which is more than in 2012, and by the end of must, amongst other things, in the year, we carried a total of 134 organic items order to be labelled in this way, be in comparison with 130 at the end of 2012, and certiﬁed by a third party. Find out more about the requirements in consequently failed to achieve our target ﬁgure the in-depth GRI report on page 61 of 145 organic products. 15 new items were in Part 2. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 33 Employees Systembolaget is here for everyone in Sweden and we make a difference. Our customer promise summarises this. Our customer promise exists to ensure we live up to what we promise, and work on the various aspects of the customer promise is an important component of Systembolaget’s strategic plan. If we are to keep our promise to our customers, we must ensure our employees have the tools they need to do the job, namely relevant training, a good working environment, and a coaching leadership style that encourages development and personal responsibility. How do we impress our customers?...................... 36 Ongoing focus on managerial development........ 36 Ongoing skill development for our employees ............................................................ 37 Tools that develop operations and employees ........................................................... 38 Ethics – our everyday compass ............................. 39 Ongoing focus on health ......................................... 40 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 35 Employees How do we impress our customers? Our vision is of a society in which alcoholic drinks are enjoyed with due regard to health considerations so that no one is harmed. We are here for everyone in Sweden and since 2010, we have been implementing an intensive programme of work designed to develop our customer interaction across all channels. In 2013, we have continued our work on what on us to sell responsibly. This promise shall guide we refer to internally as the Good Customer us in our work and shall help steer us along the Interaction and Good Management programmes, right lines in every decision we take. and our focus during the year was on creating Our entire range of operations and the way an impressive customer interaction. Our recipe we relate to our work, our responsibility and our for success has entailed continuing with our customers shall, at the same time, be permeated We assist our efforts to create good performance environments by our core values: considerate, knowledgeable colleagues for our managers and employees alike. The basis and inspirational. for this work is Systembolaget’s customer Which is why we will, in future, be focusing nationwide with promise: you should always feel welcome, you even more strongly on methodology, leadership should always feel that you can learn something and collaboration, in order to ensure that we issues involving from us, and you should always be able to rely succeed in achieving our goals. support for or disruptions to our IT systems. We’ve all worked Ongoing focus on managerial development in the stores and We have elected to focus on management and leadership as a means of developing an impressive customer interaction. Achieving our goal demands managers with the right skills we know the and level of commitment. “Good Management” shall be characterised by passion and personal responsibility and to this end, we have continued to work with the “Good Management” business inside programme in our day-to-day operations in 2013, using it as a tool that will enable us to and out.” realise our vision and to keep our customer promise. Our managers shall be the best they can in order to enable our employees to be the best Maria Neijman, Incident Operator, Systembolaget’s service desk. they can. At Systembolaget, management is a profession, so we want our managers to be The working group won the 2013 really good at what they do. 2013 has also seen a focus on Good Management in all of our Service Desk of the Year award. managerial development activities, and we will continue with this in 2014 at the same time as we develop new skill enhancing activities. Good Management is an integral part of our everyday reality. Award The 2013 Service Desk of the Year! 36 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Employees Shared methodology that promotes collaboration and operational development Changes in customer behaviour and ever faster changes in the outside world demand effective collaboration within Systembolaget. Clear processes that show what we do not only increase our collaboration, but also make it easier to focus on the customer. They also increase both job satisfaction and efﬁciency into the bargain! Process management gives us more clearly deﬁned roles and mandates that will bring about continuous improvement in our shared methodologies, whether on a grand or a small scale, and will ensure our processes are more clearly described. Our values Everything we do in our work is permeated by our values: • Considerate. Our genuine commitment shows that we care. We show respect for and are sensitive to our customers and one another. • Knowledgeable. Our expertise comprises our products, their use and their associated risks. We are generous in sharing our expertise and thereby generate Ongoing skill development the preconditions that enable our customers to for our employees make informed choices. • Inspirational. We draw We take a continuous and long-term approach The most important skills that we have our inspiration from to skill development. Skill development is a identiﬁed in 2013 when it comes to ensuring our mandate. We are prerequisite of our ability to realise our vision the success of the customer interaction are: innovative, proactive and live up to our mandate. As part of our curiosity, continuous improvement, personal and committed, and annual performance reviews with the staff, we leadership, service and being a good host. this inspires those ensure that every employee has a development Every employee, throughout the company, has around us. plan that is followed up on by their respective the same focus for their work – ensuring an managers, both on a rolling basis in the daily impressive customer interaction. dialogue with the employee throughout the year and during speciﬁc performance review sessions. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 37 Employees Tools that develop our operations and our employees alike A managerial tool designed to develop good performance and continuous improvement was implemented in 2012. The tool is based on a development process whose strength lies in the fact that it breaks down our overall goals into actual improvement processes. The tool constitutes more of an operational support tool, but also includes a new system support Award component for all managers. Dialogues are used to create a sense of Workplace of participation and involvement and the process also has positive effects the Year, 2013! on health and the work environment. Systembolaget was Employee satisfaction named Workplace of survey results the Year in 2013 by A good performance by the company and a strong the “Hälsa” (Health) brand demand ﬁrst class performances by every magazine and was single employee. The results of the 2013 employee the recipient of their satisfaction survey (ESI) show that our employees Gold Apple award. generally feel that they have the tools they need to The winner is chosen perform, and that they are proud of working for the organisation. Their need to belong, to contribute, by the magazine in Our employees’ development programme is based on learning through a variety of tools, including to be conﬁrmed and to develop are well met within partnership with dialogues that create a sense of participation and their working situation and this is reﬂected in the Previa, a corporate involvement. fact that the employees feel that their efforts at work health care sector make a contribution to the operations as a whole. company. Perceptions of the potential for development do, however, differ across the organisation. Scope for Performance reviews improvement still exists with regard to one of the Our goal is for all Systembolaget ﬁve performance criteria investigated, namely the employees to have annual performance employees’ perception that they have authority and reviews in which we follow up on and the conﬁdence of the organisation. The perception evaluate our collective skills and that they have insufﬁcient authority and that the individual goals. The prioritised skills organisation has insufﬁcient conﬁdence in them is are those that support us in achieving sufﬁciently widespread that it can only be regarded our goal – an impressive customer as a barrier to performing well in a work context. interaction. The results of the employee And although the results show that the employees’ satisfaction survey (ESI) show that 81 perception is that the group’s efﬁciency has improved per cent of Systembolaget’s employees in relation to the previous year, there is still plenty have had performance reviews during of potential for developing the collaboration within the past twelve-month period. For 2014, the company. The results have, generally speaking, we have focused heavily on processes, improved year-on-year and correlate with the templates and follow-up work. Employee Index target ﬁgure of 79. 38 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Employees Ethics – our everyday compass Systembolaget’s mandate and our monopoly on All new recruits to Systembolaget receive retail sales of strong beer, wine and spirits information on the rules governing external demands a great deal of us in terms both of our contacts and must sign a statement that they ethics and of the way we conduct ourselves on have been familiarized with the rules. Ethical a day-to-day basis. Which means that working issues are also followed up in the annual to prevent improprieties and corruption is a employee performance reviews. In short, our given. It is also just as much of a given that our internal rules state that no one supplier shall be responsibility covers everyone in our country as given precedence over another. The rules also it is that all suppliers should be treated equally. include regulations governing acceptance of gifts. The dialogues Ethics Advisor are important For a number of years now, Systembolaget has had an internal Ethics Advisor who is also represented on our Sustainability Council. You can ﬁnd out more about the Sustainability in keeping Council on page 47 of Part 2 of this report. The Advisor enjoys a high level of conﬁdence alive the debate within the company and gives advice in response to questions from employees in connection with ethical dilemmas and any deviations from the company’s guidelines. on how we can achieve our mandate. Dialogues – managers Equal opportunities and employees plan approved Systembolaget has zero tolerance for corruption. Systembolaget has focused on ethical issues The ethics dialogues are important in keeping in the ﬁeld of inequality and corruption for a alive the debate on how we can achieve our number of years now. New, topical issues are mandate, from an ethical perspective. Systemraised and discussed every six months. In 2013, bolaget’s mandate is a complex one and we we have incorporated the business ethics have found that it is important, if we are to dialogue in the preparation for employees build a good value climate within the company, undertaking ﬁeld trips to producers in other that colleagues discuss their respective countries. interpretations of rules and of the difﬁculties We have also progressed our ethics work they face. All managers must hold twice yearly during the year: the Board of Directors has ethics dialogues with the managers who report approved an equal opportunities plan and to them. These managers, in turn, hold ethics the company management has adopted two dialogues with their respective employee groups. new rules. The ﬁrst of these rules relates to This approach is in line with the company’s equal treatment and the second to ways in new steering document in the ﬁeld – and part which we can counteract harassment and of the overall aim of ensuring an impressive discrimination. Both of these rules are customer interaction. based on applicable legislation in relation to discrimination. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 39 Employees Ongoing focus on health Systembolaget exists to protect and promote public health, but our consideration does not stop with the sale of alcohol. We are also keen to promote an increased awareness of how alcohol affects health and to give our employees the knowledge and tools they need to make healthy choices. The health strategy approved and implemented in 2012 has reinforced our internal health-related work. 5,087 – the total New tools to combat stress The annual work environment days for managers and work environment Measures to prevent ill health A new health survey was distributed to half of Systembolaget’s employees during the autumn representatives were held at the beginning (the remaining half will be offered the chance to number of of the year and covered two themes: complete the survey in 2014). The survey, which is alcohol and health, and stress. The aim voluntary, gives employees the opportunity to reﬂect Systembolaget was twofold: to inform and prepare the on their health and the ways in which work affects participants such that they were able to health. We then offer, on the basis of the results, employees on implement the health strategy activities, a range of customised and ongoing health-related 31 December and to pass on new tools to combat activities. The response frequency was 74 per cent, stress. The health strategy activities which is a very good result for a voluntary survey. focus strongly on alcohol and health, the We also, in addition to the new health strategy harmful effects of alcohol, and what (which applies to customers and employees alike) risky and abusive levels of consumption regard our entire programme of managerial and actually mean. employee development as part of our health work. Key performance ratios, employees 2013 2012 1 Number of employees 5,087 5,032 Sales personnel Women, % 66 68 Men, % 34 32 Store managers Women, % 56 55 Men, % 44 45 Staff turnover, % 13 16 Sick leave Short-term2, % 2.1 2.4 Long-term3, % 5.4 5.3 1 Refers to all Systembolaget employees, as of 31 December. 2 All sick leave lasting between 1 and 14 days. 3 All sick leave lasting 15 days or more. 40 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Employees Rehabilitation routines in connection with long-term sick leave The short-term sick leave within Systembolaget area managers, together with a rehabilitation has fallen, year-on-year, by 0.3 percentage coordinator from the company health care points to a short-term sick leave rate of 2.1 per scheme, review ongoing rehabilitation cases cent (the target ﬁgure is 2.3 per cent). The total that have exceeded 28 days with the aim of sick leave rate has increased from 5.3 per cent ensuring an active programme of rehabilitation to 5.4 per cent during the same period due to an while simultaneously providing support and increase in long-term sick leave. Systembolaget advice for the managers in the context of the has a rehabilitation routine that describes what ongoing work in this area. managers should do during different phases of In 2014, Systembolaget will shift to a system of an employee’s absence due to sickness. Over the setting targets for total absence due to sickness, past year, the store managers have further including long-term sick leave. We will focus on familiarised themselves with the rehabilitation all types of sick leave, not just the short-term routine and have held dialogues in relation to sick leave. a number of different rehabilitation cases. In the years ahead, we will continue to focus The aim was partly to increase their knowledge on the rehabilitation work in parallel with our of rehabilitation and partly to allow them to measures and activities aimed at promoting exchange experiences. 2013 also saw all of the health and preventing ill health. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 41 Suppliers 42 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Suppliers The drinks that we sell must live up to our customers’ demands in terms of quality, product range, value for money and responsibility. Our globally sourced product range is chosen on the basis of product analyses and customer surveys, and ultimately, it is taste and quality that decide. The drinks must also be produced under conditions of responsibility for both people and the environment and we work closely with our drinks suppliers in order to achieve our goals. Together, we create the conditions for an optimum customer offering. A sustainable supplier chain ................................. 44 Vital commitment by suppliers and producers ........................................................... 46 The Code of Conduct is not the be all and end all ............................................... 47 A product range based on our social responsibility ......................................... 48 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 43 Suppliers A sustainable supplier chain Since 2008, we have been working with the other Nordic alcohol monopolies to achieve our goal of a sustainable drinks supplier chain. We have a Code of Conduct that has been incorporated into purchasing agreements with our suppliers since 2012. The suppliers undertake, as part of the agreement with Systembolaget, to pass our sustainability requirements on down to their producers at every stage of the supply chain. Systembolaget’s purchasing includes everything and working conditions and constitutes an from gift-wraps to the tools of the trade, from undertaking to conduct operations in an ethical construction contracts to external services. and responsible way. Systembolaget has been a The Code of Conduct is incorporated into the We also monitor compliance with the Code of member of the Business Social majority of these purchasing agreements. Conduct by means of drinks producer audits. Compliance Initiative (BSCI) organisation since 2011. The Code of Conduct and its associated We plan the audits we will carry out for each monitoring system was drawn up by the BSCI, year on the basis of a risk analysis, and between Business Social Compliance Initiative, 2013 and 2014, the producers who collectively organisation, of which Systembolaget is a account for two thirds of sales from identiﬁed member. The Code is based on international high-risk countries will, as part of our BSCI conventions and agreements on human rights undertaking, be audited. From cultivation to bottle The drinks that Systembolaget offers shall live up to our customers’ demands in terms of quality, product range, and value for money. But it is equally important that they are produced under responsible conditions in terms both of people and the environment. Systembolaget currently works with approximately 800 Swedish drinks suppliers who, in turn, work with a wide range of producers all over the world. A launch plan is drawn up for the coming year on the basis of customers’ requirements, overall strategies and goals, and is made available to all suppliers. A request for tender is issued ahead of every launch, specifying in detail the drinks for which we are looking. We then, on the basis of the suppliers’ tenders, request product samples that undergo blind testing and are quality assessed for compliance with the speciﬁcation. A request for tender can lead to over 100 drinks being sampled and the products that do best in the testing are then bought in for launch. Chemical and sensoric tests are also carried out by a testing panel in our laboratory in order that our suppliers can be conﬁdent that the winning product is the one that ends up on our shelves. 44 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Suppliers How the audits are carried out A preparatory meeting with the Swedish producers to ensure that the action plan has supplier is held ahead of the audit, at which been implemented. Many of the problem areas the purchaser responsible goes through what arise during the harvest season, and the audits the audit will entail. The supplier is then asked will, therefore, be carried out at this time. to help the producer who will be audited to Many producers are audited every year in line complete a self-assessment form. It is sometimes with a number of different codes of conducts clear, even at this early stage in the proceedings, and the feedback we have received indicates that action is needed and will result in that follow-ups in line with the BSCI code are immediate improvements. more rigorous than others. There are critics The audit process involves three stages: who state that the BSCI Code of Conduct fails document reviews (policy documents, payroll to take sufﬁcient account of the workers’ lists, etc.), private interviews with randomly perspective. We are aware that structured selected employees, and an inspection of the relationships between employers and employees, plant. The audit ends with the inspector e.g. that the employees are organised in trade presenting his or her observations and the unions and have regular meetings with the drawing up of an action plan to rectify any employer, pose a substantial challenge in many points of deviation from the Code of Conduct. countries and we are investigating whether A new audit is then carried out within twelve there are other ways of working with these months, based on this action plan, to ensure issues, over and above the requirements laid that the measures have been implemented. down in the Code of Conduct. We hold an Deviations from Systembolaget’s Code of annual stakeholder dialogue in one of the Conduct were identiﬁed during all of the audits producer countries within the framework carried out in 2013. These included too much provided by the Nordic collaboration, and BSCI overtime per week, too many consecutive also holds stakeholder dialogues and round working days without a break, basic salaries table discussions. below the statutory minimum wage, subThe BSCI follow-up system used by both standard housing for workers, a lack of policies Systembolaget and the Finnish monopoly, Alko, and routines in accordance with BSCI requirewill be evaluated in 2014, as will the follow-up ments, and deﬁcient two-way communication system used by the Norwegian Vinmonopolet. between employers and employees. We will The aim is to determine which tools and followcarry out a follow-up audit of each of the up systems are most effective. I think it’s great that Systembolaget has initiated a common Code of Conduct, and that they make demands of us as suppliers – and that we, in turn, are responsible for ensuring compliance with the Code.” Björn Wittmark, Product Manager and owner, Giertz Vinimport AB 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 45 Suppliers Vital commitment by suppliers and producers Systembolaget has been working to improve working conditions and human rights in the drinks supplier chain since 2012. One important factor in the success of our work is the training we provide and the ongoing dialogues we hold with our suppliers. We are also investigating the possibility of working in partnership with trade union organisations in this area. Monitoring compliance with Code of Conduct in BSCI conducts round table discussions in the drinks supplier chain is complicated by the producer countries and provides training for fact that Systembolaget buys through suppliers, the producers, and in 2013, BSCI held two not directly from producers. It is hence the capacity-boosting training courses for suppliers, not Systembolaget, who have contracts producers in each of the following countries: and business relationships with the producers. South Africa, Chile and Argentina. The aim is The commitment on the part of our suppliers to to help the companies comply with the Code personally promoting sustainability work in of Conduct and to enhance their expertise in relation to the producers is, therefore, an these issues. One of the courses related to a important factor for success in our work with management system for social issues while human rights and working conditions in the the other addressed health and safety in the drinks supplier chain. In order to increase this workplace. Training courses focusing on the commitment on the part of the suppliers, we new Code of Conduct will be held in 2014. offer training and engage in ongoing dialogues with them. Updated Code of Conduct BSCI has, as the outside world changes around which is better attuned to the demands that us, identiﬁed a need to update its Code of our customers make of both us and other Conduct. The work, which began in 2012, has Swedish companies. resulted in the adoption by BSCI of an updated Systembolaget has, within the framework Code of Conduct, which came into force in of its involvement with BSCI, participated in January 2014. The ﬁrst stricter audit based on the efforts to strengthen BSCI’s role in the the new Code of Conduct will take place on environmental sphere. Our participation has, 1 January 2015. Systembolaget has begun work amongst other things, taken the form of on the implementation of the new Code of supporting BSCI’s work on drafting proposals Conduct in its business relationships and is for the sort of requirements that members conﬁdently looking forward to working with a could conceivably make of their suppliers. more modern and updated version of the Code, 46 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Suppliers In March, Members of the Board of Systembolaget and members of its company management travelled to South Africa, which is our second largest supplier country. The Code of Conduct is not the be all and end all A Code of Conduct, and monitoring to ensure sustainability work and that it is a model of compliance with the Code by producers, are transparency and views such transparency A Code of Conduct, both important tools for bringing about in a positive light. The report contains and monitoring positive changes in the drinks supplier seven recommendations for Systembolaget, chain. But they are not a complete solution, including the suggestion that Systembolaget compliance with which is why we have investigated the increases the extent to which it incorporates that Code, are possibility of working in partnership with sustainability issues into the purchasing trade union organisations in high-risk process, that it increase its contacts with important tools for countries during the past year. We have also, local trade union and stakeholder bringing about in one case of conﬂict between a producer organisations, and that it improves the way positive changes in and employees, encouraged the producer to in which it communicates information engage in dialogue with the employees’ about the sustainable product range to its the drinks supplier representatives. customers. All of these areas where there chain.” Swedwatch1 has conducted a review, is scope for improvement had already been during the past year, of Systembolaget’s identiﬁed by Systembolaget and several of sustainability work. The focus was on how the suggestions had already been included well Systembolaget monitors compliance in our action plans. Overall, the review with its Code of Conduct and resulted, in supported both our work and our December, in the production of a report. commitment – proof that we are on the Swedwatch believes, according to the report, right track. that Systembolaget is engaged in extensive 1 Swedwatch is an organisation that reviews Swedish companies operating in developing countries. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 47 Suppliers A product range based on our social responsibility Systembolaget’s range comprises products from all over the world and the selection is determined in response to customer surveys and product analyses. Ultimately, it is the quality and the taste that determines the products that we offer our customers. Every year, we draw up the product range A launch plan includes advance announcements strategy that forms the basis of Systembolaget’s of the products that will be launched within launch plan in which, amongst other things, the ﬁxed range in the coming year. The plan is we break the purchasing policy down adopted available to all registered suppliers. Systemby the Board to a yearly level. We set target bolaget then speciﬁes its requirements in the ﬁgures in order to achieve the fundamental requests for tender published on our supplier objectives of our product range. The range must portal. The products that correspond to the be unique in terms of both breadth and depth, style requested and which are of the highest and shall be adapted in line with customer quality are then determined in blind testing, demand. It shall also include items that enable and bought in for launch. customers to make more informed choices. We received 16,889 tenders from 510 suppliers Systembolaget works to ensure that its product during the year in comparison with 2012, when range contributes not only to environmental we received 16,096 tenders from 457 suppliers. improvements, but to improved working conditions for workers in the drinks production chain. 48 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Suppliers Customer demand determines selection 318 In 2013, we implemented a new product group the stores by different customer range management system which, amongst requirements. We also take market other things, enables the range carried in coverage into account, so that an article our stores to be adapted more quickly in that is in high demand in a few stores line with customer demand. receives a greater distribution in stores products from Systembolaget’s individual product items, with similar demand patterns. which were previously evaluated twice Products in the available-for-order the available-foryearly, are now evaluated four times a year range undergo the same evaluation as order range have in accordance with a set model. The results those in the ﬁxed range, making it easier been included in of these evaluations form the basis for the for them to gain shelf space in the stores. distribution of the individual items, with 318 products from the available-for-order the ﬁxed range. greater customer demand resulting in the range have been included in the ﬁxed product being carried in more stores. This range during the year. The corresponding new management model means that we ﬁgure in 2012 was 112. carry out two separate calculations which Making a difference to people and the environment Sustainability issues are becoming an We are working purposefully to develop and increasingly natural part of both society at large expand our organic, Fair Trade and alcoholand Systembolaget’s operations. Our customers free ranges and to help our customers make expect a product range that affords scope to informed drinks choices in every channel in both environmental and social issues and we which we operate. Our ambition is for sales of are consequently developing our offering with a organic products to comprise 10 per cent of focus on customer-orientation and social beneﬁt. total sales by 2020. The corresponding ﬁgure We get involved and we take responsibility. for eco-friendly packaging, such as PET, Sustainability is being increasingly integrated lightweight glass and corrugated cardboard, into our day-to-day operations and our ambition is 80 per cent. Our aim is to reduce packaging is to act as a driving force in the march towards weight across the board and we would like to a sustainable drinks industry in which we also see PET account for 3 per cent of sales as early take responsibility backwards up the supplier as 2014. We are also aiming high when it comes chain. to the Fair Trade range and our aim is for at We aim to work with our product range in a least 75 items with a 20 per cent share of sales way that genuinely makes a difference for to originate from Fair Trade producers by 2020. people and the environment. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 49 Suppliers Supplier-Producer cooperation QSI The Quality Good cooperation with our suppliers is vital to our ability to supply and develop a product range that lives up to our customers’ expectations. namely product availability, monitoring of lead times, and quality and packaging returns. A new strategic key performance indicator, the Supplier Index, Meetings with suppliers, trade fairs and Quality Supplier Index (QSI), was developed at visits to producers worldwide are all important the end of 2012. It summarises the 100 biggest QSI, is one of elements of the day-to-day work of our suppliers’ performances and provides source our strategic key purchasing staff and category managers. data for both Systembolaget’s and the suppliers’ performance As of 2012, Systembolaget publishes supplierroutines. QSI has fallen slightly in 2013 and indicators that speciﬁc key performance indicators. All suppliers Systembolaget is keen, through proactivity and can now track their performance trends in increased communication clarity, to generate is measured general and, in particular, the variables that better preconditions for our suppliers to fulﬁl and reported are most critical in terms of customer beneﬁt, their undertakings. quarterly. 50 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Suppliers Quality monitoring Suppliers must be able to have conﬁdence in Systembolaget’s purchasing process. One important step in ensuring that this is the case is the quality and style monitoring in both the long and the short term of the products that have won the request for tender process. The monitoring is a multi-stage process involving both sensoric and chemical testing and takes place both before and after launch. Random sample testing on site at the producer are also carried out for launches that are adjudged to be particularly critical. A total of seven launches were terminated during the year because the product delivered failed to meet the requirements of the request for tender. The chemical monitoring is carried out at Systembolaget’s laboratory in Jordbro, which also checks to ensure that the products are compatible with all applicable legal requirements, such as alcohol, sulphur dioxide, methanol and sorbic acid content. Strict brand neutrality “Under the laws that Under the laws that regulate competition, Systembolaget must act in a non-discriminatory regulate competition, way in relation to our suppliers. The Swedish Competition Authority has reported on Systembolaget’s operations to the European Systembolaget Commission, ever since Sweden’s EU accession. Drinks suppliers can appeal our decisions to must act in a nonreject a tender or to de-list a product from our range via the Swedish National Alcoholic discriminatory way Beverages Product Range Board. Systembolaget complies at all times with the Board’s rulings in relation to our and the inclusion of boxed wines in our range is, for example, a result of such a ruling. suppliers” Developing logistics Our purchases include delivery of goods to the systembolaget.se website, thereby further stores. We also have our own logistics ﬂow for increasing the demands made on our logistics. customer-packaged orders placed with our Our hope is, however, that even though the agents, home deliveries, and customer orders of entire range can now be ordered from the goods not carried in-store. These orders are systembolaget.se website, the new product range delivered from our depots in Örebro and Sundsmanagement too will reduce the total number vall, where eight million bottles are packed of bottles sent from our warehouses to stores every year. Eight million bottles corresponds to in that the faster management system means 0.1 per cent of Systembolaget’s annual volume. that the stores’ ranges can be adapted in line The home delivery trial has been extended and with local demand. our entire range can now be ordered from the 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 51 52 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Owners Sweden has pursued a responsible alcohol policy for many years now, whatever the political party in power, and has consequently made much greater progress than most other countries when it comes to limiting the harmful effects of alcohol in society. Systembolaget is an important tool of Swedish alcohol policy. Our mandate, under the provisions of the Swedish Alcohol Act and as approved by Parliament, gives us a sole right on retail sales of strong beer, wine and spirits to private persons in Sweden. Our mandate ............................................................ 54 Sustainable operational goals .............................. 54 Alcohol consumption continues to decline .................................................................... 55 Important issues for the future ........................... 56 Key performance indicators and management ............................................................. 58 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 53 Owners Our mandate Our mandate is to handle all sales of strong beer, wine and spirits to private individuals in a responsible way, providing both a high quality service and information on the risks associated with alcohol. Neutrality in relation to products and suppliers is an important part of our monopoly. We do not favour anyone, including, for example, Swedish products, and base our selection, instead, on customer demand, quality, our mandate, and other commercial considerations. Our purchasing process is open and transparent in order to guarantee top quality products for our customers and predictability and equal treatment for our suppliers. Steering documents Our operations are primarily conducted on the basis of Systembolaget’s agreement with the State, the Swedish Alcohol Act, and EU legislation, which formulate the requirements with which we must comply, namely that we must inform people about the risks associated with alcohol, provide good service for our customers, ensure that our product selection is brand-neutral, and conduct our operations rationally and with effective cost control without maximising our proﬁts. These requirements act as a guide for Systembolaget and direct the way in which our operations are monitored. Sustainable operational goals Systembolaget’s mandate entails a social our commercial operations. The goals are in the responsibility – a responsibility that permeates following prioritised areas: our day-to-day operations. We also, in addition • promotion of the beneﬁts offered by Systemto our mandate from our owners, have chosen bolaget to take responsibility for conducting our • reduction of the company’s environmental operations in an ethical and eco-friendly way impact and for working to ensure that our products are manufactured under conditions that are The aim is to achieve these goals by 2020. good for people and the environment alike. The ﬁrst goal is linked to the alcohol policy This is in line with the heightened ambition in mandate which requires Systembolaget to help the sustainability sphere that the government reduce the harmful effects of alcohol in society, ordered for the State-owned companies in 2012. and which is measured by the Alcohol Index. To this end, in 2013, the Boards of the StateThe second goal concerns Systembolaget’s owned companies have also been mandated to environmental impact and aims to reduce this establish relevant and challenging sustainability impact by 14,000 tonnes of CO2e (carbon dioxide goals for their operations and at the end of the equivalents) by 2020, measured from the base year, the Board of Systembolaget approved two year of 2014. sustainability goals that are closely linked to Find out more on the in-depth GRI report in page 50 of Part 2. 54 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Owners Alcohol consumption continues to decline Swedes’ alcohol habits are presented every year in a report commissioned by the Government and entitled “Tal om alkohol” (Alcohol in ﬁgures), which is part of the so-called Monitor survey. Alcohol consumption in Sweden in 2012 totalled 9.2 litres of pure alcohol per head of population aged 15 or above. CAN (The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs) has not, as of the publication date, published any consumption ﬁgures for 2013. The trend in alcohol consumption has declined from its peak in 2004, when 10.5 litres of pure alcohol per head of population was consumed. It is good to see that this trend also applies to young people’s alcohol consumption, and in its annual report on In-store work young people’s alcohol consumption, CAN shows a fall in consumption levels. experience for politicians Products purchased at Systembolaget accounted Systembolaget’s mandate means that our for 63 per cent of total alcohol consumption. operations differ in many respects from other 85 per cent of the wine consumed in Sweden is areas of the retail trade sector. The dialogue purchased at Systembolaget. The corresponding with our decision-makers is, for example, an ﬁgures for strong beer and spirits are 62 per important part of our strategic work aimed cent and 45 per cent, respectively. Other alcohol at creating an understanding of our mandate consumed is purchased in restaurants, in bars, and of developing our offering, responsibility or when travelling abroad – so-called imports and service. A large number of parliamentary by travellers. A small percentage of the alcohol and municipal politicians have taken part in consumed in Sweden reaches consumers work experience in our stores since 2011, through smuggling and in recent years, the when the scheme was launched. Over the percentage of alcohol consumed that has been course of half a day, the “trainee” is given a smuggled into the country has been 4 per cent1. presentation of how Systembolaget and our 1 Ramstedt, M. (red.) (2013) Tal om alkohol 2012 – en statistisk mandate works, is shown around every part årsrapport från Monitorprojektet, SoRAD (Alcohol in ﬁgures of the store, and is given the opportunity to 2012 – a statistical annual report from the Monitor Project, the Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs, SoRAD). work at the check-out. Young peoples’ alcohol consumption2, 9th grade and year 2 of upper secondary school (litres of pure alcohol per young person) 8 Boy, 9th grade Doing work experience at Systembolaget Girl, 9th grade 6 Boys, year 2, gave me a good insight into Systembolaget’s upper secondary 4 school double mandate – to sell alcohol in a socially Girls, year 2, 2 upper secondary responsible way while providing a high school 0 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 quality service.” 2 Gripe, I. (2013) Skolelevers drogvanor 2013 – CAN rapport 139, Anders W Jonsson, Centre Party MP and Chairman of the Government’s Social Committee. Centralförbundet för alkohol och narkotikaupplysning. (School students’ drug habits, 2013 – CAN report #139, the The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs). 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 55 Owners Important issues for the future Systembolaget and Swedish alcohol policy are constantly developing. The home delivery trial was extended during the autumn to ten more towns and counties. The Government decided to raise the tax on alcohol – a measure that came into force on 1 January 2014. And ﬁnally, the Government Commission presented its report into the supervision of marketing of and e-commerce with regard to alcoholic drinks. The Commission for the supervision of marketing and e-commerce with regard to alcoholic beverages, etc. The ﬁrst thing (SOU 2013:50) that must always On 9 July, the Government Commission (SOU in connection with private importation of 2013:50) presented its report, entitled “A path alcoholic drinks. It is incredibly important that be made clear to increased supervision: marketing of and effective supervision is established in this area, is what is and e-commerce with regard to alcohol and tobacco”. but the regulations must be clariﬁed before a is not allowed The Commission stated that e-commerce involving new supervisory system can be created and alcoholic beverages that is aimed at Swedish introduced. If this is not done, there is a risk by Swedish consumers is increasing and that alcohol-related that illegal e-commerce in alcoholic drinks will legislation when legislation should be reviewed in order to regulate be legitimised. Proﬁt-maximising online stores more clearly the boundary between, on the one – without clear limits on what is and is not it comes to sales hand, the legal scope for private individuals to allowed – are in direct conﬂict with several of to consumers import alcoholic drinks from other EEA the fundamental principles of Swedish alcohol countries for private consumption and, on the policy and legislation, including those of in Sweden… other hand, the selling of alcoholic drinks in restricted availability and restrictions on An extract from the Chancellor Sweden – an area where Systembolaget holds private proﬁt interests in the context of alcohol of Justice’s comments on the Commission’s report. a monopoly. The Commission also states, retail. Systembolaget is consequently pleased however, that the private import of alcoholic that in early 2014, the Government appointed drinks is, from a supervisory viewpoint, terra a new Commission (Dir.2014:1) which is tasked incognita. The Commission also describes a with reviewing the regulations governing tr trend of increasing marketing of alcoholic e-commerce and home deliveries of alcoholic d drinks, increasing exposure on the part of drinks to consumers. cchildren and young people, and a lack of When it comes to the marketing of alcoholic ssupervisory intervention, all of which is drinks, Systembolaget welcomes the worrying. The marketing is often aggressive Commission’s proposal for measures to ensure and proactive and hence boosts both sales more efﬁcient supervision. Systembolaget and consumption. believes, however, that the mapping by the Overall, Systembolaget is of the opinion Commission shows that a number of measures that the situation in which we ﬁnd ourselves are needed in order to maintain effective is highly problematic and we share the restrictions on the ability to market alcoholic Commission’s view that the legislation must drinks – not least with regard to the protection be reviewed in order to provide clearer offered to children and young people. regulation of what is and is not permitted 56 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Owners Home delivery trial extended In the autumn of 2012, the Government made continue until 31 December 2014, after which it it possible for Systembolaget to conduct a trial will be evaluated before a decision is taken on of home deliveries. The trial began in eight whether home delivery shall be part of locations nationwide and was to be implemented Systembolaget’s standard service offering. in such a way that it enhanced the service we The trial included the following towns and provide without leading to an increase in counties, as of 31 December: consumption. The aim is to offer an improved • Askim service for those people who, for example, ﬁnd • Borås it difﬁcult to get to a store. An independent group of researchers is • Brämhult monitoring Systembolaget’s home delivery trial • Gothenburg and has produced an initial report during the • Mölndal year. The report shows that total sales of alcohol • Skåne county have not increased and that the home delivery • Stockholm county customers are no more likely to be high risk consumers than the rest of the population. • Uppsala The researchers do state, however, that the • Västerbotten county conclusions are based on far too short a trial • Västernorrland county period within a limited trial area and have, therefore, recommended that the trial be This selection allows the researchers to study expanded and extended. the effects of the trial in major conurbations, A decision to expand and extend the trial was in rural areas, and in counties with a high taken during the autumn, and it will now percentage of cross-border trade. Alcohol tax raised Restricted availability and pricing are general since the late 1990s. This poses a two of the most important tools in the risk to Swedish public health and the alcohol policy armoury when it comes to Government consequently, for reasons of countering high levels of alcohol public health policy, announced a rise in consumption, and of thereby reducing the alcohol tax in its Budget Bill for 2014. harm caused by alcohol. The price level is The decision to raise the alcohol tax was primarily regulated by means of the approved by Parliament on 20 November alcohol tax. and the raise came into effect on 1 January The price of alcoholic drinks has 2014. The tax was raised by 7 per cent on increased to a lesser extent than prices in strong beer and by 1 per cent on spirits. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 57 Owners Key performance indicators and management Systembolaget’s operations shall generate sufﬁcient economic scope to cover the company’s costs, and to develop the operations. The State’s Owner’s Directive mandates that we shall aim to achieve a return on shareholders’ equity that exceeds the average ten-year government bond interest rate by 4 per cent, and that we shall not attempt to maximise our proﬁts. SEK 287 million proﬁt Cost control In order to comply with the owner’s requirement that our operations be conducted in a rational way, we work with a number of key performance indicators, including: • Work productivity – efﬁciency in-store, based on the number of units handled per day’s work The total volume of drinks • Cost productivity – the number of units sold over the costs that the store can inﬂuence. sold was 468 million litres. • Wastage The key performance indicators are followed up in the stores. Work cost productivity has increased, year-on-year in 2013, while cost productivity remained unchanged. Wastage is slightly up, yearon-year. Selling expenses increased during the year to SEK 2,607 million, while administrative expenses increased by 4 per cent to SEK 542 million. The primary reasons for the increases are the increased staff overheads that resulted from a pension provision made and from increased sales. Strong support for the monopoly Systembolaget and Swedish alcohol policy are The CSI survey is conducted quarterly by the founded on public conﬁdence, and Systembolaget CFI Group survey company. The average index accordingly carries out continuous measurements ﬁgure was 82, which is the highest value ever of Swedes’ opinions of how well we are living up and corresponds to a year-on-year increase of to our responsibility. These measurements are 1 per cent. conducted in the form of both a Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and an Opinion Index (OPI). The OPI measurements are conducted every Opinion index 2009–2013, % month by the TNS Sifo survey organisation and constitute one of our strategic key performance 75 indicators. The public are asked whether they 70 would like Systembolaget to retain its monopoly or whether they would like to see sales of strong 65 beer, wine and spirits permitted in other stores. 60 The support for Systembolaget’s monopoly was stronger than ever in 2013, when 72 per cent of 0 09 10 11 12 13 respondents wanted Systembolaget to retain its monopoly on retails sales of alcohol. Percentage of Sweden’s population who want to retain Systembolaget and our monopoly on retail sales of alcohol (TNS Sifo) 58 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Owners Strategic key performance indicators Systembolaget’s strategic planning is based on the Balance Scorecard method and the strategic management work is based on ﬁve different perspectives, namely Society, Customers, Employees, Suppliers and Owners. Several of the key performance indicators are monitored all the way down to store level. We endeavour, wherever possible, to balance our strategic management in line with these perspectives and to maintain a consistent, high level. Our most important key performance indicators are: • Alcohol index – measured once a year and provides a combined measurement of people’s attitudes towards alcohol in different situations. • Opinion Index (OPI) – measured every month and showing levels of support for Systembolaget. • Age veriﬁcation checks – conducted on an ongoing basis and shows how well we are living up to the proof of age check requirement. • Short-term sick leave – measured every month. • Quality Supplier Index (QSI) – measured quarterly and shows the contribution our drinks suppliers make to customer value. • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) – measured quarterly and shows how satisﬁed customers are with Systembolaget. • Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) – measured once a year and shows how well equipped employees think they are to carry out their duties. • Trading margin – gross proﬁt as a percentage of income excluding alcohol tax. • Operating margin – Operating proﬁt as a percentage of income, excluding alcohol tax. Key performance Indicators 2013 Goal 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Strategic key performance indicators Alcohol Index1 66 62 – – – – Age veriﬁcation checks, % 96 95 95 94 94 93 Opinion Index (OPI), % 72 70 71 68 66 66 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 82 81 81 79 78 78 Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) 79 79 79 – – – Short-term sick leave, % 2.1 2.3 2.4 2.4 2.6 2.6 Quality Supplier Index (QSI) 93 93 93 – – – Trading margin gross excluding alcohol tax, % 21.2 22.5 21.3 21.7 21.8 22.2 Operating margin excluding alcohol tax1, % 1.1 1.5 1.8 1.1 2.4 3.2 Operative key performance indicators Work productivity 845 836 839 836 833 838 Cost productivity 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.37 0.38 0.40 Wastage2, ‰ 1.6 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.2 1.3 Sick Leave3, % 5.4 –3 5.3 4.6 4.9 5.1 Inventory turnover3 23.9 –3 24.7 24.5 25.7 25.4 1 New strategic key performance indicators, as of 2013. 2 Compared to losses in retail, the wastage is very low. 3 No target established. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 59 The Board of Directors The Board of Directors Cecilia Schelin Kerstin Thord Sven Crister Johan Seidegård Wigzell Andersson Andréasson Fritzson Gernandt Board function Chairperson Deputy Chairperson Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Chairperson of the Member of the Remuneration Member of the Audit Chairperson of the Audit Remuneration Committee and the Audit Commitees Committee Committee Born 1954 1945 1961 1952 1961 1943 Principal PhD in biochemistry. Behavioural and Sociologist and Doctor of Medical Science, Market economist. LL.B. education Social Sciences. Market Economist. Professor of Social Medicine at the Karolinska Institute. Other positions Chairman of the Boards Chairperson of the Board CEO of and consultant for Senior Physician, Addiction President of SJ. Member of Lawyer and consultant at held of the University of of the Stockholm Academy own company (APeL AB). Centre, Stockholm. Expert the board of Net Insight AB. Advokatﬁrman Vinge, Gothenburg, Almi and of Dramatic Arts. Member in alcohol and narcotics Chairperson of the Board Gotland AB. Member of of the Boards of the issues, Swedish National of Governors of the Bank the Board of Global Health University of Linköping, Institute of Public Health, of Sweden, Chairperson of Partner AB. the Press Council, and Scientiﬁc Council for Abuse the Board of the Svenska the National Swedish Police Issues at the National Board Dagbladet Foundation. Board’s Ethics Council, of Health and Welfare. Vice Chairperson of the Swedish Pensions Agency. Elected/Appointed Chairperson since 2008 2009 2011 2007 2012 2007 Positions Chairperson of the Board Director General of the Unit Manager for the Örebro — President and Member Lawyer and joint owner of previously held of the Royal Institute of Government Ofﬁces of Regional Development of the Board of Teracom Gernandt & Danielsson Technology, Hospital Sweden, Assistant Council, Information Group, Chairman of the Advokatbyrå, Chairman of Director at Karolinska Undersecretary of State Manager for the EoN Board of MTB, President the Board of the Stockholm University Hospital, Member at the Ministry of Health corporate Group, Marketing of Boxer AB, Chairman Chamber of Commerce of the Board of Karolinska and Social Affairs, Director Manager for the Capio of the Board of Boxer AB. Arbitration Institute, Advisor Development AB, President General of the Swedish corporate Group, Chairman to the Swedish Company of Huddinge University National Board for Youth of the Boards of the Örebro Law Committee Hospital, Member of the Affairs and the National Promotion cooperative (Ju 1990:46). Board of Getinge AB, Vice Board of Health and economic association and President in charge of Welfare, Director General the Örebro District Marketing Global R&D Operations at of the National Swedish Association, Member of AstraZeneca R&D, clinical Social Insurance Board, the Board of Svensk research and a range of Member of the Boards of Kärnbränslehantering AB. managerial positions within WHO, the Swedish Council Astra Draco. for Working Life and Social Research, the Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics, Chairperson of the Swedish Council for Working Life and Social Research, Deputy Chairperson of the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Services Analysis. Board meetings 10 |10 10 |10 10 |10 8 |10 9 |10 8 |10 Meetings with the 4|4 4|4 4|4 Audit Commitee Meetings with the 5 | 5 5|5 remuneration commitee Remuneration 228 TSEK 130 TSEK 130 TSEK 100 TSEK 140 TSEK 100 TSEK Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent 60 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 The Board of Directors Carl B Mona Anna Karin Berit Jenny Hamilton Sahlin Holgersson Larsson Morén Svensson Member of the Board Member of the Board Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative Deputy Member Deputy Member 1946 1957 1977 1958 1957 1974 FPhD (Economics). Social sciences programme, fM.A. in Human Rights. Nursing auxiliary, Two-year upper secondary Hotel and restaurant training upper secondary school. occupational therapy school course, Staff Nurse. and a Chef’s Diploma. Auxiliary and chiropodist. Professor of International Member of the Board of Employed as a member of Employed as a salesperson Employed as a salesperson Employed since 1997 in Economics at Stockholm the EXPO Foundation and the sales team since 2001. since 1989. Member of the since 1979. Store Manager a variety of roles within University and the Stockholm Chairperson of the Anna Chairperson of SystemBoard of Systembolaget’s since 2002, Personnel and Systembolaget. Store School of Economics, Lindh Memorial Fund. bolaget’s Staff Association, Staff Association, ChairperConsultation Contact, Manager since 2005. Member of Parliament, Member of the Unionen son of the Salespersons’ Chairperson of the Chairperson of the Skövde Chairperson of the trade union (for white collar Club, Jönköping, Member Stockholm Managers’ Club. Managers’ Club and Parliamentary EU Council workers in the private of the Board of the Pension member of the central and Member of its Finance sector) delegation to the Foundation, Coordinating salaries group. Committee, Member of the South Western Regional Work Environment national party executive and Board of Handels (Union Representative (SAMO) for party leadership group of of Commercial Employees) Systembolaget. the Swedish Liberal Party. and Unionen. 2007 2012 2010 2012 2011 2013 Undersecretary of State at Chairperson of the Social — — — — the Ministry of Finance, Democratic Party, Member Member of Parliament, of Parliament, Secretary of special commissioner, State for the Ministry of Chief Economist, HandelsEnterprise, Energy and banken. Communications, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of the Environment. Member of the Board of the Swedish Sports Confederation. 8 |10 8 |10 9 |10 9 |10 9 |10 4|6 100 TSEK 100 TSEK — — — — Independent Independent Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 61 Company Management Company Management Magdalena Gerger Marie Nygren Mikael Wallteg Ulrika Bennich President Vice President, Communication Vice President, Sales Director CFO Born: 1964 and Purchasing Director Born: 1957 Born: 1970 Employed: 2009 Born: 1965 Employed: 2001 Employed: 2011 Education and previous positions: Employed: 2007 Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: B.Sc. Economics and Business Education and previous positions: Internally trained at executive level B.SC. Economics and Business Administration and MBA, B.SC. Economics and Business Administration Stockholm School of Economics Administration Mr Wallteg’s previous positions include those of Sales Manager Mrs Bennich’s previous positions Mrs Gerger’s previous positions Mrs Nygren’s previous positions at Coop Konsum Sverige and include those of Strategy Director at include those of Marketing Director include those of CEO of Adara Regional Manager for Coop KF, CEO of KF Shared Services AB, at Arla Foods, Divisional Manager at (subsidiary of Apoteket AB), Konsum Stockholm. and various other positions within Nestlé Ltd., and Marketing Director Purchasing & Supply Chain Director KF and Stora Enso. at ICI Paints Ltd. at Coop Sweden and CEO at Stor & Liten. Mattias Forsberg Tobias Frohm Håkan Johansson Malin Sandquist IT Director HR Director Real Estate Director Senior Legal Counsel Born: 1972 Born: 1965 Born: 1957 Born: 1972 Employed: 2011 Employed: 2011 Employed: 2001 Employed: 2012 Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: B.Sc. Economics and Business Human Resources Specialist Market Economist LL.B. Administration, B.Sc. Civil Engineering Mr Frohm´s previous positions Mr Johansson’s previous positions Mrs Sandquist has previously include those of HR Director at include those of Logistics Director worked as a lawyer, most recently Mr Forsberg’s previous positions Lernia AB, HR Lead Sweden at at Systembolaget AB, Sales Director as a joint owner of Advokatﬁrman include those of Management Accenture, and a Manager at at Systembolaget AB, and Sales Hammarskiöld & Co. Consultant and Senior Manager at Consultus Leadership Partner AB. Manager and Deputy CEO at Accenture, and most recently that RBS AB. of IT Director at B&B Tools. 62 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Organisation Organisation Systembolaget’s organisation is process-orientated, Regional Manager who is responsible for the daywith responsibility for the principal processes lying to-day contacts between his or her store managers with the Sales Operations Area and C,B,P,S – and Systembolaget’s Head Ofﬁce. Communication, Brand planning, Purchasing, and Supply Chain. The other central departments act as support units for the primary process and are responsible for: C,B,P,S Operations Area: • developing and administering the network of stores • Communication, and the IT systems • Brand planning, • recruiting and developing employees • Purchasing, • legal issues and accounting ﬂows. • Supply Chain. The President and the corporate management team The Sales Operations Area is responsible for: are responsible for: • operations and sales in the stores. Systembolaget’s • the management process. 426 stores are organised into 27 areas with between 10 and 17 stores in each area. Each area has a The Board of Directors President Magdalena Gerger Legal affairs HR & Quality Malin Sandquist Tobias Frohm Finance & Administration Real Estate Ulrika Bennich Håkan Johansson IT Mattias Forsberg C,B,P,S Operations Area Sales Operation Area Communication/Brand planning/Purchasing/Supply Chain Mikael Wallteg, Vice President Marie Nygren, Vice President Northern Sales Region Southern Sales Region Subsidiary company Hans Jungland Marita Dahllöf IQ-initiativet AB 13 Regional Managers 14 Regional Managers 207 stores 219 stores 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 63 Systembolaget in ﬁgures Systembolaget in ﬁgures Summary of ﬁnancial reporting and in-depth GRI Report The ﬁnancial section and the in-depth GRI Report are presented in Part 2 of Systembolaget’s Responsibility Report. Systembolaget has ceased, as of 2012, to prepare any Consolidated Accounts, as the subsidiary companies are not of material importance, ﬁnancially, in relation to Systembolaget as a whole. The GRI Report includes both Systembolaget AB and also, in those areas that we regard as signiﬁcant, the IQ-initiativet AB subsidiary company. SEK The ﬁnancial year in brief 25,709 • Net sales for the year totalled SEK 25,709 million, corresponding to a year-on-year increase of 2.4 per • The return on shareholders’ equity was 18.0 per cent and hence exceeded the owner’s target by 11.9 million cent. percentage points. Systembolaget’s • The operating proﬁt fell, year-on-year, by SEK 102 • The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual net sales in 2013. million to SEK 168 million. Staff overheads increased General Meeting that a dividend of SEK 287 million due to the lowering by the Swedish Financial be paid to the owner. Supervisory Authority of the discount rates that • Systembolaget’s assets totalled SEK 5,463 million, form the basis for calculating pension liabilities. of which Cash and cash equivalents and Financial • The pre-tax proﬁt totalled SEK 317 million, assets were the largest items. corresponding to a year-on-year increase of SEK • Liabilities totalled SEK 3,853 million, 85 per cent of 69 million. Systembolaget has, in conjunction which comprised accounts payable. with the preparation of its year-end accounts, anticipated a dividend from subsidiary companies • The equity/assets ratio was 31.5 per cent. The owner’s of SEK 171 million. target ﬁgure is approximately 35 per cent. • The cash ﬂow from operating activities totalled SEK 456 million, corresponding to a year-on-year decrease of 20.6 per cent. In-depth sustainability report Systembolaget has in 2013, in accordance with the chain risk analysis in 2013 and have worked on a environmental plan adopted in 2011, focused on an new strategy of common sustainability work that internal programme of work addressing not only will be adopted in early 2014. waste management and energy consumption, but also on reducing the negative environmental impact of drinks packaging and transports. In 2011, Systembolaget’s income 2013 Systembolaget adopted a Code of Conduct produced Non-alcoholic Other goods and services by BSCI and which has, as of 2012, been included 0.4% 0.5% Cider and in the General Purchasing Terms & Conditions for mixed drinks Spirits alcoholic beverages. Systembolaget has followed 2.6% 21.0% up on compliance with the Code in 2013 and has Strong beer carried out 14 audits at production facilities in 23.1% Wine high-risk countries. The Nordic alcohol retail 52.4% monopolies have also carried out a new supplier 64 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Ten years in brief Ten years in brief 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Sales per capita 15 years and over, divided per product group (liters) Spirits 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.6 Wine 24.7 24.5 24.2 24.1 23.3 21.6 20.9 19.9 19.1 18.7 Strong beer 28.9 28.6 28.7 28.9 29.0 27.5 27.1 25.9 23.9 23.3 Cider and mixed drinks 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.3 Alcohol-free 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.13 0.11 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.09 A total of 100% alcohol 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.4 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.8 Sales in million liters, broken down per product group Spirits 18.9 19.3 19.4 20.0 20.1 19.1 19.3 18.9 18.8 19.2 Wine 197.9 194.5 191.0 187.9 181.4 166.5 159.5 150.5 143.0 138.7 Strong beer 231.5 227.6 227.1 225.8 226.9 212.4 207.1 195.7 179.0 172.9 Cider and mixed drinks 17.6 18.2 19.1 19.3 19.4 18.5 18.1 18.3 17.0 16.8 Alcohol-free 2.4 2.2 1.7 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 A total of 100% alcohol 46.4 46.0 45.6 45.5 44.8 41.6 40.5 38.4 36.4 35.6 The tax component1 of the retail price of goods in different price bands, 31 December 2013 100% Systembolaget’s share of the consumer price 75% Total tax component of the retail price 50% The supplier’s share 25% of the retail price 0% Spirits Wine Cider Beer (ex. any deposit 70cl 40% 70cl 40% 75cl 13% 75cl 13% 50cl 4.8% 33cl 5.2% 33cl 7.2% and return) SEK 220 SEK 500 SEK 75 SEK 500 SEK 16 SEK 10 SEK 12 Supplier price, ex. alcohol tax 27.50 216.00 34.00 319.50 3.80 3.60 4.00 Alcohol tax 140.39 140.39 16.19 16.19 5.60 2.85 4.00 VAT, 25% 43.95 100.03 15.04 99.97 3.21 2.00 2.40 Systembolaget’s total price surcharge 7.93 43.74 9.96 64.21 3.42 1.53 1.61 Total tax, % 84 48 42 23 55 49 53 1 The term, tax, refers to alcohol tax and VAT. 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 65 GRI-index GRI index Systembolaget reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives The list of contents contains all of the core indicators and the supplementary (GRI) guidelines at level B+, as veriﬁed by Ernst & Young AB. In accordance indicators that Systembolaget has adjudged relevant to its operations on the with level B Systembolaget reports all proﬁle indicators and 20 performance basis of the company’s most important sustainability issues. The table below indicators. The report for the 2013 ﬁnancial year comprises the Parent Company, shows the page references for the various indicators. Systembolaget AB, and the wholly-owned subsidiary company, IQ-initiativet AB. R = Reported wholly P = Reported in part N = Not reported PROFILE 1 Strategy and analysis Part 1 Part 2 Part 1 Part 2 1.1 President’s Statement R 2–5 Commitments to external initiatives 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 8–9 47–49 4.11 Application of the precautionary approach or principle R 50 R 52–53 4.12 Externally developed statutes, principles 44 R and initiatives 2 Organisational proﬁle 4.13 Membership of organisations R 50 2.1 The name of the organisation R 2 Stakeholder engagement 2.2 Primary brands, products and services R 54 2 4.14 Stakeholder group R 10 – 11 40 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation R 63 4.15 Identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders R 40 – 41 2.4 Location of head ofﬁce R 54 28 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement R 31 40 – 45 2.5 Countries in which the organisation operates R 2 4.17 Key topics and concerns arising through 31 40 – 45 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form R 28 R stakeholder engagement 2.7 Markets served R 23 28 – 29 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation R 64 – 65 24 – 25 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period R 2 – 3, 39 5 Economic Performance Indicators 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period R 16,17,29,36 Sustainability management disclosure 14 – 15, 4, 54 58 – 59 3 Report parameters Economic performance Report proﬁle EC1. Generated and distributed direct economic value R 54 3.1 Reporting period R 39 EC2. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities N 3.2 Most recent previous report 38 for the organization’s activities due to climate change 3.3 Reporting cycle R 39 EC3. Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan Swedish edition on 3.4 Contact person for the report Backside obligations systembolaget.se R R part 2, p. 30, 37, 43 of the AR and p. 55 this edition Scope and boundary of the report EC4. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content R 8, 9 40, 50 N government 3.6 Boundary of the report R 39 Market presence 3.7 Limitation of scope or boundary of report R 39 EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on 3.8 Reporting principles for jointly owned 39 locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of N R companies,subsidiaries, etc. operation 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for 39 EC7. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior R calculation management hired from the local community at N locations of signiﬁcant operation 3.10 Explanation of effect of re-statements of 39 R information provided in earlier reports Indirect economic impacts 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting 39 EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure periods in the scope, boundary or measurement R investments and services provided primarily for N methods applied in the report public beneﬁt through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement GRI content index EC9. Description of signiﬁcant indirect economic 14 – 15 55 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 9, 66 – 67 72 – 73 R R impacts, including the extent of impacts Standard Disclosures in the report Assurance 6 Environmental indicators 3.13 Policy and current practice for external assurance R 14, 37 Sustainability management disclosure 20 – 21, 56, 33, 49, 51 58 – 60 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement Material Governance EN1. Materials used by weight or volume N 4.1 Governance structure R 7– 8 EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled N 4.2 The role of the Chairperson of the Board R 9 input materials 4.3 Independent or non-executive Board Member R 60 – 61 7 Energy 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders’ and employees’ to 54 7, 43 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source N R provide recommendations etc., for the Board EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source P 20 57 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives See the Swedish EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency 57 edition on R R improvements systembolaget.se part 2, pages 35 – 36 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy based products and services, and N 4.6 Avoiding conﬂicts of interest within the Board R 10 reductions in energy requirements as a result of 4.7 Process for determining the qualiﬁcations of Board 8, 11 – 12 these initiatives. R Members EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption N 4.8 Mission or value statements, code of conduct, etc. R 8–9 and reductions achieved 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of sustainability work R 10 – 11, 15 4.10 Processes for evaluating the work of the Board R 11 66 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 GRI-index Part 1 Part 2 Part 1 Part 2 Water Human rights EN8. Total water withdrawal by source N Sustainability management disclosure 43 – 47 68 EN9. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal HR1. Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant N of water investment agreements and contracts that include N EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or N that have undergone human rights screening and reused Biodiversity HR2. Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors 68 that have undergone screening on human rights R EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed and actions taken in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of N high biodiversity value outside protected areas HR3. Total hours of employee training on policies and 46 69 procedures concerning aspects of human rights EN12. Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, R that are relevant to operations, including the products, and services on biodiversity in protected N percentage of employees trained areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and N actions taken Emissions, efﬂuents, and waste HR5. Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed in which EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions N the right to exercise freedom of association and by weight N collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 51 58 risk, and actions taken to support these rights R by weight HR6. Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 59 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour, R N and reductions achieved and measures taken to contribute to the effective EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by abolition of child labour N weight HR7. Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as EN20 NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or N and weight compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to N EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination N the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method R 21 60 Local community EN23. Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills N Sustainability management disclosure Inside 70 – 71 Products and services front cover, EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental of products and 21, 33 61 31 P services, and extent of impact mitigation SO1. Nature and scope of the routines that assess the 69 EN27. Percentage of products sold and their packaging impacts of operations on communities, including R N materials that are reclaimed by category entering, operating and exiting Compliance SO2. Percentage and total number of business units 6, 70 R EN28. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number analysed for risks related to corruption of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with N SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s 39 70 P environmental laws and regulations anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption R 71 7 Societal impact SO5. Public policy positions and participation in public Labour practices and decent work N policy development and lobbying Sustainability management disclosure 35 – 41 62, 65 – 66 SO8. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment 62 – 63 number of non-monetary sanctions for N R contract and region noncompliance with laws and regulations LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by 63 – 64 Product responsibility R age group, gender and region Sustainability management disclosure 24 – 25, 71 LA3. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are 32 – 33 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, N PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts by signiﬁcant locations of operation of products and services are assessed for N LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective 64 improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products R bargaining agreements and services categories subject to such procedures LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational PR3. Type of product and service information required changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in N by procedures and percentage of signiﬁcant collective agreements N products and services subject to such information LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 41 64 requirements and absenteeism, and number of work-related P PR4. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with fatalities by region regulations and voluntary codes concerning LA8. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and product and service information and labelling, by risk-control programs in place to assist workforce type of outcome N members, their families, or community members PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, 26 – 27 71 regarding serious diseases including results of surveys measuring customer R LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee satisfaction N by gender, and by employee category PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and Inside 71 LA11. Programmes for skills management and lifelong 37 65 voluntary codes related to marketing front cover R learning that support the continued employability communications, including advertising, promotion R and sponsorship. of employees and assist them in managing career endings PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular 38 65 regulations and voluntary codes concerning R N performance and career development reviews marketing communication, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by types of outcome LA13. Composition of governance bodies and 65 – 66 breakdown of employees per category according PR9. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for nonR to gender, age group, minority group membership, compliance with laws and regulations concerning N and other indicators of diversity the provision and use of products and services LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 67 P employee category 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 • 67 Deﬁnitions – Part 1 Age veriﬁcation checks • How satisﬁed or dissatisﬁed are you with the • Do you think that Systembolaget and the monopoly The age veriﬁcation checks measure how often proof Systembolaget store, overall? on the sale of strong beer, wines and spirits should of age was requested as a percentage of the total • How well does the Systembolaget store live up to be retained, or would you prefer strong beer, wines number of control purchases. The control purchases your expectations? and spirits to be sold in other stores? Systembolaget are carried out by people aged between 20 and 24. • How close to or far from ideal do you think that the engages an external consultancy company to Systembolaget commissions Better Business to carry Systembolaget store is? conduct the survey. A total of 1,500 randomly out these checks. A total of just over 6,300 control selected individuals aged between 15 and 74 are The customers’ answers, which are given on a scale purchases are made every year in stores and at interviewed every month. The Opinion Index is from 1 to 10, are converted to a ﬁgure between 10 agents, with approximately 600 of these purchases measured and reported every month. and 100. Systembolaget engages an external made at agents. Age veriﬁcation checks are carried consultancy company, CFI Group, to conduct the Product wastage out daily and are reported every month. survey. The survey base comprises a total of Wastage of goods, as established during stocktaking, Alcohol Index approximately 46,000 randomly selected customers, pro mille of income. The Alcohol Index is a combined measurement of spread over all of the stores. The CSI is measured Return on shareholders’ equity people’s attitudes to alcohol in different situations. and reported once every three months. The net proﬁt for the year as a percentage of average The higher the index, the more moderate the attitude Dividend per share shareholders’ equity. to alcohol. The Alcohol Index is generated using the Proposed/disbursed dividend divided by the average responses to nine questions on what people think is Return on capital employed number of shares right and wrong when it comes to alcohol. The questions Operating proﬁt plus ﬁnancial income as a percentage are put to 2,000 people aged 16 and above once a Earnings per share of the average capital employed. year. Data collection is carried out by Novus. The net proﬁt/loss for the year divided by the average Shareholders’ equity per share number of shares. Alcohol Research Council Shareholders’ equity divided by the number of shares Systembolaget’s Alcohol Research Council is an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) on the closing day. independent council that provides support for both Measured once a year and shows how employees Short-term sick leave socio-scientiﬁc and biomedical alcohol research. perceive the potential that their workplace offers for All hours lost to sickness during the current rolling Research that is of particular importance in terms of them to carry out their duties. 12-month period (Jan–Dec 2013) that lasted between the preventative work in relation to alcohol-related Ethical labelling 1 and 14 days in relation to the total number of hours damage and harm is prioritised. The product requirements are designed to ensure worked during the same period. Average number of employees fair working conditions for the people involved in all Solidity The number of hours worked divided by the normal stages of the product’s entire manufacturing chain. Equity as a percentage of total assets. number of hours worked per year. Ethical certiﬁcation bodies include Fairtrade and Fair for Life. SoRAD Average number of shares The Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Weighted average of the number of outstanding Global Compact Drugs, at Stockholm University. shares during the year. A UN initiative and framework for sustainable enterprise. Global Compact is based around ten principles Stock turnover rate ANDT – the ANDT Council within the following four areas: human rights, labour Income divided by the average stock value at sale The Government’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption. price. doping and tobacco issues acts in an advisory role to the Government and provides information on GRI – Global Reporting Initiative Superb Service research and survey results etc., of relevance for the A global network that issues a framework with guide“Superb Service” is not a description applied to implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the lines for sustainability reporting. run-of-the-mill good service. It applies exclusively to strategy. service that has been truly extraordinary. In cases, Gross margin excluding alcohol tax in other words, when the service has been so good Bright Index Gross proﬁt as a percentage of income excluding that the customer cannot help telling friends and Systembolaget monitors and quantiﬁes levels of alcohol tax. Measured and reported every month. acquaintances about what happened. It’s a feeling service, quality and efﬁciency by our Customer Gross margin including alcohol tax that lingers long after the visit is over and ensures Services Department with the aid of the Bright Index Gross proﬁt as a percentage of income including that when they leave, the customer is already looking tool, which also compares the most important key alcohol tax. Measured and reported every month. forward to the next visit. performance indicators with other Nordic customer contact centres that face the same challenges. The Holder Report Supplier Quality Index An international group of researchers headed by Supplier Quality index is measured on a monthly basis BSCI Harold Holder at the Prevention Research Center and shows how our beverage suppliers contribute to Business Social Compliance Initiative. at Berkeley, California, was commissioned by the customer value. CAN Swedish National Institute of Public Health to study Value chain The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and the effects if Systembolaget’s monopoly on retail The activities involved in creating value for Other Drugs. sales of alcohol were to be abolished. Source: Systembolaget’s customers – from the creation of Alcohol Monopoly and Public Health: Potential Capital employed raw materials such as grapes, grain and packaging effects of privatization of the Swedish alcohol retail The Balance Sheet total less noninterestbearing to meet the end consumer to enable conscious monopoly. Harold Holder et al. Swedish National liabilities including deferred tax liabilities. consumption. Institute of Public Health, 2007, updated by Thor Cash ﬂow per share Norström with ﬁgures for 2006. Wastage Cash ﬂow from operating activities divided by the Wastage, as established during stocktaking, pro Independent average number of shares. mille of income, including both product and cash A Member of the Board who is, according to the wastage. CIS – Customer Interaction Survey owner, to be regarded as independent in relation We carry out Customer Interaction Surveys on a to the company and the company management. Work productivity rolling basis throughout the year with the aid of The number of work units processed (packs after Operating margin including alcohol tax “mystery shoppers” and feed the results back weighting per product group) per day’s work (8 hours). Operating proﬁt/loss as a percentage of income directly to the stores in question. including alcohol tax. CSR – Corporate Social responsibility Operating margin excluding alcohol tax A company’s responsibility for its environmental and Operating proﬁt/loss as a percentage of income societal impact on the world in which it operates excluding alcohol tax. (both people and the environment), over and above that required by law. Opinion index – OPI The Opinion Index measures the percentage of the Customer Satisfaction Index CSI Swedish population who wish to retain Systembolaget The CSI measures how satisﬁed customers are with and the monopoly on retail sales of strong beer, Systembolaget. The total index is an average value wines and spirits. The survey base is asked to obtained from responses to the following three respond to the following question: questions: 68 • 2013 Responsibility Report – Part 1 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the company’s shareholders will be held in Stockholm on the 24th of April 2014 Financial calendar 2013 30th of April 2014 ........................... Interim Report, January – March 2014 15th of August 2014 ....................... Interim Report, January – June 2014 30th of October 2014 ..................... Interim Report, January – September 2014 13th of February 2015 .................... 2014, Financial Statement Contact person at Systembolaget, tel. (exchange): +46 8 503 300 00 Lennart Agén, Press Director Production Blomquist & Co Print EO Graﬁska Photo Hans Berggren, Magnus Fond, Bosse Johansson, Werner Nystrand, PhotoAlto, Philippe Rendu, Kristofer Samuelsson, Torbjörn Selander. Illustration Klas Fahlén Please contact us! We gladly accept feedback and comments on our Responsibility Report. ansvarsredovisning@ systembolaget.se Postal address 103 84 Stockholm • Street address Kungsträdgårdsgatan 14 • Tel. 08-503 300 00 Email kundtjanst@systembolaget.se • Website systembolaget.se • Corp.ID No. 556059-9473
