First Philippine Power Systems Inc. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Principle Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcome Human Rights 1) Business should We at First Philippine Power In relation to Human Rights, There has been no reported support and respect Systems Inc. support the United First Philippine Power Systems incident with regards to the protection of Nations Universal Declaration of Inc. was guided by the violation of human rights internationally Human Rights, the principles of the following corporate Lopez since the company started. proclaimed human UN Global Compact and the ILO Values: rights. Convention on Labor Standards. a) Unity As a management practice to b) Nationalism 2) Make sure that they ensure compliance with the c) Social Justice are not complicit in standards and government d) Employee Welfare and human rights requirements we have Wellness abuses systematically integrated the relevant principles in our FPPSI ensure that our procedures. employees have a safe and The safety of our people is one of conducive working the responsibilities of the environment. We also ensure management. Such responsibility that all regular members of the includes the occupational health organization maintain their top and safety, health promotion, physical shape at all times by prevention of occupational accident conducting annual physical and and corporate social responsibility medical examination and were integrated in our management providing health cards. system. Group Insurance policy is also an additional benefit to our regular employees. Labour 3) Business should First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. Employees are not unionized; We remain committed to uphold freedom of recognizes and upholds freedom of however, the management ensure a fair and supportive association and association & the right to collective ensures that the employees’ environment for all effective bargaining. welfare and interest are employees regardless of recognition of the This is in line with our Lopez value protected. whether they have formal right to collective to uphold Unity, Nationalism, Social employee representation bargaining Justice and employee welfare and wellness. 4) The elimination of It is the Policy of First Philippine As a practice, regular We will maintain to monitor all forms of forced Power Systems, Inc. to require our communication of our policy the operations of our and compulsory employees and other stakeholders and monitoring of its suppliers of their labor to support the abolition of all forms compliance are being compliance to our policy. of forced, compulsory and child undertaken. We ensure to Noncompliance will mean a 5) Effective abolition labor. We are also working with our maintain a zero record of discontinuance of business of child labor suppliers to ensure this policy is forced & compulsory and child partnership. adhered to in our supply chain. labor incident within our This is also in line with our Lopez operations. value to uphold Social justice. 6) Eliminate First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. We ensure employee behavior Policy and procedures meet discrimination in promotes and supports a diverse is in line with promoting and the requirement and respect of workforce at all level of the supporting a diverse workforce. constantly pass audit and employment and organization. We ensure our We’ll continue to use policy and assessment conducted by occupation employees or potential employees procedure in accordance with Department of Labor and that they are not unlawfully the Philippine laws. Employment. discriminated against directly or indirectly as a result of their color, creed, race, ethnic or national origin, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, religion, or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, gender or trade union membership and never tolerate harassment of any form. 7) Businesses should First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. First Philippine Power Systems, There has been no reported support a continually improve the Inc. have fulfilled requirement incident with regards to nonprecautionary sustainability of our operations with of Department of Environment compliance to approach to due consideration in minimizing our and Natural Resources and environmental regulations environmental impact on the environment was issued an Environmental during the last 12 months challenges Compliance Certificate. We aim and the entire history of the to protect the environment not company. only for the benefit of our organization and our people but for the communities that we serve. 8) Undertake First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. Hazard Identification Risk initiatives to Environmental Policy regards the Assessment and Control are employees promote protection of the environmental of conducted for all activities. greater paramount importance, coming only All risk are assessed and include environmental second to safety. We do not (but not limited to) the following common risks: responsibility conduct any activity where the risk  Sewerage system, is perceived to be significant in  ground water contamination causing environmental damage.  Top Soil damage We always employ sustainable  Vegetation damage –protected mitigating measures to reduce any and non-protected species risk to the environment to an  Wildlife impact protected and acceptable level, in all our activities. non-protected species  Ground contamination  Spill of materials  Dust  Noise  Fumes  Vehicle hazards  Flora or Fauna FPPS, being a member of the Lopez Group of Companies, is an active supporter of various CSR initiatives such as – Run for Pasig, Walk the Talk, etc. 9) Encourage the First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. We consider the protection of development and is constantly reviewing operational the environment the diffusion of and manufacturing process to responsibility of everyone environmentally ensure that we are using the most engaged in or associated with friendly environmentally friendly system. its activities. The environment technologies We are totally committed to is one of the company’s environmentally friendly technology primary concerns. Its and confirm our goal of achieving a importance is promoted at zero adverse environmental impact every level within the company. in all of our activities. Project briefing, appropriate equipment, training and reporting are seen as the major tool by which we maintain the high levels of environmental awareness within our organization. Environmental protection is given the highest possible priority when planning our activities. Anti-Corruption 10) Business should First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. Prior to company’s registration There has been no reported work against all is committed to the highest in the special economic zone, incident on graft and forms of corruption, standard of corporate governance First Philippine Power Systems, corruption in the including extortion and professional integrity. We Inc. was required to execute an organization for the past 12 and bribery conduct our business in an ethical, anti-graft certificate in pursuant months or in fact over the honest and accountable manner in of Sec 3 & 14 of the Philippine company’s history. All our accordance with applicable laws, Republic Act (RA) 3019 or what actions are above board rules and regulations. we call the Anti Graft Act. The and never intended to This is in line with our Lopez values company rules and regulations violate the laws of the land. of – a pioneering entrepreneurial clearly indicate that integrity We’ll continue to monitor spirit, business excellence, social issues are to be dealt severely. and record incident of justice and integrity. Will continue program to corruption and violators will educate employees and be dealt with according to stakeholders on these rules established rules and and policies. regulations.
