2013 Annual Report “SABAF is a true global company with the heart in Italy and the head focused on the rest of the world”: these AD Bartoli’s words are a perfect synthesis from which takes inspiration the creative concept of this annual report. SABAF has a physical structure, a way of thinking and behaviour that condition the economic and social system: is a real antrophomorfic personality, an active actress of the world economy with specific skills and abilities to operate and excel in the global market. The illustrations, on the cover and inside separate the sections of the document, metaphorically represent the main qualities of “Mr. Sabaf which allow him to orient oneself and compete on a global level with positive mentality (and proactive). A fresh mood, apparently easy, to diffuse the tension and generate a smile, even in this delicate economic period. Be knowledgeable Be dynamic Be flexible Be grounded Be multiskilled Be socially skilled Be ready Be organized to change INDEX chapters 1 PAGE 13 Business model and strategic approach 2 PAGE 23 International operations and Core Markets 3 PAGE 31 Corporate governance, Risk management, Compliance and General Remuneration Policy 4 PAGE 49 Social and environmental Sustainability 5 PAGE 85 Report on Operations 6 PAGE 95 Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2013 7 PAGE 133 Statutory Annual Report & accounts at 31 December 2013 8 PAGE 173 Report on Remuneration 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Chief Executive Officer’s letter to stakeholders Alberto Bartoli Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders, I am writing my second letter as chief executive as we celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the agreement that in January 1994 opened the way to what is now generally known as “globalisation”. When, at the end of 1993, Bill Clinton signed the treaty that led to Nafta (North American Free Trade Agreement), many people pointed out that this was a revolutionary step. Well, this revolution took place, but perhaps not exactly as most people hoped: even more than an opportunity, globalisation has turned into an obligation, and staying at home, within one’s own borders, has become a risk that these days, no-one can afford to take. Today’s market is the world, and anyone who thinks they can limit their horizons is doomed to suffer a slow and inexorable decline. Generally, the first moves towards delocalisation and joint ventures, years ago, were intended to offer companies lower costs than at home. Things have changed dramatically: going abroad is now absolutely essential for a company that wants to grow, whatever its size. Growth, including simple demographic expansion, is no longer to be found here, but in Brazil, India, China, Egypt, Turkey and the Middle East, and it is no longer conceivable that we can capture this business while staying at home, in our own backyard. In other words, we go abroad to supply growing companies generating a lot of business, often with tailored products, expressly designed for certain markets. We must accept the need to compete on a global scale. Sabaf provides quality components to international producers of hobs, whose demands, in any cases, are impossible to satisfy from a distance. This would mean going through customs, protective legislation and logistical problems, which in the long term, would weaken our position against competitors prepared to move to where there are greater opportunities. And sooner or later, we would end up losing not only the supply contracts in question, but would give our potential competitors a real opportunity of gaining a foothold in new markets, including those in which we are currently leader. Establishing a worldwide presence is therefore fundamental, not only for growth, but also to safeguard the heart of our operations, which are and will remain in Italy. Since my appointment in May 2012, our prime objective has been to increase Sabaf’s international presence. A few years ago, more than half of our revenue was generated in Italy, and sales outside Europe represented less than 10% of the total. We now generate just under 33% in Italy, and only 5.7% in western Europe. Eastern Europe (Poland and Turkey) account for 20%, and the remaining 40% is sold in Africa, America and Asia. Our plants in Brazil and Turkey are fundamental pillars of our strategy, and we will soon add another production site, in China. If things go as we hope, we plan to open production facilities in India and the US in the medium term. We should point out that making sales on international markets is much more challenging than selling in Italy or in Europe. Beyond specific products, we have to have a thorough knowledge of the country we want to work in. It was for this reason that we launched a training course for international managers a few years ago. After graduating, Indian, Turkish, Polish and Brazilian recruits came to Sabaf for a few years to learn our production and management philosophy, before returning to their country of origin: they are now the general managers of our subsidiaries or our local agents. To operate on international markets, we also need a more credible and stronger country system, to ensure we present ourselves abroad more effectively: it is therefore positive that, even in the current phase of unavoidable spending reviews, the support provided by Italian institutions to companies planning to expand internationally has continued, and even increased. We are therefore operating in an increasingly complex environment, in which it is difficult to forecast revenue for the following month, but we are required to produce medium-term growth plans. For many years, we have considered that quantitative and qualitative factors in how we act must be assessed in an integrated manner. I am proud to say that in 2013, as previously in 2004, the way we think and act was rewarded by the Italian Federation of Public Relations (Ferpi), when we received the Oscar di Bilancio financial communication award in the Small and Medium-sized Listed Company Category, in recognition of our innovative approach to reporting. For us, this is a way of telling everyone that we are a team and that the challenge of global quality can only be won by everyone pulling together: innovation, reliability, expertise and precision. For this reason, over the years, we have continued to invest a large portion of our income in research and technology, particularly in Italy. This is a way of ensuring our future, even in the absence of the incentives and tax breaks we would have wished for. An example of this is how much we have achieved in just a short space of time thanks to greater efficiency in the production of light alloy valves. We have been able to transform the complexities of an innovative production process into a strength: today in Ospitaletto, Sabaf can make highly competitive products that comply with the highest quality standards, and it is thanks to our capacity to establish this kind of virtuous path that Italy will remain central to our operations in the future. Sabaf recently decided to rejoin Italy’s leading business federation, Confindustria, in order to boost its role within the political arena. We would like to see greater recognition of the value of companies in the growth plans for our country. In Italy, passion for industry seems to have remained limited to the few. We continue to think of it as a priority, with no alternatives. Provided there is a market for our components somewhere, we will continue to produce and innovate, to be able to satisfy this demand and improve. It is a mission that touches our very essence as a modern group that will keep going as long as goods are manufactured. Alberto Bartoli INTRODUCTION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT Sabaf’s progress towards Integrated Reporting The publication of Sabaf’s Annual Report, in its ninth edition this year, confirms understanding of the various strategic strands and greater internal cohesion the Group’s commitment, undertaken in 2005, to providing integrated reporting and the investors community, which can thereby gain a clearer understanding of its economic, social and environmental performance. of the link between strategy, governance and company performance. Confirming the importance of integrated reporting as the new emerging In 2013, for its commitment to integrated reporting, Sabaf received the corporate reporting model, work continued on the area at international level. In prestigious financial communication award, Oscar di Bilancio, in the Small December 2013, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) presented and Medium-Sized Listed Company category. The Jury, chaired by Prof. the international framework on sustainability reporting, “The International Andrea Sironi, Rector of Milan’s Bocconi University, explained the reasons why <IR> Framework”, which sets the guidelines to follow in the preparation of it decided to recognise Sabaf’s financial statements: “This is an integrated an integrated report and its key contents. Integrated Reporting represents a report with a section dedicated to sustainability, and a clear commitment to significant development in corporate reporting, which is increasingly focused combining the various aspects of financial and other forms of reporting. It on promoting cohesion and efficiency in the reporting process and adopting has good sections on economic and financial information, management and “integrated thinking”. organisation, and CSR. The document has a strong visual impact, as it uses a variety of graphic designs to summarise the text, and shows Key Performance Sabaf was one of the first companies at international level to adopt integrated Indicators and other key aspects. It has an excellent risk management section, reporting, and intends to continue along this path, guided by the International which is immediately understandable even for non-experts and the description Framework, in the knowledge that integrated, complete and transparent of staff selection and remuneration processes is very clear”. information can benefit both companies themselves through a better Methodology Sections 1 – Business Model and strategic approach, 2 – International operations – Financial Statements of Sabaf S.p.A. make up the Annual Financial Report at 31 and core markets and 4 – Social and environmental sustainability comprise the December 2013. Annual Report at 31 December 2013, prepared in accordance with: the 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines defined by the GRI/G3, the level of Finally, the Report on Remuneration is provided, prepared pursuant to Article 123-ter of application of which we believe corresponds to A+; the Consolidated Law on Finance. the AA 1000 (AccountAbility 1000) standards issued by AccountAbility, as regards the social reporting process and the dialogue with stakeholders. Once again this year, the “non-financial indicators” include the results of operating As in previous years, the process of defining content and determining materiality is based and improving intangible fixed assets, the principal drivers that allow monitoring of the on GRI principles (materiality, inclusivity of stakeholders, sustainability and completeness). business strategy’s ability to create value in the medium to long term. From 2013 the Annual Report’s reporting scope includes the subsidiary Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirteki (Sabaf Turkey), which began production in the last quarter of 2012 and was fully operational in 2013. Unless stated otherwise, To ensure that the information contained in the Annual Report is reliable, only directly comparative figures at 31 December 2012 do not include Sabaf Turkey, as it was not measurable figures are included, avoiding the use of estimates wherever possible. The possible to reconstruct the information retrospectively. calculations are based on the best information available or on sample-based surveys. Where they have been used, estimates are clearly indicated as such. Section 3 – Governance, Risk Management, Compliance and General Remuneration Policy reports important information regarding the corporate governance structure and The Annual Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2014 and the company risk management system. presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April 2014. Sections 5 – Report on Operations, 6 – Consolidated Financial Statements and 7 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT INTRODUCTION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT 5 Key issues for Group operations In order to identify the key issues to be explored in the 2013 Annual Report, the following were taken into account: the strategic priorities defined at Company level; stakeholder expectations. Sustainable Customers Staff development Sustainability strategy and management Customer satisfaction Staff management, development Business ethics Product and process research and training and innovation Enhanced exploitation of intangible assets Employment and intellectual capital Image and Reputation Health and safety Establishment in international markets Partnerships with multinational groups Environment Suppliers Shareholders Society Environmental impact Corporate governance Monitoring and protection Relations Eco-efficiency of the Supply Chain of minority shareholders with the region and quality management 6 Sabaf adopts CECED Code of Conduct Sabaf subscribes to the CECED Italia Code of Conduct. CECED Italia is an association that represents more than 100 companies in the household electric appliance industry. By signing up for this initiative, Sabaf recognises and undertakes to act as a “good corporate citizen”. The CECED Italia Code of Conduct is a voluntary agreement for CECED Italia members wanting to promote fair and sustainable working conditions, corporate social responsibility and environmental quality. It also requires the signatory companies to encourage the application of the principles enshrined in the Code within their own supply chain. In this context, the Sabaf Annual Report is the tool through which the Group reports each year on the practical implementation of the Code’s principles and the progress achieved, as specifically required of participating companies. Sabaf is a member of the Global Compact In April 2004 Sabaf formally subscribed to the Global Compact, the United Nations programme for companies that commit to supporting and promoting 10 universally accepted principles covering human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. By publishing the 2013 Annual Report, we are renewing our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles an integral part of our strategy, our culture and our daily operations, and we also undertake explicitly to declare this commitment to all our employees, partners, customers and public opinion in general. The Annual Report contains details of the measures taken by the Sabaf Group in support of the 10 principles. The references are set out in the index of GRI indicators, according to the guidelines “Making the connection. The GRI Guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress”. Alberto Bartoli SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT INTRODUCTION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT 7 Global compact’s 10 principles Human rights Pr i nci pl e I Businesses are required to promote and respect universally acknowledged human rights in the ambit of their respective spheres of influence and Pr i nci pl e II make sure that they are not directly nor indirectly complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Pr i nci pl e III Businesses are required to support the freedom of association of workers and to recognise their right to collective bargaining. Pri nci pl e IV Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Pri nci pl e V Effective abolition of child labour. Pri nci pl e VI Elimination of all forms of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Pri nci pl e VII Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and Pr i nci pl e VIII undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pr i nci pl e IX encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Pri nci pl e X Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Key performance indicators (KPIs) Key 2013 2012 2011 change Financial indicators Income statement Balance sheet and financial position (Amounts in €‘000) 2013 2012 2011 (Amounts in €‘000) 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Sales revenues 130,967 130,733 148,583 Non-current assets 97,467 101,728 102,310 EBITDA 24,572 21,813 30,092 Working capital 41,241 41,086 37,915 Operating profit (EBIT) 11,132 7,920 16,566 Current financial assets 22 0 0 Pre-tax profit 9,811 6,219 15,454 Provisions for risks, post-employment (4,049) (3,392) (3,606) benefits and deferred taxes Capital employed 134,681 139,422 136,619 8,104 4,196 10,775 Net profit Shareholders' equity 117,955 115,626 121,823 Net financial debt 16,726 23,796 14,796 134,681 139,422 136,619 Total sources Other financial indicators 2013 2012 2011 (Amounts in €‘000) 2013 2012 2011 ROCE (return on capital Investments in research 8.3% 5.7% 12.1% 368 369 648 employed) & development Dividend per share (€) 0.40 1 0.35 0.60 Other investments 9,658 13,628 13,842 Net debt/equity ratio 14% 21% 12% Market capitalisation (31.12) 1.27 0.88 1.06 /equity ratio (Amounts in €‘000) 2013 2012 2011 Value of outsourced goods & services • brass pressing and +0.18% 5 4,519 4,682 5,049 aluminium die-casting 0 Change -1.5% -5 • other processing 5,606 6,734 8,010 in sales -10 -12.0% -15 1 Proposed dividend SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT INTRODUCTION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT 9 Generated and Distributed Economic Value The following table shows the amounts and allocation of economic value represents the overall wealth created by Sabaf, which is then allocated amongst among stakeholders, prepared in accordance with GRI guidelines. its various stakeholders: suppliers (operating costs), staff and independent The table was prepared by defining three levels of economic value: generated contractors, lenders, shareholders, government and society (grants and gifts value, distributed value and value retained by the Group. Economic value outside the Company). (€‘000) 2013 2012 Change Economic value generated by Group 133,397 132,260 1,137 Revenue 130,967 130,733 234 Other income 3,885 3,592 293 Financial income 138 219 (81) Adjustments 915 1,056 (141) Doubtful account provision (1,240) (1,608) 368 Foreign exchange loss (gain) (186) (293) 107 Income/expenses from sale of tangible and intangible fixed assets 71 54 17 Adjustments to tangible and intangible fixed assets (655) (1,028) 373 Gains/ losses from equity investments (498) (465) (33) Economic value distributed by Group 116,992 119,104 (2,112) Remuneration of suppliers 78,504 82,661 (4,157) of which environmental costs 670 716 (46) Employee compensation 31,339 29,302 2,037 Remuneration of lenders 775 1,162 (387) Shareholder earnings 2 4,613 3,911 702 Government levies 3 1,707 2,023 (316) External donations 54 45 9 Economic value retained by Group 16,405 13,156 3,249 Depreciation & Amortisation 12,856 12,919 (63) Allocations 91 21 70 Use of provisions (33) (69) 36 Reserves 3,491 285 3,206 2 The estimated amount for 2013 is based on the proposed dividend 3 Includes deferred taxes Non-financial indicators Key 2013 2012 2011 Human capital Average age Level of Staff Hours of training Investment in of employees education turnover per employee training/sales 4 (sum of age of employees/total (number of university and high school (employees who resign or are dismissed/ (average hours of training employees at 31/12) graduates/total employees at 31/12) total employees at 31/12) per employee) years % % hours % 36.6 54.5 7.1 18 0.45 36.2 51.7 5.6 16.1 0.42 35.9 50.7 5.0 12.3 0.42 Structural capital % Hours spent on new product development/ IT budget (capital expenditure + current expenses)/sales total hours worked 0.6 0.8 0.6 1.9 2.0 1.8 Capital expenditure on tangible assets/sales 7.2 Hours spent on process engineering/ hours worked 10.1 (hours spent on contract work for construction of new machinery for new products or to increase production 9.2 capacity/total hours worked) Capital expenditure on intangible assets/sales 0.4 0.6 2.0 2.7 2.5 0.5 4 The index has been recalculated to include temporary staff training costs. Number of different Customer Certified supplier sales product SKUs (stock-keeping units) complaints (certified supplier sales/sales) supplied to top 10 customers N° N° % 2,176 2,344 2,283 249 302 446 53.9 54.7 54.2 Number of financial analysts Lawsuits actioned against following Sabaf stock on an Group companies ongoing basis N° N° 2 2 3 3 2 3 Social indicators Total employee headcount N° 730 702 714 • Men % 65.2 65.4 65.7 • Women % 34.8 34.6 34.3 Sickness rate (Sick leave hours/total workable hours) % 2.88 2.75 2.77 12.99 12.00 18.48 Accident frequency index (No. of accidents (excluding accidents in transit) per 1 million hours worked) 0.22 0.15 0.27 Accident severity index (days of absence (excluding accidents in transit) per 1,000 hours worked) 5 11 11 5 Jobs created N° (lost) % of supplier sales in province of Brescia % 49.9 53.3 52.3 Donations/ net profit % 0.66 1.07 0.71 5 Figure recalculated to take account of the 23 employees of Sabaf Turkey at 31 December 2012 Environmental indicators Materials used t Brass Aluminium alloys Steel 1,234 7,332 6,784 1,186 6,847 5,853 1,384 7,928 6,948 t Waste Municipal-type waste Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste 214 2,831 6,046 176 3,053 5,230 178 3,345 6,402 3,616 Natural gas 2,726 m3 x 000 consumption 3,308 31,944 Electricity 29,290 MWh consumption 31,098 20,109 CO2 emissions 17,133 t 18,898 0.51 Current environmental 0.55 % spending/sales at 31/12 0.56 Environmental 0.18 investment/sales 0.00 % at 31/12 0.06 Key 2013 2012 2011 Be dynamic C H A P T E R Business model and strategic approach Pa ge 13 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGIC APPROACH Sales management Customers Competitors The development of partnerships with customers is a key aspect of Sabaf’s sales policy. As part of this cooperation with strategic customers, and markets the Group seeks to anticipate changes in the market by offering appropriate technological and production solutions. Environment Society External relations management Shareholders Lenders Business-financial management Services and support structures Staff Human resources management Procurement management Suppliers Sabaf ensures careful management of its relations with suppliers, by developing lasting relations over time also with a view to constantly monitoring the potential risks associated with the supply chain. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGIC APPROACH 15 Business Model In keeping with its shared values and mission, the Company believes that there Innovation, safety, personal development and socio-environmental sustainability is a successful business and cultural model to be consolidated as a priority are the distinctive characteristics of the Sabaf model. through organic growth. Internal and vertical design Innovation Sustainability and continuous learning Machinery In line with the Company’s vision Sabaf is constantly geared Components and mission, and in accordance towards innovation and Tools Products with the Charter of Values, the favours self-learning to Moulds strategic and operational decisions deal with changes in the implemented by Sabaf are competitive environment and intended to ensure sustainable the market knowledgeably development, by balancing and comprehensively. business and financial requirements with social and environmental needs. According to this logic, Sabaf undertakes to be a reliable partner with which lasting relationships Know How can be formed. Innovation, eco-efficiency, safety, Quality, performance, Internationadevelopment eco-compatibility lisation of internal expertise Over time, Sabaf has Sabaf’s identity reflects its developed an integrated roots in the region in which it management system for quality, is based. In relation to growth environment, occupational on international markets, first safety and social responsibility, and foremost in emerging Components Machinery and obtained the related countries, the valuing of and Products Tools certification. respect for local cultures Moulds The most advanced products are indispensable aspects, set themselves apart not only forming part of a unique and for their quality and safety, but uniform industrial model. also for their energy efficiency and design. Internal and vertical production 16 Strategic approach and value creation VISION MISSION STRATEGIC FOCUS Widening of Enhanced Establishment components exploitation Innovation Eco-efficiency Safety in international range and of intangible markets international assets and partnerships intellectual capital SCOPE OF ACTION 1 Integration 2 Intense vertical integration 3 Ability to combine 4 Costant flow of capital of R&D for of production, in which major automation with expenditure aimed products and high-value phases are flexibility and large at strengthening manufacturing performed using exclusive production runs competitive processes technologies with customisation advantage CREATION OF SUSTAINABLE VALUE SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGIC APPROACH 17 Values, vision and mission Sabaf uses the individual as its core value – and therefore the fundamental temporal equality. This type of moral commitment implies the renouncement criterion for all its decisions. This creates a central entrepreneurial vision that of all choices that do not respect the individual’s physical, cultural and moral guarantees the individual’s dignity and freedom within the framework of a integrity, even if such decisions would be efficient, economically beneficial, and shared Code of Conduct. legally acceptable. The centrality of the individual is a universal value, i.e. a “hyper-rule” applicable Respecting the value of the individual means, first and foremost, making “being” regardless of place or time. In accordance with this universal value, the a priority before “doing” and “having”, and thus protecting and enhancing the Sabaf Group fosters cultural diversity through the criterion of spatial and “quintessential” manifestations that allow people to express themselves fully. VALUES Innovation TO THINK Trasparency THE Security TO COMMUNICATE HUMAN TO ACT BEING TO BELIVE Change 18 The Sabaf Charter of Values The Sabaf Charter of Values is a governance tool through which Sabaf’s The Charter of Values is also a reference document for the Organisational, Board of Directors expresses the values, standards of conduct and ways in Management and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001. As which relations between Sabaf and its stakeholders are managed. All Group such, it sets out a series of general rules of conduct that Group employees and companies are formally required to adopt it. contractors must follow. VISION To conjugate the choices and economic results with the ethical values, by surpassing family capitalism, in favor of a managerial logic oriented not only towards the creation of added value, but also towards the respect of values. To consolidate technological and market position superiority, To associate the growth of in planning, production and company performance with distribution of the entire range of social and environmental components for home appliances for gas cooking, through constant MISSION sustainability, promoting a dialogue that is open to the attention to innovation, safety legitimate expectations of and the valorization of internal our counterparts. competence. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGIC APPROACH 19 Innovation Establishment in international markets For Sabaf, innovation is one of the essential components of its business model Sabaf is continuing to expand by becoming established in international markets, and one of its main strategic drivers. seeking to replicate its business model in emerging countries and adapting it Through constant innovation, the Group has succeeded in achieving excellent to the local culture. results, identifying some of the most advanced and efficient technological In keeping with its corporate values and mission, the Group is seeking to bring and manufacturing solutions currently available, and creating a virtuous state-of-the-art know-how and technology to these countries, whilst fully circle of continuous process and product improvement – ultimately acquiring respecting human and environmental rights and complying with the United technological skills that are difficult for competitors to emulate. A key factor in Nations Code of Conduct for Transnational Corporations. This choice is based the Group’s success has been the know-how acquired over the years in the on our awareness that only by operating in a socially responsible manner internal development and construction of machinery, tools and moulds, which is it possible to assure the long-term development of business initiatives in integrates synergically with know-how in the development and production of emerging markets. our products. Investments in innovation have enabled the Company to become a global leader in an extremely specialised niche market and, over time, to achieve high standards of technological advancement, specialisation and manufacturing Expansion of the component product line and flexibility. The manufacturing sites in Italy and abroad are designed to ensure partnership with multinational groups that products are based on the highest technological standards available today. Ongoing expansion of our range is intended to further increase our customers’ They are a cutting-edge model in terms of both environmental protection and loyalty via greater satisfaction of their needs. Its ability to offer a complete worker safety. range of components further distinguishes Sabaf from its competitors. This expansion is mainly pursued via in-house research, although possible strategic alliances with other leading players in the sector or acquisitions, even Eco-efficiency in related sectors, are not ruled out. One of the underlying priorities of Sabaf’s product innovation strategy is the The Group intends to further consolidate its collaborative relationships with quest for superior performance in terms of environmental impact. Our attention customers and to strengthen its positioning as sole supplier of a complete to environmental issues materialises through innovative production processes product range in the cooking components market, thanks to its ability to tailor with lower energy consumption in product manufacturing, and, above all, its production processes to customers’ specific requirements. products that are designed to be eco-efficient during everyday use. More specifically, innovation efforts are predominantly focused on the development of burners that reduce fuel consumption (natural or other gases) and emissions (particularly carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide) during use. Enhanced exploitation of intangible assets and intellectual capital Enhanced exploitation of intangible assets is essential to be able to compete effectively in the international market. Safety Sabaf carefully monitors and enhances the value of its intangible assets: Safety has always been one of the indispensable features of Sabaf’s business the advanced technical and professional expertise of people working in the model. Company; its image synonymous with quality and reliability; its reputation as Safety for Sabaf is not mere compliance with existing standards, but a a company mindful of social and environmental issues and the needs of its management philosophy striving for continuous improvement in performance stakeholders. Advocating the idea of work and relations with stakeholders as in order to guarantee end users an increasingly safe product. Besides investing “the passion for a project founded on common ethical values in which in new-product R&D, the Group has chosen to play an active role in fostering a everyone recognises themselves” is not only a moral commitment, but also safety culture, both by promoting the sale of products featuring thermoelectric a real guarantee of enhanced exploitation of intangible assets (intellectual safety devices, and via a communication policy aimed at promoting the use of capital). In this perspective the sharing of ethical values is the link between products with thermoelectric safety devices. Sabaf has long been a worldwide the promotion of a business culture oriented towards social responsibility and promoter in the various institutional environments of the introduction of enhanced exploitation of the Company’s intellectual capital. Thanks to the regulations making the adoption of products with thermoelectric safety devices strong drive represented by value-sharing, Sabaf aims to strengthen its human obligatory. Safety has proved to be a key factor for success, partly because capital (increasing employees’ skills, sense of ownership and satisfaction), thus the Company has succeeded in anticipating demand for products with safety aiding development of organisational capital (operating know-how and process devices in the European market and in stimulating the spread of such products improvement), whilst assuring constant development of relational capital (in in developing countries. More recently, Sabaf has become a promoter, together terms of improved interaction with stakeholders). with the Brazilian regulatory authority, of the ban on the use of zamak (a zinc and aluminium alloy) for the production of gas cooking valves due to its inherent risks. Today, however, the use of zamak is still permitted in Brazil, Mexico and in other South American countries, limiting business opportunities in the valves segment for Sabaf, which does not plan to consider the production of valves using zamak. 20 Social responsibility in business processes In order to translate the values and principles of sustainable development into decisions regarding of action and operating activities, Sabaf applies a structured methodology, whose key factors are as follows: 1 the sharing of 2 training and 3 an internal control and audit values, mission communication; system capable of monitoring and sustainability risks (including ethical and strategy; reputational risks) and of verifying that commitments to stakeholders are fulfilled; 4 key performance indicators 5 a clear and complete reporting 6 a stakeholder engagement system, (KPIs) capable of monitoring system able to inform the to deal with the expectations of our economic, social and various categories of stakeholder all stakeholders and to receive environmental performance; effectively; useful feedback with a view to continuous improvement. Prudent approach Awareness of the social and environmental implications of Group activities, together with consideration both of the importance of a cooperative approach with stakeholders and the Group’s own reputation, has led Sabaf to adopt a prudent approach to management of the economic, social and economic variables that it encounters on a daily basis. Accordingly, the Group has developed specific analyses of the main risks faced by its business entities. Detailed information on the internal control and audit system and the risk management system are provided in Section 3. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGIC APPROACH 21 Stakeholder Engagement Sabaf is committed to constantly strengthening the social value of its business Sabaf’s main stakeholders, identified according to their business features, activities through the careful management of its relations with stakeholders. typical market characteristics and the intensity of Sabaf’s relations with them. The Company intends to establish an open and transparent dialogue, promoting The Annual Report is the key communication tool for the presentation of opportunities for discussion in order to find out their legitimate expectations, economic, social and environmental performance over the year. increase their confidence in the Company, manage risks and identify new opportunities. The table below shows the initiatives to engage stakeholders which are conducted periodicly (generally every two or three years). The key issues The identification of stakeholders is an essential starting point for the definition emerging from these activities are detailed in the section on Social and of socio-environmental reporting processes. The “stakeholder map” shows Environmental Sustainability. Customers Community Staff Government Shareholders Competitors Environment Lenders Suppliers Employees Customers Suppliers Shareholders Community & institutions Stakeholder Employee satisfaction Questionnaire for surveys financial analysts and investment fund Customer Questionnaire managers Multi-stakeholder Stakeholder Meetings with employees satisfaction panel engagement initiatives surveys Regular meetings undertaken Meetings with managers Panel discussions of ethical funds with trade union organisations SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND CORE MARKETS 29 Be organized C H A P T E R Corporate governance, Risk management, Compliance and General Remuneration Policy Pa ge 31 Corporate Governance Overview The corporate governance model adopted by Sabaf is based on the decision to the Group’s current strategic directions and existing governance model, and to strictly separate the interests and choices of the reference shareholder – the Saleri develop the increasing attention paid by the Group to subjects such as respect for family – from those of the Company and the Group, and therefore assign corporate the environment and management of transparent and proper relationships with all management to managers who are distinct from the reference shareholder. stakeholders. The updated version of the Charter of Values was submitted to the Board of Directors for approval on 11 February 2014. Expansion of the shareholder base following listing on the stock exchange, admission to the STAR segment (and the voluntary acceptance of stricter transparency and disclosure rules), and the desire to comply consistently with best practice in relation to corporate governance represent the subsequent steps taken This section of the report is intended to show the decisions taken by Sabaf by Sabaf towards compliance of its corporate governance system with a model and the special features of its governance system, reviewed in the light of whose benchmark is that directors act in the Company’s interest and in view of the new measures introduced by the Corporate Governance Code published creating value for shareholders and other stakeholders. in December 2011. Where possible, a comparison is also provided with other listed companies, using information taken from Assonime in its report As a further step along this path, Sabaf’s management believes that ethics “Corporate Governance in Italy”, published in November 2013 and based founded on the centrality of the individual and respect of principles, set at the on the Corporate Governance reports for the year 2012, available at 15 July head of the creation of value, are able to orient decisions in a manner consistent 2013, of 223 listed Italian companies which have formally chosen to adhere with corporate culture and contribute significantly to assuring the Company’s to the Corporate Governance Code (corresponding to 93% of the total of listed companies at 31 December 2012). The benchmark used below takes sustainable long-term growth. into account, where possible, a panel of “non-financial” companies only. To this end, Sabaf has created and published a Charter of Values (available in the Sustainability section of the website, www.sabaf.it, considered to be The information below is a summary, and does not replace the “Report on the tool through which the Board of Directors renders explicit the Company’s Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure”, prepared by the Issuer values, standards of conduct and commitments in respect of all stakeholders pursuant to Article 123-ter of the Consolidated Law on Finance for 2013 – shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, financiers, the public and available in the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of the administration, the community and the environment. The document was revised website www.sabaf.it. by the Company in the final months of 2013 to ensure greater consistency with Identified by the Sabaf Board SABAF S.p.A. of Directors as having “strategic importance” for the Group 100% 100% Italian subsidiaries The Group operates through Faringosi Hinges s.r.l. Sabaf do Brasil Ltda production and sales companies in Italy and abroad, all 100% 100% 100% Sabaf Beyaz Esya owned by the Parent Company. Sabaf Immobiliare s.r.l. Parcalari Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Specifically: Sirteki (Turkey) Foreign subsidiaries a) Production is carried out by: 100% Sabaf US Corp. Parent Company Sabaf S.p.A., valves and burners, 100% Italian company Faringosi Hinges, Sabaf Mexico S.A. de c.v. hinges, the subsidiary in Brazil, burners, 100% Sabaf Appliance the subsidiary in Turkey, burners. Components Trading Ltd (China) b) The subsidiaries in Mexico and 100% Sabaf Appliance the US and the trading company Components Ltd (China) in China are sales companies. c) Sabaf Immobiliare manages Sales offices the Group’s real estate assets. Poland Production Sales Company not yet companies company Turkey operational in 2013 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Corporate governance 33 Management and control model Sabaf has adopted a traditional management and control model, consisting of: This model is integrated, pursuant to the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code to which the Company adheres, by: Shareholders’ Meetings, ordinary and extraordinary, called to pass resolutions pursuant to the laws in force and the Bylaws; a) the Committees set up when the bodies where renewed by the Board of Directors within the Board, each being responsible for making proposals the Board of Statutory Auditors, responsible for supervising: (i) compliance or providing consultancy on specific topics and having no decision-making with the law and Articles of Incorporation and adherence to principles powers: of proper management in the performance of corporate activities; the adequacy of the Company’s organisational structure, internal control Internal Control and Risk Committee, formerly the Internal Control system, and administrative/accounting system; the procedures for effective Committee during the previous mandate, which also assumes the functions implementation of the corporate governance rules envisaged in the Code; risk (since May 2012, date when the bodies were renewed) of the Related Parties management; the statutory review of the accounts and the independence of Committee; the auditing firm; Remuneration and Nomination Committee, which assumes the functions a Board of Directors responsible for management of Company operations. stipulated by the previous mandate of the Remuneration Committee and integrates them with those relating to the appointment and composition of the supervisory bodies indicated by the Code, b) the Internal Audit function, responsible for checking whether the internal control and risk management system is adequate and operates properly. Lastly, the Group’s administration and control model is completed by the presence of the Supervisory Committee, set up following the adoption of the Organisation, Operation and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, adopted by Sabaf on first approval in 2006. THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Shareholders’ Board of Statutory Meeting Auditors Supervisory Committee Board Remuneration of Directors and Nomination Committee Internal Audit Function Internal Control Chief Executive and Risk Committee OUTSOURCING Officer (also Related Parties Committee) Officer in Charge of the Internal Control System KEY Organisational Reports 34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors currently has 13 members, the majority of whom are non-executive and independent (8 members), of whom one was chosen by the minority shareholders (consist with 72% of the sample analysed by Assonime in 2012). OFFICE MEMBERS Composition of the Chairman Giuseppe Saleri board of directors Deputy Chairman Gianbattista Saleri SABAF assonime AVERAGE 2012 Executive Directors Deputy Chairman Ettore Saleri 38% 40% 32% 62% Deputy Chairman Cinzia Saleri 28% Chief Executive Officer Alberto Bartoli Executive directors Non-executive and independent directors pursuant to TUF and Code Director Salvatore Bragantini Non-executive and independent directors pursuant to Code Non-executive and independent directors pursuant to TUF Director Giuseppe Cavalli Director Leonardo Cossu Director Renato Camodeca Lead Indipendent Director Director Fausto Gardoni Appointed by the Board on 7 May 2013 and until the following Shareholders’ Meeting to be held to approve the financial statements for 2013, following the resignation of the director Gregorio Gitti. Director Maria Chiara Franceschetti Appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 8 May 2012, Gregorio Gitti Director Nicla Picchi resigned his positions in a letter dated 5 April 2013 and with effect from the Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 April 2013, pursuant to Article 2385 of the Italian Civil Code, due to the professional and institutional commitDirector Riccardo Rizza ments he had recently taken on. The Curricula Vitae of individual directors are available on the Company website. Age of directors Observations Average age: Sabaf 56 vs Assonime 58 Around 40% of the members of the Board in office are aged between 50 and 60 and overall the directors of the Company are younger than the average of the sample analysed by Assonime (56 vs. 58). In the last three years the Board has met slightly fewer times than the average of the sample analysed by Assonime in each period (8 meetings in 2013) and with members’ attendance always higher than 90%, in line with the other listed non38 % 39 % financial companies in the study (92% in 2013). 23 % The Board of Statutory Auditors and the Company’s Administration, Finance and Control Director took part in the meetings, as well as Sabaf executives, who were OVER 60 50 60 40 50 invited to attend and discuss specific subjects on the agenda. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Corporate governance 35 Number of meetings Average attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors 7 94% 2011 9.6 2011 95% 8 97% 2012 9.3 2012 95% 8 92% 2013 9.8 2013 91% Sabaf Assonime average BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS The Board of Statutory Auditors, appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on 8 May 2012 for the 2012-2015 period, has 5 members, including 2 alternate auditors, with an average age of 57 (in line with the sample analysed by Assonime). The Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors was chosen by the minority shareholders. OFFICE MEMBERS Age of Statutory auditors Average age: 63 Chairman Alessandro Busi Statutory Auditor Enrico Broli 67% 33% 0% Statutory Auditor Anna Domenighini Alternate Auditor Maurizio Fioretti OVER 60 50 60 40 50 Alternate Auditor Paolo Guidetti The Curricula Vitae of individual directors are available on the Company website. greater involvement from the Statutory Auditors (10 meetings on average in 2013)). Observations Members’ attendance at the meetings was, on average, around 94% in the 20112013 period (93% in 2013), and in line with the other listed companies in the study. In the last three years Sabaf’s Board of Statutory Auditors has met only slightly In general, as well as conducting checks and attending the regular meetings fewer times than the average of the sample analysed by Assonime in each period, pursuant to the laws in force, all members of the Sabaf Board of Statutory Auditors with the exception of 2013 (5 meetings) in which the average number of the must attend the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Internal Control and Risk sample analysed by Assonime was affected by companies, different from Sabaf, Committee, the half-yearly collective meetings with the supervisory bodies and the experiencing difficulties and/or financial restructuring which therefore required individual meetings with the statutory auditing firm. Number of meetings Average attendance at meetings of the Board of Statutory Auditors of the Board of Statutory Auditors 7 100% 2011 9.4 2011 93% 7 89% 2012 9.5 2012 94.6% 5 93% 2013 10 2013 96% Sabaf Assonime average 1 1 Assonime panel including financial companies 36 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK COMMITTEE The Internal Control and Risk Committee currently in office, formed within the Board, is composed entirely of 4 non-executive and independent directors (Assonime average: 3 members). The Committee has also been allocated the relevant functions of the Related Parties Committee. OFFICE MEMBERS Number of meetings of the Internal Control and Risk Committee / Internal Control and Audit Committee Chairman Leonardo Cossu 6 2011 5.4 Member Salvatore Bragantini 5 2012 5.5 Member Renato Camodeca 4 2013 6 Member Nicla Picchi Average attendance at meetings Observations of the Internal Control and Risk Committee / Internal Control and Audit Committee The Committee met 4 times in 2013 (Assonime average: 6 meetings); 67% insignificant related-party transactions were discussed in one of these 2011 76% meetings. In the last three years, the number of meetings was on average in line with the sample analysed by Assonime. 84% 2012 92.5% Attendance by Committee members at these meetings increased in the 88% period and approached 90% in 2013. 2013 93% Sabaf Assonime average 1 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration and Nomination Committee, set up within the Board, has 3 non-executive and independent members (Assonime average: 3.1 members), with knowledge and experience of accounting, finance and remuneration policies, as confirmed by the Board. OFFICE MEMBERS Chairman Fausto Gardoni Observations In the last three years the Committee has met more times than the Assonime Member Giuseppe Cavalli average (4 times in 2013) and with full attendance from each member. Member Leonardo Cossu 1 Assonime panel including financial companies SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Corporate governance 37 Number of meetings Average attendance at meetings of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee (formerly the Remuneration Committee) of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee (formerly the Remuneration Committee) 5 85% 2011 2.4 2011 87% 3 100% 2012 2.9 2012 87% 4 100% 2013 3.1 2013 93.7% Sabaf Assonime average 1 Internal Audit head and SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE On 8 May 2012, the Board of Directors, subject to the favourable opinion of the The Supervisory Committee, appointed for the 2012-2015 period, is composed Internal Control and Risk Committee and having heard the Board of Statutory entirely of external members. Auditors, engaged Protiviti s.r.l., an external company, to carry out the internal audit activity for the 2012-2015 period, appointing Emma Marcandalli, Managing Director of the company, as the Manager in charge. The decision is based on the OFFICE MEMBERS greater skills and efficiency that an external consultant specialised in internal control can guarantee, taking account of the size of Sabaf. Chairman Nicla Picchi The Internal Audit Manager is responsible for verifying that the internal control Member Emma Marcandalli and risk management system is adequate and operates properly. They report to the Board of Directors, are not responsible for any operating area and remain in office for the entire term of the Board that appointed them. Also a member of the Also Internal Audit Board of Directors as an Manager. Representative independent director of the external company to which management of the Internal Audit activity has been outsourced Sabaf’s Supervisory Committee met 7 times in 2013, requesting the attendance at the meetings of the Company’s Management, in order to consult with it on specific topics. 1 Assonime panel including financial companies 38 Information flows Sabaf’s management and control model operates through a network of the Governance Model and other internal documents such as regulations and information flows, which are regular and systematic, between the various procedures, reports to the functionally superior body regarding the activities company bodies. conducted during the time period in question and those planned for the Each body, according to the timeframes and procedures defined by the Bylaws, subsequent period, any observations noted and suggested action. INFORMATION FLOWS WITHIN THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE At every meeting of the Internal Control and Audit Committee and the control bodies Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Statutory Auditors Every 3 months, at Board of Directors’ meeting Every 6 months, through a report At least once a year At every meeting of the Internal Control and Risk Committee At every meeting of the Internal Control and Risk Committee Supervisory Board Remuneration Committee of Directors and Nomination Committee At least every 6 months, through a report At every meeting of the Supervisory Committee Chief Executive Internal Control Internal Audit Function Officer and Risk Committee OUTSOURCING Continuously Officer in Charge of the Internal Control System At every meeting of the Internal Control and Risk Committee KEY Information flows Organisational Reports SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT 39 Risk Management Framework In conducting its business, Sabaf defines strategic and operational objectives, and identifies, assesses and manages the risks that could prevent them from being met Over the last five years, Sabaf has progressively explored the concepts of risk defined and formalised in Guidelines contained in the Company’s Corporate assessment and risk management, in order to develop an internal, structured Governance Manual. and regular process of risk identification, assessment and management, Business Analysis Organisational Operational Guideline: Structure Analysis Risk “Process of periodically Map of Risks Management Catalogue of Risks identifying and measuring Framework Group risks” Risk Assessment Scales The guidelines define the roles and responsibilities for risk assessment and risk Each risk is subject to an assessment which breaks down into the following management processes, indicating the parties to be involved, process frequency variables: and assessment scales. • probability of occurrence over a three-year timeframe; • estimate of the greatest impacts in terms of the business-financial position, damage to persons and damage to image, over the timeframe subject to assessment; • level of risk management and control. ASSESSMENT SCALE 1 2 3 4 Financial losses 1% Ebit c.ca 1% 2.5% Ebit c.ca 2.5% 10% Ebit c.ca 10% Ebit c.ca IMPACT Average consequences Harm to persons Limited effects on health Serious risks to health Effects not remediable on health Harm to reputation Effects at local level Effects at regional level Effects at national level Effects at international level PROBABILITY Frequency of occurrence Once every 3 years or more Once every 2 years Once a year More than once a year Qualitative indications Improbable/ Remote Not likely Likely Very likely Adequate (with limited margins Risk Management Level Inadequate To be strengthened Optimum for improvement) 40 2013 Results In the final months of 2013, the Internal Audit Function conducted the periodic risk assessment process to identify and assess Group risks, calling for the involvement, according to their scope of authority, of the: Chief Executive Officer Administration, also in his capacity as Financial Reporting Officer Finance and Control Director Production Director also in his capacity as Employer and Environmental and Safety Manager Technical Director Information Systems Director Procurement Manager Supervisory Committee During the assessment process, which involves the control bodies, the risks take shape and are allocated on the map. Risk Assessment process Internal Audit 1 2 Business contacts 3 Supervisory Committee 4 Internal Control and Risk Committee Board of Directors Risk map SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT 41 The results of Sabaf’s 2013 risk assessment highlight, among other things, the following 12 main risks, selected for their importance and consistency with the issues covered in this document: Risks related to the external context Risks related to the overall conditions of the economy and trend in demand 1 Risk of instability in the emerging countries 2 in which the Group produces or sells Risks related to the difficulties Risk of volatility in the prices of commodities 3 6 of managing the Group’s internationalisation appropriately Sustainability of the hinges business 4 7 Risks of concentration of sales Risk of exchange-rate fluctuations 5 8 Risks related to products with a single customer 9 Risks related to product liability 10 Trade credit risk Risks related to the loss of and difficulty in identifying key resources and skills 12 11 Protection of product exclusivity Internal process risks For more information on the Group’s financial risks, including those not mentioned here owing to their lack of relevance, please see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 42 Main risks of the Group 1 Risks related to the overall conditions 3 Risk of volatility in the prices of commodities of the economy and trend in demand The Group uses metals and alloys in its production processes, chiefly The business and financial circumstances of the Group are influenced brass, aluminium alloys and steel. The sale prices of products are by a variety of factors, such as gross domestic product, consumer and generally renegotiated semi-annually or annually; as a result, Group corporate confidence, interest rate trends, the cost of raw materials, the companies may not be able to immediately pass on to customers unemployment rate, and the ease of access to credit. changes in the prices of commodities that occur during the year. The Group’s core market, the household appliances sector, which is cyclical and generally related to the performance of the real estate RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES market, was hit particularly hard by the progressive decline in the The Group protects itself from the risk of changes in the price of brass and macroeconomic situation in Europe. Contraction of demand in the aluminium with supply contracts signed with suppliers for delivery up to twelve mature markets is accompanying a gradual concentration of the buying months or, alternatively, with derivative financial instruments. market and a heightening of competition, phenomena which impose At the date of this report, the Sabaf Group has already fixed the purchase prices aggressive policies in defining sales prices. for around 50% of the expected requirements for 2014 of aluminium, steel and brass. Any further increase in the price of commodities not hedged could have negative effects on expected profits. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES To cope with this situation, the Group aims to retain and reinforce its leadership position wherever possible through: • the launch of new products characterised by superior performance compared with market standards; • expansion on markets with high growth rates; • the maintenance of high quality and safety standards, which make it possible to differentiate the product through the use of resources and implementation of production processes that are not easily sustainable by competitors. 4 Sustainability of the hinges business The Hinges business posted negative results in 2013. A partial recovery in sales has not yet translated into benefits in terms of profitability, also due to the start-up costs involved in launching new productions. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES The Group therefore stepped up its efforts to develop specialist products (such 2 as dampened springs for soft opening and closing of oven doors and hinges for Risk of instability in the emerging countries extra-heavy doors). The 2014-2018 business plan of the Hinges CGU forecasts a In which the group produces or sells significant recovery in sales and profitability, to which new products should make a crucial contribution. If this is unsuccessful, the Group cannot rule out the need 40% of Sabaf Group sales are registered on markets outside Europe. for further write-downs of the value of assets allocated to the Hinges business. Furthermore, products sold in Italy can be exported by customers in international markets, making the percentage of sales earned directly For more information, please see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial and indirectly from emerging economies more significant. Statements. The Group’s main markets outside Europe include the Middle East and North Africa (which accounted for 6% and 8% respectively of direct Group sales in 2013, as well as indirect sales registered by our customers, which are difficult to quantify). Any embargos or major political or economic stability, or changes in the regulatory and/or local law systems, or new tariffs or taxes imposed in the future could affect a portion of Group sales and the related profitability. 5 Risk of exchange-rate fluctuations RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES To confront this risk, the Group has adopted a policy of diversifying investments The Sabaf Group operates primarily in euro. It executes transactions in at international level, setting different strategic priorities that, as well as business other currencies, such as the US dollar and the Brazilian real. opportunities, also consider the different associated risk profiles. Since sales in US dollars accounted for 12% of consolidated revenue, the gradual depreciation expected in the coming months could lead to a loss in competitiveness on the markets where sales are made in that currency (mainly South and North America). RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES At 31 December 2013 the Group had in place a forward sale contract for USD 510,000 at the euro/dollar exchange rate of 1.30, expiring 30 June 2014. The Administration and Finance Department constantly monitors forex exposure, the trend in exchange rates and the operational management of related activities. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT 43 6 Risks related to the difficulties of managing the 10 Trade credit risk group’s internationalisation appropriately The high concentration of sales to a small number of customers, The Sabaf Group is going through a process of growing under the previous point, generates a concentration of the respective internationalisation, with the opening of new companies and production trade receivables, with a resulting increase in the negative impact on facilities in countries considered strategic for the future development of economic and financial results in the event of insolvency of one of them. its business. This process requires appropriate measures, which include In particular, given the structural difficulties of the domestic appliance the identification and training of managerial staff and the roll-out of sector in mature markets, it is possible that new situations of customers management and coordination activities by the Parent Company. experiencing financial difficulty and insolvency could arise. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES In order to support this expansion process, the Sabaf Group seeks to define To minimise this risk, the Group tends to favour the larger brands in the segment, suitable measures which include the appropriate definition of the spheres considered more reliable. At the same time, risk is constantly monitored through and responsibilities of management action, careful planning of activities the preliminary assessment of customers and checks that agreed payment terms in implementing new projects, and an accurate analysis of the regulatory are met. environment in the relevant countries. The risk is also partially transferred to third parties by no-recourse assignment, i.e., partially guaranteed through the request for letters of credit issued by leading banks for customers. The remainder of the receivable risk is covered by a doubtful account provision considered appropriate. 7 Risk of sales concentration The Group is characterised by a strong concentration in its revenue, with 11 50% arising from sales to its ten biggest customers. Relationships with Protection of product exclusivity customers are generally stable and long-term, and usually regulated with renewable contracts of under one year, with no minimum guaranteed There is a risk that some Group products, although patented, will be sales. copied by competitors, particularly in countries in which it is more difficult to protect intellectual property rights. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES Sabaf’s business model therefore bases the protection of product At the date of this report, there was no reason for the Group to foresee the loss of exclusivity mainly on design capacity and the internal production of any significant clients in the coming months. special machines used in manufacturing processes, which result from its unique know-how that competitors would find difficult to replicate. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES Sabaf has structured processes to manage innovation and protect intellectual property. 8 Risks related to products with a single customer Sabaf, through its internal research and development structure, also creates tailor-made products for its customers. There is a risk that customisation of products will result in obsolescent inventories if the customer is suddenly lost or becomes insolvent. 12 Risks related to the loss of and difficulty in RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES identifying Key resources and skills Sabaf therefore constantly monitors stock rotation indicators and, thanks to its strong relationships with its customers, assesses every possible product variation Group results depend to a large extent on the work of executive directors on a case-by-case basis in order to identify necessary action plans in a timely and management. The loss of a key staff member for the Group without manner. an adequate replacement and the inability to attract new resources could have negative effects on the future of the Group and on the quality of financial and economic results. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES The Group has had in place for years policies to strengthen the most critical 9 Risks related to product liability internal organisational structures and initiatives to retain talent. Sabaf products carry a high intrinsic risk in terms of safety. The Group’s great attention to product quality and safety has made it possible to avoid incidents caused by product defects. Despite this, it is not possible to automatically exclude incidents of this nature. RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES Key – Risk Trend compared to 2012: In order to transfer the risk of third-party liability damage arising from malfunctioning of its products, Sabaf has signed insurance policies with deductibles of up to €10 million per individual claim. Increasing Decreasing Stable Compliance Integrated compliance THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM For the purposes of meeting company objectives, the risk management activities conducted by Sabaf also take into account compliance requirements. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION AND MANAGER IN CHARGE The internal control system governing this activity is based on the following elements: organisation of the internal control and risk management Quality system; concrete implementation procedures and mechanisms of the F nt ty control principles; Co raud me fe rru an on Sa pti d • Charter of Values vir nd processes of continuous auditing and monitoring carried out on En lth a at the various levels of the organisation, both within the scope • Corporate Governance Manual a He of business processes and through independent structures. • Operational Guidelines • Model 231 Specifically, Sabaf has an integrated Audit Plan, which breaks down according to specific control objectives (e.g. operational, • Accounting Control Model compliance with Law 262/2005 and Legislative Decree 231/2001, • Body of Procedures the security and profiling of corporate information systems). • Quality and Environmental Management System The implementation of measures is outsourced to a single structure, • Company training and information Int e Internal Audit, in turn responsible for reporting the results of the Pri va Pro llectu activities conducted to the delegated supervisory bodies. cy pe al rty Information Security All this translates into a culture and tools based on INTEGRATED AUDIT ACTIVITIES integrated compliance Integrated compliance and the Corporate Governance Manual OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES Following adhesion to the Borsa Italiana Corporate Governance Code and in order to internalise within its processes good Self-evaluation of Board of Directors governance practices in this sponsored document, Sabaf has adopted a Corporate Governance Manual* which governs Management, coordination and control of Group subsidiaries principles, regulations and operational procedures. ISSUES GOVERNED This Manual, adopted by board resolution of 19 December 2006, Means of compliance with disclosure obligations to unions, has been updated several times over the years, in order to reflect pursuant to Article 150 TUF changes in laws and regulations regarding corporate governance, as well as best practice adopted by the Company. Assessment of the Group internal control system Process of periodically identifying and measuring Group risks The Manual contains certain operating guidelines, which were approved by the Management of significant transactions in which directors Board of Directors and last updated in September 2013. These guidelines were have an interest issued to ensure that the management and control bodies of Sabaf properly carry out their duties. Assignment of professional mandates to the statutory auditing firm * The latest version of the text, updated pursuant to the Borsa Italiana Corporate Governance Code as amended in December 2011, approved by the Board of Directors’ meeting of 25 September 2012, is available in the Corporate Governance section of the website www.sabaf.it. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT COMPLIANCE 45 Integrated compliance and Legislative Decree 231/2001 In 2006, Sabaf S.p.A. adopted the Organisation, Operation and Control Model A new edition of the Model, which mainly implements the results of the risk pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001. The Model is designed to prevent assessment conducted during the year with reference to the crimes of “Induced the committing of criminal offences by employees and/or outside staff in the bribery” and Private bribery”, added to the Decree in November 2012, was Company’s interest. approved by the Board of Directors in September 2013. Following the initial adoption, through the supervision of the Supervisory Committee, Sabaf promptly responded to the need to adjust the Model and The Company tasks the Supervisory Committee with assessing the adequacy the control structure of the company departments involved, to the change in of the Model (i.e. its real ability to prevent offences), as well as with supervising legislation that have occurred over time. the functioning and compliance of the protocols adopted. ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN 2013 Systematic checks on the Model’s effectiveness, through both audits conducted by Internal Audit, and interviews with staff assigned to sensitive activities. Updating of the Model, through: SUPERVISORY • the introduction of two new protocols with reference to the recent crimes of private bribery pursuant to Article 25-ter of the Decree; COMMITTEE • implementation of the organisational changes occurring during the year with reference to the Environmental Management System, • other minor changes and updates; Information and training of employees aimed at employees around the specific protocols regulated by the Model. Update of the Group’s Charter of Values* to ensure greater consistency with the Group’s current strategic directions and existing governance model, and to develop the increasing attention paid by the Group to subjects such as respect for the environment and management of transparent and proper relationships with all stakeholders. Integrated compliance and Legislative Decree 262/2005 FEATURES OF THE ACCOUNTING CONTROL MODEL In 2013 no updates were required to the Audit Control Model and Sabaf’s Risk Assessment associated with company procedures controlling the financial reporting process. operating, asset, liability and financial disclosures. Internal certifications regarding Periodic assessment the completeness and fairness of the adequacy and actual of information application of the controls Sabaf considers the internal control and risk management system on financial reporting to be an integral part of its own risk management system. Control environment In this regard, since 2008, Sabaf has integrated activities relating to the management of the internal control system on financial Administrative and Accounting Procedures reporting into its Audit and Compliance process. The Group has defined an Accounting Control Model, approved by the Board of Directors for the first time on 12 February 2008, and subsequently revised and updated. Audit activities * The text, in its most up-to-date version, approved by the Board of Directors on 11 February 2014, is available in the Sustainability section on the website www.sabaf.it. General Remuneration Policy In accordance with the regulation on remuneration, the Board of Directors approved the “General Remuneration Policy” on 22 December 2011 and Purpose updated it on 20 March 2013. This Policy, applied from the date it was approved by the Board, was fully implemented in 2012 following the appointment of the new management attract, motivate bodies. and increase the loyalty of align the interests The Policy defines the criteria and guidelines to fix the remuneration of: (i) persons of management and members of the Board of Directors, (ii) members of the Board of Statutory with appropriate shareholders professional expertise Auditors, (iii) managers with strategic responsibilities. For more details on the above policy, see the complete text on the Company’s website. favour, in the medium/long term, the creation of See also the Report on Remuneration for specific information on remuneration sustainable value earned and paid out in 2013. for shareholders Bodies involved in the approval process Fixed component On the proposal of the Board of Directors and having heard the opinion of the On the proposal of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and subject to Remuneration and Nomination Committee, the Shareholders’ Meeting determines the opinion of the Board of Statutory Auditors, the Board of Directors determines, a maximum total amount including a fixed amount and attendance fees, for: within the amount indicated above, additional remuneration for: • all members of the Board of Directors • directors vested with special powers Remuneration Remuneration Board and Nomination Board of Statutory and Nomination of Directors Committee Auditors Committee Shareholders’ Meeting BoD Resp. for decisions proposing advisory SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT General Remuneration Policy 47 Variable component Short-term: Long-term: On the proposal of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and in line with On the proposal of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, the Board of the budget, the Board of Directors defines an MBO plan, for: Directors approves the long-term financial incentive for: • executive directors (excluding the Chairman and Deputy Chairmen) • Chief Executive Officer • other executives with strategic responsibilities • other executives with strategic responsibilities • other managers identified by the Chief Executive who report directly thereto or who report to the abovementioned managers Remuneration Remuneration and Nomination BoD and Nomination BoD Committee Committee Components of remuneration Fixed component FIXED PART VARIABLE PART • Directors: the total amount for the remuneration of the members of the Board Fixed Short-term Long-term includes a fixed amount and attendance fees. component (FC) incentive incentive • Statutory Auditors: remuneration for Statutory Auditors is set by the Shareholders’ Meeting, which establishes a fixed amount. Based on performance • Other executives with strategic responsibilities: remuneration is in (MBO plans) relation to the employment relationships governed by the Collective National Contract for Industrial Managers. Year FC + 50% • Directors and executives with strategic responsibilities in subsidiaries: FC Max remuneration is set at a fixed amount. Three-year FC + 50% FC period Max Variable component: • The short-term variable component may not exceed 50% of the fixed annual gross salary; it may be only partially granted in the event that the objectives are not completely met. Non-monetary benefits: 75% is paid out in the April of the following year, and 25% in the January of the • Third-party civil liability insurance policy: in favour of directors, statutory second subsequent year. auditors, and executives and covering liability resulting from any illegal act or violation of obligations they should commit in exercising their respective • The total long-term variable component for three years may not exceed responsibilities. 50% of the fixed annual gross salary; it may be only partially granted in the • Life insurance policy and cover for medical expenses (FASI): in favour of event that the objectives are not fully met. executives who, in addition to the provisions of the Collective National Contract for In the event that 100% of the objectives assigned are met, an increase on 50% Industrial Managers, benefit from an additional policy to cover medical expenses of the gross fixed annual salary may be granted. not covered by FASI repayments. It is paid in full following the approval of the financial statements of the third year to which the incentive relates. Indemnity against the early termination of employment: The annual variable component is linked to an MBO plan. This plan sets a common objective (Group EBIT, which is considered to be • The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration and the Group’s main indicator of financial performance) and quantifiable and Nomination Committee has considered introducing, in 2014, a non-compete measurable individual objectives, both economic-financial and technicalpact for some of the Company’s employees in the event of termination of productive in nature. employment, setting its terms and conditions. Be socially skilled C H A P T E R Social and environmental Sustainability Pa ge 4 9 50 SABAF and its staff 65 SABAF and its shareholders 67 SABAF and its customers 69 SABAF and its suppliers 71 SABAF and its lenders 71 SABAF and its competitors 73 SABAF, Government and Society 74 Sabaf and the environment 50 SABAF and its staff The SA8000 standard The Sabaf S.p.A. social accountability system complies with the SA8000 There was dialogue during the year between management representatives and standard, for which the Company obtained certification in 2005. The decision workers’ representatives concerning the concrete application of the SA8000 to certify the system stemmed from the belief that the Company’s human standard. resources are an important asset. In particular, it seeks to raise awareness among management, suppliers, employers and independent contractors of full The social accountability management system was audited by IMQ / IQ NET compliance with the social accountability principles enshrined in the standard. twice in 2013, when auditors collected evidence of the Company’s commitment to supporting the Social Accountability System, and no evidence of noncompliance emerged. In implementing SA8000, Sabaf S.p.A. has analysed and monitored the main ethical and social risk factors in terms of child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and compensation. Hiring policy, composition and changes in employees As at 31 December 2013, the Sabaf Group had 730 employees, compared with As regards basic types of employment contracts, 712 employees (97.5%) had 7251 at 2012 year-end (+0.7%). permanent contracts, and 18 (2.5%) had temporary contracts. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Sabaf S.p.A. (Ospitaletto, BS) 563 580 598 Faringosi Hinges (Bareggio, MI) 49 49 51 Permanent 464 248 712 451 243 694 Sabaf do Brasil (Jundiaì, San Paolo) 89 73 65 Training or 0 0 0 4 0 4 apprenticeship Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari San 29 23 0 Temporary 12 6 18 4 0 4 Tic ltd (Manisa – TR) Total 730 725 714 Total 476 254 730 459 243 702 N° 730 725 714 Total 1 Includes Sabaf Turkey SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 51 Temporary staff (on an employment agency contract) 2013 2012 TEMPORARY STAFF January 17 16 33 26 31 57 February 25 19 44 28 26 54 March 25 23 48 25 19 44 April 25 24 49 8 4 12 May 37 32 69 12 10 22 June 31 34 65 12 15 27 July 36 43 79 17 15 32 August 34 41 75 19 12 31 September 33 36 69 12 8 20 October 25 29 54 7 3 10 November 19 19 38 7 7 14 December 15 7 22 4 6 10 ANNUAL AVERAGE 27 27 54 15 13 28 N° 27 27 54 15 13 28 ANNUAL AVERAGE The Sabaf Group uses employment agency staff for the purposes allowed In 2013 Sabaf offered work placements to 11 students (14 in 2012). under the applicable laws and regulations. Temporary staff numbers fluctuated In this way, Sabaf offers for a week some students from schools in the province greatly in 2013, mainly due to unexpected changes in demand requiring timely of Brescia with a bias towards industry a first direct contact with the world adjustments to production levels, or to replace absent staff. of work, in which they are able to apply the technical knowledge they have acquired in the classroom in the field. During 2013 Sabaf Group companies hired 47 ex-temporary workers on a permanent basis (37 in 2012), of which 46 at Sabaf do Brasil. 52 Staff turnover in 2013 Sabaf S.p.A. Faringosi Hinges s.r.l. DepartuChange in DepartuChange in 31/12/12 New hires 31/12/13 31/12/12 New hires 31/12/13 res category res category Senior Senior 8 0 0 0 8 1 0 0 0 1 management management Clerical staff Clerical staff and middle 106 4 6 0 104 and middle 16 1 0 0 17 management management Manual Manual 466 0 15 0 451 32 0 1 0 31 workers workers Total 580 4 21 0 563 Total 49 1 1 0 49 Sabaf Do Brasil Ltda SABAF BEYAZ ESYA PARCALARI SAN TIC LTD DepartuChange in DepartuChange in 31/12/12 New hires 31/12/13 31/12/12 New hires 31/12/13 res category res category Senior Senior 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 management management Clerical staff Clerical staff and middle 9 1 0 0 10 and middle 4 1 1 0 4 management management Manual Manual 64 45 30 0 79 17 19 13 0 23 workers workers Total 73 46 30 0 89 Total 23 20 14 0 29 GROUP TOTAL 31/12/12 2 New hires DepartuChange in 31/12/13 N° 725 730 res category Senior ma11 0 0 0 11 nagement GROUP TOTAL Clerical staff and middle 135 7 7 0 135 management Manual 579 64 59 0 584 workers Total 725 71 66 0 730 Redundancies by age bracket and gender New hires by category and gender Description 2013 2012 Description 2013 2012 < 20 years 1 0 1 0 1 1 Senior 0 0 0 0 0 0 21-30 years 18 6 24 19 5 24 management Clerical staff 31-40 years 24 3 27 7 5 12 and middle 5 2 7 0 6 6 management 41-50 years 6 0 6 4 0 4 Manual 53 11 64 28 3 31 workers > 50 years 5 3 8 5 3 8 Total 58 13 71 28 9 37 Total 54 12 66 35 14 49 2 The initial figures includes Sabaf Turkey, which was not included in the scope of consolidation of the Annual Report in 2012 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 53 Reasons for termination of employment in 2013 34 3 11 18 Resignation Middle Manual Description Clerical staff Total management workers Retirement N° Expiry of contract Resignation 1 5 28 34 Dismissal Retirement 0 0 3 3 Expiry of 0 1 10 11 1 6 59 contract Dismissal 0 0 18 18 Middle management N° Clerical staff Total 1 6 59 66 Manual workers The initiatives undertaken in recent years, including the review of remuneration policies, significantly reduced staff turnover at Sabaf do Brasil, which is still however higher than the Group average, because of the high demand for labour in the country, particularly in the area of Jundiaì. Total 66 Breakdown of employees by age Breakdown of employees by seniority 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 < 30 years 28.5% 28.8% < 5 years 26.8% 29.9% 31-40 years 37.4% 38.5% 6-10 years 28.5% 26.5% 41-50 years 24.7% 23.6% 11-20 years 35.5% 34.2% > 50 years 9.4% 9.1% > 20 years 9.2% 9.4% Total 100.0% 100.0% Total 100.0% 100.0% The average age of Group employees (36.6 years) reflects the continuous Sabaf is well aware of the fundamental importance of having a stable and expansion of the business and the desire to hire young workers, giving qualified workforce that, together with investments in technology, is a key preference to in-house training and development rather than bringing in outside factor in maintaining the Group’s competitive advantage. skills, particularly in view of the specific nature of Sabaf’s business model. The minimum age of Group employees is 18 in Italy and Turkey and 16 in Brazil. 100% 100% 100% 100% < 30 years 41-50 years < 5 years 11-20 years % % 31-40 years > 50 years 6-10 years > 20 years 54 Staff breakdown by functional area AREA 2013 2012 Production 302 172 474 284 165 449 Quality 40 32 72 41 29 70 Research & development 72 4 76 75 4 79 Logistics 20 0 20 24 1 25 Administration 9 20 29 7 19 26 Sales 6 11 17 5 11 16 Services 21 10 31 19 12 31 Procurement 3 6 5 11 4 2 6 TOTAL 476 254 730 459 243 702 N° 476 254 730 459 243 702 ANNUAL AVERAGE Hiring policy Staff breakdown by educational qualifications Educational In order to attract the best resources, our hiring policy aims to ensure equal qualification 2013 2012 opportunities for all candidates, avoiding all forms of discrimination. The selection policy envisages, inter alia: • that the hiring process be carried out in at least two phases with two different University 55 21 76 10.4% 45 15 60 8.5% interviewers; degree • that at least two candidates be considered for each position. High school 229 93 322 44.1% 217 86 303 43.2% diploma Candidates are assessed based on their skills, training, previous experience, Middle expectations and potential, according to the specific needs of the business. school 186 130 316 43.3% 190 131 321 45.7% diploma Primary All new hires receive the Charter of Values and the SA8000 standard, as well as school 6 10 16 2.2% 7 11 18 2.6% a copy of the national collective bargaining agreement for the industry. certificate TOTAL 476 254 730 100% 459 243 702 100% 3 Following a reorganisation, Sabaf S.p.A.’s Planning Office was merged with the Procurement Office in 2013. The Planning Office’s six employees were classified under Logistics in 2012 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 55 Training At Sabaf, employee professional development is underpinned by a continuous training process. The Human Resources Department, in consultation with the managers concerned, devises an annual training plan, based on which specific courses to be held during the year are scheduled. 2013 2012 Training for new recruits, apprentices, initial employment 2,471 783 3,254 2,889 619 3,508 contracts Information systems 148 20 168 112 31 143 Technical training 782 361 1,143 1,065 163 1,227 Safety, environment and social 5,245 2,428 7,673 3,717 1,077 4,794 responsibility Administration & organisation 398 222 620 269 306 575 Foreign languages 195 90 285 720 309 1,029 Total hours of training received 9,238 3,904 13,141 8,772 2,504 11,276 Of which: training hours provided 4,413 1,350 5,763 4,553 1,773 6,326 by in-house trainers TOTAL 13,651 5,254 18,904 13,325 4,277 17,602 N° 13,651 5,254 18,904 13,325 4,277 17,602 ANNUAL AVERAGE The training hours provided by in-house trainers also include the training given In 2013 the Group’s major commitment related to training in occupational to employment agency staff (3,264 hours in 2013). health and safety. In particular, all the training courses were completed at Sabaf S.p.A. (at least 12 hours for every worker). 56 Per capita hours of training received by job category 2013 2012 Manual workers 17.9 14.2 16.6 15.9 8.2 13.2 Clerical staff and middle 23.9 18.7 22.1 29.7 20.3 26.5 management Senior management 36.2 107 42.6 24.7 61.75 30.0 TOTAL 19.4 15.4 18.0 18.7 10.2 15.9 In 2013 the total cost of training Group employees was €515,000 (€471,000 in 2012). In addition, training costs for temporary staff totalled €77,000 (€75,000 in 2012). Internal communication Diversity and equal opportunities With a view to developing an ongoing dialogue between the business and its employees, Sabaf publishes a biannual magazine featuring key information about corporate life and addressing subjects of general interest. Sabaf is permanently committed to assuring equal opportunities for female staff, who today account for 34.8% of the workforce (34.6% in 2012). The Human Resources Department officially has two periods each week during which it is available to meet with employees to offer them help and advice, even The Company – subject to organisational and production requirements – is with issues not strictly related to the employer-employee relationship, such as mindful of staff family commitments. To date, the majority of requests to reduce information on tax and social security laws. working hours made by workers have been satisfied. In 2013, the Group’s Italian companies granted a total of 36 part-time contracts (four to female During 2013 Sabaf S.p.A.’s Human Resources Office held 1,384 meetings with clerical staff, 29 to female manual workers and three to male manual workers), employees on problems regarding the employment relationship or personal equivalent to 4.9% of the total (35 contracts in 2012). issues. The Group’s Italian companies have 16 disabled employees, of whom five on Sabaf S.p.A. uses a software program called HR PORTAL, which allows all a part-time basis. The Company wants to facilitate the integration of disabled workers to log in to their own space and consult information published by the people within the manufacturing process, and has entered into an agreement Company regarding their payslips, and tax and social-security information. with Gruppo Fraternità (a social cooperative consortium based in Ospitaletto) for Collective communications and company agreements are also available. the hiring of protected categories. A significant event organised in 2013 was the meeting with Arrigo Sacchi, former coach of the Milan football team and the Italian national squad. Sacchi was invited to talk about the importance of teamwork, describing how far better results can be obtained by a cohesive collective than by the sum of the possibilities of each individual. 2013 2012 Percentage distribution of employment by gender 34.8% 34.6% Men % Women 65.2% 65.4 2013 2012 Number % Number % 730 702 476 65.2 459 65.4 254 34.8 243 34.6 N° Total TOTAL 730 100 702 100 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 57 Breakdown by category Compensation, incentive MANUAL WORKERS and SIMILAR and promotion systems N° Sabaf S.p.A. employees are classified according to the national collective bargaining agreement for the metalworking and mechanical engineering sector, 378 206 364 198 as amended by second-level bargaining, which includes: a personal bonus by employee grade, CLERICAL STAFF and a productivity bonus by employee grade, N° MIDDLE MANAGEMENT a fixed performance-related bonus for all employee grades, 88 47 87 44 a standard consolidated bonus for all employee grades, a standard variable performance-related bonus for all employee grades. SENIOR MANAGEMENT N° Details of staff cost components are set out in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 10 1 8 1 Besides financial incentives – e.g. individual pay rises, mortgage guarantees issued by the Company for employees, sale or rental of apartments at cost price, and company discounts on goods and services – Sabaf’s incentive system also includes the option of taking part in free training courses held on or off-site, as well as a variable performance-related bonus based on pre-set targets, an MBO system. Total 730 702 The types of welfare benefits available to Group employees are those envisaged by the statutory legislation in force in the various countries in which the Group At all Group sites, senior management is recruited from the local area. operates. Non-EU workers 4 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 5 Non-EU workers 58 66 % of total employees 9.48% 10.49% 3.80 At 31 December 2013, 14 different nationalities were represented on Sabaf’s workforce. 4 The figure refers to the Group’s Italian companies only 5 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Non-EU workers (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Lavoratori extracomunitari (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 58 Ratio between the minimum monthly salary envisaged by national collective agreements and the minimum salary paid by Group companies Minimum salary as per national Minimum salary paid % increase over minimum collective agreement Italy 6 1,520.49 1,567.3 +3.1% Brazil (BRL) 950 1,069 +12.6% Turkey (TRY) 737 840 +14.0% Ratio between average salary of female employees and average salary of male employees 2013 2012 Clerical staff, middle management 64% 65% and senior management Manual workers 90% 91% These figures were determined as the ratio between the average gross annual pay of female employees and that of male employees for individual Group companies. The Group indicator was determined by weighing the indicators of the individual companies by the number of employees in each. Working hours and hours of absence The ordinary working week is 40 hours for Italian companies and 44 hours for Sabaf do Brasil, spread over five working days, from Monday to Friday. The working week for Sabaf Beyaz is 45 hours, spread over six working days. If there are changes in working hours or the introduction of shifts at particular times, the trade union representatives and employees concerned are informed. Overtime 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 7 Clerical staff Manual workers Clerical staff Manual workers Clerical staff Manual workers Average number of workers per 68 275 65 201 month who worked overtime Number of hours of overtime 11,590 39,079 8,579 22,514 Annual hours of overtime 86 67 64 40 61 64 per capita 8 6 Gross salary of a manual worker/grade 3 clerical employee 7 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Per capita overtime hours (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Ore pro-capite di lavoro straordinario (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 8 In relation to the average number of employees SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 59 Total hours of absence 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 9 Total annual hours 27,903 50,221 78,124 27,642 45,863 73,505 of absence Hours of absence as % 2.9% 10.1% 5.3% 3.0% 9.7% 5.2% of workable hours Average hours 57.9 196.4 105.9 59.7 185.6 103.6 128.5 of absence per capita Hours of sick leave 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 10 Total annual hours 23,892 18,386 42,278 20,844 17,679 38,523 of sick leave Hours of sick leave as 2.5% 3.7% 2.9% 2.2% 3.7% 2.7% % of workable hours Per capita hours 49.6 71.9 57.3 45.1 71.5 54.3 55 of sick leave Hours of maternity/paternity leave 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 10 Total annual hours of maternity/paternity 575 30,865 31,440 672 25,378 26,050 leave Hours of maternity leave as % 0.1% 6.2% 2.1% 0.1% 5.4% 1.9% of workable hours Per capita hours 1.2 120.7 42.6 1.5 102.7 36.7 21.6 of maternity leave The high number of hours of maternity leave compared with the sector average reflects our much higher percentage of female staff. 9 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Per capita hours of absence from work (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Ore pro-capite di assenza dal lavoro (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 10 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Per capita hours of absence from work (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Ore pro-capite di assenza dal lavoro (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 60 Parental leave 11 Type of leave 2013 2012 % of workers in workforce after 12 months Statutory maternity/ 0 17 17 0 16 16 94% paternity leave Early maternity leave 0 12 12 0 15 15 93% Optional maternity/ 2 19 21 4 16 20 100% paternity leave Child-rearing leave 0 11 11 1 9 10 100% Blood donation 5 0 5 5 2 7 100% Assistence to disabled 16 11 27 14 10 24 100% relatives (Law 104) Leave of absence 1 1 2 3 1 4 50% Extraordinary 1 0 1 2 0 2 100% parental leave TOTAL 25 71 96 29 69 98 Recourse to the government’s statutory redundancy pay scheme (Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Ordinaria) 12 During the year the Group’s Italian companies made limited use of the 2013 2012 government’s statutory redundancy pay scheme (Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Number of hours Ordinaria), when production needs were low. of statutory 18,507 28,920 redundancy pay Annual average number 30.04 45.43 of hours per capita 11 Figures for Sabaf S.p.A. 12 Institution provided for by Italian national legislation; figure relates to the Group’s Italian companies only SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 61 Occupational health and safety The Company is fully committed to protecting the health and safety of its Since February 2012, the occupational health and safety system of Faringosi employees: the system used to manage occupational health and safety Hinges has been certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. The latest issues is OHSAS 18001 compliant. Not only does it guarantee compliance check, conducted by the TUV NORD certifying authority in January 2014, certified with applicable laws and regulations, it is also designed to ensure continuous that the system complies with standards, and made a few recommendations improvement of working conditions. for improvement. The two minor comments resulting from the previous visit (January 2013) were closed with effective actions. Sabaf S.p.A. and Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. have updated company guidelines and operating procedures required pursuant to Legislative Decree 81/2008 (consolidated law on occupational health and safety). Number and duration of accidents 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 13 On-site accidents 12 3 15 11 2 13 Off-site accidents 3 0 3 5 0 5 Average absence due to 18.08 11.67 16.80 14.09 4.00 12.54 on-site accidents (days) Average absence due to 51.67 0 51.67 45.8 0 45.8 off-site accidents (days) Total days of absence 2,273 213 2,486 2,334 50 2,384 due to accidents Per capita hours of absence due to 4.72 0.83 3.37 5.08 0.21 3.40 8.1 accidents H 4.72 0.83 5.08 0.21 Total 3.37 3.40 13 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Per capita hours of absence from work (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Ore pro-capite di assenza dal lavoro (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 62 Accident frequency index Accident severity index Number of accidents (excluding off-site accidents) Number of accidents (excluding off-site accidents) per 1,000,000 hours worked per 1,000 hours worked 2013 2012 2013 2012 Index 15.09 8.35 12.99 14.62 6.04 12.00 Index 0.27 0.10 0.22 0.21 0.02 0.15 No serious accidents occurred in 2013. Training and instruction on the use In compliance with current law, Group companies have prepared and of protective and safety equipment continued. Systematic safety audits of all implemented a health-monitoring programme for their employees, with medical Sabaf S.p.A. machinery have been conducted since 2008. check-ups focusing on the specific work-related hazards. In 2013, 2,536 medical check-ups were performed (2,082 in 2012). Current expenditure on worker safety Investments in worker safety Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 Plant, equipment Plant, equipment 59 35 120 80 and materials and materials Personal protective 51 60 TOTAL 120 80 equipment (PPE) External training 30 44 Advisory services 134 29 Analyses of workplace 2 7 environment Medical check-ups (including 44 53 pre-hire check-ups) Use of hazardous substances Software and databases 0 0 Only those materials that fully comply with Directive 2002/95/EC (RoHS Directive) are used in production. These materials are intended to limit the use of hazardous TOTAL 320 228 substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium. Labour relations Three trade unions are represented internally at Sabaf S.p.A.: FIOM, FIM and Renewal of the supplemental company agreement UILM. As at December 2013, 144 employees were card-carrying members, On 7 February 2014 Sabaf S.p.A. reached a supplemental company agreement i.e. 19.7% of total employees (in 2012, 153 employees were card-carrying with the trade union representatives, valid for the period from 1 January 2013 members, 21.8% of the total). to 30 June 2016. Regarding financial settlements, the agreement includes: • the institution of a new variable performance-related bonus, based on Relations between senior management and trade union representatives are productivity and quality indicators; based on mutual transparency and fairness. During the year, there were 17 • the consolidation of a portion of the previous variable performance-related meetings at Sabaf S.p.A. between management and trade union representatives. bonus; The main issues addressed were: • a collective company personal bonus; • an increase for night work; • second-level negotiations for the renewal of the supplemental company • and recognition of a one-off sum covering the contractual holiday period. agreement; • announcements regarding changes in permanent staff and employment The agreement was reached after discussions lasting several months, but agency contracts, monitoring temporary and training contracts and planning without strikes. of recruitment and training; • definition of the company calendar; The hours spent taking part in trade union activities in 2013 were equivalent to • worker training in company safety; 0.40% of workable hours. • recourse to the government’s statutory redundancy scheme. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 63 PARTICIPATION IN TRADE UNION ACTIVITIES 2013 2012 BENCHMARK 14 UNION MEETINGS Number of hours 1,983 3,667 As % of workable hours 0.14% 0.27% Number of hours per capita 2.7 5.2 UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE Number of hours 1,683 1,972 As % of workable hours 0.12% 0.14% Number of hours per capita 2.3 2.8 INDUSTRIAL ACTION Number of hours 1,879 6,782 As % of workable hours 0.13% 0.49% Number of hours per capita 2.5 9.6 7.9 TOTAL Number of hours 5,545 12,421 As % of workable hours 0.40% 0.90% Number of hours per capita 7.52 17.5 H % 5,545 12,421 7.52 17.5 0.4% 0.90% Total Total PER CAPITA total percentage In 2013, a total of 12 hours of strike were called at Sabaf S.p.A., owing to national claims. No strikes were called at Faringosi Hinges, Sabaf do Brasil or Sabaf Beyaz. 14 FEDERMECCANICA, The metalworking industry in figures (June 2013) – Per capita hours of absence from work (2011) [L’industria metalmeccanica in cifre (giugno 2013) – Ore pro-capite di assenza dal lavoro (2011)], http://www.federmeccanica.it 64 Survey The Group strives to encourage a positive work environment, including by communication, listening and relationship management, the prerequisite for listening to its employees’ needs. For this reason, a second analysis of the effective management of the manager/employee relationship. The initiative, organisational climate was conducted in October 2012 at Sabaf S.p.A. to which initially targeted the front line managers (10 people) and was then monitor how employees’ perceive their working conditions and identify extended to the heads of the various working teams (29 people), alternates areas for improvement. A summary of the results is given in the 2012 Annual theoretical activities with active participation. These training activities will Report. continue in 2014. Following the survey, a “cascading” training initiative was launched with the aim of strengthening and developing some specific skills relating to Social activities and benefits Sabaf S.p.A. has signed an agreement with a bank for mortgages and a priority basis at preferential rates to employees, who have bought 29 of the consumer loans with particularly advantageous terms, acting as a guarantor units. for employees: at 31 December 2013, 67 employees had benefited from the agreement. The Company has also signed various agreements with retailers to purchase products and services at special low prices. The Company leased eight apartments to employees near the Ospitaletto site. A residential complex was built in 2007 with 54 units, which are allocated on Litigation and disciplinary measures During 2013, 90 disciplinary measures were taken against Group employees. These break down as follows: 9 verbal warnings 27 fines 1 reminder concerning the use of personal protective equipment 8 suspensions 43 written warnings 2 dismissals The principal causes for disciplinary measures are unexcused absences, failure to observe working hours and failure to observe requirements for sick leave. At 31 December 2013, three lawsuits were pending with former employees. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 65 SABAF and its shareholders (15.007%) Shareholder base delta lloyd asset management nv (3.902%) As at 31 December 2013, 1,773 shareholders were listed in the shareholders’ pendoli anna register. Of these: • 1,484 owned fewer than 1,000 shares (3.271%) • 223 owned from 1,001 to 5,000 shares FMR LLC (50.722%) • 22 owned from 5,001 to 10,000 shares Saleri (2.987%) • 44 owned over 10,000 shares giuseppe FIL LIMITED Shareholders residing outside Italy hold 38.5% of the share capital. Institutional investors are very strongly present in share capital, estimated to (24.111%) account for approximately 90% of the free float. mARKET Relations with investors and financial analysts Right from the time when it went public (1998) the Company has considered The brokers that prepare studies and research documents about Sabaf on an financial communication to be of strategic importance. Sabaf’s financial ongoing basis are: Equita and Banca Akros. communication policy is based on the principles of integrity, transparency and continuity, in the belief that this approach enables investors to assess the In 2013, the Company met with institutional investors at roadshows organised Company properly. In this regard, Sabaf is 100% willing to engage in dialogue in Milan and London. with financial analysts and institutional investors. Shareholder return and share performance During 2013, Sabaf shares reached their highest official price on 23 September (€13.721) and their lowest on 1 July (€8.774). Average daily trading volume was 6,215 shares, equivalent to an average daily total value of €67,500 (€78,000 in 2012). 13.721 euro 13.5 13 12.5 12 11.5 11 10.5 10 9.5 9 8.774 euro 8.5 February April June August October December 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 66 The dividend policy adopted by Sabaf is designed to guarantee a fair return for shareholders. This is realised in part through the annual dividend, by maintaining a ratio of approximately 50% between dividends and profits. % Dividend 0.23 0.28 0.31 0.34 0.37 0.40 0.48 0.60 1.00 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2006 extraordinary dividend Year 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.35 0.40 of payment 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 proposed dividend Socially responsible investments Dialogue with investors and analysts Sabaf shares have often been analysed by analysts and managers of SRI funds, which have invested in Sabaf on several occasions. As part of its activities to engage stakeholders, in 2013 Sabaf conducted a survey of institutional investors and financial analysts with the aim of understanding how the financial community views the choices made by Sabaf in relation to corporate social responsibility, corporate governance and investor relations. The Litigation activity undertaken was intended to focus attention, among other things, on external communication through the Integrated Annual Report. The results are set out in the 2012 Annual Report. No lawsuits are pending with shareholders. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 67 SABAF and its customers Sales analysis The quality system Countries and customers Our quality management system is integrated with our environmental management and workplace safety systems, and should enable us to achieve 2013 2012 the following objectives: Countries 58 60 a. increase customer satisfaction by understanding and responding to Customers 15 268 269 customers’ present and future needs; b. continuously improve processes and products, with special attention to environmental protection and employee safety; c. involve partners and suppliers in the continuous improvement process, For a detailed analysis of revenue by product family and geographical area, encouraging a “comakership” approach; please see the Report on Operations. d. develop the potential of our human resources; e. improve business performance. In line with the Group’s commercial policies, most of the active commercial relationships are well established and long-term. Thirty-two customers generated annual sales of over €1 million (30 in 2012). CURRENT SPENDING ON QUALITY The breakdown by sales amount is as follows: Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 2013 2012 Product certification 100 74 < €1,000 26 39 Certification and management 4 5 of quality system €1,001-€50,000 171 165 Purchase of measuring instruments 41 5 and equipment Calibration of measuring instruments €50,001-€100,000 17 19 38 27 and equipment Technical regulations, software €100,001-€500,000 36 41 2 1 and publications Training 0 0 €500,001-€1,000,000 12 14 Trials and tests 1 0 by independent laboratories €1,000,001-€5,000,000 25 24 Total 186 112 > €5,000,000 7 6 In addition to the headquarters office at Ospitaletto, the commercial network is based on the subsidiaries located in Brazil, Turkey, the United States, Mexico and INVESTMENTS IN QUALITY China, and the contact office located in Poland. Fourteen agency relationships are currently active, primarily in relation to markets outside Europe. Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 Purchase of measuring instruments 95 24 and equipment Total 95 24 15 With sales over €1,000 68 The Ospitaletto facility and the production site in Brazil have obtained quality No instances of non-compliance were found. certification according to ISO 9001:2008. Sabaf S.p.A.’s quality system has been ISO 9001 certified since 1993, that of Faringosi Hinges since 2001 and that of As regards the subsidiary Sabaf do Brasil, in June 2013, the annual audit of the Sabaf do Brasil since 2011. Quality System was conducted in compliance with the ISO 9001 standard, with a positive outcome. In July 2013 the CSQ (IMQ’s certification system) conducted its periodic audit of the Sabaf S.p.A. quality and environmental management system. This audit In October 2013 the TUV NORD certifying authority conducted the periodic audit of confirmed that the existing quality and environment management system has the Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. quality management system. The audit confirmed that been set up appropriately. Certain strong points were highlighted: the system has been set up appropriately. • the attention to product quality; No instances of non-compliance were found. • the historical choice to design and make the production machinery and tools; • the attention to the product identification aspects so that it is easy to track products back through the process. Litigation Customer satisfaction Sabaf is involved in several proceedings against manufacturers of counterfeit components, cookers and stove tops who market or sell appliances with The biennial customer satisfaction survey is part of the stakeholder components that infringe our patents and trademarks. engagement activities which Sabaf undertakes in order to constantly improve the qualitative level of the services offered and to meet customer expectations. The results of the survey, conducted by sending structured questionnaires to the Group’s key customers, confirm the positive opinion they have of Sabaf as a result of the prompt, professional and skillful sales support it provides. Customers’ opinions of Sabaf’s Annual Report were also positive. The detailed results are set out in the 2012 Annual Report. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 69 SABAF and its suppliers The SA8000 standard and suppliers In 2005 Sabaf S.p.A. was certified as compliant with the SA8000 (Social ensure that workers are paid the statutory minimum wage. Accountability 8000) standard. The Company therefore requires its suppliers to Failure to comply with or accept the principles of the SA8000 standard could respect – in all their activities – the standard’s principles as a basic prerequisite lead to the supply relationship being terminated. In 2013, 29 audits (23 in 2012) for building a lasting relationship based on the principles of social accountability. were carried out at suppliers on quality, environmental and social-responsibility Supply contracts include an ethics clause inspired by the SA8000 standard, management, none of which revealed any critical instances of non-compliance. which requires suppliers to guarantee respect for human and social rights, Suppliers were asked to take the appropriate measures to resolve any nonand more specifically, to avoid employing persons below the minimum age conformity of a non-critical nature. stipulated by the standard, to guarantee their workers a safe workplace, to protect trade union rights, to comply with legislation on working hours, and to Purchasing analysis The Sabaf Group aims to promote development in the areas where it operates. Sales generated outside the European Union mainly comes from suppliers Therefore, when choosing suppliers it gives preference to local firms. in China, with components supplied totalling around €4,173,000 in 2013 (€5,102,000 in 2012). Chinese suppliers have signed a clause to comply with Purchases made in Lombardy by the Group’s Italian companies the principles set out in the SA 8000 standard. represent 65.6% of the total. Geographical distribution of suppliers 16 2013 2012 Amounts in €‘000 Sales % Sales % Province of Brescia 43,512 49.9 45,581 53.4 Province of Milan 2,484 2.8 1,750 2.0 Rest of Lombardy region 11,265 12.9 10,637 12.4 Italy 17,233 19.8 14,869 17.4 Rest of EU 7,425 8.5 6,455 7.5 Non-EU countries 5,314 6.1 6,238 7.3 Total 87,233 100 85,530 100 Sabaf do Brasil and Sabaf Turkey mainly purchase their production materials imported from Italy to assure uniform group-wide manufacturing processes, from local suppliers. The main machinery items used (transfer machining particularly as regards quality and safety. and assembly equipment and die-casting burner presses) have instead been 16 Figure relates to the Group’s Italian companies only 70 Supplier relations and contractual terms Our relations with suppliers aim for long-term partnerships and are based on Sabaf requires its suppliers to upgrade their technology so that they are business integrity, propriety and fairness, and on shared growth strategies. constantly able to offer the best value for money. It gives preference to suppliers who have obtained or are in the process of obtaining quality and environmental In order to share with suppliers the values underpinning its business model, certification. and to foster complete transparency and reciprocal knowledge, Sabaf has distributed its Charter of Values extensively and periodically sends suppliers its In 2013 sales to Sabaf Group by suppliers with certified quality systems “Sabaf Magazine” newsletter. accounted for 53.9% of the total (vs. 54.7% in 2012). Sabaf guarantees total impartiality in supplier selection and undertakes to adhere strictly to the agreed payment terms. Breakdown of purchases by category 2013 2012 in thousands of euro Sales % Sales % Raw materials 24,579 25.1 24,625 27.1 Components 27,194 27.8 20,786 22.8 Machinery & equipment 4,507 4.6 4,786 5.3 Services 41,672 42.5 40,785 44.8 Total 97,952 100 90,982 100 For small suppliers, we have agreed very short payment terms (mainly 30 days). Litigation At end-2013 a dispute was pending with a supplier, initiated by Sabaf S.p.A. and concerning a quality issue. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 71 SABAF and its lenders Our commitment to lenders Banking relations The Group operates with a low debt ratio (net indebtedness/shareholders’ The Group mainly deals with ten Italian banks (Banco di Brescia, Intesa San equity of 0.14 at 31 December 2013) and has ample unused short-term lines Paolo, Unicredit, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, BNL, Banca Popolare di Vicenza, of credit. Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna, Banca Popolare di Sondrio, Banca Passadore, Cariparma) and five foreign banks (Banco Itau in Brazil, Halkbank At 31 December 2013, net financial debt was €16.7 million, versus €23.8 and Isbank in Turkey, Bank of China and Industrial & Commercial Bank of million at 31 December 2012. All new loans opened in 2013 were exclusively China in China). short term, including using advances on bank receipts or invoices. In the financial market’s current state the conditions that can be obtained from the banking industry are far better than for mediumto long-term borrowings and liquidity risk is considered to be minimal. Litigation No lawsuits are pending with lenders. SABAF and its competitors The Sabaf Group’s main Italian and international competitors In Italy and in Europe as a whole, Sabaf estimates that it has a market share of Burner Systems International (BSI) is a US company that has acquired control over 40% in each product segment. It is the only company offering the complete of the French manufacturer Sourdillon, a longstanding competitor of Sabaf, and range of gas cooking components, as its competitors only manufacture part of of Harper Wyman, the biggest manufacturer of gas cooking components for the this product range. North American market. Sabaf’s main competitors in the international market are Copreci, Burner Defendi Italy is an Italian group that also has a presence in Brazil and Mexico. It System International and Defendi. is mainly involved in the production of burners. Copreci is a cooperative based in the Basque region of Spain. It is part of the Mondragon Cooperative Corporation and, along with Sabaf, is Europe’s leading valve and thermostat manufacturer. 72 The Sabaf Group’s main Italian and international competitors Valves Thermostats Burners Hinges Sabaf X X X X Burner Systems International (USA) X X X CMI (Italy) X Copreci (Spain) X X Defendi Italy (Italy) X X Nuova Star (Italy) X Somipress (Italy) X 2011 and 2012 Profit & Loss highlights of Sabaf’s main Italian competitors 17 2012 2011 €‘000 Sales Operating profit Net income Sales Operating profit Net income CMI 20,615 680 447 21,488 527 274 DEFENDI GROUP 59,191 5,515 3,121 51,220 2,868 739 NUOVA STAR 23,559 (80) 97 22,130 235 110 SOMIPRESS 40,240 3,123 1,788 33,387 4,773 2,926 No further information is available about Sabaf’s competitors due to the difficulty in obtaining data. Litigation A lawsuit is pending, initiated against a competitor following an alleged patent infringement. As regards a previous lawsuit initiated by our competitor, the trial court judgment was in our favour and the competitor decided not to appeal. 17 Data compiled by Sabaf from the financial reports of the various companies. Latest available figures SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 73 SABAF, Government and Society Institutional Relations with relations universities and students Sabaf systematically organises company visits for groups of students and In line with its standard policies, Sabaf’s dealings with the Government and Tax showcases CSR best practice during major conferences in various Italian cities. Authorities are informed by the utmost transparency and honesty. At local level, Sabaf has sought to establish an open dialogue with the various authorities to create harmonious industrial development. For this reason, Sabaf systematically provides Ospitaletto town council with copies of analyses Relations with relating to atmospheric emissions from its production plants. industry associations Sabaf is one of the founding members of CECED Italia, the association that Charity initiatives develops and coordinates research in Italy, promoted at European level by CECED (European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers) with and donations the associated scientific, legal and institutional implications in the household electric appliance sector. In 2013 donations totalled around €54,000 (€45,000 in 2012), and mainly supported local social and humanitarian initiatives. Litigation Long-distance adoption There are no significant lawsuits pending with public organisations or other representatives of society. Sabaf supports the Associazione Volontari per il Servizio Internazionale (AVSI), an Italian non-profit NGO working on international development aid projects. The donations have been earmarked for providing support to 20 children living in various countries in the world. 74 Sabaf and the environment superior washing quality, while at the same time minimising the environmental Dialogue with environmental impact and management costs. The solution identified inserts into the production process machinery which uses a washing system based on a modified alcohol, associations and institutions a solvent which can be redistilled (and hence, recycled). With a planned investment of around €1,000,000, the replacement process began at the end of 2013, will continue until 2015 and will completely replace For some time the Group has been keen to raise awareness of the reduced all of the Company’s washing machinery. environmental impact of using gas in cooking instead of electricity: the use of The environmental impact and management costs will be essentially eliminated. gas to produce heat in fact permits much higher yields than those achievable with electric cooking appliances. In addition, there is worldwide demand for increased power and multiple cooking points (plates/burners) to cook food Product marking quickly. An increase in electric hobs would cause an increase in peak electricity consumption, typically around meal times, further increasing electricity demand Standards in force require products to be marked with a series of distinctive which is already difficult to meet. characteristics. Until now the printing has always been done using an ink-jet system: this system makes it possible to print just three lines, with a preset number of characters for each line, and with an annual management cost of around €60,000 for ink, solvents and maintenance. Sabaf has decided to opt for a Environmental policy, fibre-optic laser marking system which makes it possible to print all the necessary programme and objectives characters on products, without any limitations. Between 2013 and 2014, with an investment of €250,000, all the ink-jet systems will be replaced with fibre-optic laser marking systems, thereby eliminating the management costs. Sabaf has always been mindful of the environment, constantly seeking to reduce the impact of its industrial operations. The Company’s awareness of the importance of ecological balance is reflected in the various decisions taken over the years, Product innovation and which not only respect legal requirements but also aim to achieve constant progress in the Company’s environmental performance. environmental sustainability The environmental management system in place at the Ospitaletto plant (which accounts for more than 85% of total Group production) has been ISO 14001 Light alloy valves certified since 2003. With implementation of the ISO 14001 standard Sabaf has also The production of aluminium alloy valves has numerous advantages over brass pinpointed the main environmental risks associated with its production, which are valve production: elimination of the hot pressing phase, lower lead content in systematically monitored and managed. products, reduced weight and consequent decrease in packaging and transport costs. In 2013 the process to replace brass valves with light alloy valves In 2008, Sabaf S.p.A. obtained the Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IPPC) continued, which now represents two-thirds of the valves produced. from the Region of Lombardy pursuant to Legislative Decree n°59 of 18 February 2005. The most significant product and process innovations introduced by Sabaf in terms High-efficiency burners of environmental impact are detailed below. For many years Sabaf has been a pioneer in presenting to the market burners which offer much higher yields than standard burners. After the launch of the Series III, AE and AEO, in 2012 Sabaf introduced a new family of high-efficiency Product innovation and burners, the HE burners, which achieve yields of up to 68%. The HE burners are environmental sustainability also almost completely interchangeable with Series II burners. In 2013 the DCC range of specialist burners was completed; these burners have energy efficiency of above 60%, the highest currently available on the market Washing of metals for burners with more than one ring of flame. The production process for valves requires the washing of metals in several phases. Traditionally, the metals were washed using systems which use chlorine-based solvents. In 2013 Sabaf began to assess alternatives which could guarantee an equal or SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 75 Energy sources Environmental impact 2013 CONSUMPTION 2012 consumption ELECTRICITY Materials used and product recyclability (MWh) (MWh) Sabaf’s main product lines – valves, thermostats and burners for domestic gas Total 31,944 29,290 cooking appliances – feature high energy yields and optimal use of natural resources. The use of combustible gas to generate heat permits much higher 2013 CONSUMPTION 2012 consumption yields than those achievable with electric cooking appliances. NATURAL GAS (m3 x 1000) (m3 x 1000) Sabaf products are also easily recyclable, as they are made almost entirely of Total 3,616 2,726 brass, aluminium alloys, copper and steel. Sabaf S.p.A. and Sabaf do Brasil use natural gas as an energy source for the Sabaf has introduced in-house recycling of paper/cardboard, glass, cans and die-casting of aluminium and for firing enamelled caps. Faringosi Hinges does plastic. In 2013 recycling made it possible to recover 113,000 kg of paper, not use natural gas as an energy source in its production. cardboard and plastic packaging. The increased consumption of natural gas compared to 2012 is primarily attributable to the insourcing of die-casting, as well as the higher production levels to build inventories back up. MATERIALS 2013 consumption (t) 2012 consumption (t) USED Water Brass 1,234 1,186 Aluminium alloys 7,332 6,847 Water 2013 CONSUMPTION (m3) 2012 consumption (m3) Zamak 57 80 Mains water 36,347 29,895 Steel 6,784 5,853 Groundwater 27,760 40,374 TOTAL 64,107 70,269 100% of the brass and around 65% of the aluminium alloys used are produced All water used in manufacturing processes by Group companies is sent for through scrap metal recycling; 35% of aluminium alloys and 100% of steel are treatment: consequently there is no industrial waste water. The groundwater produced from mineral sources. used in die-casting and enamelling processes in Italy is recovered by Lower brass consumption was partly linked to the gradual replacement of brass concentration plants, which significantly reduce the quantities of water used valves with light alloy valves. and waste produced. Sabaf’s products are 100% compliant with the requirements of Directive 2002/95/EC (RoHS Directive), which aims to restrict the use of hazardous Waste substances, such as lead, in the production of electrical and electronic equipment. This category includes all household appliances, including gas Trimmings and waste from the manufacturing process are identified and cooking appliances (which are equipped with electronic ignition devices). collected separately for subsequent recycling or disposal. Sprue from aluminium die-casting is reused. In addition, Sabaf’s products are 100% compliant with the requirements of Waste for disposal and recycling is summarised below. Directive 2000/53/EC (End of Life Vehicles), i.e. their heavy-metal content (lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium) is lower than the limits WASTE (metric tons) 2013 2012 set by the directive. Municipal-type waste 214 176 In terms of the REACH Regulation (Regulation No. 1907/2006 of 18. December Non-hazardous 1,892 1,709 2006), Sabaf S.p.A. is classed as a downstream user of chemicals. The (for disposal) products supplied by Sabaf are classed as items that do not release substances Non-hazardous 4,154 3,521 during normal use, therefore the substances contained in them do not need (for recycling) to be registered. Sabaf has contacted its suppliers to ensure that they comply Total non-hazardous 6,046 5,230 waste fully with the REACH Regulation and to obtain confirmation of compliance with pre-registration and registration requirements for the chemicals used by Hazardous (for disposal) 1,309 1,922 them. Sabaf also constantly monitors new legislation derived from the REACH Hazardous 1,522 1,131 Regulation, in order to identify and manage any new requirements in this area. (for recycling) Total hazardous waste 2,831 3,053 No major spills occurred in 2013. 76 Atmospheric emissions CO2 EMISSIONS18 Most of the atmospheric emissions released by the Sabaf Group derive from activities defined as producing “negligible pollution”. tonnes 2013 2012 • Sabaf S.p.A. operates three production processes: Use of natural gas 7,108 5,358 Use of electricity 13,001 11,775 1 Production of burner components (injector-holder casings and flame spreaders) involves melting and subsequent pressure die-casting of Total CO2 emissions 20,109 17,133 aluminium alloy, sandblasting of pieces, a series of mechanical processes removing material, washing of some components, and assembly and testing. This production process releases insignificant amounts of oily and PERC The use of natural gas to power the smelting furnaces leads to the release of (perchloroethylene) mists, as well as dust and carbon dioxide. NOX (nitrogen oxides) and SOX (sulphur oxides) into the atmosphere, although 2 Production of burner caps, in which steel is used as a raw material and in insignificant quantities. The use of a relatively clean fuel such as natural gas subjected to blanking and coining. The semi-finished caps then undergo means that Sabaf makes a negligible contribution to national greenhouse gas washing, sand blasting, and application and firing of enamel. The entire emissions. process generates dust. 3 Production of valves and thermostats, in which the main raw materials There are no emissions of the following greenhouse gases: CH4, N2O, HFCS and are brass bars and casings (aluminium alloy for new-generation valves) SF6. No substances that damage the ozone layer are currently used by Sabaf, and, to a much lesser extent, steel bars. The production cycle is divided with the exception of the refrigerant fluid (R22), which is used in air conditioning into the following phases: (a) mechanical processing of die-cast bars and units in compliance with applicable regulations. casings with removal of material, (b) washing of semi-finished products and components, (c) finishing of the male coupling surfaces using diamond machine tools, and (d) assembly and final testing of the finished product. This process generates an insignificant amount of oily mists and PERC emissions. Environmental investments • At Faringosi Hinges the main material used to produce hinges is steel. This Current environmental spending undergoes a series of mechanical and assembly processes that do not lead to any significant emissions. • The entire burner production process is carried out at Sabaf do Brasil. Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 Analysis of the internal process did not identify any significant emissions. • The entire process for producing burner heads and coating burner caps is Waste disposal 595 654 carried out at Sabaf Turkey. Analysis of the internal process did not identify Advisory services 44 24 any significant emissions. Emissions analysis 22 23 The efficiency of purification systems is guaranteed through regular Training 0 14 maintenance and periodic monitoring of all emissions. Monitoring performed Plant, equipment and 9 1 during 2012 and 2013 showed compliance of all emissions with legal limits. materials TOTAL 670 716 Environmental investments Amounts in €‘000 2013 2012 Plant, equipment 241 0 and materials TOTAL 241 0 Litigation No lawsuits are currently pending with regard to environmental matters. 18 Calculated according to the “Instructions for implementation of the European Commission’s decision C(2004)130 of 29 January 2004 establishing guidelines for the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council” issued by the Italian Environment Ministry in conjunction with the Ministry for Trade and Industry SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 77 78 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 79 80 Index GRI PROFILE Page Global Compact Principle 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement of Chairman and CEO 2-3 5, 19-20, 1.2 Main impacts, risks and opportunities 26-27, 42-43 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of organisation Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 24-25 2.3 Operational structure 32 2.4 Headquarters 24 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 24, 26-27, 32 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 32, 65, RCG 2.7 Markets served 24-27, 67, 86 2.8 Scale of organisation 8-12, 24 2.9 Significant changes 4, 26-27 2.10 Recognition/awards received 4 3 Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 3.4 Contact points and addresses for information on the report 127 3.5 Process for defining report content 4-5, 20 3.6 Reporting scope 4 3.7 Limitations on report objectives or scope 4 3.8 Information on other affiliated companies 32 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation basis 4 3.10 Amendments from previous report 4 3.11 Significant changes from previous report 4 3.12 Reference table 80-83 3.13 External certification 77-79 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 81 PROFILE Page Global Compact Principle 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 33-38, RCG 4.2 Indicate whether the chair is also an executive officer 34, RCG 4.3 Independent and non-executive directors 34, RCG 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders to provide recommendations 21, 33, 38, 62, RCG 4.5 Link between director and senior management remuneration and performance 46-47, 126, 174-181 4.6 Conflicts of interest 169 4.7 Qualifications of directors 34, RCG 4.8 Mission, values, code of conduct and principles 16-17 Procedures to identify and manage economic, environmental and social 4.9 4, 14-16, 20, RCG performance 4.10 Process to assess performance of Board of Directors 44, 174-181, RCG 4.11 Method of applying prudential principle or approach 20 4.12 Adoption of external economic, social and environmental codes and principles 4, 6-7 4.13 Membership of trade associations 73 4.14 List of stakeholders engaged 21 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage 21 4.16 Initiatives to engage stakeholders 21, 64, 66, 68 Key aspects and critical issues that emerged through engagement of 4.17 21, 64, 66, 68 stakeholders and related actions ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DMA EC Core Information on management procedures 8, 19, 65-67 EC1 Core Direct economic value generated and distributed 8-9 EC2 Core Risks and opportunities posed by climate change 19-20, 74 7 EC3 Core Coverage of pension obligations 55, 115, 151 No significant financial assistance EC4 Core Significant financial assistance received from government from the government was received in 2013 Ratio between standard entry level wage and local minimum wage at EC5 Add 57-58 significant locations of operation EC6 Core Policies, practices and percentage of spending on local suppliers 69-70 6 EC7 Core Procedures for local hiring 50, 54 EC8 Core Growth in investments provided mainly for public benefit 11, 73 82 PROFILE Page Global Compact Principle SOCIAL PERFORMANCE DMA LA Core Information on management procedures 50 LA1 Core Breakdown of workforce by type, contract and region 50-54 LA2 Core Turnover by age group, gender and region 10, 52-53 6 LA3 Add Benefits provided to full-time staff 57, 174 LA4 Core Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 57 1-3 In Italy, this is regulated by the LA5 Core Minimum notice period for operational changes laws in force (Legislative Decree 3 18/2011 and Law 223/1991) LA7 Core Accidents at work and occupational diseases 10, 61-62 1 Staff training programmes for the prevention and control of risks relating to LA8 Core 55, 61 1 ailments or serious illnesses LA9 Add Agreements with trade unions on health and safety 62-63 LA10 Core Staff training 10, 55-56 LA13 Core Breakdown of staff by gender and other diversity indicators (e.g. disability) 56-57 1-6 LA14 Core Ratio of basic salary women to men of the same category 57-58 1-6 HUMAN RIGHTS DMA HR Core Information on management procedures 6-7, 16-18, 50, 69 HR1 Core Operations that have undergone human rights screening 5-7, 50, 69 1-2-3-4-5-6 HR2 Core Suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening 69 1-2-3-4-5-6 HR3 Add Total hours of training on human rights and percentage of employees trained 55-56 N/A there were no HR4 Core Incidents of discrimination 1-2-6 incidents of discrimination Activities in which freedom of association and the right to collective HR5 Core 50, 69 3 bargaining may be exposed to risks HR6 Core Operations identified as high risk with regard to child labour 6-7, 50 5 HR7 Core Operations identified as high risk with regard to forced labour 6-7, 50 1-2-4 IMPACTS ON SOCIETY DMA SO Core Information on management procedures 6-7, 16-18 SO1 Core Management of impacts on community 19-20, 73 SO2 Core Monitoring of corruption risk 7, 44-45 2 SO3 Core Staff trained in prevention of corruption offences 45, 55-56 N/A there were no incidences SO4 Core Actions taken in response to cases of corruption of corruption SO5 Core Public policy positions and lobbying 73 1-10 SO7 Add Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour 71-72 SO8 Core Monetary and other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 68 Key RCG: 2013 annual report on corporate governance and ownership structure SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Social and environmental sustainability 83 PROFILE Page Global Compact Principle PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA PR Core Information on management procedures 67-68 PR1 Core Health and safety of products and services 67-68 1 Information required by procedures and services subject PR3 Core 6-7, 67-68 8 to such information requirements PR5 Add Customer satisfaction 68 Programmes for adherence to laws and voluntary codes N/A this indicator is not significant PR6 Core relating to marketing activities for the type of business PR9 Core Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 68 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DMA EN Information on management procedures 6-7, 75-76 EN1 Core Raw materials used 12, 75 8 EN2 Core Reused or recycled materials 75 8-9 EN3Core Direct energy consumption by source 75 8 EN4Core Indirect energy consumption 75 8 EN5 Add Energy saved 75 EN6 Add Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services 74 EN8 Core Water withdrawal by source 75 8 N/A the Group’s activities do not require water withdrawal EN9 Add Water sources significantly affected by water withdrawal that could significantly affect the balance of water sources EN10 Add Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 75 N/A since the Group's production EN11 Core Location of sites owned in protected areas or in areas of high biodiversity sites are located in areas with little 8 environmental significance N/A since the Group's production EN12 Core Description of significant impacts on biodiversity sites are located in areas with little 8 environmental significance EN16 Core Total direct greenhouse gas emissions 76 8 EN17 Core Other significant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 76 8 EN 18 Add Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 76 EN19 Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 76 EN20 Core Other atmospheric emissions 76 EN21 Core Water discharge 75 8 EN22 Core Production of waste and disposal methods 12, 75 EN23 Core Total number and volume of spills 75 EN26 Core Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 19, 74 7-8-9 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials N/A as not significant EN27 Core that are recycled or reused for products sold by Sabaf EN28 Core Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 76 8 EN30 Add Environmental protection expenditure and investment 76 7 Be knowledgeable C H A P T E R Report on Operations Pa ge 8 5 Group business and financial status Change in thousands of euro 2013 % 2012 % Change % 2013-2012 Sales revenue 130,967 100% 130,733 100% 234 +0.2% EBITDA 24,572 18.8% 21,813 16.7% 2,759 +12.6% Operating profit (EBIT) 11,132 8.5% 7,920 6.1% 3,212 +40.6% Pre-tax profit 9,811 7.5% 6,219 4.8% 3,592 +57.8% Net profit 8,104 6.2% 4,196 3.2% 3,908 +93.1% Earnings per share (euro) 0.715 0.367 0.348 +94.8% Diluted earnings per share (euro) 0.715 0.367 0.348 +94.8% In another difficult year for the household appliances sector, sales of the Sabaf The trend of replacing brass valves with the more innovative light allow Group remained broadly unchanged, but profitability registered a significant valves continued: the sales generated by light alloy valves are now almost improvement versus 2012, thanks to gains in productivity, particularly in the double those of brass valves, while in 2011, sales of brass valves were production of light alloy valves and the growing contribution of activities in still prevalent. Sales of burners remained broadly stable, with a slight Brazil and Turkey. improvement for the special burner product families. Finally, sales of hinges In 2013, EBITDA was 18.8% of sales (16.7% in 2012), EBIT 8.5% (6.1% in recovered slightly. 2012) and net profit rose from 3.2% of sales to 6.2%. The geographical breakdown of revenue was as follows: The breakdown of revenue by product line was as follows: Sales by product line Sales by geographical area in thousands Change in thousands Change 2013 % 2012 % 2013 % 2012 % of euro % of euro % Brass valves 14,613 11.1% 18,601 14.2% -21.4% Italy 42,662 32.6% 45,597 34.9% -6.4% Light alloy valves 27,618 21.1% 23,524 18.0% +17.4% Western Europe 7,465 5.7% 7,337 5.6% +1.7% Eastern Europe and Thermostats 13,350 10.2% 13,074 10.0% +2.1% 29,300 22.4% 33,236 25.4% -11.8% Turkey Standard burners 38,222 29.2% 39,337 30.1% -2.8% Asia and Oceania 11,864 9.1% 12,306 9.4% -3.6% Special burners 18,943 14.5% 18,850 14.4% +0.5% South America 24,375 18.6% 21,895 16.8% +11.3% Accessories Africa 10,410 7.9% 6,950 5.3% +49.8% 11,571 8.8% 11,226 8.6% +3.1% and other revenues US, Canada & Mexico 4,891 3.7% 3,412 2.6% +43.3% Total gas components 124,317 94.9% 124,612 95.3% -0.2% Total 130,967 100% 130,733 100% +0.2% Hinges 6,650 5.1% 6,121 4.7% +8.6% Total 130,967 100% 130,733 100% +0.2% SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Report on operations 87 In 2013, European markets continued to suffer as a result of the weak The impact of the cost of labour on sales rose from 23.7% in 2012 to 23% in macroeconomic environment, with demand again down on the previous year. 2013. Sales in Europe thereby fell to 60.7% of the total, from 65.9% in 2012 and 70.6% in 2011. As a result of the crisis affecting several important clients, in 2013 the Group The main markets outside Europe trended in the opposite direction: of particular posted write-downs and losses on receivables totalling €1.2 million, equivalent significance were the results registered by the Group in Africa and South to 0.9% of sales (€1.6 million in 2012). America, where sales rose by €3.5 million and €2.5 million respectively. The Group registered very positive growth in North America, although this market The impact of net financial charges on sales remains very low (0.5% in 2013, remains marginal, thanks to the launch of new supply contracts with the main versus 0.7% in 2012), owing to the low level of debt and low interest rates. manufacturers of cooking appliances. Finally, sales in Asia fell slightly, as the political problems affecting some Middle Eastern markets remain, and the Operating cash flow (net profit plus depreciation & amortisation) rose from contribution of exports to China and India is still limited. €17.1 million to €21 million, equivalent to 16% of sales (vs. 13.1% in 2012). Average sale prices in 2013 were down by around 1% versus 2012: the overThe tax rate in 2013 was 17.4%, lower than the ordinary rate because of a supply on the market continues to exert considerable competitive pressure. non-recurring benefit of €1.35 million relating to the booking of tax breaks in connection with investments made in Turkey. The actual cost of the main raw materials (brass, aluminium alloys and steel) was approximately 5% lower than in 2012. Savings were also made in the purchase of other components. Consumption (purchases plus change in inventory) as a percentage of sales was 36.3% in 2013, compared with 39% in 2012; this decrease was due to a different mix of products sold, and in particular the shift from brass valves to aluminium alloy valves. Balance sheet and financial position Reclassification based on financial criteria is as shown below: Cash flows during the year are summarised in the following table: in thousands of euro 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 1 in thousands of euro 2013 2012 Non-current assets 97,467 101,880 Cash and cash equiva6,137 14,208 lents – opening balance Short-term assets 2 68,137 66,453 Operating cash flow 20,288 15,163 Short-term liabilities 3 (26,896) (25,367) Cash flow from (10,240) (14,316) Working capital 4 41,241 41,086 investments Cash flow from financing Short-term financial assets 22 (8,945) (7,982) activities Provisions for risks, postForeign exchange employment benefits and (4,049) (3,946) (2,129) (936) differences deferred taxes Cash flow for the Net capital employed 134,681 139,020 (1,026) (8,071) period Net short-term financial (12,831) (18,537) position Cash and cash equivalents 5,111 6,137 Net medium/long-term – closing balance (3,895) (5,259) financial position Net financial debt (16,726) (23,796) Shareholders’ equity 117,955 115,224 1 Amounts recalculated following the retrospective application of IAS 19 (revised) 2 Sum of inventories, trade receivables, tax credits, and other current receivables 3 Sum of trade payables, tax payables, and other payables 4 Difference between current assets and current liabilities 88 Net financial debt and the cash and cash equivalents shown in the tables above are defined in compliance with the net financial position detailed in Note 21 of the consolidated accounts, as required by the Consob memorandum of 28 Risk factors related July 2006. to the segment in which In 2013, the Sabaf Group made capital investments of approximately €10 the Group operates million. The most significant investments related to the industrialisation of new special models of burners and the expansion of production capacity in Turkey and Brazil. Furthermore, investments were made in maintenance and replacement to keep plant, machinery and moulds constantly up to date. Risks related to the overall conditions Working capital was €41.2 million, broadly unchanged versus the figure of €41 million at end-2012: as a percentage of sales, it was 31.5%. of the economy and trend in demand The business and financial circumstances of the Group are influenced by a Self-financing generated by operating cash flow totalled €20.3 million versus variety of factors, such as gross domestic product, consumer and corporate €15.2 million in the previous year, owing to an upturn in profitability. confidence, interest rate trends, the cost of raw materials, the unemployment Net financial debt totalled €16.7 million, against €23.8 million at 31 December rate, and the ease of access to credit. 2012. The net mediumto long-term financial position was negative at €3.9 The Group’s core market, the household appliances sector, which is cyclical million (€5.3 million at 31 December 2012) and corresponded to property and generally related to the performance of the real estate market, was hit leasing and mortgages. particularly hard by the progressive decline in the macroeconomic situation in The net short-term financial position was negative to the tune of €12.8 Europe. The contraction of demand on mature markets has been accompanied million (€18.5 million at 31 December 2012) and consisted of cash and cash by a progressive concentration of end markets and tougher competition, equivalents of €6.1 million, short-term debts of €20.6 million, and the current phenomena that require aggressive policies in setting sales prices. portion of mediumto long-term borrowings of €4 million. To cope with this situation, the Group aims to retain and reinforce its leadership Over the year, only short-term loans were paid off, taken out or extended, in position wherever possible through: order to finance working capital. The ratio of working capital to short-term loans • the launch of new products characterised by superior performance compared was 3.2, so the Group considers the liquidity risk to be minimum and does not with market standards; consider it appropriate, in the current financial market environment, to make • expansion on markets with high growth rates; greater use of mediumto long-term forms of financing. • the maintenance of high quality and safety standards, which make it possible to differentiate the product through the use of resources and implementation Shareholders’ equity totalled €118 million at 31 December 2013; the debt/ of production processes that are not easily sustainable by competitors. equity ratio was 0.14 versus 0.21 in 2012. Commodity price volatility risk The Group uses metals and alloys in its production processes, chiefly Economic and financial indicators brass, aluminium alloys and steel. The sale prices of products are generally renegotiated semi-annually or annually; as a result, Group companies may not be able to immediately pass on to customers changes in the prices of 2013 2012 5 commodities that occur during the year, which has an impact on profitability. ROCE (return on capital The Group protects itself from the risk of changes in the price of brass and 8.3% 5.7% employed) aluminium with supply contracts signed with suppliers for delivery up to twelve Dividend per share (€) 0.40 6 0.35 months or, alternatively, with derivative financial instruments. As of the date of this report, the Sabaf Group has already fixed purchase prices Net debt/equity ratio 14% 21% for 50% of its expected requirement of aluminium, steel and brass for 2014. Market capitalisation (31.12)/ Any further increase in the price of commodities not hedged could have 1.27 0.88 equity ratio negative effects on expected profits. Change in sales +0.2% -12.0% For more information on how this risk is managed, see Note 36 of the consolidated financial statements, as regards disclosure for the purposes of Please refer to the introductory part of the Annual Report for a detailed IFRS 7. examination of other key performance indicators. Exchange rate fluctuation risk The Sabaf Group operates primarily in euro. It executes transactions in other currencies, such as the US dollar and the Brazilian real. Since sales in US dollars accounted for 12% of consolidated revenue, the gradual depreciation expected in the coming months could lead to a loss in competitiveness on the markets where sales are made in that currency (mainly South and North America). 5 Amounts recalculated following the retrospective application of IAS 19 (revised) 6 Proposed dividend SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Report on operations 89 At 31 December 2013, the Group had in place a forward sale contract of USD results in the event of insolvency of one of them. In particular, given the 510,000 at a euro/dollar exchange rate of 1.30, maturing on 30 June 2014. The structural difficulties of the domestic appliance sector in mature markets, it Administration and Finance Department constantly monitors forex exposure, the is possible that new situations of financial difficulty and insolvency among trend in exchange rates and the operational management of related activities. customers could arise. For more information on how this risk is managed, see Note 36 of the To minimise this risk, the Group tends to favour the larger brands in the segment, consolidated financial statements, as regards disclosure for the purposes of considered more reliable. At the same time, risk is constantly monitored through IFRS 7. the preliminary assessment of customers and checks that agreed payment terms are met. The risk is also partially transferred to third parties by norecourse assignment, i.e., partially guaranteed through the request for letters of Risks related to single-customer products credit issued by leading banks for customers. The remainder of the receivable risk is covered by a doubtful account provision considered appropriate. Through its research and development department, Sabaf also creates For more information, see Note 36 of the consolidated financial statements, as dedicated products for its customers. There is a risk that product customisation regards disclosure for the purposes of IFRS 7. leads to phenomena of inventory obsolescence in the event that the customer is lost or suddenly becomes insolvent. To combat this risk, Sabaf constantly monitors inventory rotation indices, and Risk of instability in emerging countries thanks to its well-established relations with its customers, assesses on a caseby-case basis any possible product variation in order to identify necessary in which the Group produces or sells action plans in good time. 40% of Sabaf Group sales are registered on markets outside Europe. Furthermore, products sold in Italy can be exported by customers in international markets, making the percentage of sales earned directly and indirectly from Risks related to product liability emerging economies more significant. The Group’s main markets outside Europe include the Middle East and North Sabaf products carry a high intrinsic risk in terms of safety. The Group’s great Africa (which accounted for 6% and 8% respectively of direct Group sales in attention to product quality and safety has made it possible to avoid incidents 2013, as well as indirect sales registered by our customers, which are difficult caused by product defects. Despite this, it is not possible to automatically to quantify). Any embargos or major political or economic stability, or changes in exclude incidents of this nature. the regulatory and/or local law systems, or new tariffs or taxes imposed in the In order to transfer the risk of third-party liability damage arising from future could affect a portion of Group sales and the related profitability. malfunctioning of its products, Sabaf has signed insurance policies with To combat this risk, the Group has adopted a policy of diversifying investments deductible of up to €10 million per individual claim. at international level, setting different strategic priorities that, as well as business opportunities, also consider the different associated risk profiles. Protection of product exclusivity There is a risk that some Group products, although patented, will be copied Sustainability of the hinges business by competitors, particularly in countries in which it is more difficult to protect The Hinges business registered negative results in 2013. Despite a partial intellectual property rights. recovery in sales, the Group has yet to see the benefit in terms of profitability, Sabaf’s business model therefore bases the protection of product exclusivity partly owing to the start-up costs sustained to launch new production. To mainly on design capacity and the internal production of special machines combat this situation, the Group has intensified efforts to develop special used in manufacturing processes, which result from its unique know-how that products (such as shock-absorbing springs for soft opening and closing of oven competitors would find difficult to replicate. doors, and hinges for heavy doors). The 2014-2018 business plan of the Hinges In any case, Sabaf has in place structured processes to manage innovation and CGU projects a significant recovery in sales and profitability, to which the new protect intellectual property. products should make a substantial contribution. If this is unsuccessful, the Group cannot rule out the need for further write-downs of the value of assets allocated to the Hinges business. For more information, see Note 3 of the Risks of revenue concentration consolidated financial statements. The Group is characterised by a strong concentration in its revenue, with 50% arising from sales to its ten biggest customers. Relationships with customers are generally stable and long-term, and usually regulated with renewable contracts of under one year, with no minimum guaranteed sales. At the date of this report, there was no reason for the Group to foresee the loss of any significant clients in the coming months. Trade receivable risk The high concentration of sales to a small number of customers, under the previous point, generates a concentration of the respective trade receivables, with a resulting increase in the negative impact on economic and financial 90 Development costs to the tune of €368,000 were capitalised, as all the Risks relating to the difficulties of sufficiently conditions set by the international accounting standards were met; in other managing the Group’s internationalisation cases, they were charged to the income statement. Over the year, development costs sustained in previous year were written down to the tune of €271,000, as The Sabaf Group is going through a process of growing internationalisation, they are no longer expected to yield future economic benefits. Research costs with the opening of new companies and production facilities in countries are booked to the income statement. considered strategic for the future development of its business. This process requires appropriate measures, which include the recruitment and training of management staff, and the implementation of management and coordination measures by the parent company. SAP implementation In order to support this expansion process, the Sabaf Group is committed to defining suitable measures, which include the appropriate definition of In order to align subsidiaries’ operational and management model with that of the spheres and responsibilities of management action, careful planning of Sabaf S.p.A., the Group has extended the implementation of the SAP IT system activities in implementing new projects, and a detailed analysis of the regulatory to all production units; the system was also launched in Turkey from 1 January environment in the various countries involved. 2013. Risks relating to the loss of key staff and expertise Sustainability and the difficulty of replacing them Since 2005, Sabaf has drawn up a single report on its economic performance Group results depend to a large extent on the work of executive directors and and its social and environmental sustainability. In 2005, this was a pioneering management. The loss of a key staff member for the Group without an adequate and almost experimental move, but today, the trend emerging at international replacement and the inability to attract new resources could have negative level suggests that integrated reporting unquestionably represents best effects on the future of the Group and on the quality of financial and economic practice. results. In this regard, in 2013, for the second time, the Sabaf annual report won the Oscar di Bilancio, the prestigious financial communication award promoted and managed by FERPI – the Italian Public Relations Federation – in the Small and Medium-Sized Listed Company category. Research & Development The most important research and development projects conducted in 2013 were as follows: Personnel / Staff Burners • the range of specialist DCC burners was completed, with a triple crown At 31 December 2013, the Sabaf Group had 730 employees, up by five model, available also in a dual version; compared to year-end 2012. In 2013, the Sabaf Group suffered no on-the-job • the Group developed full brass burners in the standard HE burner and the deaths or serious accidents that led to serious or very serious injury of staff, specialist DCC burner families, for middle eastern markets and the semifor which the Group has been definitively held responsible, nor was it held professional segment; responsible for occupational illnesses of employees or former employees, or • a series of flat burners were developed with air intake from above, expected causes of mobbing. to be launched on the market in 2014; For more information, see the “Sabaf and employees” section of the Annual • based on the Lotus S4 burner platform destined for the Indian market, a Report. family of S4 burners was developed for the European market. Improvements were also made to the Lotus S4 burner to meet specific requirements for the Indian market. Valves Environment • the vertical integration of the production process for light alloy valves In 2013, there were no: was completed, also that volumes of these valves now outweigh those of • environmental issues for which the Group has been found guilty; traditional brass valves; • fines or penalties imposed on the Group for environmental crimes or • a feasibility study was launched in relation to an industrial model that damages. allows, in subsequent phases, a moulded aluminium valve to be produced For more information, see the “Environmental Sustainability” section of the in China. In this regard, development work began on a specific valve for the Annual Report. Chinese market, based on the wide range of valves already available. Hinges • a type of motorised hinge within the oven with a shock-absorbing system was developed; Corporate governance • a hinge block system was developed, which prevents it from detaching For a complete description of the corporate governance system of the Sabaf during use. Group, see the report on corporate governance and on the ownership structure, Improvements were made to production processes across the entire Group, available in the Investor Relations section of the company website. which were accompanied by the development and creation of machinery, utensils and moulds. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Report on operations 91 Internal control system Direction and co-ordination on financial reporting Although Sabaf S.p.A. is controlled by the ultimate parent company, Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A., the Board of Directors holds that the Company is not subject The internal control system on financial reporting is analytically described in the to management and co-ordination of the parent company, since the Board report on corporate governance and on ownership structure. of Directors of Sabaf S.p.A. enjoys complete operating autonomy and does With reference to the “conditions for listing shares of parent companies set not have to justify its actions to the parent company, except at the annual up and regulated by the law of states not belonging to the European Union” Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the annual financial statements and, pursuant to articles 36 and 39 of the Market Regulations, the Company and obviously, in the event of violation of the law and/or the Bylaws. Furthermore, its subsidiaries have administrative and accounting systems that can provide the parent company’s Bylaws explicitly state that it does not manage and cothe public with the accounting situations prepared for drafting the consolidated ordinate the operations of Sabaf S.p.A. report of the companies that fall in the area of this regulation and can supply Sabaf S.p.A. exercises direction and co-ordination activity over its Italian management and the auditors of the Parent Company with the data necessary subsidiaries, Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. and Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l. for drafting the consolidated financial statements. The Sabaf Group has also set up an effective information flow to the independent auditor and continuous information on the composition of the company officers of the subsidiaries, complete with information on the roles covered and requires the systematic and centralized gathering and regular updates of the formal documents relating Infragroup and related-party to the bylaws and granting of powers to company officers. The conditions exist as required by article 36, letters a), b) and c) of the Market Regulations issued transactions by Consob. In the year, no acquisitions were made of companies in countries not Transactions between Group companies, including those with the ultimate belonging to the European Union which, considered independently, would have parent company, are regulated at arm’s length conditions, as are those with a significant relevance for the purposes of the regulation in question. related parties as defined by IAS 24. Details of infragroup and other transactions with related parties are provided in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements and in Note 36 of the annual financial statements of Sabaf S.p.A. Model 231 Fiscal consolidation The Organisation, Management and Control Model, adopted pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, is described in the report on company governance and on the ownership structure, which should be reviewed for reference. In 2013 Sabaf S.p.A. approved the renewal for 2013-2015 of the fiscal consolidation contract with the ultimate parent company Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. and its subsidiaries, Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. and Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l.. Personal data protection For Sabaf Group companies, joining the fiscal consolidation does not imply higher taxes, as it makes no difference if these are paid to the tax authorities With regard to Legislative Decree 196 of 30 June 2003, in 2013 the Group or to its parent company at the expiration dates. Having made the offsets and continued its work to ensure compliance with current regulations. adjustments necessary, the parent company will handle payment and be liable for any damages the subsidiaries may incur for the former’s failure to comply. Derivative financial Major events occurring after instruments year-end and outlook Comments on this item are provided in Note 36 to the consolidated financial No significant events took place subsequent to the end of the year and up to the statements. date of this report that would be considered worthy of mention. At the beginning of this year, European markets have not shown any clear signs Abnormal or unusual of recovery, while the positive sales trend continues in North Africa and South America. In the first two months of 2014, total Group sales were 4% higher than transactions in the same period of 2013. For the full year, based on negotiations concluded with its main customers, Sabaf Group companies did not execute any unusual or abnormal transactions the Group believes that it will be able to register moderate growth in sales in 2013. and profitability compared with 2013. These targets assume a macroeconomic scenario not affected by unpredictable events. If the economic situation were to change significantly, actual figures might diverge from forecasts. Secondary offices Neither Sabaf S.p.A. nor its subsidiaries have secondary offices. Sabaf S.p.A. business and financial status Cash flows during the year are summarised in the following table: in thousands Change Change 2013 2012 of euro 2013/2012 % in thousands of euro 2013 2012 Sales revenue 112,417 116,202 (3,785) -3.3% Cash and cash equiva1,601 9,180 EBITDA 16,902 15,830 +1,072 +6.8% lents – opening balance Operating profit Operating cash flow 17,101 11,226 5,382 3,765 +1,617 +42.9% (EBIT) Cash flow from in(9,217) (15,509) Pre-tax profit 5,718 3,709 +2,009 +54.2% vestments Cash flow from financing (7,140) (3,296) Net profit 3,730 2,236 +1,494 +66.8% activities Cash flow for the period 744 (7,579) Cash and cash equivalents 2,345 1,601 Balance sheet and financial position – closing balance Net financial debt and the net short-term financial position shown in the tables Reclassification based on financial criteria is as shown below: above are defined in compliance with the net financial position detailed in Note 21 of the statutory accounts, as required by the Consob memorandum of 28 in thousands of euro 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 7 July 2006. Non-current assets 84,392 86,498 FY 2013 closed with sales down 3.3% compared with 2012, mainly on account Short-term assets 8 58,478 59,993 of lower sales of burners on the Turkish market, which the Group now provides directly from the Manisa production site. Over the year, however, technical Short-term liabilities 9 (23,882) (23,291) measures put in place, particularly in the production of light alloy valves, led to significant productivity gains. All profitability indicators therefore show a net Working capital 10 34,596 36,702 improvement against 2012: EBITDA came in at €15.8 million, equivalent to Financial assets 1,451 1,516 15% of sales (€15.8 million in 2012, 13.6% of sales), EBIT was €5.4 million, or Provisions for risks, post4.8% of sales (vs. €3.8 million in 2012, 3.2%), and net profit was €3.7 million, employment benefits and (2,928) (2,992) equivalent to 3.3% of sales (€2.2 million in 2012, 1.9%). deferred taxes The actual cost of the main raw materials (brass, aluminium alloys and steel) Net capital employed 117,511 121,724 was on average 5% lower compared to 2012. Net short-term financial The impact of the cost of labour on sales rose from 22.3% in 2012 to 24% in (13,152) (19,956) position 2013, partly following the greater insourcing of some manufacturing phases to Net medium/long-term make better use of production capacity. 0 (317) financial position Net finance expense as a percentage of sales was minimal, at 0.61% (0.67% in 2012), given the low level of financial debt and the low interest rates. Net financial position (13,152) (20,273) Operating cash flow (net profit plus depreciation & amortisation) rose from Shareholders’ equity 104,359 101,451 €12.6 million to €13.6 million, equivalent to 12.1% of sales (vs. 10.9% in 2012). In 2013 SABAF S.p.A. invested over €9 million. The main investments in the year related to the industrialisation of new models of special burners and light alloy valves, sales of which are expected to increase further in the future. 7 Amounts recalculated following the retrospective application of IAS 19 (revised) 8 Sum of inventories, trade receivables, tax credits, and other current receivables 9 Sum of trade payables, tax payables, and other payables 10 Difference between current assets and current liabilities SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Report on operations 93 Working capital amounted to €34.6 million versus €36.7 million in the previous Net financial debt was €13.2 million, compared with €20.3 million at 31 year: as a percentage of sales, it fell to 30.8%, from 31.6% at the end of 2012. December 2012. All financial debt, which partially finances working capital, matures in less than a year. Self-financing generated by operating cash flow totalled €17.1 million versus €11.2 million in 2012, and was boosted by greater profitability and a more Shareholders’ equity amounted to €104.4 million, against €101.5 million at favourable trend in working capital. year-end 2012. The debt/equity ratio was 0.13, compared with 0.20 in 2012. Reconciliation between parent company and consolidated shareholders’ equity and net profit for the period Pursuant to the Consob memorandum of 28 July 2006, below is a reconciliation statement of the results of the 2013 financial year and Group shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2013 with the same values of parent company Sabaf S.p.A.: Description 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Net profit Shareholders’ equity Net profit Shareholders’ equity 11 Net profit and shareholders’ equity of parent com3,730 104,359 2,236 101,450 pany Sabaf S.p.A. Shareholders’ equity and net result of consolidated 4,669 51,614 2,413 50,608 companies Elimination of consolidated equity investments’ 939 (42,165) 1,586 (41,189) carrying value Goodwill 0 4,445 (1,028) 4,445 Equity investments booked at net equity 0 5 0 5 Intercompany eliminations: • Dividends (1,034) 0 (792) 0 • Other intercompany eliminations (200) (303) (219) (95) Group net profit and shareholders’ equity 8,104 117,955 4,196 115,224 Proposal for approval of the financial statements and proposed dividend First and foremost, we would like to thank our employees, the Board of Auditors, the independent auditors and the supervisory authorities for their invaluable cooperation. We recommend approving the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, which closed with a profit of €3,729,628. The Board of Directors proposes the distribution to shareholders of an ordinary dividend of €0.40 per share, excluding treasury shares on the ex-date, by distribution of all the profit for 2013 and, for the remainder, by distribution of part of the extraordinary reserve. The dividend is scheduled for payment on 29 May 2014 (ex-date 26 May 2014 and record date 28 May 2014). Ospitaletto, 20 March 2014 The Board of Directors 11 Amounts recalculated following the application of IAS 19 (Revised) Be grounded C H A P T E R Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2013 Pa ge 95 96 Group structure and corporate bodies 97 Consolidated statement of financial position 98 Consolidated income statement 99 Consolidated comprehensive income statement 99 Statement of changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity 100 Consolidated statement of cash flows 101 Explanatory Notes 129 Certification of the Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 130 Auditors’ report on Consolidated Financial Statements Group structure and corporate bodies Group structure Direct parent company SABAF S.p.A. Subsidiaries and equity interest owned by the Group Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. 100% Sabaf US Corp. 100% Sabaf Appliance Components Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l. 100% (Kunshan) Co. Ltd. 100% Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Sanayi Ve Sabaf do Brasil Ltda. 100% Ticaret Limited Sirteki (Sabaf Turchia) 100% Sabaf Appliance Components Sabaf Mexico S.A. de c.v. 100% Trading (Kunshan) Co. Ltd. 100% Corporate Bodies Board of Directors Chairman Giuseppe Saleri Director * Giuseppe Cavalli Deputy Chairman Cinzia Saleri Director * Leonardo Cossu Deputy Chairman Ettore Saleri Director * Fausto Gardoni Deputy Chairman Gianbattista Saleri Director * Maria Chiara Franceschetti Chief Executive Officer Alberto Bartoli Director * Nicla Picchi Director * Salvatore Bragantini Director * Riccardo Rizza Director * Renato Camodeca Board of Statutory Auditors Independent Auditor Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Chairman Alessandro Busi Statutory Auditor Enrico Broli Statutory Auditor Anna Domenighini * independent directors SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 97 Consolidated statement of financial position in thousands of euro Notes 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 1 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1 75,701 81,438 Investment property 2 7,674 7,393 Intangible assets 3 7,290 7,915 Equity investments 4 905 951 Non-current receivables 5 426 90 Deferred tax assets (prepaid taxes) 21 5,471 4,093 Total non-current assets 97,467 101,880 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 6 28,226 24,036 Trade receivables 7 36,442 37,968 Tax receivables 8 2,595 3,627 Other current receivables 9 874 822 Current financial assets 10 22 0 Cash and cash equivalents 11 5,111 6,137 Total current assets 73,270 72,590 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0 0 TOTAL ASSETS 170,737 174,470 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share capital 12 11,533 11,533 Retained earnings, other reserves 98,318 99,495 Net profit for period 8,104 4,196 Total equity attributable to the Group parent company 117,955 115,224 Minority interest 0 0 Total shareholders’ equity 117,955 115,224 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans 14 3,895 5,259 Post-employment benefit reserve and retirement reserves 16 2,845 2,928 Provisions for risks and contingencies 17 672 632 Deferred tax 21 532 386 Total non-current liabilities 7,944 9,205 CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans 14 17,940 24,641 Other financial liabilities 15 2 33 Trade payables 18 18,963 18,544 Tax payables 19 1,494 806 Other liabilities 20 6,439 6,017 Total current liabilities 44,838 50,041 LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 0 0 TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 170,737 174,470 1 The values were recalculated following the application of IAS 19 (revised), which involves, among other things, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit reserve (Note 16). The change described above led to the restatement of the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2012 approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2014; this restatement implied the booking of an increased post-employment benefit reserve among liabilities of €553,573 and of a negative post-employment benefit evaluation reserve of €401,340 98 Consolidated income statement in thousands of euro Notes 2013 2012 2 CONTINUING OPERATIONS OPERATING REVENUE AND INCOME Revenue 23 130,967 130,733 Other income 24 3,918 3,661 Total operating revenue and income 134,885 134,394 OPERATING COSTS Materials 25 (52,415) (47,748) Change in inventories 4,784 (3,174) Services 26 (30,083) (30,989) Payroll costs 27 (31,339) (29,302) Other operating costs 28 (2,175) (2,424) Costs for capitalised in-house work 915 1,056 Total operating cost (110,313) (112,581) OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE DEPRECIATION & AMORTISATION, CAPITAL GAINS/LOSSES, 24,572 21,813 AND WRITE-DOWNS/WRITE-BACKS OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS Depreciation & Amortisation 1,2,3 (12,856) (12,919) Capital gains/(losses) on disposal of non-current assets 71 54 Write-downs/write-backs of non-current assets 29 (655) (1,028) OPERATING PROFIT 11,132 7,920 Financial income 138 219 Financial expenses 30 (775) (1,162) Foreign exchange gains/losses 31 (186) (293) Profits and losses from equity investments 4 (498) (465) PRE-TAX PROFIT 9,811 6,219 Income tax 32 (1,707) (2,023) Minority interests 0 0 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 8,104 4,196 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) 33 Base €0.715 €0.367 Diluted €0.715 €0.367 2 The change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit reserve pursuant to IAS 19 (revised), as set out in Note 16, did not have an effect on the consolidated income statement SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 99 Consolidated comprehensive income statement in thousands of euro 2013 2012 3 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 8,104 4,196 Overall earnings/losses that will not be subsequently restated under profit (loss) for the period: • Actuarial post-employment benefit reserve evaluation (9) (250) Total (9) (250) Overall earnings/losses that will be subsequently restated under profit (loss) for the period: • Forex differences from translation of items in currency (4,558) (1,488) • Cash hedge flows 21 7 Total (4,537) (1,481) Total profits/(losses) net of taxes for the year (4,546) (1,731) TOTAL PROFITS 3,558 2,465 Statement of changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity Post-emShare Cash flow ployment Total Group Total shain thousands Share Legal Own Conversion Other Net profit Minority premium hedge benefit dishareholreholders’ of euro capital reserve shares reserve reserves for period interest reserve reserves scounting ders’ equity equity reserve Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (328) 1,581 (7) (152) 85,960 10,775 121,671 0 121,671 31.12.2011 4 Allocation of 2011 earnings • dividends paid (6,901) (6,901) (6,901) • carried forward 3,874 (3,874) 0 0 Acquisition own shares (2,011) (2,011) (2,011) Total profit at 31.12.2012 (1,488) 7 (250) 0 4,196 2,465 2,465 Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (2,339) 93 0 (402) 89,834 4,196 115,224 0 115,224 31.12.2012 3 Allocation of 2012 earnings • dividends paid (3,911) (3,911) (3,911) • carried forward 285 (285) 0 0 Purchase/sale own shares 2,334 750 3,084 3,084 Total profit at 31.12.2013 (4,558) 21 (9) 8,104 3,558 3,558 Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (5) (4,465) 21 (411) 90,869 8,104 117,955 0 117,955 31.12.2013 3 The values were recalculated following the application of IAS 19 (revised), which involves, among other things, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit reserve (Note 16). The change described above led to the restatement of the consolidated comprehensive income statement at 31 December 2012 approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2013; this restatement led to the booking of actuarial losses totalling €249,723 on the comprehensive income statement 4 The values were recalculated following the application of the IAS standard 19 (revised), which involves, among other things, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit (Note 16); the change described above led to the restatement of the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2012 approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2013; this restatement implied the booking of a negative post-employment benefit evaluation reserve of €343,609 under shareholders’ equity 100 Consolidated statement of cash flows in thousands of euro 12 M 2013 12 M 2012 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6,137 14,208 Net profit for period 8,104 4,196 Adjustments for: • Depreciation and amortisation 12,856 12,919 • Realised gains/losses (71) (54) • Write-downs of non-current assets 655 1,028 • Losses from equity investments 498 465 • Net financial income and expenses 637 943 • Income tax 1,707 2,023 Change in post-employment benefit reserve (145) (243) Change in general provisions 40 (99) Change in trade receivables 1,526 4,806 Change in inventories (4,190) 2,847 Change in trade payables 419 (9,264) Change in working capital (2,245) (1,611) Change in other receivables and payables, deferred tax liabilities 916 (692) Payment of taxes (2,096) (2,877) Payment of financial expenses (706) (1,054) Collection of financial income 138 219 Cash flow from operations 20,288 15,163 Investments in non-current assets • intangible (535) (778) • tangible (9,491) (13,219) • financial (456) (600) Disposal of non-current assets 242 281 Net investments (10,240) (14,316) Repayment of loans (15,668) (11,627) Raising of loans 7,572 12,556 Short-term financial assets (22) 0 (Purchase)/sale own shares 3,084 (2,011) Payment of dividends (3,911) (6,900) Cash flow from financing activities (8,945) (7,982) Foreign exchange differences (2,129) (936) Net financial flows for the year (1,026) (8,071) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 10) 5,111 6,137 Current net financial debt 17,941 24,674 Non-current financial debt 3,896 5,259 Net financial debt (Note 22) 16,726 23,796 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 101 Explanatory Notes Accounting Standards The investment in subsidiary Sabaf Appliance Components (Kunshan) Co., Ltd., Statement of compliance a company formed in 2009 and which at 31 December 2013 had yet to initiate purchase, production and sales operations, is booked at equity, to reflect the and basis of presentation results of the subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements, which is incurring start-up costs resulting in losses, pending the launch of sales and Consolidated year-end accounts of the Sabaf Group for the financial year 2013 production activity. have been prepared in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Control is the power to directly or indirectly determine the financial and (IASB) and endorsed by the European Union. Reference to IFRS also includes operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. If all current International Accounting Standards (IAS). The financial statements these subsidiaries exercise a significant influence, they are consolidated as have been prepared in euro, the current currency in the economies in which from the date in which control begins until the date in which control ends so the Group mainly operates, rounding amounts to the nearest thousand, and are as to provide a correct representation of the Group’s income, investments and compared with full-year financial statements for the previous year, prepared cash flow. according to the same standards. The report consists of the statement of financial position, the income statement, the statement of changes in Sabaf Mexico and Sabaf U.S. have not been consolidated since they are shareholders’ equity, the cash flow statement, and these explanatory notes. immaterial for the purposes of consolidation. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical-cost basis except for some revaluations of property, plant and equipment undertaken in previous years, and is considered a going concern. The Group found that, despite the difficult economic and business climate, there were no significant uncertainties Consolidation policies (as defined by paragraphs 25 and 26 of IAS 1) on the continuity of the Company, The data used for consolidation have been taken from the income statements including due to the strong competitive position, high profitability and solidity and balance sheets prepared by the directors of individual subsidiary companies. of the financial structure. These figures have been appropriately amended and restated, when necessary, to align them with international accounting standards and with uniform groupwide classification policies. Financial statements The policies applied for consolidation are as follows: a) Assets and liabilities, income and costs in financial statements consolidated The Group has adopted the following formats: on a 100% line-by-line basis are incorporated into the Group financial • current and non-current assets and current and non-current liabilities are stated statements, regardless of the entity of the equity interest concerned. In separately in the statement of financial position; addition, the carrying value of equity interests is eliminated against the • an income statement that expresses costs using a classification based on shareholders’ equity relating to subsidiary companies. the nature of each item; b) Positive differences arising from elimination of equity investments against the • a comprehensive income statement that expresses revenue and expense carrying value of shareholders’ equity at the date of first-time consolidation items not recognised in profit (loss) for the year as required or permitted are attributed to the higher values of assets and liabilities when possible and, by IFRS; for the remainder, to goodwill. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3, • a cash flow statement that presents financial flows originating from operating the Group has changed the accounting treatment of goodwill on a prospective activity, using the indirect method. basis as from the transition date. Therefore, since 1 January 2004, the Group Use of these formats permits the most meaningful representation of the Group’s has not amortised goodwill and instead subjects it to impairment testing. capital, business, and financial status. c) Payable/receivable and cost/revenue items between consolidated companies and profits/losses arising from intercompany transactions are eliminated. d) If minority shareholders exist, the portion of shareholders’ equity and net Scope of consolidation profit for the period pertaining to them is posted in specific items of the consolidated balance sheet and income statement. The scope of consolidation at 31 December 2013 comprises the direct parent company Sabaf S.p.A. and the following companies that Sabaf S.p.A. controls: • Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. • Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l. • Sabaf do Brasil L.tda. • Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirteki (Sabaf Turkey) • Sabaf Appliance Components Trading (Kunshan) Co., Ltd. 102 Conversion into euro of foreign-currency income statements and balance sheets Separate financial statements of each company belonging to the Group are items are converted at average exchange rates for the year. prepared in the currency of the country in which that company operates Foreign exchange differences arising from the comparison between opening (functional currency). For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, shareholders’ equity converted at current exchange rates and at historical each company’s financial statements are expressed in euro, which is the exchange rates, together with the difference between the net result expressed Group’s functional currency and the reporting currency for the consolidated at average and current exchange rates, are allocated to “Other Reserves” in financial statements. shareholders’ equity. Balance-sheet items in accounts expressed in currencies other than euro are Exchange rates used for conversion into euro of Sabaf do Brasil’s annual report converted by applying current end-of-year exchange rates. Income-statement and accounts, prepared in Brazilian real, are in the following table: Average exchange rate Average exchange rate Currency Exchange rate at 31.12.13 Exchange rate at 31.12.12 2013 2012 Brazilian real 3.2576 2.8687 2.7036 2.5084 Turkish lira 2.9605 2.5335 2.3551 2.3136 Chinese Renminbi 8.3491 8.1650 8.2207 8.1058 Reconciliation between parent company and consolidated shareholders’ equity and net profit for the year Description 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Shareholders’ Net profit Shareholders’ equity Net profit equity 5 Net profit and shareholders’ equity 3,730 104,359 2,236 101,450 of parent company Sabaf S.p.A. Shareholders’ equity and net result of consolidated companies 4,669 51,614 2,413 50,608 Elimination of consolidated equity investments’ carrying value 939 (42,165) 1,586 (41,189) Goodwill 0 4,445 (1,028) 4,445 Equity investments booked at net equity 0 5 0 5 Intercompany eliminations: • Dividends (1,034) 0 (792) 0 • Other intercompany eliminations (200) (303) (219) (95) Group net profit and shareholders’ equity 8,104 117,955 4,196 115,224 Segment reporting Accounting policies The Group’s operating segments in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating The accounting standards and policies applied for the preparation of the Segment are identified in the business segments that generate revenue and consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2013, unchanged versus costs, whose results are periodically reassessed by top management in order the previous year, with the exception of the retrospective application of IAS 19 to assess performance and decisions regarding resource allocation. The Group (revised) described in Note 16, are reported below: operating segments are the following: • gas components • hinges 5 Amounts recalculated following the application of IAS 19 (Revised) SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 103 Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets These assets are reported at purchase or construction cost. The cost includes As established by IAS 38, other intangible assets acquired or internally produced directly attributable accessory costs. These costs also include revaluations are recognised as assets when it is probable that use of the asset will generate undertaken in the past based on monetary revaluation rules or pursuant to future economic benefits and when asset cost can be measured reliably. When company mergers. Depreciation is calculated according to rates deemed it is considered that these future economic benefits will not be generated, the appropriate to spread the carrying value of tangible assets over their useful development costs are written down in the year in which this is ascertained. working life. Estimated useful working life, in years, is as follows: Such assets are measured at purchase or production cost and if the assets concerned have a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over Buildings 33 their estimated useful life. The useful life of projects for which development costs are capitalised is Light constructions 10 estimated to be 10 years. General plant 10 The SAP management system is amortised over five years. Plant and machinery 6 10 Equipment 4 10 Impairment of value Furniture 8 At each balance-sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets to see whether there are signs of impairment of the Electronic equipment 5 value of these assets. If such signs exist, the recoverable value is estimated in order to determine the write-down amount. If it is not possible to estimate Vehicles and other transport means 4-5 recoverable value individually, the Group estimates the recoverable value of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. Ordinary maintenance costs are expensed in the year they are incurred; costs In particular, the recoverable value of the cash generating units (which generalthat increase the asset value or useful working life are capitalised and deprely coincide with the legal entity which the capitalised assets refer to) is verified ciated according to the residual possibility of utilisation of the assets to which by determining the value of use. The recoverable amount is the higher between they refer. the net selling price and value in use. In measuring the value of use, future Land is not depreciated. cash flows net of taxes, estimated based on past experience, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax rate that reflects fair market valuations of the present cost of money and specific asset risk. The assumptions used for Leased assets calculating the value of use concerns the discount rate, growth rate, expected changes in selling prices and cost trends during the period used for calculaAssets acquired via finance lease contracts are accounted for using the tion, during the period used for the calculation. The growth rates adopted are financial method and are reported with assets at their purchase value, less based on future market expectations in the relevant sector. Changes in the depreciation. Depreciation of such assets is reflected in the consolidated annual sale prices are based on past experience and on the expected future changes financial statements applying the same policy followed for Company-owned in the market. The Group prepares operating cash flow forecasts based on the property, plant and equipment. Set against recognition of such assets, the most recent budgets approved by the Boards of Directors of the consolidated amounts payable to the financial lessor are posted among shortand medium-/ companies, draws up four-year forecasts and determines the terminal value long-term payables. In addition, finance charges pertaining to the period are (current value of perpetual income), which expresses the medium and long charged to the income statement. term operating flows in the specific sector. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be lower than its carrying value, the asset’s carrying value is reduced to the lower recoverable Goodwill amount, recognising impairment of value in the income statement. When there is no longer any reason for a write-down to be maintained, the Goodwill is the difference between the purchase price and fair value of subsidiary carrying value of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the new value stemming companies’ identifiable assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition. from the estimate of its recoverable amount – but not beyond the net carrying As regards acquisitions completed prior to the date of IFRS adoption, the Sabaf value that the asset would have had if it had not been written down for imGroup has used the option provided by IFRS 1 to refrain from applying IFRS 3 – pairment of value. Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in the concerning business combinations – to acquisitions that took place prior to the income statement. transition date. Consequently, goodwill arising in relation to past acquisitions has not been recalculated and has been posted in accordance with Italian GAAPs, net of amortisation reported up to 31 December 2003 and any losses caused by a permanent value impairment. After the transition date, goodwill – as an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life – is not amortised but subjected annually to impairment testing to check for value loss, or more frequently if there are signs that the asset may have suffered impairment. 104 Investment property Current financial assets As allowed by IAS 40, non-operating buildings and constructions are assessed Financial assets held for trading are measured at the fair value, allocating profit at cost net of depreciation and losses due to cumulative impairment of value. and loss effects to finance income or expense. The depreciation criterion applied is the asset’s estimated useful life, which is considered to be 33 years. If the recoverable amount of investment property – determined based on the Reserves for risks and contingencies market value of the real estate – is estimated to be lower than its carrying value, the asset’s carrying value is reduced to the lower recoverable amount, Reserves for risks and contingencies are provisioned to cover losses and debts, recognising impairment of value in the income statement. the existence of which is certain or probable, but whose amount or date of When there is no longer any reason for a write-down to be maintained, the occurrence cannot be determined at the end of the year. Provisions are stated carrying value of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the new value stemming in the statement of financial position only when a legal or implicit obligation from the estimate of its recoverable amount – but not beyond the net carrying exists that determines the use of resources with an impact on profit and loss to value that the asset would have had if it had not been written down for meet that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. If the impact is impairment of value. Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in major, provisions are calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows at the income statement. an estimated pre-tax discount rate such as to reflect fair market valuations of the present cost of money and specific risks associated with the liability. Equity investments and non-current receivables Post-employment benefit reserve The investment in subsidiary Sabaf Appliance Components (Kunshan) Co., Ltd., a company formed in 2009 and which at 31 December 2013 had yet to initiate The reserve is provisioned to cover the entire liability accruing vis-à-vis purchase, production and sales operations, is booked at equity, to reflect in employees in compliance with current legislation and with national and the consolidated financial statements the results of the subsidiary, which is supplementary company collective labour contracts. This liability is subject incurring start-up costs resulting in losses, pending the launch of production. to revaluation via application of indices fixed by current regulations. Until 31 Other equity investments not classified as held for sale are stated in the December 2006, post-employment benefits were considered to be a definedaccounts at cost, reduced for impairment. The original value is written back in benefit plan and accounted for in compliance with IAS 19, using the projected subsequent years if the reasons for write-down cease to exist. unit-credit method. The regulation of this fund was changed by Law 296 of 27 Non-current receivables are stated at their presumed realisable value. December 2006 as amended by subsequent decrees and laws passed in early 2007. In light of these changes, and, in particular, for companies with at least 50 employees, post-employment benefits must now be considered a definedbenefit plan only for the portions accruing before 1 January 2007 (and not Inventories yet paid as at balance-sheet). Conversely, portions accruing after that date are Inventories are measured at the lower out of purchase or production cost treated as defined-contribution plans. Until 31 December 2012, actuarial gains determined according to the weighted average cost method and the and losses were accounted for using the “corridor method”; from 1 January corresponding fair value consisting of replacement cost for purchased materials 2013, following the revision of IAS 19, actuarial gains and losses are posted and of the presumed realisable value for finished and semi-processed products immediately to “Other comprehensive income/(losses)”, as described in more calculated taking into account any conversion costs and direct selling costs yet detail under “New accounting standards”. to be incurred. Inventory cost includes accessory costs and the portion of direct and indirect manufacturing costs that can reasonably be assigned to inventory items. Obsolete or slow-moving stocks are written down according to their Payables possibility of use or realisation or recovery. Inventory write-downs are eliminated in subsequent years if the reasons for such write-downs cease to exist. Payables are recognised at the face value. The portion of interest included in their face value and not yet payable at period-end is deferred to future periods. Receivables Loans Receivables are recognised at their presumed realisable value. Their face value is adjusted to a lower realisable value via specific provisioning directly reducing Loans are initially recognised at cost, net of related costs of acquisition. This the item based on in-depth analysis of individual positions. Trade receivables value is subsequently adjusted to allow for any difference between initial cost assigned on a no-recourse basis, even though they have been transferred in and repayment value over the loan’s duration using the effective interest-rate legal terms, continue to be recognised among “Trade receivables” until the time method. of related cash-in, which is never in advance of the due date with respect to the Loans are classified among current liabilities unless the Group has the expiration date. Trade receivables overdue or assigned on a no-recourse basis unconditional right to defer discharge of a liability by at least 12 months after are recognised with “other current receivables”. the date of reference. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 105 Policy for conversion of foreign-currency items Revenue recognition Receivables and payables originally expressed in foreign currencies are Revenue is reported net of return sales, discounts, allowances and bonuses, converted into euro at the exchange rates in force on the date of the transactions as well as of the taxes directly associated with sale of goods and rendering of originating them. Forex differences realised upon collection of receivables and services. payment of payables in foreign currency are posted in the income statement. Sales revenue is reported when the company has transferred the significant Income and costs relating to foreign-currency transactions are converted at the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods and the amount of rate in force on transaction date. revenue can be reliably measured. At year-end, assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies, with the Revenue of a financial nature is reported on an accrual-accounting basis. exception of non-current items, are posted at the spot exchange rate in force at year-end and related foreign exchange gains and losses are posted in the income statement. If conversion generates a net gain, this value constitutes a Financial income non-distributable reserve until it is effectively realised. Finance income includes interest receivable on funds invested and income from financial instruments, when not offset as part of hedging transactions. Interest income is recognised in the income statement when it accrues, considering Derivative instruments and hedge accounting effective yield. The Group’s business is exposed to financial risks relating to changes in exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. The company uses derivative instruments (mainly forward contracts on currencies and commodity Financial expenses options) to hedge risks stemming from changes in foreign currencies relating to irrevocable commitments or to future transactions planned. Financial expense includes interest payable on financial debt calculated using The Group does not use derivatives for trading purposes. the effective interest method and bank expenses. Derivatives are initially recognised at cost and are then adjusted to the fair value on subsequent closing dates. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and recognised as effective Income taxes for the year for hedging future cash flows relating to the Group’s contractual commitments and planned transactions are recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, while Income taxes include all taxes calculated on the Group’s taxable income. Income the ineffective portion is immediately posted in the income statement. If the taxes are directly recognised in the income statement, with the exception of contractual commitments or planned transactions materialise in the recognition those concerning items directly debited or credited to shareholders’ equity, in of assets or liabilities, when such assets or liabilities are recognised, the gains which case the tax effect is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity. Other or losses on the derivative that were directly recognised in equity are factored taxes not relating to income, such as property taxes, are included among back into the initial valuation of the cost of acquisition or carrying value of the operating expenses. Deferred taxes are provisioned according to the global asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that do not lead to recognition of assets liability provisioning method. They are calculated on all temporary differences or liabilities, the amounts that were directly recognised in equity are included emerging between the taxable base of an asset and liability and its book value in the income statement in the same period when the contractual commitment in the consolidated balance sheet, with the exception of goodwill that is not or planned transaction hedged impacts profit and loss – for example, when a tax-deductible and of differences stemming from investments in subsidiaries planned sale actually takes place. for which cancellation is not envisaged in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax For effective hedges of exposure to changes in fair value, the item hedged assets on unused tax losses and tax credits carried forward are recognised to is adjusted for the changes in the fair value attributable to the risk hedged the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against and recognised in the income statement. Gains and losses stemming from the which they can be recovered. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities derivative’s valuation are also posted in the income statement. are offset when income taxes are levied by the same tax authority and when Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments there is a legal right to settle on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement in the period when they occur. are measured using the tax rates that are expected to be applicable, according Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is to the respective regulations of the countries where the Group operates, in the sold or is exercised, or when it no longer qualifies as a hedge. At this time, years when temporary differences will be realised or settled. the cumulative gains or losses of the hedging instrument recognised in equity are kept in the latter until the planned transaction actually takes place. If the transaction hedged is not expected to take place, cumulative gains or losses Dividends recognised directly in equity are transferred to the year’s income statement. Embedded derivatives included in other financial instruments or contracts are Dividends are posted on an accrual basis when the right to receive them treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not materialises, i.e. when shareholders approve dividend distribution. strictly related to those of their host contracts and the latter are not measured at fair value with posting of related gains and losses in the income statement. The entry into force of IFRS 13, applicable from 1 January 2013, did not have an impact on the calculation of the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding. 106 Employee benefits Own shares The current value of liabilities for employee benefits depends on a series of Own shares are booked as a reduction of shareholders’ equity. The carrying factors determined using actuarial techniques based on certain assumptions. value of own shares and revenues from any subsequent sales are recognised in Assumptions concern the discount rate, estimates of future salary increases, the form of changes in shareholders’ equity. and mortality and resignation rates. Any change in the abovementioned assumptions could have significant effects on liabilities for pension benefits. Income tax Earnings per share The Group is subject to different bodies of tax legislation on income. Determining Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the direct liabilities for Group taxes requires the use of management valuations in relation parent company’s shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary to transactions whose tax implications are not certain on the balance sheet date. shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the Furthermore, the valuation of deferred taxes is based on income expectations profit or loss attributable to the direct parent company’s shareholders by the for future years; the valuation of expected income depends on factors that could weighted average number of shares outstanding, adjusted to take into account change over time and have a significant effect on the valuation of deferred tax the effects of all potential ordinary shares with dilutive effects. assets. Other provisions and reserves In estimating the risk of potential liabilities from disputes, management relies Use of estimates on communications regarding the status of recovery procedures and disputes Preparation of the financial statements and notes in accordance with IFRS from the lawyers who represent the Group in litigation. These estimates are requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the determined taking into account the gradual development of the disputes, carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosures on contingent considering existing exemptions. assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet date. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates are used to measure tangible and intangible Estimates and assumptions are regularly reviewed and the effects of each assets subject to impairment testing, as described earlier, as well as to measure change immediately reflected in the income statement. credit risks, inventory obsolescence, depreciation and amortisation, asset writedowns, employee benefits, taxes, other provisions and reserves, and electricity equalisation costs for previous years. Specifically: Recoverable value of tangible and intangible assets The procedure for determining impairment of value in tangible and intangible assets described under “Impairment of value“ implies – in estimating the value of use – the use of the Business Plan of subsidiaries, which are based on a series of assumptions and hypotheses relating to future events and actions of the subsidiaries’ management bodies, which may not necessarily come about. In estimating market value, however, assumptions are made on the expected trend in trading between third parties based on historical trends, which may not actually be repeated. Provisions for credit risks Credit is adjusted by the related provision for doubtful accounts to take into account its recoverable value. To determine the size of the write-downs, management must make subjective assessments based on the documentation and information available regarding, among other things, the customer’s solvency, as well as experience and historical payment trends. Provisions for inventory obsolescence Warehouse inventories subject to obsolescence and slow turnover are systematically valued, and written down if their recoverable value is less than their carrying value. Write-downs are calculated based on management assumptions and estimates, resulting from experience and historical results. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 107 New accounting standards Accounting standards and amendments not yet applicable and not adopted in advance by the Group Accounting standards and amendments applicable On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued the standard IFRS 10 – Consolidated from 1 January 2013 Financial Statements, which will replace SIC-12 Consolidation – SpecialOn 16 June 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 – Employee purpose entities and parts of IAS 27 – Consolidated and separate financial Benefits, which eliminates the option to defer the recognition of actuarial gains statements, which will be renamed Separate financial statements, and will and losses with the corridor method, requiring that all actuarial gains or losses regulate the accounting treatment of equity investments in the separate be immediately recognised under “Other comprehensive income” so that the financial statements. The main changes established by the new standard are whole net amount of defined-benefit funds (net of assets servicing the plan) as follows: be recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The amendments also According to IFRS 10, there is a single underlying principle regarding the require the change from one year to the next in the defined-benefit fund and consolidation of all types of entity, which is based on control. This change the assets servicing the plan to be broken down into three components: cost removes the inconsistency seen between the previous IAS 27 (based on components arising from employees providing service must be recognised control) and SIC 12 (based on the transfer of risks and benefits); in the income statement as “service costs”; net financial charges calculated A more solid definition of control has been introduced, based on three applying the appropriate discount rate to the net balance of the definedfactors: (a) power over the acquired company; (b) exposure or rights to benefit fund, net of assets arising at the start of the year, must be recognised variable returns resulting from involvement therewith; (c) ability to affect the in the income statement as such, actuarial gains and losses resulting from size of these returns by exercising power; the remeasurement of assets and liabilities must be recognised under “Other IFRS 10 requires that, to assess if it has control over an acquired company, comprehensive income”. Furthermore, the interest on assets included under an investor is focused on the assets that significantly influence its returns; net financial charges as indicated above must be calculated on the basis of the IFRS 10 requires that, in assessing the existence of control, only substantive discount rate of liabilities and no longer on the expected return on the assets. rights are considered, i.e. those that are exercisable in practice when Finally, the amendment introduced new information to be provided in the decisions relevant to the acquired company must be taken; Explanatory Notes to the Financial Statements. The amendment is applicable IFRS 10 provides practical support guides to assess if control exists in retrospectively. complex situations, such as de facto control, potential voting rights, situations For the situations as of 31 December 2012, presented for comparative purposes in which it is necessary to establish if those with decision-making power are in these consolidated financial statements, the accumulated actuarial losses in acting as agent or principal, etc. the previous fiscal years were therefore reclassified with a shareholders’ equity In general terms, IFRS 10 requires a significant degree of judgement over a reserve created and named the post-employment benefit reserve, while the number of aspects relating to its application. The standard is to be applied results for the year were booked under “actuarial gains and losses” on the retrospectively from 1 January 2014. The adoption of this standard will not have comprehensive income statement. The accounting effects resulting from the any impact on the scope of consolidation. change described above, which had no impact on consolidated profit for the year, are shown under Note 16. As the effect is considered immaterial, the On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued standard IFRS 11 – Joint arrangements, column of restated figures to 1 January 2012 was not prepared, as permitted which will replace IAS 31 – Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 – Jointby the standard. controlled entities – Non-monetary contributions by Venturers. Without prejudice to the criteria to identify the presence of joint control, the new standard provides On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued the standard IFRS 13 – Fair value measurement, the criteria for the accounting treatment of joint arrangements based on rights which defines a single framework for fair value measurements required or allowed and obligations resulting from agreements rather than their legal form, and by other standards and the related disclosures in the accounting statements. Fair establishes the equity method as the only method of accounting for interests value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in joint ventures in consolidated financial statements. According to IFRS 11, in an orderly transaction between market participants on the valuation date. the existence of a separate vehicle is not a sufficient condition to classify a This standard must be applied prospectively. The Group has considered the effects joint arrangement as a joint venture. The new standard is to be applied resulting from the application of this standard and does not consider them to be retrospectively from 1 January 2014. Following the issuing of the standard, significant. IAS 28 – Investments in Associates has been amended to include interests in joint ventures in its scope from the date the standard becomes effective. The On 16 December 2011, the IASB issued some amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial adoption of this standard will not have any impact on the scope of consolidation. instruments: disclosures (par. 13A-13F). The amendment requires disclosure on the effects or potential effects of offsetting financial assets and liabilities on On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued standard IFRS 12 – Disclosure of interests a company’s statement of financial position in applying IAS 32. The information in other entities, a new and complete standard on the additional information to must be provided retrospectively. The application of the amendments did not be provided in the consolidated financial statements for every type of interest, have any effect on these consolidated financial statements. including those in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, affiliates, special purpose vehicles and other non-consolidated entities. The standard is to be applied On 16 June 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation retrospectively from 1 January 2014. of financial statements to require companies to group all the components presented under “Other comprehensive income” according to whether or not they can subsequently be reclassified to the income statement. The related taxes must be allocated on the same basis. The consolidated comprehensive income statement was consequently adjusted. Comments on significant balance sheet items 1. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Assets under Property Plant and equipment Other assets Total construction COST At 31 December 2011 49,138 155,455 29,494 3,071 237,158 Increases 2,951 5,520 2,018 2,730 13,219 Disposals (804) (344) (8) (1,156) Reclassifications 1,403 1,162 37 (2,612) (10) Forex differences (310) (664) (197) 46 (1,125) At 31 December 2012 53,182 160,669 31,008 3,227 248,086 Increases 211 4,853 2,690 737 8,491 Disposals (1,671) (352) (16) (2,039) Reclassifications 1,533 357 (1,890) Forex differences (1,507) (1,478) (377) (117) (3,479) At 31 December 2013 51,886 163,906 33,326 1,941 251,059 Accumulated depreciation At 31 December 2011 9,964 122,108 24,317 156,389 Depreciation of the year 1,408 8,137 2,215 11,760 Eliminations for disposals (709) (274) (983) Reclassifications 7 35 12 54 Forex differences (48) (383) (141) (572) At 31 December 2012 11,331 129,188 26,129 166,648 Depreciation of the year 1,472 7,707 2,453 11,632 Eliminations for disposals (1,617) (311) (1,928) Reclassifications 6 15 37 58 Forex differences (106) (690) (256) (1,052) At 31 December 2013 12,703 134,603 28,052 175,358 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 39,183 29,303 5,274 1,941 75,701 At 31 December 2012 41,851 31,481 4,879 3,227 81,438 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 109 The breakdown of the net carrying value of Property was as follows: The main investments in the year related to the industrialisation of new models 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change of special burners and light alloy valves, sales of which are expected to increase further in the future. Production capacity was also increased at the plants in Land 6,838 7,150 (312) Turkey and Brazil, in light of expectations of further growth in the markets served by these sites. Furthermore, investments were made in maintenance and Industrial buildings 32,345 34,701 (2,356) replacement, mainly in the die-casting division, to ensure plant, machinery and Total 39,183 41,851 (2,668) moulds remain efficient. At 31 December 2013, the Group found no endogenous or exogenous indicators The carrying value of industrial property includes an amount of €7,457,000 of impairment of its property, plant and equipment. As a result, the value of (€7,744,000 at 31 December 2012) relating to industrial buildings and related property, plant and equipment was not submitted to impairment testing. land held under finance leases. 2. INVESTMENT PROPERTY COST At 31 December 2011 12,257 Increases Disposals At 31 December 2012 12,257 Increases 1,000 Disposals At 31 December 2013 13,257 Accumulated depreciation At 31 December 2011 4,631 Depreciation of the year 233 Write-downs for impairment Eliminations for disposals At 31 December 2012 4,864 Depreciation of the year 335 Write-downs for impairment 384 Eliminations for disposals At 31 December 2013 5,583 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 7,674 At 31 December 2012 7,393 This entry includes non-instrumental property belonging to the Group. This is In 2013 the Group adjusted the carrying value of investment property to market mainly property for residential use reserved for lease or sale. values, resulting in a write-down of €384,000. 110 3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Patents, software and Other intangible Goodwill Development costs Total know-how assets COST At 31 December 2011 9,008 5,272 3,448 546 18,274 Increases 451 531 12 994 Decreases (4) (214) (218) At 31 December 2012 9,008 5,729 3,765 558 19,060 Increases 85 405 45 535 Reclassifications 73 (64) (9) Decreases (2) (272) (2) (276) Forex differences (8) (8) At 31 December 2013 9,008 5,877 3,834 592 19,311 Amortisation/Write-downs At 31 December 2011 3,535 4,137 1,103 417 9,192 Amortisation 2012 620 274 33 927 Write-downs 1,028 1,028 Decreases (2) (2) At 31 December 2012 4,563 4,757 1,377 450 11,145 Amortisation 2013 568 291 20 879 Decreases (2) (2) Forex differences (2) (2) At 31 December 2013 4,563 5,320 1,668 470 12,021 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 4,445 557 2,166 122 7,290 At 31 December 2012 4,445 974 2,388 108 7,915 Goodwill The Group verifies the ability to recover goodwill at least once a year or more Despite higher sales (€6.6 million, an increase of 8.9% on 2012 and slightly frequently if there may be value impairment. Recoverable value is determined ahead of budget), the Hinges CGU posted a negative result again in 2013, with a through value of use, by discounting expected cash flows. Goodwill booked in net loss of €328,000. With the introduction of new products, the Group incurred the balance sheet mainly arises from acquisition of Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. and start-up costs, and operational efficiency was only gradually achieved over the is allocated to the “Hinges” CGU (cash generating unit). year. In addition, current production volumes ate still insufficient to sustain fixed SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 111 costs. To relaunch the CGU, the Group considers it necessary to boost the sales only 75% of flows related to new products. The 75% weighting was set by of high value-added special products; to this end, it has recently developed management based on the probability of success of the new products the products that guarantee performance not currently available on the market Group intends to introduce, taking into account the extent of completion (such as oven-door hinges with shock-absorbing springs, and hinges for of the development projects (the majority of which are already concluded) particularly heavy doors), and has initiated numerous contacts with customers and the level of progress of commercial negotiations (in the finalisation to launch these products. The 2014-2018 plan, drawn up at the end of 2013, period for significant volumes of incremental sales). The impairment test projects a recovery in sales and profitability, to which the new products will was conducted prudently considering this last scenario, inasmuch as it is make an essential contribution. considered achievable based on the abovementioned considerations. At 31 December 2013, the Group tested the carrying value of its Hinges CGU for impairment, determining its recoverable value, considered to be equivalent to Cash flows for the period 2014-2018 were augmented by the so-called its usable value, by discounting expected future cash flow. However, given that terminal value, which expresses the operating flows that the CGU is expected there are various elements of uncertainty implicit in realising this plan, and in to generate from the sixth year to infinity. Value in use was calculated based line with the evaluations conducted on 31 December 2012, it was considered on a discount rate (WACC) of 8.62% (8.52% in the impairment test conducted preferable to prepare a multi-scenario analysis, which contemplates the for preparation of the financial statements at 31 December 2012) and a growth following three hypotheses: rate (g) of 1.50%, which is in line with historical data. a “best estimate” scenario, which coincides with the subsidiary’s plan and The recoverable value determined based on the assumptions and assessment considers 100% of flows arising from new products; techniques mentioned above is €7.812 million, compared with a carrying value a “steady state” scenario (or “worst case”), which completely excludes flows of the assets allocated to the Hinges CGU of €7.251 million; consequently, it of new products and hypothesizes the continuation of the present state; was not necessary to carry out write-downs in these consolidated financial an intermediate scenario, which incorporates the realisation risk and considers statements. Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the changes in recoverable value depending on changes in the WACC discount rate and growth factor g, also in the “best estimate” and “steady state” scenarios: Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 best estimate steady state intermediate millions of euro growth rate growth rate growth rate discount rate 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 7.62% 11.4 11.8 12.2 2.5 2.5 2.6 9.0 9.3 9.7 8.12% 10.4 10.8 11.1 2.3 2.4 2.4 8.2 8.5 8.8 8.62% 9.6 9.9 10.2 2.2 2.2 2.3 7.6 7.8 8.1 9.12% 8.9 9.1 9.4 2.1 2.1 2.2 7.0 7.2 7.4 9.62% 8.3 8.5 8.7 2.0 2.0 2.1 6.5 6.7 6.9 The table shows that the recoverable value is highly sensitive to changes in impairment. Given the uncertainty of any process estimating future events not the discount rate, the growth rate and the success of initiatives undertaken dependent on variables that can be controlled, the directors will systematically to improve the product range and adapt the production process, which is also monitor the actual balance sheet and income statement data of the CGU to conditioned by factors that cannot be controlled by the Group. The Board of assess the need to adjust forecasts and at the same time reflect any further Directors cannot therefore rule out that, in the future, the final profitability losses in value. figure may diverge from that set out in forward data, requiring further goodwill Patents, software and know-how Development costs Software investments relate to the extension of the application area and the The main investments in the year related to the development of new products, companies covered by the Group’s management system (SAP). including high-efficiency dual burners (research and development activities conducted over the year are set out in the Report on Operations). Over the year, development costs were written down to the tune of €271,000, since they related to projects that have been abandoned (Note 29). 112 4. EQUITY INVESTMENTS Gains (losses) Capital Forex 31.12.2012 Purchases from equity 31.12.2013 increases differences investments Sabaf Appliance Components (Kunshan) 231 450 (498) (4) 179 Sabaf Mexico 548 548 Sabaf US 139 139 Other shareholdings 33 6 39 Total 951 6 450 (498) (4) 905 The value of the equity investment in Sabaf Appliance Components (Kunshan) Sabaf Mexico and Sabaf U.S. were not consolidated since they are immaterial increased by €450,000 owing to capital increases made in the period, and was for the purposes of consolidation and are valued at cost. At 31 December 2013, reduced by €498,000 following the valuation at equity of the stake. The loss the Group found no endogenous or exogenous indicators of impairment for these relates to the operating costs sustained by the company pending the launch of equity investments. production activity on the local market. 5. NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Variazione Tax receivables 396 35 361 Guarantee deposits 28 42 (14) Others 2 13 (11) Total 426 90 336 Tax receivables relate to indirect taxes expected to be recovered after 2014. 6. INVENTORIES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Raw materials 9,273 9,239 34 Semi-processed goods 11,276 9,534 1,742 Finished products 9,977 7,524 2,453 Obsolescence provision (2,300) (2,261) (39) Total 28,226 24,036 4,190 The value of inventory at 31 December 2013 increased following the production versus the previous year, reflects the improved estimate of the obsolescence plant in Turkey became fully operational, and on the back of greater demand for risk, based on specific analyses conducted at the end of the year on slowand consignment stock from customers and a higher than expected drop in sales in non-moving products. the last few months of the year. The obsolescence provision, broadly unchanged SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 113 7. TRADE RECEIVABLES The geographical breakdown of trade receivables was as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Italy 15,944 17,739 (1,795) Western Europe 4,957 2,146 2,811 Eastern Europe and Turkey 5,522 9,649 (4,127) Asia and Oceania 5,313 5,122 191 South America 4,364 3,202 1,162 Africa 675 832 (157) US, Canada & Mexico 1,542 714 828 Gross total 38,317 39,404 (1,087) Provision for doubtful accounts (1,875) (1,436) (439) Net total 36,442 37,968 (1,526) At 31 December 2013 the value of trade receivables was down against the The amount of trade receivables recognised in the financial statements incluprevious year, following the significant decrease in sales in the last quarter. des €8.8 million of receivables assigned on a no-recourse basis (€11.4 million At 31 December 2013, trade receivables included balances of approximately at 31 December 2012). The doubtful account provision recognised at the start USD 4.5 million, posted at the €/USD exchange rate as at 31 December 2013, of the year was partially used (in the amount of €790,000) for the losses on i.e. 1.3791. receivables which the Company incurred during 2013; at 31 December 2013 the fund was adjusted to reflect the best estimate of credit risk. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Current receivables (not past due) 30,836 30,117 719 Outstanding up to 30 days 2,833 3,477 (644) Outstanding from 30 to 60 days 1,087 678 409 Outstanding from 60 to 90 days 666 814 (148) Outstanding over 90 days 2,895 4,318 (1,423) Total 38,317 39,404 (1,087) Of the receivables assigned on a non-recourse basis, €8.5 million are booked under “current receivables” and €0.3 million under “outstanding up to 30 days”. 114 8. TAX RECEIVABLES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change From Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. for IRES 1,287 1,694 (407) From inland revenue for VAT 430 427 3 From inland revenue for IRAP 1 30 (29) Other tax receivables 877 1,475 (598) Total 2,595 3,626 (1,031) As from the financial year 2004, the Italian companies of the Group took part portion of Italian regional production tax (IRAP) paid on personnel costs and in the national tax consolidation scheme (Group taxation) pursuant to articles similar for the period 2006-2011 is fully deductible from corporate income 117/129 of the Unified Income Tax Law. This option was renewed in 2013 tax (IRES). The consolidating company has presented a refund request for this for another three years. In this scheme, Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A., the parent receivable, which it will reimburse to the companies of the Sabaf Group for the company of Sabaf S.p.A., acts as the consolidating company. portion relating to them as soon as it has received the refund. At 31 December 2013, the receivable from Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. includes, Other tax receivables mainly refer to receivables in respect of indirect Brazilian in the amount of €1,159,000, the receivable originating from the fact that the and Turkish taxes. 9. OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Receivables from suppliers 169 35 134 Receivables from factoring companies 157 167 (10) Advances to suppliers 70 62 8 Others 478 558 (80) Total 874 822 52 10. CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Derivative instruments on interest rates 22 22 Total 22 0 22 This item includes the positive fair value of a USD 510,000 forward sale contract maturing on 30 June 2014 (Note 36). 11. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents, which amounted to €5,111,000 at 31 December 2013 (€6,137,000 at 31 December 2012) consisted of bank current-account balances of approximately €4.5 million and sight deposits of €0.6 million. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 115 12. SHARE CAPITAL 15. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The parent company’s share capital consists of 11,533,450 shares of a par value of €1.00 each. Subscribed and paid-in share capital did not change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change during the year. Derivative instruments on interest 2 33 (31) rates Total 2 33 (31) 13. OWN SHARES This item includes the negative fair value of the derivative financial instruments at year-end that hedge interest rate risks (Note 36). In 2013, Sabaf S.p.A. purchased 97,857 own shares at an average price of €9.092 per share (€890,000) and sold 358,000 own shares at a price of €11.10 (€3,974,000). In accordance with IFRS, the realised capital gain of €750,000 was recorded directly under shareholders’ equity. At 31 December 2013, Sabaf S.p.A. held 507 own shares (0.004% of the share capital), reported in the financial statements as an adjustment to shareholders’ 16. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT equity at a unit value of €9.006. RESERVE AND RETIREMENT There were 11,532,943 outstanding shares at 31 December 2013 (11,272,800 at 31 December 2012). RESERVES 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 restated Liabilities at 1 14. LOANS January 2,928 2,719 2,509 Financial expenses 69 108 108 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Amounts paid out (164) (243) (243) Actuarial losses 12 344 Current Non Current Current Non Current Liabilities at 31 Property leasing 135 2,036 716 2,171 2,845 2,928 2,374 December Property 911 1,859 900 2,771 The revision of IAS 19 – Employee Benefits eliminated the option to defer the mortgages Unsecured loans 317 2,422 317 recognition of actuarial gains and losses with the corridor method applied Short-term bank by the Group until 31 December 2012, requiring that all gains or losses be 8,950 15,017 immediately recognised under “Other comprehensive income” in the Income loans Advances on Statement with retroactive effect. For the situations as of 31 December 2012, bank receipts or 6,504 5,586 presented for comparative purposes in these consolidated financial statements, invoices the accumulated actuarial losses in the previous fiscal years were therefore Advances reclassified with a shareholders’ equity reserve created and named the postfrom factoring 1,074 companies employment benefit reserve, while the results for the year were booked Interest payable 49 under “actuarial gains and losses” on the comprehensive income statement. The change described above led to the booking, at 31 December 2012, of an Total 17,940 3,895 24,641 5,259 increased post-employment benefit reserve in the amount of €554,000 under liabilities, a negative post-employment benefit evaluation reserve of €401,000 All outstanding bank loans are denominated in euro, at a floating rate linked to (net of deferred tax assets of €153,000) under shareholders’ equity and the Euribor, with the exception of a short-term loan of USD 2 million. actuarial losses of €250,000 in the comprehensive income statement. To meet the Company’s financial requirements, at 31 December 2013 This had no effect on the net profit figure for 2012; the income statement for 2012, outstanding short-term loans totalled €8,950,000, advances on bank receipts presented for comparative purposes, does not therefore need to be restated. and invoices totalling €6,504,000 and advances from factoring companies of €1,074,000 had been used (against receivables from factoring companies of The post-employment benefit reserve (TFR) is valued on the basis of the approximately €8.8 million – Note 7). following assumptions: The loans are not bound by contractual provisions (covenants). Note 36 provides information on financial risks, pursuant to IFRS 7. Financial assumptions 31.12. 2013 31.12.2012 Discount rate 2.70% 2.50% Inflation 2.00% 2.00% 116 According to article 83 of IAS 19, which relates to the definition of actuarial Demographic assumptions assumptions and specifically the discount rate, these should be determined with reference to the yields on high-quality corporate bonds, i.e. those with low credit risk. With reference to the definition of “Investment Grade” securities, 31.12. 2013 31.12.2012 for which a security is defined as such if it has a rating equal to or higher than Mortality rate SIM 2010 M/F ISTAT 2002 M/F BBB from S&P or Baa2 from Moody’s, only bonds issued from corporate issuers rated “AA” were considered, on the assumption that this category identifies a Disability rate INPS 1998 M/F INPS 1998 M/F high rating level within all investment grade securities, and thereby excludes the riskiest securities. Given that IAS 19 does not make explicit reference to Staff turnover 6% per year on all ages 6% per year on all ages a specific sector of industry, it was decided to adopt a “composite” market Advance curve that summarised the market conditions existing on the date of valuation 5% per year 5% per year payouts of securities issued by companies operating in different sectors, including in agreement with the in agreement with the the utilities, telephone, financial, banking and industrial sectors. For the Retirement age legislation in force at 31 legislation in force at 31 December 2013 December 2012 geographical area, the calculation was made with reference to the eurozone. 17. PROVISIONS FOR RISKS AND CONTINGENCIES 31.12.2012 Allocations Forex differences Uses Release of excess 31.12.2013 Reserve for agents’ indemnities 359 10 (32) 337 Product warranty reserve 60 2 (2) 60 Reserve for legal risks 213 89 (27) 275 Total 632 101 (27) (2) (32) 672 The reserve for agents’ indemnities covers amounts payable to agents if the The reserve for legal risks, allocated for disputes of a modest size, was adjusted Group terminates the agency relationship. at the end of the year following the development of existing disputes. The product warranty reserve covers the risk of returns or charges by customers The provisions booked to the reserve for risks and contingencies, which for products already sold. The fund was adjusted at the end of the year, on the represent the estimate of future payments made based on historic experience, basis of analyses conducted and past experience. have not been time-discounted because the effect is considered negligible. 18. TRADE PAYABLES The geographical breakdown of trade payables was as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Italy 16,348 16,104 244 Western Europe 1,922 1,433 489 Eastern Europe and Turkey 216 134 82 Asia 319 596 (277) South America 148 151 (3) US, Canada & Mexico 10 126 (116) Total 18,963 18,544 419 Average payment terms did not change versus the previous year. At 31 December 2013, there were no overdue payables of a significant amount, and the Group had not received any injunctions for overdue payables. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 117 19. TAX PAYABLES 20. OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Withholding taxes 783 754 29 Due to employees 3,961 3,450 511 To Giuseppe Saleri Due to social 655 655 2,085 2,023 62 S.a.p.A. security institutions To inland revenue 40 12 28 Due to agents 252 297 (45) for IRAP Other tax payables 16 40 (24) Payments to clients 68 165 (97) Other current Total 1,494 806 688 73 82 (9) payables Total 6,439 6,017 422 The payable to Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. relates to the balance of income tax transferred by the Group’s Italian companies to the parent company as part of The increase in payables due to employees was mainly due to the rise in the tax consolidation agreement in place. premiums accrued in relation to the outstanding MBO plan, settlement of which has been deferred to 2014. At the beginning of 2014, payables due to employees and social security institutions were paid according to the scheduled expiry dates. 21. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 restated Deferred tax assets 5,471 4,093 3,941 (prepaid taxes) Deferred tax liabilities (532) (386) (386) Net position 4,939 3,707 3,555 The table below analyses the nature of the temporary differences that determines the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets and their movements during the year and the previous year. Actuarial postDepreciation, Provisions employment Other Fair value of Tax losses amortisation and value Goodwill Tax incentives benefit reserve temporary Total derivatives and leasing adjustments evaluation differences (Note 16) At 31 December 2011 373 (96) 1,153 3 1,993 0 58 63 3,547 To the income statement (167) 81 86 117 117 To shareholders’ equity (3) 94 91 Forex differences (26) (16) (6) (48) At 31 December 2012 180 (15) 1,223 0 1,993 0 152 174 3,707 To the income statement (180) (52) 262 1,156 81 1,267 To shareholders’ equity 5 3 8 Forex differences (32) (11) (43) At 31 December 2013 0 (67) 1,453 5 1,993 1,156 155 244 4,939 Prepaid taxes related to goodwill of €1,993,000 refer to the percentage of the Deferred tax assets and tax incentives relate to investments made in Turkey, for shareholding value in Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. in 2011. The future fiscal benefit can which the Group benefited from tax breaks recognised on income generated in be reported in ten annual amounts as from the financial year 2018. Turkey for up to 30% of the investments made. 118 22. NET FINANCIAL POSITION As required by the Consob memorandum of 28 July 2006, we disclose that the Company’s net financial position is as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change A. Cash (Note 9) 15 11 4 Positive balances of unrestricted bank B. 4,519 2,972 1,547 accounts (Note 9) C. Other liquidities 577 3,154 (2,577) D. Cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 5,111 6,137 (1,026) E. Current bank payables (Note 14) 15,503 20,602 (5,099) Current portion of non-current debt (Note F. 1,363 4,039 (2,676) 14) Other current financial payables (Notes G. 1,076 33 1,043 14-15) H. Current financial debt (E+F+G) 17,942 24,674 (6,732) I. Current net financial debt (H-D) 12,831 18,537 (5,706) J. Current bank payables (Note 14) 1,859 3,087 (1,228) Other non-current financial payables (Note K. 2,036 2,172 (136) 14) L. Non-current financial debt (J+K) 3,895 5,259 (1,364) M. Net financial debt (I+L) 16,726 23,796 (7,070) The consolidated cash flow statement provides changes in cash and cash equivalents (letter D of this schedule). SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 119 Comments on key income statement items 23. REVENUE Sales revenue totalled €130,967,000 in 2013, up by €234,000 (+0.2%) versus 2012. Revenue by product family 2013 % 2012 % Change % Brass valves 14,613 11.1% 18,601 14.2% -21.4% Light alloy valves 27,618 21.1% 23,524 18.0% +17.4% Thermostats 13,350 10.2% 13,074 10.0% +2.1% Standard burners 38,222 29.2% 39,337 30.1% -2.8% Special burners 18,943 14.5% 18,850 14.4% +0.5% Accessories 11,571 8.8% 11,226 8.6% +3.1% Total gas components 124,317 94.9% 124,612 95.3% -0.2% Hinges 6,650 5.1% 6,121 4.7% +8.6% Total 130,967 100% 130,733 100% +0.2% Geographical breakdown of revenue 2013 % 2012 % Change % Italy 42,662 32.6% 45,597 34.9% -6.4% Western Europe 7,465 5.7% 7,337 5.6% +1.7% Eastern Europe and Turkey 29,300 22.4% 33,236 25.4% -11.8% Asia and Oceania 11,864 9.1% 12,306 9.4% -3.6% Central and South America 24,375 18.6% 21,895 16.8% +11.3% Africa 10,410 7.9% 6,950 5.3% +49.8% US, Canada & Mexico 4,891 3.7% 3,412 2.6% +43.3% Total 130,967 100% 130,733 100% +0.2% European markets showed further signs of weakness in 2013: Group sales in The trend to replace brass valves with light alloy valves continued in 2013. Europe fell overall by €6.7 million (-7.8%). This fall was offset by the growth Average sale prices in 2013 were down by around 1% versus 2012. registered on markets outside Europe, where the Group registered sales that Refer to the Report on Operations for more detailed comments on the trends were €7 million higher than in 2012 (+15.7%). that marked the Group’s market over the year. 120 24. OTHER INCOME 25. MATERIALS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Raw materials and Sale of scraps 3,141 2,926 215 47,856 44,279 3,577 purchases Contingent income 164 320 (156) Consumables 4,559 3,469 1,090 Rental income 119 114 5 Total 52,415 47,748 4,667 Use of provisions for risks and 33 69 (36) contingencies The actual cost of raw materials (brass, aluminium alloys and steel) fell by an average of 5% versus 2012. Savings were also made in the purchase of Other income 461 232 229 other components. Consumption (purchases plus change in inventory) as a Total 3,918 3,661 257 percentage of sales was 36.3% in 2013, compared with 39% in 2012; this decrease was due to a different mix of products sold. 26. COSTS FOR SERVICES 27. PAYROLL COSTS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Outsourced proSalaries and wages 21,485 20,337 1,148 11,161 11,407 (246) cessing Social security Natural gas and 7,076 6,650 426 5,727 5,469 258 costs power Temporary agency Maintenance 3,760 4,394 (634) 848 769 79 workers Freight, carriage, Post-employment 1,736 1,674 62 transport benefit reserve and 1,930 1,546 384 Advisory services 1,424 1,463 (39) other payroll costs Directors’ remuneTotal 31,339 29,302 2,037 878 1,067 (189) ration Commissions 762 805 (43) Average Group headcount in 2013 totalled 731 employees (584 blue-collars, Travel expenses 544 572 (28) 136 white-collars and supervisors, and 11 managers), compared with 710 in and allowances Insurance 334 349 (15) 2012 (565 blue-collars, 136 white-collars and supervisors, and 9 managers). The average number of temporary staff was 54 in 2013 (28 in 2012). Canteen 367 336 31 In the year, the Group made occasional use of the government’s statutory Temporary agency 119 83 36 redundancy pay scheme (Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Ordinaria) when workers Other payroll costs 3,271 3,370 (99) production needs were low: this made possible savings of €339,000 in payroll costs (€531,000 in 2012). Total 30,083 30,989 (906) The fall in maintenance costs relates to the cyclical nature of upgrades and maintenance work on production equipment. Other costs for services did not vary significantly from the previous year. In 2013, the cost per kwh of electricity and the cost per m3 of natural gas did not vary significantly from the previous year. Costs for advisory services related to technical (€287,000), sales (€281,000) and legal, administrative and general (€856,000) services. Commissions related to agency contracts for sales mainly on markets outside Europe. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 121 28. OTHER OPERATING COSTS 30. FINANCIAL EXPENSES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Losses and write-downs Interest paid to banks 416 631 (215) 1,240 1,608 (368) of trade receivables Interest paid on finance 39 75 (36) Other taxes 536 483 53 lease contracts IRS spreads payable 33 59 (26) Other administration 189 217 (28) expenses Banking expenses 208 295 (87) Contingent liabilities 109 82 27 Other finance expense 79 102 (23) Provisions for risks 91 21 70 Total 775 1,162 (387) Others provisions 10 13 (3) The fall in financial expenses relates to the lower average net financial debt and Total 2,175 2,424 (249) the reduction in interest rates compared with 2012. In 2013 losses and write-downs of receivables were recognised in the amounts of €790,000 and €450,000 respectively, as a consequence of the financial difficulties suffered by some of the Company’s major customers, including 31. FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS/LOSSES Fagor. Non-income taxes chiefly relate to property tax. Receivables were written down to adjust the related reserve to the risk of insolvency by some clients, in view of the difficult environment on some markets and the existence of past due accounts. Provisions refer to the allocations to the In 2013, the Group reported net foreign exchange losses of €186,000, versus reserves described in Note 17. net losses of €293,000 in 2012. Foreign exchange losses mainly originated from the depreciation of the dollar, the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira against the euro. 29. WRITE-DOWNS/WRITE-BACKS OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS 32. INCOME TAX 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Write-down of investment Current tax 3,760 3,263 497 384 384 property Deferred tax (1,513) (125) (1,388) Write-down of 271 271 Accounting of IRES development costs credit, under Decree Law (1,103) 1,103 Goodwill impairment 1,028 (1.028) 16/2012 Balance of previous FY (540) (12) (528) Total 655 1,028 (373) Total 1,707 2,023 (316) The write-down of investment property conducted in 2013 adjusted the carrying value of residential investment property to market values (Note 2). Current income taxes include corporate income tax (IRES) of €1,978,000 and The write-down of development costs related to projects that have been Italian regional production tax (IRAP) of €1,121,000, Brazilian income tax of abandoned or which failed to meet the commercial success originally expected €653,000 and income on Turkish revenue of €8,000 (respectively €1,651,000, (Note 3). €1,196,000, €416,000 and €0 in 2012). At 31 December 2012, the Group had booked an impairment on the goodwill Taxes relating to previous years originate from the recalculation of taxes allocated to the Hinges CGU of €1.028 million, following an impairment test carried out on the occasion of the submission of tax returns compared with conducted at the end of the previous year. As shown in Note 3, no impairment that calculated on the date the previous consolidated financial statements were emerged from the tests conducted on 31 December 2013. prepared, owing to various changes and more favourable interpretations of the applicable tax legislation. In accordance with Legislative Decree 16 of 2 March 2012, at 31 December 2012 the Group booked the tax credit resulting from the non-deduction of IRAP for personnel costs and similar for the period 2007-2011. As a result, taxes booked in the 2012 income statement were lower by €1,103,000. 122 Reconciliation between the tax burden booked in year-end financial statements Basic earnings per share is calculated on the average number of outstanding and the theoretical tax burden calculated according to the statutory tax rates shares minus own shares, equal to 203,094 in 2013 (90,028 in 2012). currently in force in Italy is shown in the table. Diluted earnings per share is calculated taking into account any shares approved but not yet subscribed, of which there were none in 2012 and 2013. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Theoretical income tax 2,697 1,831 Tax effect on permanent differences 199 296 Taxes relating to previous years Tax effect from different foreign tax rates (386) 77 (19) 98 34. DIVIDENDS Use of tax losses (469) (535) On 23 May 2013, shareholders were paid a dividend of €0.35 per share (total dividends of €3,911,000). Accounting of IRES credit, under Decree Law (1,103) Directors have recommended payment of a dividend of €0.40 per share 16/2012 Booking of tax incentives for investments in this year. This dividend is subject to approval of shareholders in the annual (1,350) Turkey Shareholders’ Meeting and was not included under liabilities. Other differences (29) 235 The dividend proposed for 2013 is scheduled for payment on 29 May 2014 Income taxes booked in the accounts, (ex-date 26 May 2014 and record date 28 May 2014). excluding IRAP and withholding taxes 739 803 (current and deferred) IRAP (current and deferred) 968 1,220 Total 1,707 2,023 35. INFORMATION Theoretical taxes were calculated applying the current corporate income tax BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (IRES) rate, i.e. 27.50%, to the pre-tax result. For the purposes of reconciliation, Below is the information by business segment for 2013 and 2012. IRAP is not considered because its taxable base is different to that of pre-tax profit and inclusion of the tax would generate distortionary effects. No significant tax disputes were pending at 31 December 2013. FY 2013 FY 2012 Gas Gas Hinges Total Hinges Total components components Sales 124,321 6,646 130,967 124,631 6,102 130,733 33. EARNINGS PER SHARE Operating income 11,526 (395) 11,131 8,005 (85) 7,920 (loss) Basic and diluted EPS are calculated based on the following data: Profit 2013 2012 36. INFORMATION Euro ‘000 Euro ‘000 ON FINANCIAL RISK Net profit for period 8,104 4,196 Categories of financial instruments Number of shares In accordance with IFRS 7, below is breakdown of the financial instruments, among the categories set forth by IAS 39. 2013 2012 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 11,330,356 11,443,242 calculating basic EPS Dilution effect arising from potential ordinary shares Financial assets Weighted average number of ordinary shares for 11,330,356 11,443,242 Amortised cost calculating diluted EPS • Cash and cash equivalents 5,111 6,137 Earnings per share (€) • Commercial receivables and other 37,316 38,790 receivables 2013 2012 Income statement fair value • Derivative cash flow hedges 22 Basic earnings per share 0.715 0.367 Diluted earnings per share 0.715 0.367 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 123 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Sensitivity analysis With reference to financial assets and liabilities in US dollars at 31 December Financial liabilities 2013, a hypothetical and immediate revaluation of 10% of the euro against the Comprehensive income statement dollar would have led to a loss of €362,000. fair value • Derivative cash flow hedges 2 33 Amortised cost Interest rate risk management • Loans 21,835 29,900 • Trade payables 18,963 18,544 The Group borrows money at a floating rate; to reach an optimal mix of floating and fixed rates in the structure of the loans, the Group uses derivative financial instruments designating them to cash flow hedges. In 2009, the Group entered The Group is exposed to financial risks related to its operations, and mainly: into two IRS agreements to convert from 2010 two loans of equal amount from • to the risk of credit, with particular reference to the normal commercial a floating to fixed interest rate, both falling due by the end of 2014. The chart relationships with customers; below shows the salient characteristics of the IRS in effect at 31 December • market risk, in relation to the volatility of the prices of commodities, exchange 2013 and 31 December 2012: rates and rates; • liquidity risk, which can be expressed with the inability to find financial resources necessary to ensure Group operations. At 31 December 2013 It is part of the Sabaf Group’s policies to hedge exposure to changes in prices Average interest Notional and in fluctuations in exchange and interest rates via derivative financial Fair value rates of the value instruments. Hedging is done using forward contracts, options or combinations contracts of these instruments. Generally speaking, the maximum duration covered Within 1 year 2.20% 317 (2) by such hedging does not exceed 18 months. The Group does not enter into From 1 to 2 years speculative transactions. When the derivatives used for hedging purposes meet the necessary requisites, hedge accounting rules are followed. More than 2 years Total (2) At 31 December 2012 Credit risk management Average The Company has trade receivables with domestic appliance manufacturers, interest Notional Fair value multinational groups and smaller manufacturers present on a few or individual rates of the value markets. It assesses the creditworthiness of all its customers at the start of the contracts supply and systemically on at least an annual basis. After this assessment, each Within 1 year 2.15% 1,680 (31) client is assigned a credit limit. From 1 to 2 years 2.20% 321 (2) A significant amount of risk (approximately 25% of the maximum theoretical More than 2 years exposure) is transferred by assignment through no-recourse factoring transactions to primary financial institutions. Total (33) Credit risk relating to customers operating in emerging economies is generally attenuated by the expectation of revenue through letters of credit, confirmed by key banks. Sensitivity analysis With reference to financial assets and liabilities at floating rate at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, a hypothetical increase (decrease) in the interest rate of 100 base points versus the interest rates in effect at the same date all Forex risk management other variables being equal would lead to the following effects: The key currencies other than the euro which the Group is exposed to are the US dollar and the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira, in relation to sales made 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 in dollars (chiefly on some Asian and American markets) and the production Cash flow Cash flow units in Brazil and Turkey. Sales in US dollars represented approximately 12% of Financial Financial hedge hedge charges charges total revenue in 2013, while purchases in dollars represented about 2% of total reserves reserves revenue. Transactions in dollars were partially hedged by derivative financial Increase 240 0.2 18 instruments: at 31 December 2013, the Group had in place a forward sale of 100 base points contract of USD 510,000 at an exchange rate of 1.30, maturing on 30 June 2014. Decrease (171) (0.2) (18) of 100 base points 124 Commodity price risk management Liquidity risk management A significant portion of the Group’s acquisitions are represented by brass, The Group operates with a low debt ratio (net debt / shareholders’ equity at steel and aluminium alloys. Sale prices of products are generally renegotiated 31 December 2013 equal to 0.14) and has unused short-term lines of credit of annually; as a result, the Group is unable to pass on to clients any changes in the approximately €60 million. To minimise the risk of liquidity, the Administration prices of commodities during the year. The Group protects itself from the risk and Finance Department: of changes in the price of brass and aluminium with supply contracts signed • regularly assesses expected financial needs in order to make the best, most with suppliers for delivery up to twelve months or, alternatively, with derivative timely decisions; financial instruments. In 2013 and 2012, the Group did not use financial • maintains correct balance of net financial debt, financing investments with derivatives on commodities. To stabilise the rising costs of commodities, Sabaf capital and with mediumto long-term debt. preferred to execute transactions on the physical market, establishing prices with suppliers for immediate and deferred delivery. Below is an analysis by expiration date of the financial payables at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: At 31 December 2013 Contractual Within 3 From 3 months From 1 to 5 More than 5 Carrying value financial flows months to 1 year years years Short-term bank loans 16,578 16,578 16,578 Unsecured loans 317 318 318 Property mortgages 2,770 2,834 945 1,889 Finance leases 2,171 2,573 47 142 754 1,630 Total financial payables 21,836 22,303 16,943 1,087 2,643 1,630 Trade payables 18,971 18,971 17,855 1,116 Total 40,807 41,274 34,798 2,203 2,643 1,630 At 31 December 2012 Contractual Within 3 From 3 months From 1 to 5 More than 5 Carrying value financial flows months to 1 year years years Short-term bank loans 20,603 20,606 20,606 Unsecured loans 2,739 2,766 711 1,737 318 Property mortgages 3,671 3,775 944 2,831 Finance leases 2,887 3,351 347 431 754 1,819 Total financial payables 29,900 30,498 21,664 3,112 3,903 1,819 Trade payables 18,544 18,544 17,074 1,470 Total 48,444 49,042 38,738 4,582 3,903 1,819 The various due dates are based on the period between the balance sheet date are determined based on the value of the reference parameter at 31 December and the contractual expiration date of the commitments, the values indicated 2010 and increased by the spread set forth in each contract. in the chart correspond to non-discounted cash flows. Cash flows include the shares of principal and interest; for floating rate liabilities, the shares of interest SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 125 Hierarchical levels of the fair value assessment The revised IFRS 7 requires that financial instruments reported in the statement The following table shows the assets and liabilities that are valued at the fair of financial position at the fair value be classified based on a hierarchy that value at 31 December 2013, by hierarchical level of fair value assessment. reflects the significance of the input used in determining the fair value. IFRS 7 includes the following levels: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total • Level 1 – quotations found on an active market for assets or liabilities subject to assessment; Current financial assets 22 22 (derivatives on currency) • Level 2 – input other than prices listed under the previous point, which can be observed (prices) or indirectly (derivatives from prices) on the market; Total assets 0 22 0 22 • Level 3 – input that are based on observable market data. Other financial liabilities 2 2 (derivatives on rates) Total liabilities 0 2 0 2 37. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between consolidated companies were eliminated from the consolidated financial statements and are not reported in these notes. The table below illustrates the impact of all transactions between the Group and other related parties on the balance sheet and income statement. Impact of related-party transactions on balance sheet accounts Unconsolidated Other related Total related Impact on the Total 2013 Parent company subsidiaries parties parties total Trade receivables 36,442 74 74 0.20% Tax receivables 2,595 1,287 1,287 49.60% Trade payables 18,963 75 75 0.40% Tax payables 1,494 655 655 43.84% Unconsolidated Other related Total related Impact on the Total 2012 Parent company subsidiaries parties parties total Trade receivables 37,968 82 82 0.22% Tax receivables 3,627 1,694 1,694 46.71% Trade payables 18,544 151 151 0.81% Impact of related-party transactions on income statement accounts Unconsolidated Other related Total related Impact on the Total 2013 Parent company subsidiaries parties parties total Other income 3,918 11 11 0.28% Services (30,083) (148) (148) 0.49% Profits and losses from equity (498) (498) (498) 100% investments Unconsolidated Other related Total related Impact on the Total 2012 Parent company subsidiaries parties parties total Other income 3,661 33 33 0.90% Services (30,989) (151) (151) 0.49% Profits and losses from equity (465) (465) (465) 100% investments 126 Transactions with the ultimate parent company, Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A., comprise: Transactions are regulated by specific contracts regulated at arm’s length conditions. • administration services provided by Sabaf S.p.A. to the parent company; Transactions with non-consolidated subsidiaries were solely of a commercial • transactions as part of the domestic tax consolidation scheme, which nature. Losses from equity investments relate to the valuation of Sabaf Appliance generated the payables and receivables shown in the tables. Components (Kunshan) at equity, as described in more detail in Note 4. Remuneration to directors, statutory auditors and executives with strategic responsibilities Please see the 2013 Report on Remuneration for this information. 38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS At 31 December 2013, there were no equity-based incentive plans for the Group’s directors and employees. 39. SIGNIFICANT NON-RECURRING EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS Pursuant to the Consob Communication dated 28 July 2006, below is a breakdown of the significant, non-recurring events, whose consequences are reflected in the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow of the Group: Shareholders’ equity Net profit Net financial debt Cash flow Financial statement items (A) 117,955 8,104 16,726 (1,026) Booking of tax incentives for in(1,156) (1,350) vestments in Turkey (Notes 21 and 32) Figurative financial statement value 116,799 6,754 16,726 (1,026) (A+B) The net result for 2012 included the recognition of tax credits resulting from the non-deduction of IRAP for personnel costs and similar for the period 2007-2011, and consequently lower income taxes of €1,103,000. 40. ATYPICAL AND/OR UNUSUAL TRANSACTIONS Pursuant to Consob memorandum of 28 July 2006, the Group declares that no atypical and/or unusual transactions as defined by the Consob memorandum were executed during 2013. 41. COMMITMENTS Guarantees issued The Sabaf Group has issued sureties to guarantee consumer and mortgage loans granted by banks to Group employees for a total of €6,598,000 (€7,075,000 at 31 December 2012). SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 127 42. CONSOLIDATION AREA AND SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INVESTMENTS Companies consolidated on a 100% line-by-line basis Company name Registered office Share capital Shareholders % ownership Faringosi Hinges s.r.l. Ospitaletto (BS) EUR 90,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Sabaf Immobiliare s.r.l. Ospitaletto (BS) EUR 25,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Sabaf do Brasil Ltda Jundiaì (SP, Brazil) BRL 24,000,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Sanayi Ve Manisa (Turkey) TRK 32,000,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Ticaret Limited Sirteki Sabaf Appliance Components Trading Kunshan (China) EUR 200,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Ltd. Non-consolidated companies valued at equity Company name Registered office Share capital Shareholders % ownership Sabaf Appliance Components Ltd. Kunshan (China) EUR 2,250,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Non-consolidated companies valued at cost Company name Registered office Share capital Shareholders % ownership Sabaf Mexico S.A. de c.v. San Luis Potosì (Mexico) MXN 8,247,580 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Sabaf US Corp. Plainfield (USA) USD 100,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% Other significant equity investments: none 43. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE PARENT COMPANY Registered and administrative office: Via dei Carpini, 1 25035 Ospitaletto (Brescia) Contacts: Tel: +39 030 6843001 Fax: +39 030 6848249 E-mail: info@sabaf.it Website: www.sabaf.it Tax information: R.E.A. Brescia: 347512 Tax code: 03244470179 VAT Reg. No.: 01786910982 128 Appendix Information as required by Article 149/12 of the Issuers’ Regulation The following table, prepared pursuant to Article 149/12 of the Consob Issuers’ Regulation, shows fees relating to 2013 for the independent auditor and for services other than auditing provided by the same auditing firm and its network. in thousands of euro Party that provides the service Recipient Considerations for the year 2013 Audit Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Direct parent company 52 Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Italian subsidiaries 20 Deloitte network Sabaf do Brasil 30 Deloitte network Sabaf Turkey 19 Certification services Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Direct parent company 21 Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Italian subsidiaries 11 Other services Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Direct parent company 17 2 Deloitte network Sabaf do Brasil 43 Total 145 1 signing of Unico, IRAP and 770 forms 2 audit procedures relating to interim management reports, revising statements of training activities 3 tax assistance regarding transfer pricing SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 129 Certification of the Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with Article 154 bis of Legislative Decree 58/98 Alberto Bartoli, the Chief Executive Officer, and Gianluca Beschi, the Financial Reporting Officer of Sabaf S.p.A., have taken into account the requirements of Article 154-bis, paragraph 3 and 4, of Legislative Decree 58 of 24 February 1998 and can certify • the appropriateness in relation to the characteristics of the company and • the actual application of the administrative and accounting principles for drafting the consolidated annual report and accounts in 2013. They also certify that: • the Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts : were prepared in accordance with the international accounting policies recognised in the European Community in accordance with EC regulation 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and Council of 19 July 2002 and Article 9 of Leg. Decree 38/2005; correspond to the results of the accounting entries and ledgers; are appropriate to provide a truthful and correct picture of the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow of the issuer and the companies included in the consolidation; • the interim report includes a credible analysis of the performance and results of operations, the situation at the issuer, and the companies included in the area of consolidation, along with a description of the key risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. Ospitaletto, 20 March 2014 The Chief The Financial Executive Officer Reporting Officer Alberto Bartoli Gianluca Beschi 130 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2013 131 Be flexible C H A P T E R Statutory Annual Report & accounts at 31 December 2013 Pa ge 133 134 Corporate bodies 135 Statement of financial position 136 Income statement 137 Comprehensive income statement 137 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 138 Cash flow statement 139 Explanatory notes 165 Certification of the Annual Report and Accounts 166 Auditors’ report on the Statutory Financial Statements Corporate bodies Board of Directors Chairman Giuseppe Saleri Director * Giuseppe Cavalli Deputy Chairman Cinzia Saleri Director * Leonardo Cossu Deputy Chairman Ettore Saleri Director * Fausto Gardoni Deputy Chairman Gianbattista Saleri Director * Maria Chiara Franceschetti Chief Executive Officer Alberto Bartoli Director * Nicla Picchi Director * Salvatore Bragantini Director * Riccardo Rizza Director * Renato Camodeca Board of Statutory Auditors Independent Auditor Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Chairman Alessandro Busi Statutory Auditor Enrico Broli Statutory Auditor Anna Domenighini * independent directors SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 135 Statement of financial position in euro Notes 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 1 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1 32,211,558 34,574,889 Investment property 2 2,221,746 2,416,055 Intangible assets 3 3,236,104 3,921,690 Equity investments 4 43,070,033 42,129,019 Non-current assets 5 1,451,345 1,515,841 of which from related parties 36 1,451,345 1,515,841 Non-current receivables 6,800 6,800 Deferred tax assets (prepaid taxes) 20 3,645,704 3,449,149 Total non-current assets 85,843,290 88,013,443 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 6 23,874,989 20,779,835 Trade receivables 7 31,600,439 35,363,276 of which from related parties 36 1,191,532 876,361 Tax receivables 8 1,176,478 1,895,451 of which from related parties 36 1,083,666 1,568,002 Other current receivables 9 1,826,190 1,954,904 of which from related parties 36 1,273,233 1,490,988 Cash and cash equivalents 10 2,345,426 1,601,050 Total current assets 60,823,522 61,594,516 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0 0 TOTAL ASSETS 146,666,812 149,607,959 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share capital 11 11,533,450 11,533,450 Retained earnings, other reserves 89,096,059 87,681,297 Net profit for period 3,729,628 2,236,106 Total shareholders’ equity 104,359,137 101,450,853 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans 13 0 317,003 Post-employment benefit reserve and retirement reserves 15 2,496,163 2,565,957 Provisions for risks and contingencies 16 418,576 398,930 Deferred tax 20 13,698 27,016 Total non-current liabilities 2,928,437 3,308,906 CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans 13 15,495,741 21,524,555 Other financial liabilities 14 1,542 32,522 Trade payables 17 16,909,247 17,079,138 Tax payables 18 1,023,569 668,603 of which from related parties 36 317,076 0 Other liabilities 19 5,949,139 5,543,382 Total current liabilities 39,379,238 44,848,200 LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 0 0 TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 146,666,812 149,607,959 1 The values were recalculated following the application of the IAS standard 19, revised, which involves, among other things, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit that are recognised in the consolidated comprehensive income statement without direct recognition on the consolidated in-come statement (Note 15). The change described above led to the restatement of the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2012, which was approved by the shareholders’ meeting on 30 April 2013. This restatement involved recording an increase in the €473,944 post-employment benefit reserve under liabilities and a negative post-employment benefit evaluation reserve of €343,609 under shareholders’ equity 136 Income statement in euro Notes 2013 2012 2 CONTINUING OPERATIONS OPERATING REVENUE AND INCOME Revenue 22 112,417,253 116,202,488 of which from related parties 36 (3,783,304) (1,739,878) Other income 23 3,270,760 3,239,249 Total operating revenue and income 115,688,013 119,441,737 OPERATING COSTS Materials 24 (44,271,029) (42,329,552) Change in inventories 3,095,154 (3,653,626) Services 25 (29,811,877) (30,753,060) from related parties 36 (4,128,330) (4,043,254) Payroll costs 26 (27,054,549) (25,934,244) Other operating costs 27 (1,658,420) (1,997,587) Costs for capitalised in-house work 914,997 1,056,473 Total operating cost (98,785,724) (103,611,596) OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION, CAPITAL GAINS/ 16,902,289 15,830,141 LOSSES, WRITE-DOWNS/WRITE-BACKS OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS Depreciation & Amortisation 1,2,3 (9,863,693) (10,389,323) Capital gains/(losses) on disposal of non-current assets 51,424 374,882 Write-downs/write-backs of non-current assets 28 (1,707,930) (2,050,638) from related parties 36 (1,436,656) (2,050,638) OPERATING PROFIT 5,382,090 3,765,062 Financial income 83,256 40,918 Financial expenses 29 (687,420) (828,160) Foreign exchange gains/losses 30 (94,439) (61,348) Profits and losses from equity investments 31 1,034,076 792,079 from related parties 36 1,034,076 792,079 PRE-TAX PROFIT 5,717,563 3,708,551 Income tax 32 (1,987,935) (1,472,445) NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 3,729,628 2,236,106 2 As indicated in Note 15, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit in accordance with the revised IAS 19 standard did not have any effect on the income statement SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 137 Comprehensive income statement in euro 2013 2012 3 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 3,729,628 2,236,106 Overall earnings/losses that will not be subsequently restated under profit (loss) for the period: • Actuarial post-employment benefit reserve evaluation (15,120) (218,833) Overall earnings/losses that will be subsequently re-stated under profit (loss) for the period: • Cash hedge flows 20,745 6,958 Total profits/(losses) net of taxes for the year 5,625 (211,875) TOTAL PROFITS 3,735,253 2,024,231 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Actuarial postCash flow Total in thousands Share Share premium Legal Own employment Other Profit hedge Shareholders’ of euro capital reserve reserve shares benefit valuareserves of the year reserves equity tion reserve Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (328) (7) (125) 73,834 11,122 108,338 31/12/ 2011 4 Allocation of 2011 earnings • dividends paid (6,901) (6,901) • to reserves 4,221 (4,221) 0 Acquisition own shares (2,011) (2,011) Total profit at 31/12/2012 7 (219) 2,236 2,024 Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (2,339) 0 (344) 78,055 2,236 101,450 31/12/ 2012 3 dividends paid (1,675) (2,236) (3,911) Purchase/sale own shares 2,334 750 3,084 Total profit at 31/12/2013 21 (15) 3,730 3,736 Balance at 11,533 10,002 2,307 (5) 21 (359) 77,130 3,730 104,359 31/12/2013 3 The values were recalculated following the application of the IAS standard 19, revised, which involves, among other things, the change in the method to calculate the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit that are recognised in the consolidated comprehensive income statement without direct recognition on the consolidated in-come statement (Note 15). The change described above led to the restatement of the comprehensive income statement as at 31 December 2012, which was approved by the shareholders’ meeting on 30 April 2013. This restatement led to the booking of actuarial losses totalling €218,833 on the comprehensive income statement 4 The values were recalculated following the application of the revised IAS standard 19, which involves, among other things, a change in the method of calculating the actuarial gains and losses for the post-employment benefit (Note 15); this change led to the restatement of the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2012, which was approved by the shareholders’ meeting on 30 April 2013; this restatement involved recording a negative postemployment benefit evaluation reserve of €343,609 under shareholders’ equity 138 Cash flow statement in thousands of euro FY 2013 FY 2012 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,601 9,180 Net profit for period 3,730 2,236 Adjustments for: • Depreciation and amortisation 9,864 10,389 • Realised gains/losses (51) (375) • Write-downs of non-current assets 1,708 2,051 • Net financial income and expenses 604 787 • Income tax 1,987 1,472 Change in post-employment benefit reserve (131) (202) Change in general provisions 20 (68) Change in trade receivables 3,763 4,198 Change in inventories (3,095) 3,653 Change in trade payables (170) (7,849) Change in working capital 498 2 Change in other receivables and payables, deferred tax liabilities 734 (2,052) Payment of taxes (1,318) (2,322) Payment of financial expenses (627) (733) Collection of financial income 83 41 Cash flow from operations 17,101 11,226 Investments in non-current assets • intangible (583) (1,030) • tangible (6,432) (5,808) • financial (3,436) (9,152) Disposal of non-current assets 1,234 481 Net investments (9,217) (15,509) Repayment of loans (12,521) (6,516) New loans 6,144 12,102 New financial assets 64 30 Purchase/sale own shares 3,084 (2,011) Payment of dividends (3,911) (6,901) Cash flow from financing activities (7,140) (3,296) Total financial flows 744 (7,579) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 10) 2,345 1,601 Current net financial debt 15,497 21,557 Non-current financial debt 0 317 Net financial debt (Note 21) 13,152 20,273 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 139 Explanatory notes Accounting standards Property, plant and equipment Statement of compliance These assets are reported at purchase or construction cost. The cost includes and basis of presentation directly attributable accessory costs. These costs also include revaluations undertaken in the past based on monetary revaluation rules or pursuant to Sabaf S.p.A. individual year-end accounts for the financial year 2013 have been company mergers. prepared in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Depreciation is calculated according to rates deemed appropriate to spread the (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and carrying value of tangible assets over their useful working life. Estimated useful adopted by the European Union. Reference to IFRS also includes all current working life, in years, is as follows: International Accounting Standards (IAS). The statutory financial statements are drawn up in euro, which is the currency in the economy in which the Company operates. The income statement and Buildings 33 the statement of financial position schedules are prepared in euro, while Light constructions 10 the comprehensive income statement, the cash flow, and the changes in shareholders’ equity schedules and the values reported in the explanatory General plant 10 notes are in thousands of euro. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical-cost basis except Plant and machinery 6 – 10 for some revaluations of property, plant and equipment undertaken in previous Equipment 4 years, and is considered a going concern. The Company found that, despite the difficult economic and business climate, there were no significant uncertainties Furniture 8 (as defined by paragraphs 25 and 26 of IAS 1) on the continuity of the Company, including due to the strong competitive position, high profitability and solidity Electronic equipment 5 of the financial structure. Vehicles and other transport means 5 Sabaf S.p.A., as the Parent Company, also prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Sabaf Group at 31 December 2013. Ordinary maintenance costs are expensed in the year they are incurred; costs that increase the asset value or useful working life are capitalised and depreciated according to the residual possibility of utilisation of the assets to Financial statements which they refer. Land is not depreciated. The Company has adopted the following formats and policies for financial statements: • current and non-current assets and current and non-current liabilities are stated separately in the statement of financial position; Investment property • an income statement that expresses costs using a classification based on the nature of each item; Investment property is valued at cost, including revaluations undertaken in the • a comprehensive income statement that expresses revenue and expense past based on monetary revaluation rules or pursuant to company mergers. items not recognised in profit for the year as required or permitted by IFRS; The depreciation is calculated based on the estimated useful life, considered • a cash flow statement that presents financial flows originating from operating to be 33 years. activity, using the indirect method. If the recoverable amount of investment property – determined based on the Use of these formats permits the most meaningful representation of the market value of the real estate – is estimated to be lower than its carrying Company’s capital, business, and financial status. value, the asset’s carrying value is reduced to the lower recoverable amount, recognising impairment of value in the income statement. When there is no longer any reason for a write-down to be maintained, the carrying value of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the new value stemming Accounting policies from the estimate of its recoverable amount – but not beyond the net carrying value that the asset would have had if it had not been written down for The accounting standards and policies applied for the preparation of the impairment of value. Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in financial statements as at 31 December 2013, unchanged versus the previous the income statement. year, with the exception of the effect of retrospectively applying the revised IAS19 standard described in Note 15, are as follows: 140 When there is no longer any reason for a write-down to be maintained, the Intangible assets carrying value of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the new value stemming from the estimate of its recoverable amount – but not beyond the net carrying Intangible assets acquired or internally produced are recognised as assets, as value that the asset would have had if it had not been written down for established by IAS 38, when it is probable that use of the asset will generate impairment of value. Reversal of impairment loss is recognised as income in future economic benefits and when asset cost can be measured reliably. the income statement. If development costs no longer have any future economic benefits, they are written down in the year in which this is determined. Such assets are measured at purchase or production cost and if the assets Inventories concerned have a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over Inventories are measured at the lower of purchase or production cost – their estimated useful life. determined using the weighted average cost method – and the corresponding The useful life of projects for which development costs are capitalised is fair value represented by the replacement cost for purchased materials and estimated to be 10 years. of the presumed realisable value for finished and semi-processed products – The SAP management system is amortised over five years. calculated taking into account any conversion costs and direct selling costs yet to be incurred. Inventory cost includes accessory costs and the portion of direct and indirect manufacturing costs that can reasonably be assigned to Equity investments and non-current receivables inventory items. Obsolete or slow-moving stocks are written down according to their possibility of use or realisation or recovery. Inventory write-downs are Equity investments not classified as held for sale are booked at cost, reduced eliminated in subsequent years if the reasons for such write-downs cease to for impairment. exist. Non-current receivables are stated at their presumed realisable value. Receivables Impairment of value Receivables are recognised at their presumed realisable value. Their face value At each balance-sheet date, Sabaf S.p.A. reviews the carrying value of its is adjusted to a lower realisable value via specific provisioning directly reducing property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and equity investments to see the item based on in-depth analysis of individual positions. Trade receivables whether there are signs of impairment of the value of these assets. If such signs assigned on a no-recourse basis, even though they have been transferred in exist, the recoverable value is estimated in order to determine the write-down legal terms, continue to be recognised among “Trade receivables” until the time amount. of related cash-in. Advances received for the assignment of trade receivables If it is not possible to estimate recoverable value individually, the Company are recorded under current loans. estimates the recoverable value of the cashgenerating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In particular, the recoverable value of the cash generating units (which generally coincide with the legal entity which the capitalised assets refer Current and non-current financial assets to) is verified by determining the value of use. The recoverable amount is the higher between the net selling price and value Financial assets held for trading are measured at the fair value, allocating profit in use. In measuring the value of use, future cash flows net of taxes, estimated and loss effects to finance income or expense. based on past experience, are discounted to their present value using a pretax rate that reflects fair market valuations of the present cost of money and specific asset risk. Reserves for risks and contingencies The assumptions used for calculating the value of use concerns the discount rate, growth rate, expected changes in selling prices and cost trends during the Reserves for risks and contingencies are provisioned to cover losses and debts, period used for calculation, during the period used for the calculation. the existence of which is certain or probable, but whose amount or date of The growth rates adopted are based on future market expectations in the occurrence cannot be determined at the end of the year. Provisions are stated relevant sector. Changes in the sale prices are based on past experience and on in the statement of financial position only when a legal or implicit obligation the expected future changes in the market. exists that determines the use of resources with an impact on profit and loss to The Company prepares operating cash flow forecasts based on the most recent meet that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. If the impact is budgets approved by the Boards of Directors of the subsidiaries, draws up major, provisions are calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows at three-year forecasts and determines the so-called “terminal” value (current an estimated pre-tax discount rate such as to reflect fair market valuations of value of perpetual income), which expresses the medium and long term the present cost of money and specific risks associated with the liability. operating flows in the specific sector. Furthermore, the Company checks the recoverable value of its subsidiaries at least once a year when the annual accounts are prepared. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be lower than its carrying value, the asset’s carrying value is reduced to the lower recoverable amount, recognising impairment of value in the income statement. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 141 Reserve for post-employment benefit obligations Derivative instruments and hedge accounting The Company’s business is exposed to financial risks relating to changes The reserve is provisioned to cover the entire liability accruing vis-à-vis in exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. The Company may employees in compliance with current legislation and with national and decide to use derivative financial instruments to hedge these risks. supplementary company collective labour contracts. This liability is subject The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. to revaluation via application of indices fixed by current regulations. Until 31 Derivatives are initially recognised at cost and are then adjusted to the fair December 2006, post-employment benefits were considered to be a definedvalue on subsequent closing dates. benefit plan and accounted for in compliance with IAS 19, using the projected Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and recognised as effective for unit-credit method. The regulation of this fund was changed by Law 296 of 27 hedging future cash flows relating to the Company’s contractual commitments December 2006 as amended by subsequent decrees and laws passed in early and planned transactions are recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, while 2007. In light of these changes, and, in particular, for companies with at least the ineffective portion is immediately posted in the income statement. If the 50 employees, post-employment benefits must now be considered a definedcontractual commitments or planned transactions materialise in the recognition benefit plan only for the portions accruing before 1 January 2007 (and not of assets or liabilities, when such assets or liabilities are recognised, the gains yet paid as at balance-sheet). Conversely, portions accruing after that date are or losses on the derivative that were directly recognised in equity are factored treated as defined-contribution plans. back into the initial valuation of the cost of acquisition or carrying value of the Until 31 December 2012, the actuarial gains and losses were recorded using asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that do not lead to recognition of assets the “corridor method”; following the revision of IAS 19, since 1 January 2013 or liabilities, the amounts that were directly recognised in equity are included the actuarial gains and losses have been immediately recognised under “Other in the income statement in the same period when the contractual commitment comprehensive income”, as described in the paragraph “New accounting or planned transaction hedged impacts profit and loss – for example, when a standards” below and in Note 15. planned sale actually takes place. For effective hedges of exposure to changes in fair value, the item hedged is adjusted for the changes in the fair value attributable to the risk hedged and recognised in the income statement. Gains and losses stemming from the Payables derivative’s valuation are also posted in the income statement. Payables are recognised at the face value. The portion of interest included in Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments their face value and not yet payable at period-end is deferred to future periods. are recognised in the income statement in the period when they occur. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold or is exercised, or when it no longer qualifies as a hedge. At this time, the cumulative gains or losses of the hedging instrument recognised in equity Loans are kept in the latter until the planned transaction actually takes place. If the transaction hedged is not expected to take place, cumulative gains or losses Loans are initially recognised at cost, net of related costs of acquisition. This recognised directly in equity are transferred to the year’s income statement. value is subsequently adjusted to allow for any difference between initial cost Embedded derivatives included in other financial instruments or contracts are and repayment value over the loan’s duration using the effective interest-rate treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not method. strictly related to those of their host contracts and the latter are not measured Loans are classified among current liabilities unless the company has the at fair value with posting of related gains and losses in the income statement. unconditional right to defer discharge of a liability by at least 12 months after The coming into force of IFRS 13, applicable since 1 January 2013, did not have the date of reference. any effect on the determination of the fair value of current derivatives. Policy for conversion of foreign-currency items Revenue recognition Receivables and payables originally expressed in foreign currencies are Revenue is reported net of return sales, discounts, allowances and bonuses, converted into euro at the exchange rates in force on the date of the transactions as well as of the taxes directly associated with sale of goods and rendering of originating them. Forex differences realised upon collection of receivables and services. payment of payables in foreign currency are posted in the income statement. Sales revenue is reported when the company has transferred the significant Income and costs relating to foreign currency transactions are converted at the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods and the amount of rate in force on transaction date. revenue can be reliably measured. At year-end, assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies, with the Revenue of a financial nature is reported on an accrual-accounting basis. exception of non-current items, are posted at the spot exchange rate in force at year-end and related foreign exchange gains and losses are posted in the income statement. If conversion generates a net gain, this value constitutes a non-distributable reserve until it is effectively realised. 142 Recoverable value of tangible assets, intangible assets and Financial income equity investments Finance income includes interest receivable on funds invested and income from The procedure for determining impairment of value in tangible and intangible financial instruments, when not offset as part of hedging transactions. Interest assets described under “Impairment of value“ implies – in estimating the value income is recognised in the income statement when it accrues, considering of use – the use of the Business Plan of subsidiaries, which are based on a effective yield. series of assumptions and hypotheses relating to future events and actions of the subsidiaries’ management bodies, which may not necessarily come about. In estimating market value, however, assumptions are made on the expected trend in trading between third parties based on historical trends, which may not Financial expenses actually be repeated. Financial expense includes interest payable on financial debt calculated using the effective interest method and bank expenses. Provisions for credit risks Credit is adjusted by the related provision for doubtful accounts to take into account its recoverable value. To determine the size of the write-downs, management must make subjective assessments based on the documentation Income taxes for the year and information available regarding, among other things, the customer’s Income taxes include all taxes calculated on the Company’s taxable income. solvency, as well as experience and historical payment trends. Income taxes are directly recognised in the income statement, with the exception of those concerning items directly debited or credited to shareholders’ equity, Provisions for inventory obsolescence in which case the tax effect is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity. Warehouse inventories subject to obsolescence and slow turnover are Other taxes not relating to income, such as property taxes, are included among periodically valued, and written down if their recoverable value is less than their operating expenses. Deferred taxes are provisioned according to the global carrying value. Write-downs are calculated based on management assumptions liability provisioning method. They are calculated on all temporary differences and estimates, resulting from experience and historical results. emerging between the taxable base of an asset and liability and the carrying value. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when income Employee benefits taxes are levied by the same tax authority and when there is a legal right to The current value of liabilities for employee benefits depends on a series of settle on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using factors determined using actuarial techniques based on certain assumptions. the tax rates that are expected to be applicable in the years when temporary Assumptions concern the discount rate, future salary increase estimates, and differences will be realised or settled. mortality and resignation rates. Any change in the abovementioned assumptions could have an effect on liabilities for pension benefits. Income tax Dividends Determining liabilities for company taxes requires the use of management Dividends are posted on an accrual basis when the right to receive them valuations in relation to transactions whose tax implications are not certain on materialises, i.e. when shareholders approve dividend distribution. the balance sheet date. Furthermore, the valuation of deferred taxes is based on income expectations for future years; the valuation of expected income depends on factors that could change over time and have a significant effect on the valuation of deferred tax assets. Own shares Other provisions and reserves Own shares are booked in a specific reserve as a reduction of shareholders’ In estimating the risk of potential liabilities from disputes, management relies equity. The carrying value of own shares and revenues from any subsequent on communications regarding the status of recovery procedures and disputes sales are recognised in the form of changes in shareholders’ equity. from the lawyers who represent the Company in litigation. These estimates are determined taking into account the gradual development of the disputes, considering existing exemptions. Use of estimates Estimates and assumptions are regularly reviewed and the effects of each Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires change immediately reflected in the income statement. management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosures on contingent assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet date. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates are used to measure tangible assets, intangible assets and equity investments subject to impairment testing, as described earlier, as well as to measure the ability to recover prepaid tax assets, credit risks, inventory obsolescence, depreciation and amortisation, asset write-downs, employee benefits, taxes, other provisions and reserves, and balancing payments for electricity charges. Specifically: SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 143 Accounting standards and amendments not yet applicable and New accounting standards not adopted in advance by the Company On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued the standard IFRS 10 – Consolidated Accounting standards and amendments applicable Financial Statements, which will replace SIC-12 Consolidation – Specialfrom 1 January 2013 purpose entities and parts of IAS 27 – Consolidated and separate financial On 16 June 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 – Employee statements, which will be renamed Separate financial statements, and will Benefits, which eliminates the option to defer the recognition of actuarial gains regulate the accounting treatment of equity investments in the separate and losses with the corridor method, requiring that all actuarial gains or losses financial statements. The main changes established by the new standard are be immediately recognised under “Other comprehensive income” so that the as follows: whole net amount of defined-benefit funds (net of assets servicing the plan) According to IFRS 10, there is a single underlying principle regarding the be recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The amendments also consolidation of all types of entity, which is based on control. This change require the change from one year to the next in the defined-benefit fund and removes the inconsistency seen between the previous IAS 27 (based on the assets servicing the plan to be broken down into three components: cost control) and SIC 12 (based on the transfer of risks and benefits); components arising from employees providing service must be recognised A more solid definition of control has been introduced, based on three in the income statement as “service costs”; net financial charges calculated factors: (a) power over the acquired company; (b) exposure or rights to applying the appropriate discount rate to the net balance of the definedvariable returns resulting from involvement therewith; (c) ability to affect the benefit fund, net of assets arising at the start of the year, must be recognised size of these returns by exercising power; in the income statement as such, actuarial gains and losses resulting from IFRS 10 requires that, to assess if it has control over an acquired company, the remeasurement of assets and liabilities must be recognised under “Other an investor is focused on the assets that significantly influence its returns; comprehensive income”. Furthermore, the interest on assets included under IFRS 10 requires that, in assessing the existence of control, only substantive net financial charges as indicated above must be calculated on the basis of the rights are considered, i.e. those that are exercisable in practice when discount rate of liabilities and no longer on the expected return on the assets. decisions relevant to the acquired company must be taken; Finally, the amendment introduced new information to be provided in the IFRS 10 provides practical support guides to assess if control exists in Explanatory Notes to the Financial Statements. The amendment is applicable complex situations, such as de facto control, potential voting rights, situations retrospectively. in which it is necessary to establish if those with decision-making power are For the situations as of 31 December 2012, presented for comparative acting as agent or principal, etc. purposes in the financial statements, the accumulated actuarial losses in the previous fiscal years were therefore reclassified with a shareholders’ equity In general terms, IFRS 10 requires a significant degree of judgement over a reserve created and named the post-employment benefit reserve while the number of aspects relating to its application. The standard has been applied period’s results was entered under the total income statement under “actuarial retrospectively since 1 January 2014. The adoption of this standard will have profits and losses.” The accounting effects resulting from the abovementioned no effect on the scope of consolidation. amendment are set out under Note 14. As the effect is considered immaterial, the column of restated figures to 1 January 2012 was not prepared, as On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued standard IFRS 11 – Joint arrangements, permitted by the standard. which will replace IAS 31 – Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 – Joint-controlled entities – Non-monetary contributions by Venturers. Without prejudice to the criteria On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued the standard IFRS 13 – Fair value measurement, to identify the presence of joint control, the new standard provides the criteria for which defines a single framework for fair value measurements required or allowed the accounting treatment of joint arrangements based on rights and obligations by other standards and the related disclosures in the accounting statements. Fair resulting from agreements rather than their legal form, and establishes the value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability equity method as the only method of accounting for interests in joint ventures in in an orderly transaction between market participants on the valuation date. consolidated financial statements. According to IFRS 11, the existence of a separate This standard must be applied prospectively. The Company has considered the vehicle is not a sufficient condition to classify a joint arrangement as a joint venture. effects re-sulting from the application of this standard and does not consider them The new standard is to be applied retrospectively from 1 January 2014. to be significant. Following the issuing of the standard, IAS 28 – Investments in Associates has been amended to include interests in joint ventures in its scope from the date the On 16 December 2011, the IASB issued some amendments to IFRS 7 – standard becomes effective. Adoption of this principle will have no effect on the Financial in-struments: disclosures (par. 13A-13F). The amendment requires consolidated accounts. disclosure on the effects or potential effects of offsetting financial assets and liabilities on a company’s statement of financial position in applying IAS 32. On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued standard IFRS 12 – Disclosure of interests in The information must be provided retrospectively. The application of these other entities, a new and complete standard on the additional information to be amendments has nt led to any effects in these financial statements. provided in the consolidated financial statements for every type of interest, including those in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, affiliates, special purpose vehicles and On 16 June 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation other non-consolidated entities. The standard is to be applied retrospectively from of financial statements to require companies to group all the components 1 January 2014. presented under “Other comprehensive income” according to whether or not they can subsequently be reclassified to the income statement. The related taxes must be allocated on the same basis. The comprehensive income statement has been consequently adjusted. Comment on the main items of the statement of financial position 1. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Assets under Property Plant and equipment Other assets Total construction COST At 31 December 2011 5,931 139,763 24,543 2,180 172,417 Increases 65 2,471 1,738 1,533 5,807 Disposals (671) (295) (966) Reclassification 1,154 19 (1,183) (10) At 31 December 2012 5,996 142,717 26,005 2,530 177,248 Increases 167 3,725 1,960 580 6,432 Disposals (1,540) (292) (13) (1,845) Reclassification 1,394 68 (1,462) At 31 December 2013 6,163 146,296 27,741 1,635 181,835 ACCUMULATED Depreciation & Amortisation At 31 December 2011 2,029 111,920 20,407 134,356 Depreciation of the year 168 7,136 1,872 9,176 Eliminations for disposals (605) (254) (859) At 31 December 2012 2,197 118,451 22,025 142,673 Depreciation of the year 165 6,505 2,003 8,673 Eliminations for disposals (1,443) (280) (1,723) Reclassification (145) 145 At 31 December 2013 2,362 123,368 23,748 145 149,478 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 3,801 22,928 3,993 1,490 32,212 At 31 December 2012 3,799 24,266 3,980 2,530 34,575 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 145 The breakdown of the net carrying value of Property was as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Land 1,291 1,291 Industrial buildings 2,510 2,508 2 Total 3,801 3,799 2 The main investment in the year concerned the industrialisation of new models Assets under construction include equipment under construction and advances of special burners and light alloy valves, which are expected to see a further to suppliers of operating assets. increase in sales in the future. Investments were also made in maintenance and At 31 December 2013, the Company found no endogenous or exogenous replacement, mainly in the diecasting division, to ensure plant, machinery and indicators of impairment of its property, plant and equipment. As a result, the moulds remain efficient. value of property, plant and equipment was not submitted to impairment testing. The decreases are mainly due to the disposal of equipment no longer in use. 2. INVESTMENT PROPERTY COST At 31 December 2011 6,675 Increases Disposals At 31 December 2012 6,675 Increases Disposals At 31 December 2013 6,675 Accumulated depreciation At 31 December 2011 4,063 Depreciation of the year 196 At 31 December 2012 4,259 Depreciation of the year 194 At 31 December 2013 4,453 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 2,222 At 31 December 2012 2,416 This entry includes non-instrumental property belonging to the Company. This At 31 December 2013, the Company found no endogenous or exogenous item did not change during the year, except for depreciation charges pertaining indicators of impairment of its investment property. As a result, the value of to the year. property, plant and equipment was not submitted to impairment testing. 146 3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Patents, know-how and Development costs Other intangible assets Total software COST At 31 December 2011 5,160 3,448 1,308 9,916 Increases 223 531 276 1,030 Reclassifications 225 (214) 11 Decreases (1) (1) At 31 December 2012 5,607 3,765 1,584 10,956 Increases 84 405 94 583 Reclassifications 64 (64) Decreases (2) (272) (2) (276) At 31 December 2013 5,753 3,834 1,676 11,263 Amortisation and write-downs At 31 December 2011 4,045 1,103 870 6,018 Amortisation 2012 615 274 128 1,017 Decreases (1) (1) At 31 December 2012 4,659 1,377 998 7,034 Amortisation 2013 559 291 145 995 Decreases (2) (2) At 31 December 2013 5,216 1,668 1,143 8,027 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 537 2,166 533 3,236 At 31 December 2012 948 2,388 586 3,922 Intangible assets have a finite useful life and are consequently amortised based The other intangible assets mainly consist in improvements to leased property. on this lifetime. The main investments in the year related to the development During the year development costs were written down by €271,000, since they of new products, including various versions of specialist burners (research and relate to projects which have been abandoned (Note 28). development activities conducted over the year are set out in the Report on At 31 December 2013, the Company found no endogenous or exogenous Operations). Software investments relate to the extension of the application indicators of possible further impairment of its intangible assets. As a result, area and the companies covered by the Group’s management system (SAP). the value of intangible assets was not submitted to impairment testing. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 147 4. EQUITY INVESTMENTS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change In subsidiary companies 43,031 42,096 935 Other shareholdings 39 33 6 Total 43,070 42,129 941 Changes in equity investments in subsidiaries are shown in the following table: Sabaf Sabaf A.C. Sabaf Faringosi Sabaf Appliance Sabaf Sabaf Mexico Sabaf U.S Trading Total Immobiliare Hinges do Brasil Components Turkey (China) (China) Historical cost At 31 December 2011 13,475 10,329 9,528 548 139 1,200 0 2,018 37,237 Capital increases/ 600 70 8,483 9,153 reductions At 31 December 2012 13,475 10,329 9,528 548 139 1,800 70 10,501 46,390 Capital increases/ (1,059) 450 130 2,850 2,371 reductions At 31 December 2013 13,475 10,329 8,469 548 139 2,250 200 13,351 48,761 Write-down reserve At 31 December 2011 0 1,128 0 0 0 1,115 0 0 2,243 Write-downs 1,586 465 2,051 At 31 December 2012 0 2,714 0 0 0 1,580 0 0 4,294 Write-downs (Note 28) 939 497 1,436 At 31 December 2013 0 3,653 0 0 0 2,077 0 0 5,730 Carrying value At 31 December 2013 13,475 6,676 8,469 548 139 173 200 13,351 43,031 At 31 December 2012 13,475 7,615 9,528 548 139 220 70 10,501 42,096 Shareholders’ equity (determined in accordance with IAS/IFRS) At 31 December 2013 26,149 4,760 8,684 248 19 173 148 11,874 52,055 At 31 December 2012 24,710 5,082 5 10,995 287 57 220 68 9,755 51,201 Difference between shareholders’ equity and book value At 31 December 2013 12,674 (1,916) 215 (300) (120) 0 (52) (1,477) 9,024 At 31 December 2012 11,235 (2,533) 1,467 (261) (82) 0 (2) (746) 9,105 5 Value recalculated following the application of the IAS standard 19 revised 148 The changes in the carrying values of the subsidiaries are commented on below: considers 100% of flows arising from new products; a “steady state” scenario (or “worst case”), which completely excludes flows of Faringosi Hinges s.r.l new products and hypothesizes the continuation of the present state; Despite the increased sales (€6.6 million, up 8.9% on 2012 and slightly higher an intermediate scenario, which incorporates the realisation risk and considers than the budget), also in 2013 the subsidiary Faringosi Hinges recorded a negative only 75% of flows related to new products. The 75% weighting was set by net result (net loss of €328,000). Due to the introduction of new products, startmanagement based on the probability of success of the new products the up costs were sustained and operating efficiency were attained only gradually Group intends to introduce, taking into account the extent of completion of the during the year. Current production volumes are also still insufficient to cover the development projects (the majority of which are already concluded) and the level fixed costs. In order to relaunch the subsidiary, the Group believes it is essential of progress of commercial negotiations (in the finalisation period for significant to step up the sales of special high value-added products; to this end Faringosi volumes of incremental sales). The impairment test was conducted considering Hinges recently developed products which provide better performance than those this last scenario, inasmuch as it is prudently considered achievable based on the available on the market (such as damped hinges for the opening and closing abovementioned considerations. of oven doors and hinges for particular heavy doors) and has begun talks with customers for the launch of these products. The 2014-2018 plan, drawn up at the Cash flows for the period 2014-2018 were augmented by the so-called terminal end of 2013, projects a gradual recovery in sales and profitability, to which the new value, which expresses the operating flows that the subsidiary is expected to products will make an essential contribution. generate from the sixth year to infinity. Value in use was calculated based on At 31 December 2013, Sabaf S.p.A. tested the carrying value of its shareholding a discount rate (WACC) of 8.52% (8.62% in the impairment test conducted for in Faringosi Hinges for impairment, determining its recoverable value, considered preparation of the financial statements at 31 December 2012) and a growth rate to be equal to its value in use, by discounting expected future cash flow. However, (g) of 1.50%, which is in line with historical data. given that there are various elements of uncertainty implicit in realising this plan and in line with the assessments as at 31 December 2012, it was considered The recoverable value determined based on the assumptions and assessment preferable to prepare a multiscenario analysis, which contemplates the following techniques mentioned above is €6,676 million. The equity investment was three hypotheses: therefore written down by €939,000 in the current financial statements (Note 28). a “best estimate” scenario, which coincides with the subsidiary’s plan and Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the changes in recoverable value depending on changes in the WACC discount rate and growth factor g, also in the “best estimate” and “steady state” scenarios: Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 millions of euro best estimate steady state intermediate growth rate growth rate growth rate discount rate 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 1.25% 1.50% 1.75% 7.62% 10.0 10.4 10.9 2.0 2.0 2.1 7.8 8.1 8.5 8.12% 9.1 9.4 9.8 1.8 1.9 1.9 7.1 7.3 7.6 8.62% 8.3 8.6 8.9 1.7 1.7 1.8 6.4 6.7 6.9 9.12% 7.6 7.8 8.1 1.6 1.6 1.6 5.9 6.1 6.3 9.62% 7.0 7.2 7.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 5.4 5.6 5.8 The table shows that the recoverable value is highly sensitive to changes in the Sabaf Appliance Components discount rate, the growth rate and the success of initiatives undertaken to improve Sabaf Appliance Components (Kunshan) Co., Ltd., the Chinese company formed the product range and adapt the production process, which is also conditioned by in 2009, has not yet launched purchase, production and sales operations. In factors that cannot be controlled by the Company. The Board of Directors cannot 2013, the subsidiary’s capital was increased by €450,000. The value of the therefore rule out that, in the future, the final profitability figure may diverge from investment was reduced by a further €497,000, in light of losses sustained by that set out in forward data, requiring further write-downs of the equity investment. the subsidiary over the year and considered permanent. Given the uncertainty of any process estimating future events not dependent on variables that can be controlled, the directors will systematically monitor the actual Sabaf Appliance Components Trading balance sheet and income statement data of the subsidiary to assess the need to Sabaf Appliance Components Trading (Kunshan) Co., Ltd., was established in adjust forecasts and at the same time reflect any further losses in value. 2012 and acts as the distributor on the Chinese market of Sabaf products made in Italy. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sabaf S.p.A. In 2013, the subsidiary’s Sabaf do Brasil capital was increased by €130,000. In 2013, Sabaf do Brasil partially reapid Sabaf S.p.A. the capital paid in in previous years, since it was surplus to the subsidiary’s operational requirements; the share capital was therefore reduced by 27 million reais to 24 million reais. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 149 Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Sanayi Ve Ticaret to the shareholders’ equity converted at the year-end exchange rate is solely Limited Sirteki (Sabaf Turkey) due to the devaluation of the Turkish lira. There are therefore no indicators of 2013 was the first full year of operation for Sabaf Turkey, the company set up other-than-temporary impairment. with the objective of directly supplying burners for the Turkish market, which is the second largest market for the Company after Italy. Operating performance With regard to the other investments in subsidiary companies (Sabaf Mexico and was immediately satisfactory and operating results are already positive. Sabaf US), the difference between their carrying value and the shareholders’ In Sabaf S.p.A., which wholly owns Sabaf Turkey, subscribed further capital equity is attributable to losses considered as not permanent, in light of the increases to fund new investments aimed at increasing production capacity. On Group’s expected increase in business on the North American market. 31 December 2013 the increased carrying value of the investment compared 5. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Financial receivables from subsidiaries 1,451 1,516 (65) Total 1,451 1,516 (65) At 31 December 2013 and at 31 December 2012 this item included an to the subsidiary Sabaf do Brasil, in order to optimise the Group’s exposure to interest-bearing loan of USD 2 million maturing in March 2017 and granted exchange rate risk. 6. INVENTORIES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Raw materials 8,229 8,165 64 Semi-processed goods 10,279 8,736 1,543 Finished products 7,367 5,879 1,488 Obsolescence provision (2,000) (2,000) Total 23,875 20,780 3,095 The closing balance of stocks at 31 December 2013 increased as a result of unchanged from the previous year. It is based on the best estimate of the a higher drop in sales than expected in the last few months of the year. The obsolescence risk, measured by analysing slowand non-moving stock at the obsolescence provision amounted to €470,000 for raw materials, €670,000 for end of the year. semi-processed goods and €860,000 for finished products and was remained 7. TRADE RECEIVABLES The geographical breakdown of trade receivables was as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Italy 15,721 17,036 (1,315) Western Europe 4,288 1,934 2,354 Eastern Europe and Turkey 3,327 9,158 (5,831) Asia and Oceania 5,301 5,281 20 South America 2,982 1,808 1,174 Africa 675 832 (157) US, Canada & Mexico 846 514 332 Gross total 33,140 36,563 (3,423) Provision for doubtful accounts (1,540) (1,200) (340) Net total 31,600 35,363 (3,763) 150 At 31 December 2013 the value of trade receivables was down against the previous year, as a result of the sharp fall in sales in the last quarter. At 31 December 2013, trade receivables included balances of USD 1,765,000, posted 9. OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES at the EUR/USD exchange rate as at 31 December 2013, i.e. 1.3791. The amount of trade receivables recognised in accounts includes €8.8 million of receivables assigned on a no-recourse basis (€11.4 million at 31 December 2012). The 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change doubtful account provision recognised at the start of the year was partially used (for an amount of €790,000) for the losses on receivables which the Company Advances to suppliers 650 1,532 (882) incurred during 2013; in 2013 €1,130,000 was set aside to the provision, which Group VAT 647 647 reflects the best estimate of the credit risk as at 31 December 2013. Receivables from factoring 158 158 0 companies Receivables from INAIL 48 85 (37) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Receivables from suppliers 167 31 136 Current receivables (not past due) 26,690 27,910 (1,220) Others 156 149 7 Outstanding up to 30 days 2,241 3,143 (902) Total 1,826 1,955 (129) Outstanding from 31 to 60 days 879 573 306 Outstanding from 61 to 90 days 629 814 (185) At 31 December 2013 advances to suppliers included €626,000 from Sabaf Immobiliare s.r.l. (€1,491,000 at 31 December 2012), paid as an advance on Outstanding over 90 days 2,701 4,123 (1,422) 2014 rent for the proper-ties owned by the subsidiary. Total 33,140 36,563 (3,423) The group VAT credit arose from the joint VAT settlement with Sabaf Immobiliare s.r.l. €8.5 million of receivables assigned on a no-recourse basic fall under the category of “current receivables” and €0.3 million under the category “outstanding up to 30 days”. 10. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents, which amounted to €2,345,000 at 31 December 8. TAX RECEIVABLES 2013 (€1,601,000 at 31 December 2012) refer almost exclusively to bank account balances. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change From Giuseppe Saleri SapA for IRES 1,083 1,568 (485) 11. SHARE CAPITAL From inland revenue for VAT 93 296 (203) At 31 December 2013, the company’s share capital consisted of 11,533,450 From inland revenue for shares with a par value of €1.00 each. Subscribed and paid-in share capital did 27 (27) IRAP not change during the year. Other tax receivables 4 (4) Total 1,176 1,895 (719) 12. OWN SHARES Sabaf S.p.A. was part of domestic tax consolidation pursuant to articles In 2013 Sabaf S.p.A purchased 97,857 own shares at the average price of 117/129 of the Unified Income Tax Law. This option was renewed in 2013 for €9.092 per share (€890,000) and sold €358,000 at the price of €11.10 another three years. In this scheme, the ultimate parent company Giuseppe (€3,974,000). In accordance with IFRS, the capital gain of €750,000 realised Saleri S.a.p.A. acts as the consolidating company. As at 31 December 2013 the was recorded directly under shareholders’ equity. amount due from Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. arose as a result of full deductibility At 31 December 2013 Sabaf S.p.A. held 507 own shares (0.004% of the share from IRES of IRAP for personnel costs and similar for the period 2006-2011 capital), reported in the financial statements as an adjustment to shareholders’ (Law Decree no. 201/2011). The consolidating company has submitted a refund equity at a unit value of €9.006. claim for this amount and will repaid Sabaf S.p.A. for the amount it is due as There were 11,532,943 outstanding shares at 31 December 2013 (11,272,800 soon as it receives the reimbursement. at 31 December 2012). SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 151 13. LOANS 15. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 restated Non Non Liabilities Current Current 2,566 2,372 2,199 Current Current at 1 January Financial Unsecured loans 317 2,422 317 61 95 95 expenses Short-term bank Amounts 7,951 13,517 (152) (203) (203) loans paid out Subject to collection Actuarial 21 302 advances on bank 6,105 5,586 losses receipt or invoices Liabilities at 2,496 2,566 2,092 Advances from facto31 December 1,074 ring companies Interest payable 49 The revision of IAS 19 – Employee Benefits eliminated the option to defer the recognition of actuarial gains and losses with the corridor method applied by Total 15,496 0 21,525 317 the Company until 31 December 2012, requiring that all gains or losses be immediately recognized under “Other comprehensive income” in the Income All outstanding bank loans are denominated in euro, at a floating rate linked to Statement with retroactive effect. For the situations as of 31 December 2012, the Euribor, with the exception of a short-term loan of USD 2 million. presented for comparative purposes in the financial statements, the accumulated To meet the Company’s financial requirements, at 31 December 2013 actuarial losses in the previous fiscal years were therefore reclassified with a outstanding short-term loans totalled €7,951,000 and advances from banks shareholders’ equity reserve created and named the post-employment benefit on receipts and invoices totalling €6,105,000 and from factoring companies reserve while the year’s results was entered under the total income statement totalling €1,074,000 had been used (for receivables assigned to factoring under “actuarial profits and losses.” As a result of the aforementioned change, companies amounting to around €8.8 million – Note 7). as at 31 December 2012 an increased post-employment benefit reserve in the The loans are not bound by contractual provisions (covenants). amount of €473,944 was recorded under liabilities, a negative post-employment Note 35 provides information on financial risks, pursuant to IFRS 7. benefit evaluation reserve of €342,609 (net of prepaid taxes of €130,335) was recorded under shareholders’ equity and actuarial losses of €218,833 were recorded in the comprehensive income statement. 14. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The post-employment benefit reserve (TFR) is valued on the basis of the following assumptions: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Derivative instruments 2 33 (31) Financial assumptions on interest rates Total 2 33 (31) 31.12. 2013 31.12.2012 Discount rate 2.70% 2.50% This item includes the negative fair value of the derivative financial instruments at year-end that hedge interest rate risks (Note 35). Inflation 2.00% 2.00% Demographic assumptions 31.12. 2013 31.12.2012 Mortality rate SIM 2010 M/F ISTAT 2002 M/F Disability rate INPS 1998 M/F INPS 1998 M/F Staff turnover 6% per year on all ages 6% per year on all ages Advance 5% per year 5% per year payouts in agreement with the in agreement with the Retirement legislation in force at 31 legislation in force at 31 age December 2013 December 2012 152 Article 83 of IAS19, on the definition of actuarial assumptions and, in particular, grade securities and thereby excluding the more riskier securities. Since IAS19 the discount rate, states that reference should be made to the market returns does not make explicit reference to a specific product market, a composite of high-quality corporate bonds or to returns of securities with a low credit risk market curve was chosen, which therefore summarises the market conditions profile. Referring to the definition of investment grade securities, i.e. securities on the evaluation date for securities issued by companies belonging to different with a rating equal or higher than BBB of S&P or Baa2 of Moodys, only securities sectors, including the utility, telephone, financial, bank and industrial sectors. issued by corporate issuers included with a “AA” class rating were considered, With regard to the geographic area, reference was made to the Euro area. on the basis that this class indicates a high rating level among all investment 16. PROVISIONS FOR RISKS AND CONTINGENCIES 31.12.2012 Provisions Use Release of excess 31.12.2013 Reserve for agents’ 299 10 (20) 289 indemnities Product warranty 60 2 (2) 60 reserve Reserve for legal 40 30 70 risks Total 399 42 (2) (20) 419 The reserve for agents’ indemnities covers amounts payable to agents if the The reserve for legal risks, set aside for disputes of a modest size, was adjusted company terminates the agency relationship. at the end of the year following the development of existing disputes. The product warranty reserve covers the risk of returns or charges by customers The provisions booked to the reserve for risks and contingencies, which for products already sold. The fund was adjusted at the end of the year, on the represent the estimate of future payments made based on historic experience, basis of analyses conducted and past experience. have not been time-discounted because the effect is considered negligible. 17. TRADE PAYABLES 18. TAX PAYABLES The geographical breakdown of trade payables was as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change From Giuseppe Saleri 317 317 Italy 14,645 14,933 (288) S.a.p.A. for IRES Western Europe 1,906 1,401 505 From inland revenue 27 27 Eastern Europe and for IRAP 38 32 6 Turkey Asia 319 587 (268) From inland revenue 680 669 11 for IRPEF withholdings US, Canada & 1 126 (125) Mexico Total 1,024 669 355 Total 16,909 17,079 170 The amount of trade payables in currencies other than the euro was insignificant. The amount due to Giuseppe Saleri SapA relates to the balance for income At 31 December 2013, there were no overdue payables of a significant amount, taxes transferred to the parent company, in accordance with the existing tax and the Com-pany had not received any injunctions for overdue payables. consolidation agreement. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 153 19. OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES The increase in amounts due to employees is mainly due to the increase in 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change bonuses for the MBO plan, the payment of which is deferred to 2014. At the Due to employees 3,656 3,195 461 start of 2014 the amounts due to employees and to social security institutions Due to social security were settled by their due dates. 1,932 1,913 19 institutions Payments to clients 63 147 (84) Due to agents 233 231 2 Other current payables 65 57 8 Total 5,949 5,543 406 20. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 restated 31.12.2012 Deferred tax assets (prepaid taxes) 3,646 3,449 3,319 Deferred tax liabilities (14) (27) (27) Net position 3,632 3,422 3,292 The table below analyses the nature of the temporary differences that determines the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets and their movements during the year and the previous year. Post-employAdjustments ment benefit Other Amortisation Fair value of and value Goodwill actuarial temporary Total and leasing derivatives adjustments evaluation differences (Note 15) At 31 December 2011 148 955 3 1,993 47 6 3,152 To the income statement 94 70 26 190 To shareholders’ equity (3) 83 80 At 31 December 2012 242 1,025 0 1,993 130 32 3,422 To the income statement 3 73 123 199 To shareholders’ equity 5 6 11 At 31 December 2013 245 1,098 5 1,993 136 155 3,632 Prepaid taxes related to goodwill of €1,993,000 refer to the percentage of the sharehold-ing value in Faringosi Hinges s.r.l. in 2011. The future fiscal benefit can be reported in ten annual amounts as from the financial year 2018. 154 21. NET FINANCIAL POSITION As required by the CONSOB memorandum of 28 July 2006, we disclose that the Compa-ny’s net financial position is as follows: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change A. Cash (Note 10) 9 6 3 B. Positive balances of unrestricted bank accounts (Note 10) 2,336 1,595 741 C. Other liquidities 0 0 0 D. Cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 2,345 1,601 744 E. Current bank payables (Note 13) 14,104 19,102 (4,998) F. Current portion of non-current debt (Note 13) 317 2,422 (2,105) G. Other current financial payables (Notes 13, 14) 1,076 33 1,043 H. Current financial debt (E+F+G) 15,497 21,557 (6,060) I. Current net financial debt (H-D) 13,152 19,956 (6,804) J. Current bank payables (Note 13) 0 317 (317) K. Other non-current financial payables 0 0 0 L. Non-current financial debt (J+K) 0 317 (317) M. Net financial debt (I+L) 13,152 20,273 (7,121) The cash flow statement provides changes in cash and cash equivalents (letter D of this schedule). SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 155 Comments on key income statement items 22. REVENUE Sales revenue totalled €112,417,000 in 2013, down by €3,785,000. (-3.3%) vs. 2012. Geographical breakdown of revenue 2013 % 2012 % Change % Italy 40,255 35.8% 43,310 37.3% -7.1% Western Europe 6,482 5.8% 6,038 5.2% 7.4% Eastern Europe and Turkey 25,379 22.6% 32,592 28.0% -22.1% Asia and Oceania 12,091 10.7% 12,418 10.7% -2.6% Central and South America 14,921 13.3% 12,695 10.9% +17.5% Africa 10,320 9.2% 6,814 5.9% +51.5% US, Canada & Mexico 2,969 2.6% 2,335 2.0% +27.2% Total 112,417 100% 116,202 100% -3.3% Revenue by product family 2013 2012 Change Change % Brass valves 14,615 18,602 (3,987) -21.4% Light alloy valves 27,556 23,610 3,946 +16.7% Thermostats 13,340 13,085 255 +1.9% Total valves and thermostats 55,511 55,297 214 +0.4% Standard burners 26,184 30,793 (4,609) -15.0% Special burners 19,195 18,875 320 +1.7% Burners 45,379 49,668 (4,289) -8.6% Accessories and other 11,527 11,237 290 +2.6% revenues Total 112,417 116,202 (3,785) -3.3% Faced with a European market still in decline, the Company was able to increase Also in 2013 the trend to replace brass valves with light alloy valves continued. its sales on international markets and was therefore able to limit decrease Average sale prices in 2013 were down by around 1% versus 2012. drop in turnover to 3.3% compared to 2012. The loss of turnover is entirely Reference should be made to the Report on Operations for detailed information attributable to standard burners, following the decision to supply the Turkish on the trends of the target market during the year. market directly by the subsidiary Sabaf Turkey. 156 23. OTHER INCOME 25. COSTS FOR SERVICES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Outsourced proSale of scraps 2,155 2,245 (90) 10,449 10,996 (547) cessing Services to subsidiary Electricity and 206 113 93 4,903 4,848 55 companies natural gas Contingent income 157 248 (91) Lease payments 3,959 3,898 61 Maintenance 2,975 3,231 (256) Rental income 119 114 5 Transport and 1,220 1,313 (93) Use of provisions for export costs 22 59 (37) risks and contingencies Advisory services 1,212 1,056 156 Services to the subsi11 33 (22) diary companies Directors’ remune826 993 (167) Others 601 427 174 ration Total 3,271 3,239 32 Commissions 663 706 (43) Waste disposal 485 497 (12) Services to subsidiary companies and the parent company refer to Travel expenses administrative, commercial, and technical services provided in the Group. 448 480 (32) and allowances Canteen 300 305 (5) Insurance 274 305 (31) 24. PURCHASES Factoring commissions 134 192 (58) Temporary agency 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change 107 83 24 workers Raw materials and Other payroll costs 1,857 1,850 7 40,574 39,168 1,406 purchases Total 29,812 30,753 (941) Consumables 3,697 3,162 535 The decrease in outsourced processing costs is linked to the reduced production Total 44,271 42,330 1,941 of burners. The decrease in maintenance costs is linked to the cyclical nature of the production equipment servicing and maintenance work. There were no The actual prices of the main raw materials (brass, aluminium alloys and steel) significant changes in other service costs. decreased by an average 5% compared to 2012. Savings were also made in In 2013 the cost per kWh of electricity and the cost per m2 of natural gas did the purchase of other components. Consumption (purchases plus change in not change significantly from the previous year. inventory) as a percentage of sales was 36.6% in 2013, compared with 39.6% Costs for consultancy relate to technical consultancy equal to €264,000, in 2012; this decrease was due to a different mix of products sold. sales consultancy equal to €277,000 and legal, administrative and general consultancy equal to €741,000. Commission is related to agency contracts for sales mainly on non-European markets. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 157 26. PAYROLL COSTS 28. WRITE-DOWNS/WRITE-BACKS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS Salaries and wages 18,437 18,020 417 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Social security costs 6,153 5,918 235 Temporary agency workers 753 632 121 Write-down of Faringosi 939 1,586 (647) Hinges Post-employment benefit reserve and Other payroll 1,712 1,364 348 Write-down of Sabaf costs 498 465 33 Appliance Components Total 27,055 25,934 1,121 Write-down of 271 271 development costs Average group headcount in 2013 totalled 571 employees (455 blue-collars, Total 1,708 2,051 (343) 108 white-collars and supervisors, and 8 managers) as opposed to 587 in 2012 (468 blue-collars, 111 white-collars and supervisors, and 8 managers). The For more details on the write-downs, see Note 4. average number of temporary staff was 25 in 2013 (23 in 2012). The write-down of development costs relates to projects which were abandoned During the year the Company occasionally made use of government subsidised or which did not achieve the commercial success originally anticipated (Note 3). tempo-rary lay-off benefits during periods when production requirements were low: this option allowed the Group to save €306,000 in personnel costs (€330,000 in 2012). 29. FINANCIAL EXPENSES 27. OTHER OPERATING COSTS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Interest paid to banks 403 452 (49) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Banking expenses 217 276 (59) Losses and write-downs of 1,130 1,608 (478) trade receivables Other finance expense 67 100 (33) Duties and taxes other 253 205 48 Total 687 828 (141) than income taxes Other administration 139 79 60 expenses The reduction in financial charges is a result of the lower level of average financial Contingent liabilities 94 72 22 debt and the decrease in interest rates compared to 2012. Provisions for risks 32 21 11 Others provisions 10 13 (3) Total 1,658 1,998 (340) 30. FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS/LOSSES In 2013 losses on receivables totalling €790,000 and write-downs of receivables totalling €430,000 were recognised, as a consequence of In 2013, the Company reported net foreign exchange gains of €94,000 the financial difficulties suffered by some of the Company’s major Italian (net losses of €61,000 in 2012). The exchange rate differences are mainly customers, including the Fagor group. Non-income taxes chiefly include the attributable to changes in the euro/dollar rate during the year. single municipal tax (IMU) and the tax on the disposal of municipal solid waste. Provisions for liabilities refer to the allocations to the risk reserve described in Note 16. 31. GAINS FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change Dividends Sabaf do Brasil 1,034 792 242 Total 1,034 792 242 158 32. INCOME TAX 33. DIVIDENDS On 23 May 2013, shareholders were paid a dividend of €0.35 per share (total 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Change dividends of €3,911,000). Directors have recommended payment of a dividend of €0.40 per share this year. Current tax 2,691 2,707 (16) This dividend is subject to approval of shareholders in the annual Shareholders’ Accounting of IRES credit, Meeting and was not included under liabilities. (1,033) 1,033 under Decree Law 16/2012 The dividend proposed for 2013 is scheduled for payment on 29 May 2014 Deferred tax assets and (199) (190) (9) (coupon date 26 May, record date 28 May). liabilities Taxes relating to previous (504) (12) (492) years Total 1,988 1,472 516 34. SEGMENT DISCLOSURE Current taxes include IRES for € 1,712,000 and IRAP for € 979,000 (respectively Sabaf works exclusively in the gas components segment in the Sabaf Group. The € 1,651,000 and € 1,056,000 in 2012). consolidated financial statements provide the disclosure on the various segments The taxes for previous years are a result of the recalculation of taxes when the in which the Group operates. tax return was filed, compared to the amount recorded on the reporting date of the previous year, also as a result of unexpected, more favourable interpretations of the applicable tax rules. In accordance with Legislative Decree 16 of 2 March 2012, at 31 December 2012 35. INFORMATION the Group had booked the tax credit resulting from the non-deduction of IRAP for personnel costs and similar for the period 2007-2011. As a result, taxes booked ON FINANCIAL RISK in the 2012 income statement had been lower by €1,033,000. Categories of financial instruments Reconciliation between the tax burden booked in year-end financial statements and the theoretical tax burden calculated according to the statutory tax rates In accordance with IFRS 7, below is breakdown of the financial instruments currently in force in Italy is shown in the table. according to the categories set out by IAS 39. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Theoretical income tax 1,572 1,020 Financial assets Tax effect on permanent differences 287 458 Amortised cost Effect of dividends from subsidiaries not • Cash and cash equivalents 2,345 1,601 (284) subject to taxation • Commercial receivables and other 33,427 37,318 Taxes relating to previous years (377) (12) receivables Other differences (64) (7) • Non-current loans 1,451 1,516 IRES (current and deferred) 1,134 1,459 IRAP (current and deferred) 854 1,046 Financial liabilities Accounting of IRES credit, under Decree Law Comprehensive income statement (1,033) 16/2012 fair value Total 1,988 1,472 • Derivative cash flow hedges 2 33 Amortised cost Theoretical taxes were calculated applying the current corporate income tax (IRES) rate, i.e. 27.50%, to the pre-tax result. For the purposes of reconciliation, • Loans 15,496 21,841 IRAP is not considered because its taxable base is different to that of pre-tax • Payables to suppliers 16,909 17,079 profit and inclusion of the tax would generate distortionary effects. The Company is exposed to financial risks related to its operations, and mainly: • to the risk of credit, with particular reference to the normal commercial Tax Status relationships with customers; • market risk, in relation to the volatility of the prices of commodities, exchange No tax disputes were pending at 31 December 2013. rates and rates; • liquidity risk, which can be expressed with the inability to find financial resources nec-essary to ensure Company operations. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 159 Sabaf policy is to hedge exposure to changes in prices and in exchange and At 31 December 2013 interest rates using derivative financial instruments. Hedging is done using forward contracts, options or combinations of these instruments. Generally Average speaking, the maximum duration covered by such hedging does not exceed 18 interest Notional Fair months. The Company does not enter into speculative transactions. When the rates of the value value contracts derivatives used for hedging purposes meet the necessary requisites, hedge accounting rules are followed. Within 1 year 2.20% 317 (2) From 1 to 2 years More than 2 years Total (2) Credit risk management The Company has trade receivables with domestic appliance manufacturers, At 31 December 2012 multinational groups and smaller manufacturers present on a few or individual Average markets. The Company assesses the creditworthiness of all its customers at interest Notional Fair the start of the supply and systemically on at least an annual basis. After this rates of the value value assessment, each client is assigned a credit limit. contracts A significant amount of risk (approximately 30% of the maximum theoretical Within 1 year 2.15% 1,680 (31) exposure) is transferred by assignment through no-recourse factoring From 1 to 2 years 2.20% 321 (2) transactions to primary financial institutions. More than 2 years Credit risk relating to customers operating in emerging economies is generally attenuated by the expectation of revenue through letters of credit, confirmed Total (33) by key banks. Sensitivity analysis Since there were no variable-rate financial assets or liabilities falling due after 12 months, no analysis was carried out on the sensitivity of the financial income Forex risk management and charges to changes in interest rates. The key currencies other than the euro which the Company is exposed to are the US dollar in relation to sales conducted in dollars (chiefly on some Asian and North American markets), and to a lesser extent to some purchases (chiefly Commodity price risk management from Asian producers). Sales in US dollars represented approximately 7% of total revenue in 2013, while purchases in dollars represented about 1.5% of A significant portion of the company’s acquisitions are represented by total revenue. Transactions in dollars were not hedged by derivative financial brass, steel and aluminium alloys. The sale prices of products are generally instruments. renegotiated annually; as a result, the Group is unable to pass on to clients changes in the prices of commodities that occur during the year. The Company Sensitivity analysis protects itself from the risk of changes in the price of brass and aluminium With reference to financial assets and liabilities in US dollars at 31 December with supply contracts signed with suppliers for delivery up to twelve months 2013, a hypothetical and immediate revaluation of 10% of the euro against the in advance or, alternatively, with derivative financial instruments. In financial dollar would have led to a loss of €183,000. years 2013 and 2012, the Company did not use financial derivatives on commodities. To stabilise the rising costs of commodities, Sabaf preferred to execute transactions on the physical market, establishing prices with suppliers for immediate and deferred delivery. Interest rate risk management The Company borrows money at a floating rate; to reach an optimal mix of Liquidity risk management floating and fixed rates in the structure of the loans, the Company uses derivative financial instruments designating them to cash flow hedges. In 2009, The Company operates with a low debt ratio (net debt / shareholders’ equity at the Company entered into two IRS agreements to convert from 2010 two loans 31 December 2013 equal to 12.6%) and has unused short-term lines of credit of equal amount from a floating to fixed interest rate, both falling due by the end of approximately €60 million. To minimise the risk of liquidity, the Administration of 2014. The chart below shows the salient characteristics of the IRS in effect at and Finance Department: 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: • regularly assesses expected financial needs in order to make the best decisions; • maintains correct balance of net financial debt, financing investments with capital and, if necessary, with mediumto long-term debt. 160 Below is an analysis by expiration date of the financial payables at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: At 31 December 2013 Contractual Within 3 From 3 months From 1 to 5 More than 5 Carrying value financial flows months to 1 year years years Unsecured loans 317 318 318 Short-term bank loans 15,178 15,178 15,178 Total financial payables 15,495 15,496 15,496 0 0 0 Trade payables 16,909 16,909 15,840 1,069 Total 32,404 32,405 31,336 1,069 0 0 At 31 December 2012 Contractual Within 3 From 3 months From 1 to 5 More than 5 Carrying value financial flows months to 1 year years years Unsecured loans 2,739 2,766 711 1,737 318 Short-term bank loans 19,102 19,102 19,102 Total financial payables 21,841 21,868 19,813 1,737 318 0 Trade payables 17,079 17,079 15,609 1,470 Total 38,920 38,947 35,422 3,207 318 0 The various due dates are based on the period between the balance sheet date shares of principal and interest; for floating rate liabilities, the shares of interest and the contractual expiration date of the commitments, the values indicated are determined based on the value of the reference parameter at the reporting in the chart correspond to non-discounted cash flows. Cash flows include the date and increased by the spread set forth in each contract. Hierarchical levels of the fair value assessment The revised IFRS 7 requires that financial instruments reported in the statement The following table shows the assets and liabilities that are valued at the fair of financial position at the fair value be classified based on a hierarchy that value at 31 December 2013, by hierarchical level of fair value assessment. reflects the significance of the input used in determining the fair value. IFRS 7 includes the following levels: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total • Level 1 – quotations found on an active market for assets or liabilities Other financial subject to assessment; liabilities • Level 2 – input other than prices listed under the previous point, which can 2 2 (derivatives on be ob-served (prices) or indirectly (derivatives from prices) on the market; interest rates) • Level 3 – input that are based on observable market data. Total liabilities 0 2 0 2 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 161 36. RELATED-PARTY AND INFRAGROUP TRANSACTIONS The table below illustrates the impact of all transactions between Sabaf S.p.A. and related parties on the balance sheet and income statement, with the exception of remuneration paid to directors, statutory auditors and executives with strategic responsibilities, which are shown in the Report on Remuneration. Impact of related-party transactions or positions on items in the statement of financial position Other related Total related Impact Total 2013 Subsidiaries Parent company parties parties on the total Non-current assets 1,451 1,451 1,451 100.00% Trade receivables 31,600 1,192 1,192 3.77% Tax receivables 1,176 1,084 1,084 92.18% Other current receivables 1,826 1,273 1,273 69.72% Trade payables 16,909 84 84 0.50% Tax payables 1,024 317 317 30.96% Other related Total related Impact Total 2012 Subsidiaries Parent company parties parties on the total Non-current assets 1,516 1,516 1,516 100.00% Trade receivables 35,363 876 876 2.48% Tax receivables 1,895 1,568 1,568 82.74% Other current receivables 1,955 1,491 1,491 76.27% Trade payables 17,079 313 313 1.83% Impact of related-party transactions on income statement accounts Other related Total related Impact Total 2013 Subsidiaries Parent company parties parties on the total Revenue 112,417 3,783 3,783 3.37% Other income 3,271 314 10 324 9.91% Materials 44,271 94 94 0.21% Services 29,812 4,128 4,128 13.85% Capital gains on non-current 51 51 51 100.00% assets Write-downs/write-backs of 1,708 1,437 1,437 84.13% non-current assets Financial income 83 60 60 72.29% Financial expenses 687 31 31 4.51% Profits and losses from equity 1,034 1,034 1,034 100.00% investments Other related Total related Impact Total 2012 Subsidiaries Parent company parties parties on the total Revenue 116,202 1,740 1,740 1.50% Other income 3,239 282 33 315 9.73% Materials (42,330) (376) (376) 0.89% Services (30,753) (4,043) (4,043) 13.15% Capital gains on non-current 375 287 287 76.53% assets Write-downs/write-backs of (2,051) (2,051) (2,051) 100.00% non-current assets Financial income 40 34 34 85.00% Profits and losses from equity 792 792 792 100.00% investments 162 Transactions with the subsidiaries consist mainly of: • business relationships with Sabaf do Brazil, Faringosi Hinges, Sabaf Turkey and Sabaf Kunshan Trading pertaining to purchases and sales of finished 39. COMMITMENTS products or intermediate products; • sales of machinery to Sabaf Turkey, which generated the capital gains Guarantees issued reported; • rents for premises from Sabaf Immobiliare; Sabaf S.p.A. provided guarantees against mortgage loans to subsidiaries. Related • infragroup loans; residual debt at 31 December 2013 was €2,770,000 (€3,671,000 as at 31 • Group VAT settlement. December 2012). Sabaf S.p.A. has also issued sureties to guarantee consumer and mortgage Transactions with the ultimate parent company, Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A., which loans granted by Banco di Brescia to its employees for a total of €6,598,000 does not perform activities of direction and co-ordination pursuant to article 2497 (€7,075,000 as at 31 December 2012). of the Italian Civil Code, consist of: • providing administrative services; • transactions as part of the domestic tax consolidation scheme, which generated the payables and receivables shown in the tables. 40. REMUNERATION TO DIRECTORS, Transactions are regulated by specific contracts regulated at arm’s length STATUTORY AUDITORS AND conditions. EX-ECUTIVES WITH STRATEGIC RESPONSIBILITIES 37. SIGNIFICANT NON-RECURRING EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS The remuneration paid to directors, statutory auditors and executives with strategic responsibilities is shown in the Report on Remuneration, which will Also pursuant to the CONSOB memorandum of 28 July 2006, the Company be presented to the shareholders’ meeting convened to approve these financial declares that during 2013 there were no significant non-recurring events or statements. transactions. The 2012 operating result included the tax credit resulting from the non-deduction 41. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS of IRAP for personnel costs and similar for the period 2007-2011 and from the consequent decrease in income tax by €1,033,000. At 31 December 2013, there were no equity-based incentive plans for the Company’s directors and employees. 38. ATYPICAL AND/OR UNUSUAL TRANSACTIONS Pursuant to the CONSOB memorandum of 28 July 2006, the Company declares that during 2013 it did not execute any abnormal and/or unusual transactions as defined by the CONSOB memorandum. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 163 List of equity investments with additional information requested by (Memorandum DEM76064293 of 28 July 2006) IN SUBSIDIARIES 6 Share capital at % of Results of the year Company name Registered office Shareholders Equity at 31.12.13 31.12.13 ownership 2013 Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. Jundiaì (Brazil) EUR 90,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% EUR 4,760,355 EUR -328,190 San Luis Potosì Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l. EUR 25,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% EUR 18,968,403 EUR 1,146,018 (Mexico) Sabaf do Brasil Ltda Plainfield (USA) BRL 24,000,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% BRL 28,288,685 BRL 4,274,062 Sabaf Mexico S.A. de c.v. Kunshan (China) MXN 8,247,580 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% MXN 4,104,861 MXN -419,804 Sabaf US Corp. Manisa (Turkey) USD 100,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% USD 26,580 USD -48,891 Sabaf Appliance Components Kunshan (China) EUR 2,250,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% CNY 19,422,587 CNY 0 (Kunshan) Co. Ltd. Sabaf Beyaz Esya Parcalari Manisa (Turchia) TRL 32,000,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% TRL 31,188,612 TRL 2,121,047 Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirteki Sabaf Appliance Components Kunshan (Cina) EUR 200,000 Sabaf S.p.A. 100% CNY 1,237,541 CNY -412,596 Trading (Kunshan) Co. Ltd. Other significant equity investments: None Origin, possibility of use, and availability of reserves Amount subject to taxation Description Amount Possibility of use Amount available against the company in the event of distribution Capital reserves: Share premium reserve 10,002 A, B, C 10,002 0 Reserve for revaluation, law 413/91 42 A, B, C 42 42 Reserve for revaluation, law 342/00 1,592 A, B, C 1,592 1,592 Revenue reserves: Legal reserve 2,307 B 0 0 Other retained earnings 75,491 A, B, C 75,491 0 Evaluation reserves: Cash flow hedge reserves 21 0 0 Actuarial post-employment benefit (359) 0 0 valuation reserve Total 89,096 87,127 1,634 Key A: for capital increases B: for coverage of losses C: for distribution to shareholders 6 Amounts taken from the annual financial statements of the subsidiaries, prepared in accordance with the accounting standards applicable in the country 164 Statement of revaluations of assets still held at 31 December 2013 Gross value Accumulated depreciation Net value Law 72/1983 137 (137) 0 Merger 1989 516 (386) 130 Investment property Law 413/1991 47 (35) 12 Merger 1994 1,483 (866) 617 Law 342/2000 2,870 (2,024) 846 5,053 (3,448) 1,605 Law 576/75 205 (205) 0 Law 72/1983 2,299 (2,299) 0 Plant and equipment Merger 1989 6,249 (6,249) 0 Merger 1994 7,080 (7,080) 0 15,833 (15,833) 0 Industrial and commercial equipment Law 72/1983 161 (161) 0 Other assets Law 72/1983 50 (50) 0 Total 21,097 (19,492) 1,605 GENERAL INFORMATION Contacts: Sabaf S.p.A. is a company incorporated according to Italian law. Tel: +39 030 6843001 Fax: +39 030 6848249 Registered and administrative office: E-mail: info@sabaf.it Via dei Carpini, 1 Website: www.sabaf.it 25035 Ospitaletto (Brescia) Tax information: R.E.A. Brescia: 347512 Tax code: 03244470179 VAT Reg. No.: 01786911082 Appendix Information as required by Article 149/12 of the Issuers’ Regulation The following table, prepared pursuant to Article 149/12 of the CONSOB Issuers’ Regulation, shows fees relating to 2013 for the independent auditor and for services other than independent auditing provided by the same auditing firm. There were no services rendered by entities belonging to the firm’s network. in thousands of euro Party that provides the service Considerations for the year 2013 Audit Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. 52 Certification services Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. 21 Other services Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. 17 2 Total 71 1 Signing of Unico, IRAP and 770 forms 2 Audit procedures relating to interim management reports; audit of training statements SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 165 Certification of the Annual Report and Accounts, under article 154 bis of Leg. Decree 58/98 Alberto Bartoli, the Chief Executive Officer, and Gianluca Beschi, the Financial Reporting Officer of Sabaf S.p.A., have taken into account the requirements of Article 154-bis, paragraph 3 and 4, of Legislative Decree 58 of 24 February 1998 and can certify: • the appropriateness in relation to the characteristics of the company and • the actual application of the administrative and accounting principles for drafting the annual report and accounts in 2013. They also certify that: • the annual report and accounts were prepared in accordance with the international accounting policies recognised in the European Community in accordance with EC regulation 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and Council of 19 July 2002 and Article 9 of Leg. Decree 38/2005; correspond to the results of the accounting entries and ledgers; provides a true and correct representation of the business, capital and financial situation of the issuer; • the Report on Operations includes a credible analysis of the performance and results of operations, the situation at the issuer, and a description of the key risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed. Ospitaletto, 20 March 2014 The Chief The Financial Executive Officer Reporting Officer Alberto Bartoli Gianluca Beschi 166 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 167 SABAF S.P.A. Board of Statutory Auditor’s Report to the Sabaf S.p.A. Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to article 153 of Legislative Decree 58/1998 and article 2429, paragraph 2 of the Civil Code Shareholders, h) it requested and obtained the documents and information considered relevant by executive directors and managers from other company departments The Board of Statutory Auditors of Sabaf S.p.A. (“Sabaf” or “the Company” or “the where necessary. Parent Company”) hereby reports to you on the supervision carried out and the results thereof, pursuant to article 2429 of the Italian Civil Code and article 153 of During meetings of the Board of Directors, the Board of Statutory Auditors was Legislative Decree 58/1998 (the “Consolidated Law on Finance” or “TUF”), and informed of the management activities carried out and, where relevant, the taking into account Consob recommendations for companies listed on regulated most significant business, financial and capital transactions performed by the markets. Company or its subsidiaries in 2013. This report is divided into the following sections: In terms of supervision, the Board of Statutory Auditors observes that in the 1. supervision in fiscal year 2013; areas within its purview, the principles of sound management and compliance 2. significant business, financial and capital transactions, atypical and/or unuwith the law and Bylaws have been applied by the Company. sual transactions, and related party transactions; 3. organisational structure, administrative and accounting system and internal Within the context of its supervision activities, and during meetings and discuscontrol system; sions with managers from Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. (the “Independent Auditor”), 4. corporate governance; the Board of Statutory Auditors confirms that no reprehensible actions were 5. conclusions and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. detected, nor any actions otherwise worthy of mention. With specific reference to the work of the Independent Auditor, the Board of Statutory Auditors examined the review procedures adopted, or being adopted, in connection with the work plan it presented. The Board of Statutory Auditors 1. Supervision in fiscal year 2013 also received the technical information requested concerning the accounting standards adopted, in addition to the reporting criteria for the most significant During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Board of Statutory Auditors perbusiness, financial and capital transactions. formed the supervision required by law, taking into account Consob recommendations on corporate governance and based on the codes of conduct for The Board of Statutory Auditors checked the procedure adopted by the Board boards of statutory auditors recommended by the Italian Association of Charof Directors regarding the impairment test conducted on the shareholding in tered Accountants. Faringosi Hinges S.r.l., noting that the Company commissioned an external expert, belonging to the Association of Chartered Accountants of Brescia, to check In terms of the work carried out, the Board of Statutory Auditors reports that: the value of the goodwill recorded in the consolidated financial statements a) it held six board meetings, each attended by all members in office except and of the controlling interest recorded in the separate financial statements. for one justified absence of a member at the 5 November 2013 meeting; This check methodologically analysed the documents provided by Sabaf and b) it attended the eight meetings of the Board of Directors; Faringosi. The test showed an impairment of the controlling share in Faringosic) it attended the four meetings of the Internal Control and Risks Committee; Hinges S.r.l.; however, in relation to the value of the asset and the goodwill d) it attended two meetings between supervisory bodies (Independent Auditor, allocated to the Hunges CGU, no impairment was detected. Internal Control and Risks Committee, Supervisory Body), in the presence of the financial reporting officer and chief internal auditor; Finally, in terms of supervision, the Board reports that no reports or complaints e) it took part in the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 April 2013; were received or submitted within the meaning of article 2408 of the Italian f) it remained in constant communication with the corresponding bodies of the Civil Code. subsidiary companies; no anomalies were reported during the meetings; g) it remained in constant communication with the Independent Auditor, with a The Board also reports that, in 2013, pursuant to article 2386 of the Italian view to the timely exchange of data and information relating to the perforCivil Code, it issued a positive opinion regarding the cooptation of Maria Chiara mance of their respective tasks; it met regularly both with staff from Protiviti Franceschetti to the Board of Directors, replacing Gregorio Gitti. S.r.l. (“Protiviti”), to which the internal audit has been outsourced, and the Sabaf S.p.A. manages and coordinates the following companies: chief internal auditor; Faringosi Hinges S.r.l.; Sabaf Immobiliare S.r.l.; SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 169 Both companies have duly satisfied the obligations prescribed by the Italian Civil Code concerning management and coordination. 3. Organisational structure, administrative and Sabaf S.p.A. is controlled by Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A., which is not responsible accounting system and internal control system for management and coordination, as mentioned and explained in the Report The Board of Statutory Auditors verified the existence of an adequate organion Operations approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 20 March sational structure in relation to the size and structure of the business and the 2014. objectives pursued, in compliance with the legislation in force. In particular, the Board of Statutory Auditors identified the existence of adequate procedures, as well as the presence of a system of delegated powers and proxies consistent with the responsibilities assigned. 2. Significant business, financial and capital The Company has adopted an organisational model in accordance with the transactions, atypical and/or unusual transactions, provisions of legislative decree 231/2001. This model is periodically updated. and related party transactions The Company has also adopted a Code of Ethics, and has demonstrated its In relation to the most significant business, financial and capital transactions commitment to health, safety and the environment. carried out by the Company and the Group over the year, the Board of Statutory Auditors reports that: The Board of Statutory Auditors verified the suitability of the internal control a) 358,000 treasury shares were sold, through a mandate to the Group’s brosystem and the administrative and accounting system, in addition to its ability ker based on previous resolutions, at a price of €11.10 per share, generato give a true and fair view of the business, through: a) examining the chief ting a capital gain of €749,780 booked at equity; internal auditor’s report on Sabaf’s internal control system; b) examining the b) deferred tax assets of €1.1 million were booked, as a result of tax breaks periodic internal audit reports, outsourced to Protiviti; c) obtaining information relating to investments made in Turkey. from the heads of the various corporate functions; d) examining company documents; e) analysing the results of the work conducted by the Independent In general, based on the supervision carried out, the Board of Statutory Auditors Auditor; f) liaising with the supervisory bodies of subsidiaries; g) attending all considers that, in the performance of the aforementioned transactions, the law, Internal Control and Risk Committee meetings; h) exchanging information with the articles of association and the principles of sound management were follothe Remuneration Committee. wed in the areas within its purview. Specifically, the Board of Statutory Auditors acknowledges that the chief The Board of Statutory Auditors also found that the aforementioned transacinternal auditor is actively and constantly involved in monitoring the internal tions were not manifestly imprudent or risky, potentially causing a conflict of control system, reporting to the Board of Directors and submitting frequent interests, contrary to the resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting or and regular reports to the Internal Control and Risk Committee and Board of otherwise liable to compromise the Company’s integrity; finally, based on the Statutory Auditors, to which he also submits the annual work programme. information received, the Board has found that said transactions were consistent with the principles of economic rationality, without this constituting any By taking part in the work of the Internal Control and Risk Committee, the opinion on the merits of directors’ management decisions. Board of Statutory Auditors has been able to coordinate the adoption of new requirements following the entry into force of article 19 of legislative decree The Board of Statutory Auditors has not identified nor received information from 39/2010, which states that, for listed companies, the Board of Statutory the Independent Auditor or the chief internal auditor about atypical and/or unuAuditors acts as the internal control and audit committee. sual transactions as defined in the Consob Communication of 6 April 2001, carried out with third parties, related parties or within the Group. In the Report Based on the work carried out, the Board believes Sabaf’s internal control on Operations, approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 20 March system to be adequate and, in its capacity as the Internal Control and 2014, the directors indicated that Group companies did not engage in any atAudit Committee, acknowledges that it has no observations to make to the ypical and/or unusual transactions in 2013. Shareholders’ Meeting. In their Report on Operations at 31 December 2013, the directors also gave an The annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure contains, account of related party transactions. Details of the nature and amount of these in accordance with article 123-bis of the Italian consolidated law on finance, transactions can be found in the notes to the annual financial statements and detailed information about the features of the risk management and internal consolidated financial statements. control system in relation to the financial reporting process. Related party transactions are of minor importance compared with Group activity as a whole; they also seem consistent with and beneficial to the interests The main risk factors to which the Group is exposed, together with the measures of the Company. adopted by the Company in order to address them, are suitably classified and Taking this into account, the information supplied on related-party transactions described in detail in the notes to the financial statements and in the Report seems adequate. on Operations. With reference to the administrative and accounting system, the Company has complied with the provisions introduced by law 262/2005 by appointing a financial reporting officer. 170 The administrative and accounting system as a whole is found to be comprehensive, integrated (including the information procedures) and 5. Conclusions and financial statements consistent with the size and organisational structure of the Company and the for the year ended 31 December 2013 Group. Sabaf’s consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2013 show a consoFinally, special administrative and accounting procedures have been adopted lidated net profit of €8.1 million; the annual financial statements of the Parent relating to the periodic closing of the accounts, the preparation of the financial Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 show a net profit of €3.7 statements and the preparation of reporting packages by subsidiaries. million. The draft financial statements, with the accompanying notes and directors’ The financial reporting officer has performed an administrative and accounting Report on Operations, were approved within the statutory time limit and were assessment of the internal control system, with testing carried out independently prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by the Internal Audit division. approved by the European Union, which are mandatory for listed companies. With reference to the continuous reporting obligations referred to in article The consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2013 shows a 114(1) of the Consolidated Law on Finance, the Company has issued special negative net financial position of €16.7 million, while the parent company cloinstructions to its subsidiaries to comply with the reporting obligations laid sed its financial statements at 31 December 2013 with a negative net financial down in article 114(2) of that law, within the scope of internal regulations on position of €13.2 million. privileged information. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2013 was €118 million, The annual and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 compared with €115.2 million in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2013 contain the information required by article 149-duodecies of December 2012; the annual financial statements of the Parent Company report the Issuers’ Regulation. shareholders’ equity of €104.4 million, compared with €101.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2012. The values at 31 December 2012 were recalHaving established that the Independent Auditor satisfied independence culated following the revision of IAS 19. requirements at the time of its appointment, the Board of Statutory Auditors confirms that during the year and until today’s date, no critical issues emerged Based on these factors, in view of the general position of the Company and concerning the independence of the Independent Auditor. the Group, in addition to the directors’ forecasts, the Board does not detect the presence of any events or circumstances that might raise doubts over the The Board of Statutory Auditors acknowledges that on 4 April 2014, Deloitte & going-concern assumption applied. Touche S.p.A. submitted the document pursuant to article 19(3) of Legislative Decree 39/2010, indicating that no fundamental issues had emerged during the The Independent Auditor, in the report issued on 4 April 2014, expressed an audit, nor were there any material deficiencies in terms of financial reporting unqualified opinion without requesting additional information on the annual and within the internal control system. consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. Furthermore, in its reports, the Independent Auditor also concludes that the Report on Operations, in addition to the information referred to in sections 1(c), (d), (f), (l), and (m) and section 2(b) of article 123-bis of Legislative Decree 58/1998, 4. Corporate Governance contained in the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure, is consistent with Sabaf’s financial statements at 31 December 2013. Detailed information about the procedures used to implement the corporate governance principles approved by Borsa Italiana, as contained in the relative The annual and consolidated financial statements are accompanied by the deCorporate Governance Code for listed companies, is provided by the directors in clarations of the financial reporting officer and Chief Executive Officer required the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure. by article 154-bis of the Italian Consolidated Law on Finance. The Company has signed up to the Corporate Governance Code of listed comBased on the work carried out during the year, the Board of Statutory Auditors panies approved by the Corporate Governance Committee and recommended found no impediment to the approval of the annual financial statements for the by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. year ended 31 December 2013 or to the recommendations made by the Board of Directors, also with regard to distribution of the dividend. The Board of Statutory Auditors acknowledges that the Company has verified the independence of directors classed as “independent”; in this regard, the Board confirms that the criteria and procedures used to determine the indeOspitaletto, 4 April 2014 pendence of directors pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code are correctly applied. The Board of Statutory Auditors has also confirmed that its members The Statutory Auditors continue to satisfy the independence criteria, as required by the Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Alessandro Busi Mr. Enrico Broli Ms. Anna Domenighini SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT Statutory annual report & accounts at 31 december 2013 171 Be multiskilled C H A P T E R Report on Remuneration Pa ge 173 Report on remuneration pursuant to article 123-ter of the TUF and Article 84-quater of the Issuers’ Regulation Section I REMUNERATION POLICY Sabaf S.p.A.’s General Remuneration Policy (hereinafter also “remuneration Giuseppe Cavalli), with the knowledge and experience in accounting, finance policy”), approved by the Board of Directors on 22 December 2011 and updated and remuneration policies that is required of a Board of Directors. on 20 March 2013, defines the criteria and guidelines for the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors, executives with strategic responsibilities and members of the Board of Statutory Auditors. The remuneration policy was prepared: Purposes of the remuneration policy • pursuant to article 6 of the Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, approved in March 2010 and subsequently amended in December 2011; The Company’s intention is that the General Remuneration Policy: • in line with Recommendations 2004/913/EC and 2009/385, which were • attracts, motivates and increases the loyalty of persons with appropriate incorporated into law with article 123-ter of the Consolidated Law on Finance professional expertise; (TUF). • brings the interests of the management into line with those of the shareholders; This Policy, applied from the date of approval by the Board of Directors, was fully • favours the creation of sustainable value for shareholders in the medium implemented from 2012 following the appointment of the new management to long term, and maintains an appropriate level of competitiveness for the bodies. With the introduction of the Policy, the remuneration system was company in the sector in which it operates. extended to include a long-term incentive component, which was previously not provided for. The variable component of the remuneration policy was revised in 2013, with the maximum threshold raised from 25% of fixed annual gross salary set for 2012 to 50% from 2013. No change was made to the fixed component. This change, approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2013 on the Corporate bodies and persons involved in recommendation of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee, is preparing, approving and implementing the intended to highlight the importance of the objectives that the Board considers to be of strategic importance, and to enhance the value of the results achieved. remuneration policy The General Remuneration Policy was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 December 2011 and updated on 20 March 2013, on the recommendation of the Fixed annual component Remuneration Committee, as explained in the sections below. No independent experts or advisors contributed to the preparation of the policy, Directors nor were the remuneration policies of other companies used for reference On the proposal of the Board of Directors, having heard the opinion of the purposes. Remuneration and Appointments Committee, the shareholders determine a Specifically, it is the responsibility: maximum total for the remuneration of all members of the Board, including a fixed amount and attendance fees. • of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee: In accordance with this maximum total, on the proposal of the Remuneration to make proposals to the Board of Directors, in the absence of the and Appointments Committee and subject to the opinion of the Board of persons directly concerned, for remuneration of the CEO and directors Statutory Auditors, the Board of Directors determines additional remuneration holding specific positions; for directors vested with special powers. to make suggestions concerning the setting of targets to which the The fixed component is such that it is able to attract and motivate individuals annual variable component and long-term incentives should be linked, with appropriate expertise for the roles entrusted to them within the Board, and in order to ensure shareholders’ long-term interests are in line with the is set with reference to the remuneration awarded for the same positions by Company’s strategy; other listed Italian industrial groups of a similar size. to evaluate the criteria for the remuneration of executives with strategic It is Sabaf S.p.A.’s practice to appoint to the roles of Chairman and Deputy responsibilities and make appropriate recommendations to the Board; Chairmen members of the Saleri family, the controlling shareholder of the to monitor the application of decisions adopted by the Board. Company through Giuseppe Saleri S.a.p.A. Though executive directors, these • of the Board of Directors to correctly implement the remuneration policy. directors are not granted any variable remuneration, but only remuneration • of the Human Resources Department to implement operationally the additional to that of directors vested with special powers. decisions made by the Board. Directors who sit on committees formed within the Board (Control and Risks Committee, Remuneration and Appointments Committee) are granted The Remuneration and Appointments Committee comprises three nonremuneration that includes a fixed salary and attendance fees intended to executive and independent members (Fausto Gardoni, Leonardo Cossu and reward the commitment required of them. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ON REMUNERATION 175 Other executives with strategic responsibilities Employment relationships with other executives with strategic responsibilities Incentives based on financial instruments are governed by the Collective National Contract for Industrial Managers. In this regard, fixed remuneration is determined so that it is sufficient in itself to The remuneration policy in force does not provide for the use of incentives guarantee an appropriate basic salary level, even in the event that the variable based on financial instruments (stock options, stock grants, phantom stocks components are not paid owing to a failure to reach objectives. or others). Board of Statutory Auditors The amount of remuneration for Auditors is set by the Shareholders’ Meeting, Remuneration for offices in subsidiaries which establishes a fixed amount for the Chairman and the other Statutory Auditors. Directors and other executives with strategic responsibilities may be granted remuneration – exclusively as a fixed amount – for offices held in subsidiaries. As well as the approval of the subsidiaries’ corporate bodies, this remuneration is subject to the favourable opinion of the Remuneration and Appointments Annual variable component Committee. The Chief Executive Officer and other executives with strategic responsibilities are granted annual variable remuneration related to an MBO plan. This plan sets a common objective (Group EBIT, which is considered to be Non-monetary benefits the Group’s main indicator of financial performance) and quantifiable and measurable individual objectives, both economic-financial and technicalThe Company has taken out a third-party civil liability insurance policy in favour productive in nature. All objectives are set by the Board of Directors, on the of directors, statutory auditors and executives for unlawful acts committed in proposal of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee, in accordance the exercise of their respective duties, in violation of obligations established by with the budget. law and the Bylaws, with the sole exclusion of deliberate intent. The stipulation The variable component may not exceed 50% of the fixed annual gross salary; it of this policy was passed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. may be only partially granted in the event that the objectives are not completely met. The Company also provides for executives a life insurance policy and cover for 75% of the variable component is paid out in the April of the following year, and medical expenses (FASI), as established by the Collective National Contract for 25% in the January of the second subsequent year. Industrial Managers; moreover, it has stipulated an additional policy to cover The MBO plan also extends to other managers identified by the Chief Executive medical expenses not covered by FASI repayments. who report directly thereto or who report to the abovementioned managers. Non-executive directors are not granted any variable remuneration. No director or executive with strategic responsibilities has a company car. Long-term incentives Indemnity against the early termination of employment A long-term financial incentive dependent on measurable and predetermined There are no agreements for directors or other executives with strategic performance targets relating to the creation of value for shareholders over the responsibilities governing ex ante financial settlements following the early long term has been established. termination of the employment relationship. The incentive extends over three years (2012-2014) and is exclusively aimed at the Chief Executive Officer and executives with strategic responsibilities. For the end of the relationship for reasons other than just cause or justified The performance targets, set in accordance with the three-year business plan, reasons provided by the employer, it is the Company’s policy to pursue are proposed by the Remuneration and Appointments Committee to the Board consensual agreements to end the employment relationship, in accordance of Directors, as the body responsible for approving the long-term financial with legal and contractual obligations. incentive. The targets that set the parameters for the long-term incentive (consolidated The Company does not provide directors with benefits subsequent to the end Group EBITDA and share value) were defined by the Board of Directors on of their mandate. 25 September 2012, on the recommendation of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee. Moreover, on the proposal of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee, The total long-term variable component for three years may not exceed 50% of the Board of Directors assessed the introduction, possibly for 2014, of a nonthe fixed annual gross salary; it may be only partially granted in the event that competition agreements for some employees of the Company in the event that the objectives are not completely met. In the event that 100% of the objectives the employment relationship comes to an end, defining its terms and conditions. assigned are met, an increase on 50% of the gross fixed annual salary may be granted. The variable component is paid in full following the approval of the financial statements of the third year to which the incentive relates (2014). 176 Section II REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS AND OTHER EXECUTIVES WITH STRATEGIC RESPONSIBILITIES IN 2013 This section, which details remuneration paid to directors and statutory auditors: • adequately describes each of the items that make up the remuneration, Remuneration of executives with strategic showing their consistency with the Company’s remuneration policy approved responsibilities for 2013 the previous year; • analytically illustrates the remuneration paid in the financial year under The remuneration of two executives with strategic responsibilities consists of review (2013), for any reason and in any form, by the Company or by fixed employee compensation totalling €245,673 and variable remuneration of subsidiaries or affiliates, identifying any components of this remuneration €3,096 paid in 2013 in relation to the 2012 variable incentive plan (MBO). Other that relates to activities undertaken in previous years to the year under payments of €70,500 were also paid by subsidiary companies. review. In 2013, variable remuneration of €40,722 was accrued for the achievement of some of the objectives of the 2013 MBO plan. Its payment is deferred and dependent upon the continuation of the employment relationship. The components of the remuneration paid to directors for 2013 There are no incentive plans based on financial instruments outstanding. The remuneration granted to directors for 2013, in accordance with the Policy For details on the remuneration paid in 2013, see the tables below (Table 1 and described in Section I, consisted of the following components: Table 2), which shows the remuneration paid to directors, statutory auditors • fixed remuneration, approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 8 May 2012, and, at aggregate level, other executives with strategic responsibilities currently totalling €265,000, of which €15,000 is to be allocated indiscriminately to in office, taking into account any positions held for a part of the year only. every director, and €10,000 to every non-executive member of the Internal Remuneration received from subsidiaries and/or affiliates, with the exception of Control and Risk Committee and/or the Remuneration and Appointments that waived or paid back to the Company, is also indicated separately. Committee; • additional remuneration, approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 8 May With particular reference to Table 1, the column: 2012, totalling €466,500 divided among directors vested with special powers (Chairman, Vice-chairmen and Chief Executive Officer) as detailed in • “Fixed remuneration” shows, for the portion relating to 2013, the fixed the table below; remuneration approved by the Board of Directors on 8 May 2012; meeting • an attendance fee of €1,000, due to non-executive directors only, for attendance fees as approved by the Board of Directors on 8 May 2012; every occasion on which they attend Board of Directors’ meetings and the employee compensation due for the year gross of social security contributions meetings of committees formed within the Board. and income taxes owed by the employee. Any reimbursements of lump-sum expenses are excluded; Director Gregorio Gitti resigned on 30 April 2013; in accordance with the • “Remuneration for attendance at Committee meetings”, shows, for the provisions of the Company Bylaws, on 7 May 2013, the Board appointed by portion relating to 2013, the remuneration due to directors who attended cooptation Maria Chiara Franceschetti as director. the meetings of the Committees set up within the Board and the related attendance fees as approved by the Board of Directors on 8 May 2012; In relation to the 2012 variable incentive plan, the Chief Executive Officer • “Bonus and other incentives” includes the remuneration paid in 2013 to Alberto Bartoli (the only recipient director of the plan) voluntarily gave up executives with strategic responsibilities for objectives met in the year, set the portion that accrued over the year. With reference to the 2013 MBO plan, out in the 2012 MBO plan. This value corresponds to the sum of the amounts variable remuneration of €38,475 was accrued over the year for the partial provided in Table 2 under the “Bonus for the year – payable/paid”, “Bonus of achievement of the objectives set. previous years payable/paid” and “Other bonuses” columns; • “Non-monetary benefits” shows, according to competence and tax liability There are no incentive plans based on financial instruments outstanding. criteria, the value of outstanding insurance policies; • “Other remuneration” shows, for the portion attributable to 2013, any other No indemnities for the termination of the employment relationship were remuneration resulting from other services provided; provided for or paid out. • “Total” shows the sum of the amounts provided under the previous items. For a breakdown of other items, see attachment 3A, statement 7-bis and 7-ter Remuneration of Statutory Auditors for 2013 of Consob Regulation 11971 of 14 May 1999. The remuneration granted to the Statutory Auditors for 2013 consists of a fixed payment determined by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 8 May 2012. SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ON REMUNERATION 177 Finally, pursuant to article 84-quater, paragraph four of the Consob Issuer and other information acquired by the same parties. This includes all persons, Regulations, Table 3 shows shareholdings in Sabaf S.p.A. held by directors and who, during the year, held office even only for part of the year. The number of executives with strategic responsibilities, as well as their non-separated spouses shares held is shown by individual director and in aggregate form for executives and dependent children, directly or through subsidiaries, trust companies or with strategic responsibilities. third parties, as shown in the shareholder register, communications received TABLE 1 Remuneration paid to members of the Board of Directors and Board of Statutory Auditors and other executives with strategic responsibilities (figures in euro) Indemnity for Remuneration Fair Value Fixed Variable remuneration Non-monetary Other end of office Full name Position Period of office Expiry of office for sitting on Total of equity remuneration (non equity) benefits remuneration or employment committees remuneration relationship Bonuses and Profit sharing other incentives Board of Directors Approval of Giuseppe 1 Jan 31 Dec Chairman 2014 financial Saleri 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 120,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 120,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 8,000 0 0 0 0 0 8,000 0 0 (III) Total 128,000 0 0 0 0 0 128,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €105,000 as chairman Approval of Gianbattista Deputy 1 Jan 31 Dec 2014 financial Saleri Chairman 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 100,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 100,000 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €85,000 as vice-chairman Approval of Ettore Deputy 1 Jan 31 Dec 2014 financial Saleri Chairman 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 100,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 8,000 0 0 0 0 0 8,000 0 0 (III) Total 108,000 0 0 0 0 0 108,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €85,000 as vice-chairman 178 Indemnity for Remuneration Fair Value Fixed Variable remuneration Non-monetary Other end of office Full name Position Period of office Expiry of office for sitting on Total of equity remuneration (non equity) benefits remuneration or employment committees remuneration relationship Bonuses and Profit sharing other incentives Approval of Cinzia Deputy 1 Jan 31 Dec 2014 financial Saleri Chairman 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 100,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 (a) 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 100,000 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €85,000 as vice-chairman Approval of Alberto Chief Executive 1 Jan 31 Dec 2014 financial Bartoli Officer 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 135,000 (a) 0 0 0 2,800 0 137,800 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 11,000 0 0 0 0 0 11,000 0 0 (III) Total 146,000 0 0 0 2,800 0 148,800 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €120,000 as Chief Executive Officer Approval of Salvatore 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Bragantini 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 13,000 (b) 0 0 0 0 35,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 13,000 0 0 0 0 35,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €7,000 in board meeting attendance fees (b) of which €10,000 as a member of the Control and Risk Committee and € 3,000 in Committee meeting attendance fees Approval of Renato 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Camodeca 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 13,000 (b) 0 0 0 0 35,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 13,000 0 0 0 0 35,000 0 0 (a) di cui euro 15.000 quale compenso di amministratore ed euro 7.000 quali gettoni di presenza al CdA (b) di cui euro 10.000 quale membro del Comitato Controllo e Rischi ed euro 3.000 quali gettoni di presenza per la partecipazione al Comitato Approval of Giuseppe 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Cavalli 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 14,000 (b) 0 0 0 0 36,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 14,000 0 0 0 0 36,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €7,000 in board meeting attendance fees (b) of which €10,000 as a member of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee and €4,000 in Committee meeting attendance fees SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ON REMUNERATION 179 Indemnity for Remuneration Fair Value Fixed Variable remuneration Non-monetary Other end of office Full name Position Period of office Expiry of office for sitting on Total of equity remuneration (non equity) benefits remuneration or employment committees remuneration relationship Bonuses and Profit sharing other incentives Approval of Leonardo 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Cossu 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 28,000 (b) 0 0 0 0 50,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 28,000 0 0 0 0 50,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €7,000 in board meeting attendance fees (b) of which €20,000 as a member of the Control and Risk Committee (€10,000) and of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee (€10,000) and €8,000 in meeting attendance fees for the Control and Risk Committee (€4,000) and for the Remuneration and Appointments Committee (€4,000) Approval of Maria Chiara 1 May 31 Dec Director 2013 financial Franceschetti 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 20,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director on a pro-rate basis from her date of appointment and €5,000 in board meeting attendance fees Approval of Fausto 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Gardoni 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 23,000 (a) 14,000 (b) 0 0 0 0 37,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 23,000 14,000 0 0 0 0 37,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €8,000 in board meeting attendance fees (b) of which €10,000 as a member of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee and €4,000 in Committee meeting attendance fees Approval of Nicla 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Picchi 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 14,000 (b) 0 0 0 15,000 (c) 51,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 5,000 (c) 5,000 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 14,000 0 0 0 20,000 56,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €7,000 in board meeting attendance fees (b) of which €10,000 as a member of the Control and Risk Committee and €4,000 in Committee meeting attendance fees (c) as member of the Supervisory Committee of Sabaf S.p.A. and subsidiary Faringosi Hinges S.r.l. Approval of Riccardo 1 Jan 31 Dec Director 2014 financial Rizza 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 22,000 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 22,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 22,000 0 0 0 0 0 22,000 0 0 (a) of which €15,000 as director and €7,000 in board meeting attendance fees 180 Indemnity for Remuneration Fair Value Fixed Variable remuneration Non-monetary Other end of office Full name Position Period of office Expiry of office for sitting on Total of equity remuneration (non equity) benefits remuneration or employment committees remuneration relationship Bonuses and Profit sharing other incentives Board of Statutory Auditors Approval of Alessandro 1 Jan 31 Chairman 2014 financial Busi Dec 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 24,000 0 0 0 0 0 24,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 24,000 0 0 0 0 0 24,000 0 0 Approval of Statutory 1 Jan 31 Enrico Broli 2014 financial Auditor Dec 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 16,000 0 0 0 0 0 16,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 16,000 0 0 0 0 0 16,000 0 0 Approval of Anna Statutory 1 Jan 31 2014 financial Domenighini Auditor Dec 2013 statements (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 16,000 0 0 0 0 0 16,000 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (III) Total 16,000 0 0 0 0 0 16,000 0 0 Indemnity for Remuneration Fair Value Fixed Variable remuneration Non-monetary Other end of office Full name Position Period of office Expiry of office for sitting on Total of equity remuneration (non equity) benefits remuneration or employment committees remuneration relationship Bonuses and Profit sharing other incentives Other executives with strategic responsibilities Other executives with 1 Jan 31 n/a strategic responsibilities (2) Dec 2013 (I) Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 245,673 0 3,096 0 5,280 0 254,049 0 0 (II) Remuneration from subsidiaries and affiliates 70,500 0 0 0 0 0 70,500 0 0 (III) Total 316,173 0 3,096 0 5,280 0 324,549 0 0 SABAF 2013 ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ON REMUNERATION 181 TABLE 2 Monetary incentive plans for members of the Board of Directors and Board of Statutory Auditors and other executives with strategic responsibilities (figures in euro) Bonus for the year Bonus of previous years Full name Position Plan Payable/Paid Deferred Deferment period No longer payable Payable/Paid Still deferred Other bonuses Chief Executive Alberto Bartoli Officer 2012 MBO Plan Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 0 0 0 0 0 0 (March 2012) 2013 MBO Plan 75% Mar 2014 Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 0 38,475 0 0 0 0 (March 2013) 25% Dec 2014 Total 0 38,475 0 0 0 0 Other executives with strategic responsibilities (2) 2012 MBO Plan Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 0 0 0 3,096 0 0 (March 2012) 2013 MBO Plan 75% Mar 2014 Remuneration at Sabaf S.p.A. 0 40,722 0 0 0 0 (March 2013) 25% Dec 2014 Total 0 40,722 0 3,096 0 0 TABLE 3 – Shareholdings of members of the Board of Directors and Board of Statutory Auditors and other executives with strategic responsibilities No. of shares held at No. of shares No. of shares held at Full name Position Type of ownership Investor company No. of shares sold 31 Dec 2012 purchased 31 Dec 2013 Indirect, through the Saleri Giuseppe Chairman subsidiary Giuseppe Sabaf S.p.A. 6,425,003 575,000 5,850,003 Saleri S.a.p.A. Saleri Gianbattista Deputy Chairman Direct Sabaf S.p.A. 2,980 1,230 1,750 Indirect through Saleri Gianbattista Deputy Chairman Sabaf S.p.A. 4,051 4,051 spouse Saleri Cinzia Deputy Chairman Direct Sabaf S.p.A. 17,074 7,031 10,043 Chief Executive Bartoli Alberto Direct Sabaf S.p.A. 7,500 7,500 Officer Chief Executive Indirect through Bartoli Alberto Sabaf S.p.A. 1,000 1,000 Officer spouse Bragantini Independent director Direct Sabaf S.p.A. 5,000 5,000 Salvatore Indirect through Cavalli Giuseppe Independent director Sabaf S.p.A. 2,680 2,680 spouse Executives with strategic Direct Sabaf S.p.A. 3,300 3,300 responsibilities (2) Be dynamic Be ready to change 1 2 Be knowledgeable Be grounded 5 6 Be organized Be socially skilled 3 4 Be flexible Be multiskilled 7 8 CONCEPT AND GRAPHIC DESIGN: all-advisors digital ILLUSTRATION: Alessandro vairo PRINT: Graphic center Printed on paper Fedrigoni Freelife Vellum Copyright 2014 Sabaf S.p.A. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
