UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd first pledge its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact in 2013 and continues to support the cause and commitment to the Ten Universally Accepted Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. History of destiny shipping agencies ltd STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT FROM: MARCH 2014 TO MARCH 2015 14th. March 2014 The Secretary – General United Nations New York I am pleased to confirm that DESTINY SHIPPING AGENCIES LTD, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Ant-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global compact and its Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours faithfully, FOR AND ON BEHALF OF: DESTINY SHIPPING AGENCIES LTD C. A. MAX-WILLIAMS MANAGING DIRECTOR / CEO Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd was established in March 2013 and situated about 100 meters from the Freetown Port. The company is Limited Liability Company. Presently, we have a staff of 21 people working for the Company. Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd is a Company involved in Shipping, Clearing, Forwarding and Logistics on the one hand; and Import and Export on the other. In our business and Shipping Agent, we do represent Ship owners, Charterers and Receivers. We are the Port Agent for the United States, United Kingdom Navy Vessels calling Sierra Leone We also act as customs broker handling import and export containers and break-bulk cargo. Under our Organization, we have the below departments handling various aspect of the Company’s work load. 1. We have the shipping department – Attending to vessels in port (Discharging / Loading and Husbandry, etc. 2. Clearing, Forwarding & Logistics Department – Engaging in Customs Brokering – Import / Export clearing and delivery of containers 3. P&I department – Handling surveys, tallying, etc – Protecting Owners / Charterers Interests 4. We have the Department handling the export of Iron Ore using cape size vessels – handling about 10 vessels a month and loading about 1.7M tons a month 5. Recently as three months ago, we have the agency for TMCL container Line. MISSION, VISION AND OBJECTIVES Mission: To serve Sierra Leone – Internationally and Nationally and be a very important player in the Global Maritime Industry Vision: To emerge as a team of great performer in the Maritime Industry serving Sierra Leone and beyond. Establishing a major global presence in the import and export container trade Objectives: To provide our Clientele a safe, reliable, efficient and economic shipping service; to be optimally profitable, viable, commercial organization and contribute to the national economy by securing a reasonable return on capital; and to become the number one shipping agency in the Country. To ensure that we give back to the country by helping those in need. TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Guided by values, we support the universal human rights for our employees and service providers and in the environment we operate. We at Destiny Shipping Agencies do believe that companies can play a vital and positive role in safeguarding human rights and their promotion. Destiny shipping Agencies Ltd, being into international business, adheres to national and international laws, apart from guaranteeing fundamental human rights to citizens. Our principles prohibit discriminatory behaviors and recognizes right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We do have a committee within the Company that comprises of junior and management staff to attend to complaints involving integrity, fairness and transparency dealings. The company also respects the right to information of the public. There is no discrimination on the grounds of sex, religion, place of origin, etc. in the company. Our employees are treated with dignity and provided with safe and healthy working conditions. As we made sure to keep within the tenets of the Universal Human Rights, we shall ensure that the coming year is also free of any human rights abuse to staff as well as service providers, area location of the company and anyone we come into contact with. We also intend to be a part Civil Societies and Human Rights Groups this coming year to ensure that we are committed to protecting the rights of people. Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit to human rights abuses. Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd ensures adherence to Labour laws enacted by the Government of Sierra Leone and other international agencies to protect the rights of workers. Our Company places highest premium and importance on human rights and ensures that at no point in time these rights are abused. Because of the fact that we are newly enrolled member of UN Global Compact there are certain things that we were unable to do or take part in. However, this coming year we intend to put up suggestion box and or open grievance Centre within the office to look into any conflict affecting human rights. This will enable us to meet with any stakeholder and affected parties. The Human Resource Manager, Chief Accountant and one Member of the junior staff have been given the responsibility to look into any human right complains. This is our first COP and hence cannot measure strides taken as compared with the last. Hence we shall this coming year ensure that we review on a monthly basis strides taken in ensuring that we progress positive in our fight for human rights. Labour Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd believes in the freedom of association and collective bargaining through constructive forums. Negotiations pertaining to periodical wage revisions, service conditions, etc. are done in consultation with the employees’ forums. Employees are free to join a trade union of their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal, in accordance with national law. The company regularly encourages interactive sessions between management and the employees to facilitate free dialogue. We are committed to ILO Core Conventions and all other international labour laws. Because of the fact that we are newly enrolled member of UN Global Compact there are certain things that we were unable to do or take part in. However, this coming year we intend to put up suggestion box and or open grievance Centre within the office to look into any conflict affecting employees Principle 4: businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The company whilst doing recruiting follows the relevant rules and regulations as laid down by the Government of Sierra Leone. This ensures that no unfair labour practices are followed. The terms and conditions of services are always given to employee in their appointment letter when employed. The employees are governed by Hours of Employment as per bilateral service conditions and hence there is no forced labour at Destiny shipping agencies Ltd. Moreover, employees have the freedom to leave the company after adhering to applicable rules Principle 5: businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour This principle is upheld by Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd with all seriousness and dedication. The minimum age for employment at Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd is 18yrs. During direct employment of workmen in the company, criteria of minimum age are applied. Age is verified from the birth certificates issued by statutory authorities and school leaving certificates. This ensures that no child labour is employed in our company. Principle 6: businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd is an equal opportunity employer. Destiny Shipping Agencies Ltd does not believe in any kind of discrimination in its employment of staff. Our employment does not based itself on race, religion, gender, political affiliation, tribal or regional related policies or basis. We at Destiny Shipping Agencies strongly believe in inclusivity and equality in remuneration, hours of work, paid holidays, maternity leave, security of tenure, advancement, social security medical safety etc. We attach importance to gender equality. We have about 40% of women employed in the company. We provide equal opportunity for training and development for all staff. We do not allow any kinds of behavior that are threatening, abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the work place. Our organization is well equipped to deal with such situations. Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges The Company is quite aware of the premium that is placed on environmental issues and we ensure that this principle is well taken care of. We always take precaution when handling dangerous cargo shipments to follow policies and procedures in respect of carriage of hazardous and dangerous goods. Frequent interaction with our partners in the container line, shippers and other agencies have benefited us in developing managerial skills to deal with any environmentally hazardous goods. Principle 8: business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility The Company is committed to environmental protection as per international conventions. We ensure when boarding vessels under our agency to inform masters that ballast waters should not be emptied into the sea when alongside port; to ensure that garbage are not thrown into the sea but to be disposed through the right channel; that oily waste, bilge waters, sludge etc. We ensure that the environmental department of the ports authority is a part of our boarding team to inspect vessel and documents. Principle 9: businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We are committed in this area and will ensure that we participate in development of any technology that will be environmentally friendly. anti-corruption principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery This very important to us to the extent that the Managing Director / CEO has signed and committed to the Foreign Corruption Practice Act – UK and USA. We do not encourage any form of bribery and corruption and we respect and adhere to the country’s anti-corruption laws. Our procurements are very transparent as we do not buy from one supplier or based on one proforma invoice. We ensure corrupt free transactions when dealing with government officials and other public figures. Approval of procurements and or any services have to go through the Head Of Department, then the HRM and then the Chief Accountant nd then the CEO before payment is made and we try as best as we can not to make cash payments about One Million Leones ($230) We abide to the Country’s Anti-Corruption Act. SUMBMITTED BY C.A.MAX-WILLIAMS MANAGING DIRECTOR / CEO DESTINY SHIPPING AGENCIES LTD.
