Communication on Progress Human Rights Assessment All of our employees are based in Denmark and are covered by national legislation governing the human rights area. The issue of human rights is important for the company and thus our core values underline this. Also we have an important focus on our suppliers abroad; ensuring that they comply with international rules and legislation on human rights. Implementation Vangsgaard has policies regarding salaries and employment, working hours, holiday, overtime, etc. In our CSR Statement we cover the issue and commit to continuously following up on the matter. Measures are also taken to ensure that we have a healthy and safe workplace. A safety organisation is in place consisting of employees from senior management, administration, the production and warehouse areas. We have continued to set aside resources and conducted visits and audits with our suppliers abroad. Specifically we have visited suppliers in Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and Taiwan. In addition to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect all our suppliers to adhere to, we also carry out our audit checklist. The checklist covers the Human Rights and aims to uncover any violations of human rights within the organisations of our suppliers so that appropriate measures can be taken. We have been satisfied with the outcome of these audits and have found no cause for remarks or sanctions. Measurement of outcomes As a result of our audits with suppliers we are convinced that they all respect and adhere to international legislation on the issue of Human Rights. Labour Assessment Our operations are covered by Danish legislation securing the labour rights of employees. Additionally we have policies stating our position in regards to, amongst other areas, working conditions, child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and anti-discrimination. Still our focus is on this issue and we aim to include these principles in our cooperation with suppliers abroad. Implementation Our CSR statement covers areas of labour rights for our employees and clearly states that labour performed at Vangsgaard takes place, taking labour conditions into account. We do not exercise differential treatment or discrimination based on gender, race, skin colour, religion or faith, political opinion, sexual orientation, nationality, social status, ethnicity, age or disability. We believe that everyone should have the same possibilities of education and employment and we honour this in our training and educational programmes. The above mentioned policies apply, not only to Vangsgaard and our employees in Denmark; we also expect our suppliers abroad to adhere to them and we cover these issues in our regular audits. We adhere to Danish legislation covering first aid education. We have around 20 employees who are trained in fire prevention and first aid including the use of defibrillators. These employees cover all departments of the company and make out around 20 percent of the personnel. We have a defibrillator on ground. It is registered online at www.hjertestarter.dk and available to the general public. We have different initiatives to improve the psychological working conditions is the company such as staff meetings and department meetings. All departments are informed about the strategies, goals and values of the company. Furthermore examples of “the good story” are highlighted; where collective teamwork or single employees have made a positive difference in the outcome and added value for the client or the company. We have added focus on new employees and aim to learn from their experiences as newcomers in order to improve integration of future employees. “Vangsgaard Through New Eyes” is arranged as a morning meeting where management have an informal meeting with the latest group of newcomers, listen to feedback and constructive criticism in order to learn and improve. We have social events both in the different departments as well as across the organisation. It is our goal that this helps improve team spirit, communication, well being and productiveness of employees. Measurement of outcomes A working environment that is safe, positive and productive contributes to lesser sick leave and a higher work ethic. Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct addresses labour issues. This covers key areas such as child labour, forced and prison labour, the right to employee representation, and the right to maternity and sick benefits. We make sure that our suppliers respect these policies when we conduct audits. We believe to have improved communication across the organisation and find it to be constructive and productive also in busy times. Our focus on the wellbeing of the individual and productiveness of the company has helped reduce sick leave with around 1 % two years in a row. We feel we have a great responsibility towards education and training. We have the greatest density of sign technician trainees of any company in Denmark. With five trainees currently employed they make out almost 10% of the entire production staff. Environment Assessment Vangsgaard has a goal of being an environmentally conscious company that takes responsibility and helps to develop our society in an environmentally sound direction. The company's managers and employees must always act with maximum respect for the environment in their actions based on common sense and with due regard to the economy of the company. Vangsgaard has policies addressing environmental issues such as carbon emissions, waste, wastewater, chemicals and packaging. We strive to reduce our environmental impact as much as possible and we follow applicable national legislation on the subject. Implementation Over the year we have changed to district heating. This type of heating are generated through incineration of waste and causes much lower CO2 emissions than most other heating forms. Of the energy produced from waste incineration 80 % is turned into district heating and 20 % becomes power. Waste thus substitutes fossil fuels elsewhere. Vestforbrænding's district heating supply constitutes an integral part of the coherent district heating system in the Greater Copenhagen Area. We are Climate Partner with DONG Energy. A Climate Partnership with DONG Energy is about taking responsibility for climate challenges by setting goals for climate actions, implementing energy savings, and supporting production of renewable energy. Vangsgaard purchases and redeem RECS certificates equivalent to the expected energy consumption of the company. Additionally the Partnership ensures that a given amount of electricity is produced by renewable energy sources. We have continuous focus on production methods in regards to both employee safety and the environment. Our HP Latex Printers work with water based technologies, with no demands of ventilation in the production. Furthermore it provides clients with a 100% odourless print. It discharges very little VOC and enables us to print on FSC certified paper and supply prints to e.g. Schools through the GREENGUARD and AgBB standards. Also all colour cassettes for the printers are picked up by HP and recycled. Also our Durst UV printer can be used in “Svanemærket” (Nordic Ecolabel) production and can print directly on PVC-free plates etc. We take pride in being a first mover in the market when it comes to environmentally friendly alternatives to traditional products and production methods. We are in close collaboration with our large suppliers of films; Avery and 3M to promote and utilise their PVC-free film such as 3M’s Envision and Averys TrueImpact 7000 series. Moreover we are advisors to our clients and always have environmental impact and cost efficiency in mind when recommending a product. E.g. when our large retail clients bye new lighted signs for all their outlets – we advise and recommend not only LED’s but also what kind of LED’s in order to keep both production cost, running cost and environmental impact to a minimal. Measurement of outcomes We expect that introducing the more environmentally friendly district heating will reduce CO2 emission significantly. We take our responsibility toward waste management very seriously and we sort our waste to give the best possible conditions for recycling and safe discarding. At the moment we have 14 different categories for sorting waste that meets increased possibility of re-usage of material and thereby reducing CO2 emissions when burning waste. And we are always keeping ourselves up to date with new initiatives and regulations in the area: 1. Pure aluminium products 2. Large combustible 3. Clear plastics 4. Plastics 5. Cardboard 6. Aluminium sandwich-plates 7. Small combustible 8. Paper, newspapers, journals etc. 9. Light sources 10. Electronics 11. Tree 12. Colour cassettes and printer ink 13. Iron 14. Glass Anti-corruption Assessment Vangsgaard has policies in place explicitly stating that employees must not give nor receive advantages in any form to Danish or foreign governmental officials that are prohibited by law. Not only do we expect adherence of these policies from our employees in Denmark but also from our suppliers abroad. Implementation Our CSR Statement covers the issue of corruption and we live up to Danish legislation regarding anti-corruption and bribery, which are in line with OECD and the Council of Europe conventions. The issue of anti-corruption is also covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct as well as in our supplier audits. Measurement of outcomes All employees are familiar with and adhere to company policies on corruption. Furthermore, our audits with our suppliers abroad have shown no cause for remarks or sanctions. We plan to have a continuous focus on the issue of corruption in the future to ensure that Vangsgaard as a whole as well as our suppliers adhere the United Nations Global Compact, the Ten principles, and international legislation.
