DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION DATE PAGE COP 2013 UNCLASSEFIED 2014-01-24 1/5 Scandinavian Risk Solutions AB Communication on Progress 2013 XXX PO BOX 244, SE-101 24 STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN phone +46 8 440 90 70 | fax +46 8 440 90 71 | email mail@srsgroup.se | web www.srsgroup.se DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION DATE PAGE COP 2013 UNCLASSEFIED 2014-01-24 2/5 Executive Statement COP 2013 SRS is a value creating Risk Management company. We provide governments, corporations, organisations and private individuals with superior decision support, operational expertise and peace of mind. Our joint and low-key approach commences with our client’s business strategy throughout the implementation of tailored risk management strategies. With a head office in Stockholm and representatives in UK, France and Norway we support our clients world-wide. Our key services are Investigations, Analysis and Assessments, Health, Safety and Security Solutions, Critical Incident Management as well as Close Protection. Our clients are governments, corporations, organisations and private individuals from a wide spread of industries i.e. Shipping, Oil and Gas, Power and Utilities, Telecom, Defence, Construction, Medical and Biotech, Government, Health Care, Banking and Finance, Legal, Hotels, Media, Air Transportation, IT, Consumer Goods, Authorities as well as Private Individuals. All our services are adapted to the specific needs of the client and based on best practice industry standards. To meet the specific needs of different industries and clients we are structured in three business areas: Global Projects; Health, Safety and Security Consultancy, Project Security (High Risk Areas), Maritime Security and Training. Advisory Service; Information and Analysis, Screening and Dynamic Risk Intelligence (DRI). Personal Security; Threat Analysis and Assessments, Personal Security Program, Close Protection Teams and Training. Scandinavian Risk Solutions AB systematically supports, adheres to and is committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. The principles are an important base of our business idea and Scandinavian approach and are present in a number of ways. On a general sustainability note, 2013 has been an interesting year for SRS. We has appointed a GC representative and launched a number of initiatives; perhaps the most important one is the completion of the Global Compact Self-Assessment. The results of the self-assessment will be evaluated during Q1 2014, and a sustainability strategy with action points will be developed. Initially we shall focus on our core business, but as we grow more experienced we hope to expand our sustainability work within our sphere of influence. Ilya Treutiger CEO Scandinavian Risk Solutions AB Stockholm 2014-01-16 PO BOX 244, SE-101 24 STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN phone +46 8 440 90 70 | fax +46 8 440 90 71 | email mail@srsgroup.se | web www.srsgroup.se DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION DATE PAGE COP 2013 UNCLASSEFIED 2014-01-24 3/5 Action and outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS -Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights (P1); and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (P2). Overview Our Code of Conduct states that  As a leader within this kind of security services, SRS has a responsibility towards the countries and communities in which we operate. We must practise responsible corporate citizenship and comply with laws and regulations wherever we operate.  SRS business is based on trust. To make sure that we earn the trust of our clients it is required that all SRS employees respect and protect our ethical philosophy and basic values as reflected in this code of conduct.  The relationship between SRS employees must be built on mutual respect and dignity. The connection between the unique competence of our employees and the results we achieve is obvious. One of our strategies is to continuously improve the quality of our personnel. To achieve this we have to be an attractive employer that offers excellent working conditions as well as appropriate training.  SRS expresses support and respect for fundamental human rights and recognises our responsibility to observe those rights when we conduct our business.  Freedom of speech, freedom from any kind of discrimination based on race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sexual orientation and religion are among the rights which we support.  In all of the operations in which SRS operate we respect the dignity of human beings and strictly adhere to all relevant international laws and protocols on human rights. We follow rules of international humanitarian law and human rights law that are applicable as well as all relevant international protocols and conventions. Performance indicators and practical actions Our employees are our main asset. During 2013, we have invested in our employees’ health and training in the following ways;  Promoting and enabling employees’ physical activity to develop health and personal wellbeing  Bi-yearly personal development meeting with superior  An average of 14.5 hours of training delivered per full-time employee SRS completed a course on the Personal Data Acts; the Swedish legislation to protect personal integrity in the processing of personal data. As personal data processing is a part of SRS screening services, it is important to us to take on full responsibility for understanding the legislation. PO BOX 244, SE-101 24 STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN phone +46 8 440 90 70 | fax +46 8 440 90 71 | email mail@srsgroup.se | web www.srsgroup.se DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION DATE PAGE COP 2013 UNCLASSEFIED 2014-01-24 4/5 All SRS employees must as part of their employment contracts and prior to deployment on assignments read, understand and confirm in writing the SRS Code of Conduct that regulates our obligations in regards to Human Rights. Outcome The percentage of sick leave at SRS during 2013 was 2.9%, which places us below the national average in the private sector. SRS has launched a project to initialize collaboration with a civil society organization. The aim is to contribute with our specific competences as well as to learn and understand the needs of parts of society that we would not normally come in contact with. LABOUR -Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining (P3). The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour (P4). The effective abolition of child labour (P5). The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (P6). Overview Our Code of Conduct states that  SRS is an equal opportunity employer. Discrimination based on ethnic origin, religion, sex or other distinguishing characteristic is never to be accepted at SRS.  SRS promotes a productive working environment and does not tolerate bullying or harassment.  SRS recognises the importance of a continuous social dialogue with all SRS employees. Performance indicators and practical actions SRS follows the strict laws of Sweden pertaining to the freedom of association and labour practices and actively recruit for and promote equality in all aspects at the workplace. Outcome Just over 85% of the full-time employees enjoy permanent employment (100% M, 60% F), and the average number of years spent at SRS is 2.8 (3.6 M, 1.4 F). ENVIRONMENT Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (P7). Undertake initiatives to greater environmental responsibility (P8). Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (P9). Overview PO BOX 244, SE-101 24 STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN phone +46 8 440 90 70 | fax +46 8 440 90 71 | email mail@srsgroup.se | web www.srsgroup.se DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION DATE PAGE COP 2013 UNCLASSEFIED 2014-01-24 5/5 SRS takes environmental issues seriously. During 2014, we plan to identify in which areas SRS produces the largest environmental footprint. Some possible areas are electricity consumption, transport, water consumption, waste and the purchase of materials. Performance indicators and practical actions The following actions have been taken to decrease SRS environmental impact  Only green electricity at the office used at the office  Foodstuff that is purchased for the office is organically produced when organical products are available. Outcome 212 kilos of paper were used for printing. 24 710 kWh electricity was used at the office. ANTICORRUPTION -Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. (P10) Overview Our Code of Conduct states that  The SRS trademark is based upon honesty, integrity and confidentiality and we are strongly committed to upholding and promoting the highest ethical business standards in all aspects of our business. SRS does not accept any form of bribes. Performance indicators and practical actions  SRS strictly follows the Swedish tax regulations regarding handling of benefits related to business or employees.  All expensive or compensations are signed off by business area manager and CEO.  SRS has developed a detailed anti-corruption policy  We have declined business opportunities where corruption issues have been present and where no possibility to affect the issues could be identified Outcome We have not experienced any formal or informal corruption issues. PO BOX 244, SE-101 24 STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN phone +46 8 440 90 70 | fax +46 8 440 90 71 | email mail@srsgroup.se | web www.srsgroup.se
