MESA MAKINA DOKUM A.S COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT MESA MAKINA A.S. BRIEF Founded in 1979, Mesa Makina looks back on a long tradition of casting and today has become one of the prominent OEM part producer in providing machined castings. Mesa Makina has the vision of being a regional leader by making a difference in its field. Behind the success of Mesa Makina there lies a customer-focused production that exactly meets customer demands with an expert staff. Our business activities are beyond the production of high-quality and hard-to-do castings. Our Product R&D team provides comprehensive support to his customers from production development stage. Being a member of UN Global Compact, Mesa Makina seeks to maximize his market recognition not only in Turkey but also in the regional and global context. More than 170 skilled workers at Mesa Makina give detailed attention to their particular jobs as manual working man or expert technicians and engineers. Having the ISO TS 16949 quality management system, the range of casted materials offered by Mesa Makina varies from grey cast iron and spheroidal cast iron to SiMo and high nickel alloys and wear resistant high-chromium white iron. Machining is offered on all parts, and inspection and testing available includes Ultrasonic, X-ray, Magnetic particle inspection and others. With a production capacity of 7,500 tons of castings, we produce unit weigths of 0,5 – 60 kg of machine moulded castings with high-pressure vacuum technology. In addition to plant and machinery investments, Mesa Makina keeps his investments on quality and training of employees which he gives great importance. The IVECO (OTOYOL) quality award received in 2003 and ISO TS 16949 certificate gained in 2008 demonstrates the emphasis given on quality. Started production to OEM parts in 1984 with exhaust manifolds, today Mesa Makina enjoys exporting to 80 % of its production to automotive, agricultural machinery, construction machinery, defense, mining and energy industries in 3 continents, Europe is being in the first place. OUR MISSION We are existing as solution partner for your dreams of shaping the metal. OUR VISSION To be a leader , innovative and global company producing information and technology together with our employees being a strong and trusty family. OUR VALUES Honest and Trusty Dynamic,Flexible and Agile Complementary Teamwork Creative and Innovative Effective and Efficient Internal and External Customer Satisfaction and Addiction Community-sensitive and Enviromentally OUR STRENGTS 34 years experience in sector Having ISO TS 16949 A Class Supplier Export 80% of Our Products to the EU Countries Co-design capability 'Market-oriented' global perspective MANAGING DIRECTOR MESSAGE We are very happy to be a member of Global Compact. Our company values and our vission are also support Global Compact Principles. We signed the UN Global Compact in June 2010 which is a strategic policy initiative for business that are committed to aligning their operations. Our company commit that we will carry out on implementing the ten principles of Global Compact and undertake a make clear statement of this commitment. Seyma AYHAN Managing Director 1. Human Rights and Work Standarts Our organization protection of human rights policy and practice in this area performance supported importance. In the our business connection there is no difference between language, gender, political opinion, philosophical belief, religion and sect. If there is no obligation according to biological cause or works risk, workers safety, legal obligation, there is no application about making work contract, ending work about gender or pregnancy. Worker takes similar salary for same or similar works; there are no big differences between salaries for similar works. Value chain, which created by our organization, in ahead our workers and stakeholders you can see applications which are respectful sensitive to humans rights, for improving this senses we always work. According to this mentality we do not staff child worker, we do not staff under compulsion. For our organization our workers safety and health is so necessary. For this subject always we control and improve status. For this mentality we use occupational safety and health committee. This committee makes periodic meetings for seeing and following processes improving, and planning safety and health improvements. For prevent industrial accident committee makes risk appraisal, and take preventive measures according to this risk appraisal, technology and work applications are seeing and our workers takes trainings. In 2013 170 workers had 16 hours occupational safety and health training. We make table of statistic for industrial accident, and we compare with previous years. In starting to our organization we want health knowledge and report, which include that person is useful for this job according to health details, this report legal obligation. Pieces SHE Committee Pieces 1 Number of Employees Committee 7 SHE Team Pieces 6 Number of Employees SHE Team 25 We provide service for medical examination with our organizations doctor. In the same time we gave trainings to our workers about occupational and social, clash exposure negative influence, hygiene and occupational illness. We make periodical examinations and carrier examination test. For white collar offered the opportunity for group private health insurance. In 2013 periodic examination rate is %100. All workers had periodic examinations for two times in a year. In 2014 Mesa started to works for OHSAS 18001, and in 2014 September we are planning to finish studies for occupational safety and health and our goal is making sustainable system for occupational safety and health. In 2013 for trainings of occupational safety and health we paid 235.000 TL. Mesa sees his workers as worthy capital, the factor, which bringing goals, is piecing differences of his workers perspective, experiences, effort. According to this mentality Mesa AŞ. Goal is taking persons which is brilliant and competency. In 2013; Contract of employment distribution= Time limit %0, Indefinite period %100 Work type worker distribution= Full time %100 , Part time %0 Recruitment type worker distribution = White collar %26 , Blue Collar %74 According to Gender of workers distribution; Women %3 Men %97 Continuous improvement is one of the most important factors are the employees feedback. Employee feedbacks are important guiding our target of continuous improvement in business processes as we see. Employees' opinions, ideas and our organization for receipt of requests for proposal system are effectively operated. Suggestions which our employee gave us evaluate according to procedures. Practicable suggestions are rewarding according to procedure criteria. In 2013 our employees gave 120 pieces suggestions. 1.1 Corporate Social Responsibility UMEM Project: Our organization step up to the plate for solving root cause of problem of finding worker, which is qualified. This root cause is unknown occupation. For solving this root cause we start training with Labour and Social Security Ministry, Chamber of Industry, Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Education organized by the IS-KUR funded Specialized Vocational Training Centers (UMEM) Ability'10 Project , technical facilities and personnel experience to share their professions with trainees who want to have occupation. Our organization gave trainings to 15 trainees, end of this course 7 trainees started to work with us. Having Obstacles Project: Mesa changed a school's classrooms for using easily of students which disabilities in 2013 . Subscriptions: Automotive Parts Manufacturers' Association (TAYSAD), Quality Association (KALDER), Turkey Personnel Management Association (PERYÖN), Turkey Casting Industry Association (TÜDÖKSAD), Konya Automotive Parts Industry Cluster (Konya CLUSTER), Konya Chamber of Industry (KSO), Konya Chamber of Commerce (KTO), the Central Anatolian Exporters Union (OAIB), Railway Industry Association (RAYDER) Sponsorships: 1. OSEG 2014 2. ENVIRONMENT While the responding growing needs and other side production processes, using product and services effects to environment must be decreased, todays primary liability of business world is solving environmental problems. Our organization keeps under control effects of environmental while we are manufacturing, and we make some improvements for decreasing of effects to environment. For achieving to our environment goal we allocate resources. Waste management, waste disposal companies under the contaminated package, oil and coolant fluid, chips , carton, paper end electronic waste are given in waste recycling. The EIA report was taken in 2013. Cost (TL) In 2013 environmental protection cost 7.500 In 2013 Cost of waste disposal 8.000 Our organization has reached “a sustainable structure to be firm” strategy in 2015 with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System will begin to work. 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION Rights and obligations of our employees publish a regulation. In this regulation; occupational safety and health , rules of attitude, confidentially , working times, overtime, national holiday , annual leave, ingress and egress to the workplace, cleaning work, work place general demeanor, performance consideration, repeal, social help subjects are explaining.
