2014 Communication on Progress Sialkot Dry Port Trust Communication on Progress 2014 Sialkot Dry Port Trust 2|Page Communication on Progress 2014 SIALKOT DRY PORT TRUST Introduction Sialkot Dry Port was established in 1984 and registered as Trust by 52 reputable businessmen of the region later came to be known as the Trustees. As a matter of fact, Sialkot Dry Port Trust enjoys a privilege of being the pioneer-the first ever Dry Port in Asia’s private sector. From the last three decades since its inception, it has remained an eminent tradition of the organization to serve the cause of humanity through charity and other voluntary practices. Communication on Progress Persona: Sialkot Dry Port Trust has always endeavored to attain a remarkable growth towards corporate advancement & Sustainability, nevertheless it has always outperformed in the spheres of human rights, Labor rights, Environmental principles and Anti-corruption policies. This is to make known explicitly the practices involved-Communication on progress on our part. The same can be traced as under; Sialkot Dry Port Trust 3|Page Communication on Progress 2014 Human Rights Policies Assessment, Policy, and Goals: The organization aims to create a viable environment to protect human rights as far as its activities are concerned. Thus addressing human rights issues has always remained a priority of Sialkot Dry Port Trust. For the purpose of communication, some of the practical actions are shared as under;  Charities are granted to calamities affected victims and other alike NGOs.  For consumer’s right the online billing facilities are provided. Sialkot Dry Port has allotted its customers with separate identities as well as passwords for online counter checks regarding the regular as well as supplementary bills. A control register has also been maintained in this regard.  Since Sialkot Dry Port Trust act as a bonded carrier, therefore tracing and monitoring service has been introduced to track the inventory of our valued customers during transit.  Strict disciplinary actions are initiated against any human abuse even from third party.  For safety of human capital several measures have been taken like, reflectors jackets & helmets have been provided to the labor or visiting clients for night shifts in order to avoid any accident, further pedestrian ways are made with in the field area to avoid any incident.  Necessary promotions are awarded at due time based on performance and again the above procedure is repeated with due diligence.  Use of First Aid Boxes to cure there and then. Further regular periodical medical checkup of workers go side by side.  Protective helmets and reflector jackets are being used for safety of human capital in the field areas.  Pedestrian ways are made to avoid any loss of human capital. Sialkot Dry Port Trust 4|Page Communication on Progress 2014 Labor rights Policies Assessment, Policy, and Goals:  As far as remunerations are concerned, the organization follows a policy that adheres to minimum wage rate.  Performance bonuses are awarded every year to enhance human resource motivation.  Sialkot Dry Port Trust is an equal opportunity employer. Hence it promotes meritocracy and condemns kakistocracy as well as nepotism. The appointment procedure has to be passed by a committee of qualified and experienced personnel. The decision is then moved to the Executive Council and Board of Trustees for final approval. There is no chance of favoritism.  Work is allotted according to the job description not for menace of penalty.  Retiring benefit schemes-paying gratuities.  Effective abolition of child labor.  Other funds like advancement of interest free personal loan, Dowry funds for marriages etc are granted for loyalty and dedication of the employees. Further an annual and a special increment is also granted keeping in view the levels of performance. Measurement of Outcomes: Sialkot Dry Port Trust adheres to and complies with all National labor laws and relevant practices. Moreover a labor Union CBI headed by a president is there to safeguard the labor rights. Sialkot Dry Port Trust 5|Page Communication on Progress 2014 Anti Corruption Policies Assessment, Policy, and Goals: In order to curb corruption, human intelligence is believed to be the strongest mean to an end. Sialkot Dry Port Trust ensures all the checks & balances in order to eradicate corruption.  Change of duty Places in order to avoid undue influence of the particular officers.  CCTV cameras are installed at the instances where the consignments of the exporters are warehoused.  Heavy duty LED lights are installed in the field area to increase the vision at night and also to capture culprits.  Surprise night visits are scheduled to ensure transparency and to check whether all duty points are filled or not.  Online access to the consumers for bills verification is a good step forward to ensure transparency.  Regular videos of loading of consignment are being made for customer’s satisfaction and transparency.  Customer complaint cells are designed for transparency. The matters are investigated by a designated team especially for the task. Measurement of Outcomes: We have a customer complaint cell to report back any wrong practice that ends in corruption. Further CSO-chief security officer is especially designated to investigate and to blow the whistle of wrong doings. Further Audit department is always vigilant to find any cash embezzlement and corruption. Sialkot Dry Port Trust 6|Page Communication on Progress 2014 Environmental Policies Assessment, Policy, and Goals: Sialkot Dry Port Trust undertakes Effective schemes to prevent the degradation of environment. Now Sialkot Dry Port Trust earns a good fortune for being certified as a “Green Office” by WWF-World Wide Funds for Nature having gone through a detailed audit by the Later. The audit was conducted with the parameters such as  For environmental pollution & the reduction of carbon footprints as a result of activities of the organization, a strategic contract has been made with WWF Green Office Initiative and EMS-Environment Management System has successfully been implemented.  Employee Awareness Campaigns/Workshops are conducted to ensure proper education of the employees regarding utilization of natural resources and their adverse impact on the environment.  To minimize the consumption of electricity, we have put in action a number of replacement plans like heavy wattage lights are replaced to LED lights of less than half wattage. Further 2000 watt electric heaters are replaced with a maximum of 900 watts heaters. Some other plans are also under process.  Implementations of the weekly tips provided by our strategic partnerWWF for preservation of the natural environment.  Environment friendly working techniques-conservation of paper which in turns saves trees which are a healthy element of clean environment. Duplex printing, Using half size of paper for small text printing, following APA standards for fonts and margins etc. such techniques have contributed a lot to the cause. Sialkot Dry Port Trust 7|Page Communication on Progress 2014 Measurement of Outcomes: Sialkot Dry Port Trust has put an effective mechanism in place for implementation of the Green Office Initiative. A green office coordinator is designated to look after every aspect of conservation to sustain natural environment. Further we have made process owners at different departments. All above is then implemented and check by Compliance & control department. Sialkot Dry Port Trust 8|Page
