Global Citizenship Report 2013 Mentoring and Networking In This Report Welcome A Few Words From Our CEO About Alexander Mann Solutions 2 4 5 Global Citizenship Corporate Culture & Practices Social & Economic Accountability 8 12 17 Environmental & Employee Wellbeing Inclusion & Diversity Supply Chain Accountability 29 34 40 Future Aspirations 46 1 Global Citizenship Report Welcome At Alexander Mann Solutions, our commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact remains unchanged. In the past six years, we have continually refined our Global Citizenship programme to add value, play a positive role and maximise the efforts of our people. Our 2013 Communication on Progress (COP) is the sixth Report Objectives since committing to the UN Global Compact. This report constitutes Alexander Mann Solutions’ 2013 In this report, we frame our achievements around a COP towards the UN Global Compact. theme. This allows us to highlight specific developments In this report, we intend to: and initiatives, while also providing a structure through which we can clearly and concisely report on our overall n Demonstrate progress towards the UN Global achievements. Compact and report on Alexander Mann Solutions’ progress against goals set in the 2012 COP The theme of this report – ‘mentoring and networking’ – reflects our approach to Global Citizenship in 2013. It has n Set goals for Alexander Mann Solutions’ Global enabled our people to contribute their skills and expertise Citizenship programme in 2014 beyond their day jobs to a wide variety of initiatives. These n Provide a formalised, publicly accessible document mentoring and networking opportunities have offered which summarises our Global Citizenship efforts, our people the chance to support others in achieving their ensuring transparency, accountability and goals, as well as broaden their own aspirations. continuous improvement While we would expect to naturally see mentoring n Develop awareness of Alexander Mann Solutions’ and networking feature in our Social & Economic Global Citizenship programme Accountability and Inclusion & Diversity sections, the theme is prevalent in all areas. For instance, we have This report covers our global business unless worked closely with small and medium sized enterprises otherwise stated. (SMEs) as part of our supply chain, supporting them to succeed in tenders where previously this wasn’t possible. More on mentoring and networking can be read throughout this COP. 2 Global Citizenship Report Self-Declaration Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Application Level The below table provides a detailed overview of points that have been covered throughout this report against the GRI performance indicators. This is a self-declaration by Alexander Mann Solutions. Topic Points Covered Application Level 1.1 C Strategy & Analysis 1.2 B Organisational Profile 2.1 to 2.10 C 3.1 3.8/3.10 3.12 C Report Parameters 3.9 and 3.13 B Governance, Commitments 4.1 4.4/4.14 4.15 C & Engagement 4.5 4.13/4.16 4.17 B GRI We’ve taken into account the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines when putting together this report. Find out more at www.globalreporting.org Information Online More information on our Global Citizenship programme can be found on our website www.alexandermannsolutions.com 3 Global Citizenship Report A Few Words From Our CEO It’s truly gratifying to see the incredible impact our people have when we come together This has been an incredible year for Alexander Mann I personally want to say a big thank you to our people, as Solutions and one that fills me with a great deal of pride. well as our partners and suppliers. In the same way we With our first steps into Latin America, the successful approach business, in Global Citizenship we never do appointment of New Mountain Capital as our investor, anything half-heartedly. The aid that we provided after and awards such as Best Places to Work in Northeast the typhoon in the Philippines being a particular case Ohio and Poland’s Best Employer of the Year – 2013 is a in point. year that will last long in the mind. We give our energies and time generously. From playing a As well as delighting our clients, we’ve also worked hard positive role in our communities and helping so many to meet our Global Citizenship commitments, aligning different charities succeed, to improving our environment them with mentoring and networking, and this is the and enhancing the well-being of our people – I believe theme for our 2013 report. Over the following pages Global Citizenship is about doing good, not just doing you’ll find we have some wonderful stories to tell, and business. It’s about being part of the world community these include such achievements as: and it gives me a great thrill to know that we are bringing our skills and talents to enhance it and help it grow. n Helping smaller businesses succeed in our supply chain (page 32) I am pleased to confirm that Alexander Mann Solutions reaffirms our support of the 10 principles of the UN n Supporting the Aspiring Professionals programme Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, through the Social Mobility Foundation (page 43) environment and anti-corruption. n Working with Tomorrow’s People to deliver CV workshops for the ThinkForward programme (page 19) n Our employee driven ‘one more thing’ initiative (page 14) Advising and fundraising for Singapore charity aidha Rosaleen Blair n (page 23) Founder and CEO n Empowering Poland’s Women’s Business Network Alexander Mann Solutions (page 44) n Developing a training programme for Cleveland’s SuccessTech Academy (page 25) 4 Global Citizenship Report About Alexander Mann Solutions About Alexander Mann Solutions What We Do Alexander Mann Solutions is the world’s leading provider of talent acquisition and management services. We integrate our outsourcing capability and consulting expertise to enable organisations to attract, engage and retain top talent. With a staff of over 2,200 people, our award-winning teams and their powerful insight are uniquely placed to support the thinking behind and delivery of a client’s people strategy. We deliver impactful business outcomes across the full talent lifecycle; from strategic workforce planning and employer branding, to assessment and selection, on-boarding and engagement, from school leavers and graduates, middle managers and executives, to board members and C-suite appointments – permanent and contingent labour. Where We Are We partner with our clients to deliver creative talent acquisition and integrated talent management solutions in over 80 countries, on all continents (bar Antarctica), around the world. At any hour, on any day, in any time zone, our people are delivering innovation from our head office in London, United Kingdom and smaller regional centres in places like Melbourne, Australia, Boston, USA and Hong Kong, China. We’ve built four centres of excellence that provide capacity for teams around the world. Our Global Client Service Centres (GCSCs) are in Bracknell (United Kingdom), Krakow (Poland), Manila (Philippines) and Cleveland (USA). 6 Global Citizenship Report About Alexander Mann Solutions Who We Work With Mission, Vision and Values We have deep industry expertise in a number of sectors, Mission: We build world-class talent and resourcing specifically: Retail and Financial Services; Investment capability for organisations, based on the shared Banking and Professional Services; Technology and belief that people are the foundation for success. As a Media; Defence, Engineering and Business Services; trusted advisor, we deliver this through innovative and Energy; and Healthcare and Life Sciences. measurable outsourcing and consulting services. Our 65 global clients include: Vision: Our business is about people – clients, candidates, partners and the communities in which we n BAE Systems n Microsoft work. And of course our people, who make it all happen. n Barclays n Novartis As such, the vision we have for our organisation is n Citi n Origin Energy “making people the foundation for success”. n Covidien n Rolls-Royce Values: Three values encompass our approach to our n Credit Suisse n Royal Mail business, our people and our clients. We are passionate, n Deloitte n Santander distinctive and authentic. n Freshfields n Statoil n GE Capital n Vodafone Employee Value Proposition (EVP): We offer an n HSBC n Zurich inspiring environment where our people can use their energy, enthusiasm and expertise to realise their aspirations and really make a difference. It’s our promise to our employees. Cupcakes in Alexander Mann Solutions branded colours with our values denoted on them were given to our employees at our Manila general assembly in September 2013. So now not only are we living our values, we’re eating them too! 7 Global Citizenship Report About Alexander Mann Solutions Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Global Citizenship is an important part of the culture at Alexander Mann Solutions, and it’s an embedded component of our business ethics. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our society and our environment and it’s integral to all our relationships – with employees, clients, suppliers, partners and communities worldwide. We take our Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) Clients seriously, and we don’t believe this is something that By listening and learning from the organisations with companies should stand still on; we know that we can which we work, we can understand what is important to always do more. We’re constantly looking at new or them and how our Global Citizenship strategies align. different ways to make sure that our people are proactive global citizens who have a positive impact on the world Opinion leaders and industry thinkers around them. By developing relationships with leading bodies, such as In 2007, we signed up as a participant to the UN Global the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their Compact, formalising our long-term commitment to extensive knowledge and experience. being a globally responsible organisation in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Global Citizenship volunteers Participating ensures we remain focussed on structure, By formalising our relationships with Global Citizenship discipline, timescales and deliverables today and into volunteers, we can expand the types of stakeholders the future. with which we engage, outline our engagement standards and regularly capture different perspectives. Stakeholder Engagement Non-profit organisations We recognise the importance of identifying and By building close and long-term relationships with engaging with key stakeholders. They provide us with a global non-profit organisations, we can respond to the diverse range of perspectives and experiences which needs of our local communities, undertake actions to inform, develop and refine our Global Citizenship improve the environment and shape the relevancy of programme. our Global Citizenship policies. In turn, our stakeholders are intimately involved in Suppliers and partners Global Citizenship activities. Working with third-party partners and suppliers, we can implement best practice and influence relationships to Employees ensure stable growth and responsible business practices. Through surveys and roundtable discussions, we encourage open dialogue to find out what matters to our people – and learn how they want to make a difference. 9 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Goals We developed our Global Citizenship programme with the following specific goals in mind. n To build a picture of best practice in the industry: what industry standards exist and what blue-chip client organisations are doing n To determine our stakeholder needs: what our people want, what our clients require and how our communities could or should benefit from our involvement n To understand what we should achieve from the programme as a business: how it will support our business strategy and goals, how it can help us deliver our EVP and how it will bring our people policies to life n To identify the strengths and skills in our organisation: how these add value to our communities and stakeholders These goals inform the objectives of our Global Citizenship programme. Global Citizenship Programme Objectives voluntary and made up of people from across the organisation, spanning seniority, geographies and roles. Learning and development – Drive learning and development in the organisation, through internal Replicating the sections of this COP to report on our programmes and external partnerships with our Global Citizenship activities, the working groups are Charities of Choice and volunteering activities. as follow: Communities – Support Charities of Choice in n Corporate Culture & Practices achieving their goals and encourage our people to n Social & Economic Accountability contribute their time and expertise where other n Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability volunteer opportunities arise. n Employee Wellbeing n Inclusion & Diversity Environmental – Examine our carbon footprint and make a determined effort to reduce it annually. During 2012/13, our voluntary groups evolved with members coming together from a number of different Inclusion – Be aware of the world we live in, ensuring working groups to deliver on specific projects. that the teams we build reflect a belief that success comes from diversity; offer a hand to those whose social In 2014, we plan to review the need to retain the groups circumstances inhibits their full potential and mobility. in their original format. As our geographic expansion continues and our people come together to deliver Communication – Create and maintain two-way projects they are passionate about, we believe we’ll channels of communication throughout our business need a range of approaches to engage participants, and use these as efficiently and effectively as possible. support reporting and drive implementation. Accountability – Ensure there is transparency and accountability by setting specific goals and measuring progress against them. Stakeholder engagement – Actively engage all stakeholder groups in order to develop solutions that really work. Global Citizenship Programme Delivery In 2011, we developed a set of working groups to deliver on our Global Citizenship objectives. The groups are 10 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Programme Owner Ultimate responsibility for Global Citizenship at Alexander Mann Solutions rests with David Heath, Chief People Officer. As a member of our Leadership Team, David reports on our Global Citizenship progress to our stakeholders and our Board. David has included a brief commentary and summary at the conclusion of this document. 11 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate Culture & Practices Corporate Culture & Practices To truly make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we must review our initiatives, codes and schemes so that we can learn from them. We pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Assessing our achievements in 2013 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a bronze medal, reflecting that this is an area for continual improvement. 13 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Highlights of Our Achievements in 2013 We achieved half of our commitments during 2013. This included two publications of our internal employee magazine, The Point, and we also hosted quarterly updates with our Senior Managers. We’ll take this opportunity however to highlight a couple of achievements that went above and beyond our original commitments. These illustrate how we work hard to create a culture at Alexander Mann Solutions – backed by processes, policies and practices – that is inclusive of everyone. ‘one more thing’ In the latter half of 2013, our Chief Operating Officer, John Collington, spearheaded a company-wide initiative called ‘one more thing’. The aim of the campaign was to mobilise the business and encourage people to come up with ideas, suggestions and projects that would identify and deliver notable financial results. Of the 180 projects that were implemented globally, all were acted on collectively. It was an important lesson: we were all working together in this initiative and the responsibility for its success remained with us all. There are many examples of how our people embraced ‘one more thing’. These included spec’ing in available candidates to clients, a global sourcing competition (with a record-breaking 57,677 sourcing activities conducted during the three competition days) and encouraging all communications amongst teams to take place using corporate communication technologies like Microsoft Lync – rather than costly alternatives. We also dedicated our quarterly Inspiring Awards programme to celebrate those who remained steadfast in delivering excellence to our clients; those who were willing to try new ways of doing things; and those who remembered the simple fact that little changes can make a difference. 14 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Global sourcing competition in Q3 2013 as part of ‘one more thing’ 15 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Career Profiles Learnings From Our Career Profile Our employees tell us that career development and internal opportunities are two of the principal reasons for n 619 of our people would consider relocating joining and enjoying life at Alexander Mann Solutions. We overseas, of which 518 speak a second language to want these opportunities to grow and continue to business level improve. We’re committed to making it a great place to work and in June 2013 we launched the Alexander Mann n 534 are interested in short-term secondments Solutions Career Profile. This is a repository of our n 1,168 are interested in getting involved more in employees’ skills, interests and ambitions and it enables us the business to see the depth and variety of our talent globally, further supporting our 2013 theme of mentoring and networking. The findings from our Career Profile are being shared with managers (who can support individuals to achieve their aspirations) and with Internal Resourcing (who can better match skill sets to opportunities, whether projects, secondments or new assignments). Upholding Our Position on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption As the market leader in talent acquisition and management services, our knowledge, experience and conduct sets us apart in the market. Our conduct is exemplified by employees maintaining the highest level of ethical standards – each and every day of their working lives. Our anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies provide clear guidance and a consistent approach to our business practices throughout our expanding worldwide operations. The policies are applicable to all individuals working for, or with, Alexander Mann Solutions in any capacity. In addition to these formal policies of zero-tolerance of corruption, there is a bribery and corruption online course for our staff. This informs participants of best practice and the compliance responsibilities for individuals as well as those that Alexander Mann Solutions has as a company. Commitments for 2014 n Improve access to Alexander Mann Solutions service offerings, projects and strategy. This includes updating our intranet content and cascade system for notable news n Upgrade our intranet platform to improve user experience and encourage social collaboration n Establish a network of Brand Ambassadors who act as an extension of the Marketing & Communications team and help drive strong, clear and consistent messages n Conduct quarterly Senior Management business updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team n Produce the Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP and formally submit the report by its May 2014 deadline 16 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Social & Economic Accountability Social & Economic Accountability As a global organisation, we must ensure that we are protecting and improving the local communities in which we operate. We should invest in projects that have positive, long-term effects on our communities. Investment in our communities happens in a number of Thirdly, we encourage and support our people to get ways. Firstly, we partner with charitable organisations involved in local initiatives that they feel are personally around the world, our Charities of Choice. They all share important to them; this includes offering our people our values and we offer genuine support thanks to the globally one paid volunteer day annually. expertise of our people. Assessing our achievements in 2013 against the Secondly, in geographies where our Charities of Choice commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded do not operate but our people want to replicate the ourselves a silver medal reflecting almost complete support we offer these charities, our people are satisfaction. encouraged to get involved in local initiatives. The brainwave of one of our people in the northwest of the UK, for example, has resulted in the development of a schools and colleges training programme where young people are taught CV writing skills and interview techniques. This project has been so successful we are now introducing it to additional geographies. 18 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Highlights of Our Achievements in 2013 Many of our projects within Social & Economic Accountability are a result of formal relationships with our Charity of Choices or similar. Tomorrow’s People, UK Coinciding with our Global Citizenship theme of mentoring and networking, we seized a new opportunity in 2013 to support our long-standing UK Charity of Choice – Tomorrow’s People. Offering employability skills workshops for young people through its ThinkForward (TF) programme, the charity targets those who are at risk of becoming NEET (Not in Education, Employment or Training). To ensure The TF programme also encourages a variety of education still plays an important part in their lives, businesses and organisations to deliver in-office young people are given a “super-coach” from age 14 workshops aimed at introducing young people to the through to 19 who offers personalised, sustained world of work, helping them to develop the skills support to overcome challenges, both at home and at necessary to make a smooth transition from school to school, and to help them build life skills and confidence. further education or work. These workshops can help build a young person’s self-belief, confidence and aspirations for a successful career. 19 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Our people in the UK delivered three workshops for a Beyond this, our employee Jonathan Elliott ran the group of 12 young people from two schools in London. London Marathon on behalf of Tomorrow’s People The workshops were delivered at our London finishing in 4 hours, 8 minutes and 27 seconds and headquarters and in addition to covering topics like raising funds at the same time. A pub quiz and raffle personal brand, CV and interview skills, employees from by our Bracknell GCSC also raised £157 for Tomorrow’s around our business spoke to the group about their own People. work journeys and inspiration. One of the highlights was Team AMS Mentor, and World and Paralympic Champion Jody Cundy, who spoke about ways he motivates himself and what drives him to succeed. Tomorrow’s People This contribution from Alexander Mann Solutions Their vision is to break the cycle of unemployment was recognised at an evening celebrating the success and dependency in deprived communities of the TF programme and we look forward to being throughout the UK involved in 2014. “Very inspiring and has made me rethink aspects of my life” “Thank you, I love this workshop” “I could use many skills I have been taught” Comments from young participants of the ThinkForward programme 20 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Mosaic Enterprise Challenge, UK Mosaic is a charitable initiative from ‘Business in the Community’ and it enables our employees to act as business mentors for school children across England. The Enterprise Challenge is a national competition for secondary school-aged children designed to encourage entrepreneurial skills. Teams of students work with a mentor from the business community to learn about becoming a future business leader and come up with a business idea. The business ideas are judged on a regional basis, resulting in a finalist team from each region competing to become the ultimate winner and put their business idea into practice. Our original involvement in the Enterprise Challenge started with our Deloitte team mentoring school children in London. The team’s enthusiasm and the broad range of locations covered by the Enterprise Challenge encouraged us to advertise the mentoring opportunity nationally to our people in England. We are very proud that all regions were supported by Alexander Mann Solutions mentors. It says a lot about the uptake of our mentoring and networking theme for 2013. We’re waiting to find out whether any of our teams will reach the regional finals taking place in the first half of 2014. “I decided to take part in this challenge as I have Mosaic a niece the same age as the students taking part at Garth Hill. When I told her Alexander Mann Founded by HRH The Prince of Wales in 2007, Solutions was participating in this scheme, she told Mosaic’s mentoring programmes create opportunities me about her experience of a similar one at her for young people from deprived communities school. Although she agreed it is a good scheme, unfortunately the one she took part in was not run as well and didn’t have the same incentives etc. She Regarding Mosaic Enterprise Challenge, our people told me what she would like out of a mentor, from a have said: student’s perspective; so I chose to take part to see if I “I saw this as my opportunity to put something can help students and create a positive outcome” back into the community. To share my career Sarah Compton, Resource Specialist experiences with the students in order to help them find a career that may be of interest to them, “I wanted to get involved to take myself out of my depending on their preferences” comfort zone and to hopefully have an impact on the Natalie Bateman, Team Leader entrepreneurs of the future” Rupert Scott, Client Services Manager “I joined the scheme because I felt that there was a real lack of continuity between my time spent studying “I want to promote what I think is important and and actually going out into the real world and getting a hopefully help someone grow their confidence along job when I was younger. When I saw this opportunity, I the way” thought it was a great idea and a really good step in the Emily Phelps, Resource Specialist right direction to help students think more practically about the future and what they have to offer” Anthony Bull, Resource Specialist “I wanted to get involved as I enjoy coaching and mentoring and wanted to develop these skills within a different environment. It helps to create situations “I wanted to offer my support and guidance to those closer to real-life for young people to learn and take who are interested in a career in business. Having run away with them for the future. I also did Business a successful business in the past, my experience could Studies at school and would have enjoyed something inspire our younger people to succeed in the future. like this myself if we’d had the chance” At the end of the day, they are our future!” Kate Barnes, Lead Sourcing Specialist Mark Sutton, Lead Sourcing Specialist 21 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Leonardo, Poland Leonardo In Poland, our main focus is our Charity of Choice, which, since 2008, has been the Foundation of Social Works with individuals and families from difficult Development Leonardo. social backgrounds, or those disconnected from the To help Leonardo, our people provide job searching, CV community and job market, with the aim of writing and job interview workshops as well as host English increasing their chances of gaining employment classes. Additionally, we support Leonardo with an annual fundraising ‘Raise and Give’ month. During this month, employees raise money in a number of ways from cake Typhoon Haiyan, Philippines sales to pub quizzes. A group of Alexander Mann Solutions On 8th November 2013, the deadliest typhoon on walkers also completed a Three Peaks Challenge mountain record devastated large parts of the Philippines. It left climb in less than 36 hours, raising additional funds over half a million people without water, food and through sponsorship. shelter. While the path of the typhoon did not pass over In 2013, the Three Peaks were in the Mala Fatra National Manila (where our Alexander Mann Solutions GCSC is Park, a mountainous part of Slovakia. Our team of located), many of our colleagues had friends and family climbers, together with their fundraising colleagues, raised directly affected by the Super Typhoon. money for new office equipment for Leonardo’s offices in To help efforts, we launched a global fundraising Krakow and to support the delivery of further workshops. campaign. Initiated by our team in Manila, the response from our wider global team was phenomenal. With both individual and corporate donations, we raised over 1.2 million pesos (over £16,000) which was split equally between the Philippine Red Cross and Sagip Kapamilya, the emergency response foundation of ABS-CBN, the oldest commercial television network in the Philippines. The donations have supported immediate relief aid and also longer-term rebuilding programmes. “Your call to action in our time of need is an amazing example of Alexander Mann Solutions’ values in practice. On behalf of our colleagues in Manila and everyone affected by this devastating typhoon, thank you” Kevin K Urrutia, Head of Manila GCSC 22 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability aidha, Singapore Changing Young Lives Foundation, Hong Kong In 2013, our people in Singapore continued to work closely Towards the end of 2013, our Hong Kong Charities with aidha to ensure our volunteering had the best possible Committee partnered with a charity committed to impact. As the charity grows, our support expands. supporting underprivileged children both in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. The charity is named We provided aidha with traditional recruitment support Changing Young Lives Foundation (CYLF) and in 2014 by putting a competency framework in place. This has our colleagues in Hong Kong will be supporting CYLF helped them develop both mentors and new members of through fundraising and volunteering activities, using staff; with a focus on particular individuals such as the HR existing expertise from across our global business Manager and CEO, where we offered advice on executive to provide materials, experiences and know-how to recruitment. We also advised how to use Facebook and maximise our support. LinkedIn to broaden their network which is integral in attracting both new students and mentor volunteers. Lastly, our volunteers gave their time to help aidha with Changing Young Lives Foundation their application to become an Institution of a Public Character which will enable donors to obtain tax relief on Mission is to provide health, welfare, and their qualifying donations. educational and recreational programmes to children from disadvantaged families in Hong Kong and those Fundraising efforts include a charity quiz night where in the poorest regions of rural China Alexander Mann Solutions employees, clients and suppliers worked as teams to raise $3,000 SGD. Our people also cycled the Tour de Singapore with colleagues from Barclays and Deutsche Bank. aidha Provides training programmes to foreign domestic workers in Singapore where they can learn financial and management skills for a brighter future 23 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Doxa Youth Foundation, Australia In 2013, our colleagues in Australia continued to support their Charity of Choice, the Doxa Youth Foundation. Working with young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in the state of Victoria, the Doxa Youth Foundation provides opportunities for these young people to gain access to tertiary education and a professional career. Building on the relationship established in 2012, our people delivered workshops on transitioning from the world of study to the world of work as part of the Cadet Weekend Camp. Our Melbourne office sponsors a cadet, providing varied work experience from sourcing to HR administration “I have been at Alexander Mann and onsite support for one of our clients. Solutions for a year now, doing my cadetship, and all I can say is that it Doxa Youth Foundation has been an amazing experience. Being straight out of high school I feel this Gives children and young people who experience is the best opportunity that I could disadvantage a better chance in life so every young have got and I cannot thank everyone person can achieve their potential enough for it. I already feel as though I have learnt so many skills and learnt how to work in an environment that involves so much international work and what it takes to be part of a team. I cannot wait for the two coming years of my cadetship and what it will bring me both academically and professionally” Lisa-Maree Marshall, Doxa Youth Foundation cadet 24 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability SuccessTech Academy, Cleveland, Ohio Historically, we have two Charities of Choice in the USA, selected in part because of their locations – New York City and Boston, which coincide with our employee locations. Since working with these charities, our presence in the US has grown enormously, both geographically and in population. In 2014, we plan to review the appropriateness of working with these two local charities. In addition, our people in our Cleveland GCSC developed a schools and training programme, working with a school located next to our office – SuccessTech Academy. The main focus was to deliver a series of workshops supporting students and their parents into further education and work. We were also able to help these students through donations of professional clothing, food items, internships at our offices and fundraising to assist with their transport costs. In November, colleagues collected food items to produce Thanksgiving baskets to support students and their families at SuccessTech Academy in need over the holiday weekend. SuccessTech Academy Established from a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, they graduate self-directed problem solvers who have clear personal, academic and professional goals focused on responsible citizenship 25 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Outside our Charities of Choices, our people around the world started their own local initiatives. Here are the highlights: UK Within our Bracknell GCSC, an employee volunteers at the Bracknell Probation Service to assist offenders with skills to find full-time employment. In December, the Bracknell GCSC along with people from our London headquarters and our Deloitte team donated food items in support of the Trussell Trust food bank. We supported Morgan Stanley’s Cooperation Ireland Youth Initiative by delivering an employability skills presentation as part of the two-day event. This gave us the opportunity to develop a relationship with Cooperation Ireland with a view to our teams in Belfast and Ireland supporting projects locally. We joined the Advisory Board of a niche recruitment company, Recruit for Spouses, which helps the spouse of military personnel find employment. We also support The Poppy Factory through our Cobham team who are volunteering to mentor ex-military personnel seeking employment. We also work with their recruitment team to broaden our talent pool and in turn, provide real employment opportunities to those seeking work. Our Bracknell colleagues are fantastic fundraisers and in 2013 they supported: n A Halloween-theme bake-off that saw £210 donated to support a family closely connected with the GCSC n Movember, which supports mens’ cancer charities through sponsored facial hair growth and raised £102.17 n BBC’s UK charity, Children in Need. A fancy dress, raffle and auction raised £554.30 n The annual World’s Biggest Coffee Morning for MacMillan Cancer Support raised £204.70 26 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability EMEA In October, six colleagues in France travelled across the country to team up to run in the Race Against Cancer in Paris. Our colleagues in Krakow have been busy all year with different events which include: n Raising nearly 800 PLN through an Easter card crafting-and-selling activity for a young girl needing cancer treatment n A tree planting day to help create a more diverse woodland in the Krakow region n Donating 1,164 PLN for two animal shelters in Krakow n Supporting the Jasiek Mela Foundation which works with people who have suffered leg amputations and need advice and support with buying their prostheses n Organising a charity concert featuring Alexander Mann Solutions musical groups to support Beata Jalocha who is convalescing from a spine injury n Collecting plastic caps to be recycled. We raised money for the son of one of our former employees who needs a leg prosthesis n Supporting the annual campaign to keep the Tatra Mountains National Park a wild environment, free from negative human influence, by spending the day clearing up the tourist trails As in previous years, our Krakow colleagues continue to back the Szlachetna Paczka charity (‘The Noble Gift’) which supports families in need in Poland by giving boxes of food and other items that are particularly needed. Our people in Krakow supported four families (one more than the previous year) by gifting food and household items as well as winter clothing and boots, warm bedding, children’s toys, school materials, medical and household equipment and appliances. Whether it was contacting the volunteers running the programme, buying items from the lists, preparing the packages themselves, or taking the time to drive them to their respective destinations – everyone at Alexander Mann Solutions’ Krakow GCSC helped. We received wonderful, heartfelt and amazingly touching feedback from the recipient families. 27 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability APAC “It’s great to be part of such a In Manila, our colleagues volunteered to support the successful annual event, which does Dynamic Teen Company’s Kariton Klasrum experience – a much more than just address the mobile classroom that supports and educates street kids symptoms by removing rubbish that in the Cavite City, a part of Manila. The organisation also delivers meals and offers basic health services to children has built up on our beaches. The who have no families to support them. Our volunteers resulting report analyses the underlying helped educate the street kids, introduced basic hygiene causes, which will help Hong Kong get lessons and played games. to the root of the problem and find Project Sole2Sole was also supported by our Filipino simple and sustainable ways to create a colleagues, a charity that helps children all over the cleaner environment” Philippines by raising money to buy children’s shoes. Our people in Manila raised 28,500 pesos to buy shoes and Martin Cerullo, Managing Director, string-bags to give to the children of Bahay Maria. Development, APAC A seven-person Alexander Mann Solutions team worked at the Hong Kong International Coastal Cleanup 2013. The team set a record for the most trash bagged, tagged and removed from a single beach – 280kg of rubbish, including everything from a gas cylinder and hundreds of pieces of glass to plastic bottles and medical syringes. The team left Nam Wai beach near Sai Kung looking almost pristine. We were presented an award for “Heaviest Piece of Rubbish” and the garbage was analysed and the results form part of the Green Council’s latest report on the causes of marine pollution in Hong Kong. Commitments for 2014 n Remain a strong partner with our Charities of Choice in n Develop our fledgling relationship with Cooperation the UK, Poland, Singapore, Australia and Hong Kong Ireland, looking to support projects in Ireland as well and commit to finding new ways to support their work as the Morgan Stanley initiative in London n Review our relationship with our Charities of Choice in n Extend the opportunity for our people to volunteer the Americas and consider expanding our schools and their time with not-for-profit organisations to colleges programme beyond the Cleveland community complement the work undertaken with our Charities of Choice. Promote the paid volunteering day n Explore the opportunity to replicate the Cleveland Alexander Mann Solutions employees can take SuccessTech Academy relationship in other annually as a way to highlight opportunities geographies, particularly the Philippines and countries where our people are geographically widespread 28 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability We want to lessen the potentially damaging effects of our company activities and help protect the environment. As a services provider, our environmental impact is relatively small. Being office-based, our impacts relate to the use of energy and greenhouse gas emissions as well as the natural resources we use and the waste we produce. However, we always seek to improve and lessen our impact by building relationships with responsible suppliers and working with clients that share our views and aspirations. Assessing our achievements in 2013 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a gold medal reflecting complete satisfaction. 30 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Highlights of Our Achievements in 2013 Environmental Accountability Microsoft Lync Environmental Accountability Team Technology is revolutionising the ways we During 2013, our volunteer Environmental communicate and at Alexander Mann Solutions we also Accountability team continued to focus on improving recognise the need for technology that is our environmental performance. The 13-member team environmentally friendly. One of our big initiatives for is spread across our offices in Bracknell, Krakow and 2013 was our roll-out of Microsoft Lync software, which London as well as client sites in the UK and Singapore. offers messaging, voice and video calling capabilities Every month they hold a conference call to raise and and enables people to communicate remotely. discuss ideas and initiatives that might help Alexander Everyone using an Alexander Mann Solutions computer Mann Solutions improve our environmental now has this software performance and build awareness of initiatives amongst installed and for those our employees. onsite, Lync can be As a result of one of the team’s accessed via the web. It ideas, we replaced all the has created a new under-the-desk waste bins in our communication Krakow GCSC with central platform for our recycling waste bins to help business. In addition to reduce waste and increase this, a fully functional hi-tech video conferencing recycling. Additionally, the team has continued to solution has also been installed into four of our main promote environmental awareness among Alexander offices (London, Bracknell, Krakow and Manila). Mann Solutions employees, for instance by supporting Our investment in these technologies has enabled the Earth Hour initiative across Alexander Mann teams who work remotely to meet virtually – helping Solutions globally and using e-cards instead of with our 2013 networking theme and reducing the need traditional cards again this festive season. for travel. Moving into 2014, this investment will be extended to meet with our clients onsite. Environmental Policy We pride ourselves on being a responsible We also helped to reduce the amount of energy the organisation and have committed in a separate Krakow air-conditioning system uses by upgrading the written company policy to continually improve our sun blinds so that they are less transparent. We environmental performance, prevent pollution and continued our successful car-sharing initiative in the manage risks Krakow GCSC and added to the natural plants in this office to help further improve the air. 31 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Supply Chain Accountability Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Code for Responsible Procurement In 2013, we supported the UK government’s scheme to help SMEs. We did this by encouraging our clients to (CRP) use new suppliers, including smaller suppliers instead To manage our business carefully and responsibly, we of just using the big-name, global suppliers. We were have a set of core values to govern our activities and able to engage with SMEs by supporting margin-only interactions with all stakeholders (including suppliers) deals. Margin-only deals enable the suppliers to recruit across the world. To inform and enable this, we follow candidates for contractor roles without having to set our own CRP, a document which offers clear up the costly infrastructures involved with paying guidelines against child and forced labour, as well as contractors. The supplier receives the placement fee for healthy and safe working environments and recruiting and Alexander Mann Solutions is responsible anti-bribery practices. Each of our suppliers annually is for paying the worker. This allows us to collaborate asked to commit to signing our CRP with our clients to mentor and network with a more diverse group of suppliers, whilst ensuring that the most appropriate supplier is appointed. We look forward to this initiative growing further in 2014. Recruiter of the Year Award We launched the very first Alexander Mann Solutions Recruiter of the Year Award in 2013. This is an award scheme that judges the level of performance of our partner programme suppliers and their alignment with our values. One winner was selected from our premier partner suppliers and one from our standard partner suppliers (a small recruitment agency that had performed well in 2012, a further positive step in supporting SMEs). The Alexander Mann Solutions Recruiter of the Year Award is to be an annual event and in 2014 we will be reviewing the criteria we use to judge each supplier to ensure we are sharing best practice with our suppliers. 32 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Commitments for 2014 for Environmental Accountability n Continue using our Environment Management n Establish a consistent method of measuring utilities System and remain ISO14001 accredited in our consumption and waste generation across offices in London and Krakow throughout 2014. Alexander Mann Solutions’ offices worldwide Expand the scope of our ISO14001 to our n Continue to consider the implementation of Bracknell office proposals from our Environmental Accountability n Investigate whether to deploy our video conferencing volunteer team and adopt best practice from system in the US at our Cleveland GCSC our clients Commitments for 2014 for Supply Chain Accountability n Continue to support the UK government scheme to n Review the Alexander Mann Solutions partner help SMEs by offering margin-only deals programme, now in its third year of operation n Review our Recruiter of the Year Award criteria n Encourage the use of Echosign with our partner to ensure we are developing best practice with programme suppliers, to streamline the document our partners signing process n Monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to our Alexander Mann Solutions CRP 33 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing focuses on providing all our people with the opportunity to develop healthy lifestyles and to bring a positive work-life balance to their lives. Health (mental, physical and financial), nutrition and diet, fitness and life balance all play a valuable part in an individual’s wellbeing. Without the wellbeing of the individuals at Alexander Mann Solutions, our teams cannot perform to the best of their abilities. Assessing our achievements in 2013 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a gold medal reflecting complete satisfaction. 35 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Highlights of Our Achievements in 2013 Policies, Programmes and Procedures “I’ve had first-hand experience of Supporting Human Rights Alexander Mann Solutions’ We support the wellbeing and rights of our employees, flexibility towards its staff. It works both inside and outside the workplace. We provide an wonderfully for my family and me, Employee Assistance Programme to support wellbeing in countries where it is culturally the norm. Similarly, and I couldn’t have wished for a more the breadth and nature of our workplace policies trusting team around me” continues to evolve to accommodate our changing Hayley Sammut workforce. This ensures our approach to employment adjustments of all types is as accommodating and Principal Resource Specialist flexible as our business needs permit but always in London headquarters compliance with appropriate legislation. Linked to ensuring our policies are fit-for-purpose for our ever-changing workforce, we work hard to ensure our procedures also support our people and their rights. For example, our comprehensive internal training programme is regularly updated to accommodate business changes and as a result of our 2013 ClearAssured accreditation in the UK, we now have an online disability competence self-assessment programme in place which all employees can undertake. We also have a formalised employee monitoring, performance and assessment process that operates across the business around the globe, ensuring that success breeds success. Policies that represent these commitments and expectations are available on our website and intranet and these include our privacy, anti-bribery and corruption policies. 36 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing External Recognition Awards Supporting our mission to be best in class, our Krakow GCSC was recognised for both service and employment excellence at the inaugural Poland Outsourcing and Shared Service Awards. We took two awards – Best BPO Firm of the Year and Best Employer of the Year. The latter was awarded because we’ve worked hard to ensure that our people have access to great benefits, the opportunity to develop their careers in a wide and varied structure, as well as network, link and work with some of the best companies in the world. Andrew Hallam, Founder and General Secretary of ASPIRE Association, said, “The Alexander Mann Solutions Krakow centre is recognised in the RPO industry as the number one centre worldwide, but also within the very competitive Krakow shared services and outsourcing environment. Alexander Mann Solutions’ reputation is very high, based on the quality and friendliness of the people working in the centre, the company’s high standing as an employer and its active participation in the community, both in terms of its CSR activities and the engagement of its leadership team in Inspiring Awards ASPIRE.” It’s really important to us that we celebrate our At the Irish Post Business Gala Dinner & Awards, we successes, and we recognise people who have achieved were named Company of the Year. Rosaleen Blair, our something truly inspirational. Our Inspiring Awards CEO, accepted the accolade on behalf of our company, scheme does just that by rewarding individuals and saying “We have an amazing team of people at teams who have achieved above and beyond in their Alexander Mann Solutions; this award is all down to the role for Alexander Mann Solutions. The scheme has been individual contribution of each and every one of them.” running for a number of years, and having significantly On that note, we also were humbled to be a 2013 grown in the last 18 months, we are reviewing its recipient of the NorthCoast 99: Best Places to Work in promotion and uptake in 2014 in support of our theme Northeast Ohio. of retooling and reorienting our approach to Global Citizenship. 37 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing PulsePoint PulsePoint, our employee engagement survey, is a great mechanism to hear directly from our staff on how they feel about their employee rights, responsibilities, compensation and benefits. The survey presents the same 32 questions every six months for employees to rate us on a 1-7 scale. Our October 2013 survey recorded the highest percentage response rate in its history, enabling us to better understand how people feel at Alexander Mann Solutions – globally. With our population growing in both number and geographic reach year on year, the importance of knowing what actions we need to take to support career aspirations is just as important as it was when we first launched PulsePoint in 2009. Team Spirit Our expansion in Manila GCSC grew from 98 to 197 staff in 2013. To welcome these new people into the Alexander Mann Solutions family, and in keeping with our mentoring and networking theme, our colleagues in Manila organised a Family Day in early September. The theme was ‘Play to Bond’ and everyone’s family was invited to join in the fun. Adeline Dumapong, our Team AMS parathlete, brought fellow parathletes from Team Philippines and everything was done to ensure all team members were able to join in and have as much fun as possible. Other Alexander Mann Solutions teams expanded in 2013 and they too enjoyed getting together socially. Alexander Mann Solutions in Hong Kong spent a Friday afternoon working together to clear litter and leaves from a village beach as part of the Hong Kong International Coastal Cleanup 2013. They won the award for “Heaviest Piece of Rubbish” and celebrated their success with a well-earned evening barbecue. Our Bracknell GCSC created the Bracknell Entertainment and Social Team (BEST) and their social highlights include a summer barbeque and Christmas party. Our Cleveland GCSC worked together to make Thanksgiving a true holiday for a number of families in need, contributing food items to create Thanksgiving baskets before heading home to share their own Thanksgiving meals with their families and friends. 38 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Commitments for 2014 n Ensure the Employee Assistance Programme is n Develop both homeworking and temporary working made known to all employees by advertising it policies for a number of geographies to ensure that internally using all forms of media we are able to accommodate the demands of our clients whilst maintaining employee productivity n Monitor employee satisfaction using PulsePoint and and work-life balance act on the employee engagement trends identified n Encourage local strategies that support employee n Review the Inspiring Awards scheme, promoting it wellbeing including the creation of sports and social as a way for peers, clients and managers to clubs like those in Bracknell and Manila GCSCs recognise our inspiring people n Ensure our technology can support the policies we develop and meet the requirements of our teams of employees wherever they are located 39 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Inclusion & Diversity Inclusion & Diversity Our Inclusion & Diversity programme focuses on creating an inclusive, diverse and flexible environment within which our employees can achieve their full potential. Teams that reflect the widest possible variety of ideas, backgrounds and experiences often deliver the most innovative solutions. Our initiatives focus on our role as a company that employs diverse talent to ensure our resourcing solutions and operations are aligned with the global markets in which we operate. In addition, as industry thought leaders, we have started our journey to persuade our stakeholders to share this belief. Assessing our achievements in 2013 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a gold medal reflecting complete satisfaction. 41 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Highlights of Our Achievements in 2013 ClearAssured “It has been a real pleasure to see In 2013, we successfully became ‘Proud to be how Alexander Mann Solutions has ClearAssured’, achieving our goal of offering an inclusive continued to make improvements to and accessible working environment to our people, their recruitment policy, process and while also offering the kind of diverse solutions to our clients that will enable them to thrive and grow. practice. Becoming ClearAssured has Alexander Mann Solutions is the first RPO provider to been a long time coming so we are achieve the accreditation. thrilled that they have finally passed ClearAssured is a self-assessment process which over the finish line and can join the elite requires a complete and thorough review of the entire organisations that can call themselves recruitment journey to ensure that it is fully accessible, ‘Proud to be ClearAssured’” including all policies, processes and practices. To achieve the accreditation, we undertook a full review Kate Headley of the Alexander Mann Solutions candidate journey Development Director for The Clear Company and worked with our partner AbilityNet to implement improvements to existing practices and new practices where appropriate. As part of the journey, existing relationships with organisations developed further and in particular we are now working closely with The Poppy Factory’s careers service, which helps ex-service personnel from the armed forces and their families find employment in the UK. This initiative is also being supported by three of our clients whose core business aligns with The Poppy Factory’s candidates’ skill set and background. Becoming ‘Proud to be ClearAssured’ is only the start of the journey. In 2014 we plan to work hard to develop best practice across the business and share our know-how with our clients. Becoming true disability champions is still a work in progress. 42 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Social Mobility “I found my mentee inspirational, despite her personal challenges and difficulties, she remains Embracing our 2013 theme of mentoring and positive about higher education and ambitious to networking, people across the UK volunteered to achieve her career goals. She is a great role model support two mentoring initiatives – through the for her peers and a great ambassador for her Mentoring and Befriending Foundation and the Social generation.” Mobility Foundation. Backed by the Clear Company and Equal Approach, Despite this praise, some lessons were learnt that we the Mentoring and Befriending Foundation launched can now apply to the programme going forward. One of a mentoring programme in 2013 to support our volunteers said, disadvantaged and disabled individuals in the community. The 12-month commitment offered our “My assigned mentee lives in Birmingham, whereas volunteers the chance to support and guide individuals I live in London, so getting together was almost to seek employment and truly change their lives. impossible. Also, communicating via the phone or email just doesn’t work. In order to help, it’s essential Commenting on the mentoring experience, one of our to build a relationship and trust, and without faceemployees said, to-face contact that just isn’t possible or realistic. Both myself and my mentee went into this with “I was involved with this programme, mentoring good intentions but unfortunately due to the above a middle-aged man who had learning difficulties. reasons I don’t believe we were able to get close to Our journey lasted 13 months and it was really achieving the original objectives.” enjoyable.” “I met my mentee fortnightly and worked with him to develop new skills to enable him to find work. When we met, he had been made redundant from a job of 15 years as a warehouse operative so he needed help with writing his CV, interview skills as well as using email and the internet.” “Although in this period my mentee was unable to find a new job, his confidence has improved and he knows where to go and what to do in order to find a job. He was not able to do this before we met but now feels more empowered. This mentoring was a very rewarding experience for both me and my mentee and I would recommend it to other Alexander Mann Solutions employees.” Volunteers at Alexander Mann Solutions also supported the Aspiring Professionals programme run by the Social Mobility Foundation which helps highachieving students from low-income backgrounds to go to university. The programme required long-term sustained mentoring. Experiences have been varied and one of our people who mentored a student said, “I have found the experience really enlightening. It has helped me appreciate how higher education has changed in terms of funding and the types of courses now on offer, also how hard it is for young people with high levels of youth unemployment.” 43 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Gender Our relationship with everywoman continues to grow and strengthen, acting as an extension to Alexander Mann Solutions as our gender diversity specialist partner. In 2013, we committed to further develop our relationship by seconding a permanent Alexander Mann Solutions individual to everywoman. Our strategy is to lead the conversation through the everywomanNetwork – an online development platform. It is a highly cost-efficient, scalable way for clients to start investing in what is often becoming a disparate female junior/middle manager workforce; that critical population that ultimately feeds the senior leadership slates that are so clearly lacking in female representation around the world. In 2013, everywoman partnered with Sky to produce an event for everywomanNetwork members and we also replicated our successful 2012 ‘Focus on the Pipeline’ research across Asia Pacific. Beyond the UK, our people in Poland are the proud founders of the Women’s Business Network in Krakow which supports the mentoring, networking, coaching and empowerment of women within the Polish business community. Its aim is to support the promotion of women to leadership roles. Together with other network members from multinational organisations, Alexander Mann Solutions members present workshops and participate in networking events. It is another great example of like-minded people getting together to make change a reality. 44 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Team AMS When we established Team AMS in 2011, our journey to support upand-coming parathletes was just beginning. Since then, we have seen our three Team AMS ambassadors go on to develop their careers with significant success and our relationship with them has also brought many benefits. In addition to inspiring us to be authentic and passionate in everything we do, we are embracing opportunities to share their inspiration with others around us. In 2013, we renewed our sponsorship of Jody Cundy MBE, as our Team AMS Mentor, and Adeline Dumapong, our Team AMS ambassador for the Philippines. In 2013, Jody participated in the TF programme workshops, inspiring young people to chase their dreams through hard work and commitment. Also in 2013, Tatyana McFadden, our Team AMS ambassador for the US became the first person to win the Boston, Chicago, London and New York marathons in the same year. Tatyana’s incredible success is amazing. We plan to work with some new parathletes who would benefit from our financial and professional support in 2014. Commitments for 2014 n Develop our partnerships with everywoman, n Support social mobility mentoring opportunities Diversity Jobs and the Women’s Business Network globally and explore new partnering opportunities in other n Continue to support external volunteering and geographies where necessary networking opportunities n Continue our ‘Proud to be ClearAssured’ journey n Expand Team AMS to sponsor new parathletes in and champion accessibility within recruitment new geographies and explore opportunities to internally and externally engage our parathletes within other Global n Ensure our employees have the opportunities to Citizenship initiatives educate themselves through our comprehensive internal learning programme as well as the training offered through our membership of external organisations 45 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Future Aspirations Priorities for 2014 In support of our commitment to being a proactive and inspirational global citizen, we’ll remain deeply involved with the programmes and initiatives we have highlighted in this year’s report. In addition, we will explore opportunities to broaden our involvement with initiatives that support our 2014 theme of reflection, renewing and refreshing. In summary, our goals for 2014 are to: Corporate Culture & Practices n Improve access to Alexander Mann Solutions service offerings, projects and strategy. This includes updating our intranet content and cascade system for notable news n Upgrade our intranet platform to improve user experience and encourage social collaboration n Establish a network of Brand Ambassadors who act as an extension of the Marketing & Communications team and help drive strong, clear and consistent messages n Conduct quarterly Senior Management business updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team n Produce the Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP and formally submit the report by its May 2014 deadline 47 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Social & Economic Accountability n Remain a strong partner with our Charities of Choice in the UK, Poland, Singapore, Australia and Hong Kong and commit to finding new ways to support their work n Review our relationship with our Charities of Choice in the Americas and consider expanding our schools and colleges programme beyond the Cleveland community n Explore the opportunity to replicate the Cleveland SuccessTech Academy relationship in other geographies, particularly the Philippines and countries where our people are geographically widespread n Develop our fledgling relationship with Cooperation Ireland, looking to support projects in Ireland as well as the Morgan Stanley initiative in London n Extend the opportunity for our people to volunteer their time with not-for-profit organisations to complement the work undertaken with our Charities of Choice. Promote the paid volunteering day Alexander Mann Solutions employees can take annually as a way to highlight opportunities Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Environmental Supply Chain n Continue using our Environment Management System n Continue to support the UK government scheme to and remain ISO14001 accredited in our offices in help SMEs by offering margin-only deals London and Krakow throughout 2014. Expand the n Review our Recruiter of the Year Award criteria scope of our ISO14001 to our Bracknell office to ensure we are developing best practice with n Investigate whether to deploy our video conferencing our partners system in the US at our Cleveland GCSC n Monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to n Establish a consistent method of measuring utilities our Alexander Mann Solutions CRP consumption and waste generation across n Review the Alexander Mann Solutions partner Alexander Mann Solutions’ offices worldwide programme, now in its third year of operation n Continue to consider the implementation of n Encourage the use of Echosign with our partner proposals from our Environmental Accountability programme suppliers, to streamline the document volunteer team and adopt best practice from signing process our clients 48 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Employee Wellbeing n Ensure the Employee Assistance Programme is made known to all employees by advertising it internally using all forms of media n Monitor employee satisfaction using PulsePoint and act on the employee engagement trends identified n Review the Inspiring Awards scheme, promoting it as a way for peers, clients and managers to recognise our inspiring people n Ensure our technology can support the policies we develop and meet the requirements of our teams of employees wherever they are located n Develop both homeworking and temporary working policies for a number of geographies to ensure that we are able to accommodate the demands of our clients whilst maintaining employee productivity and work-life balance n Encourage local strategies that support employee wellbeing, including the creation of sports and social clubs like those in Bracknell and Manila GCSCs Inclusion & Diversity n Develop our partnerships with everywoman, Diversity Jobs and the Women’s Business Network and explore new partnering opportunities in other geographies where necessary n Continue our ‘Proud to be ClearAssured’ journey and champion accessibility within recruitment internally and externally n Ensure our employees have the opportunities to educate themselves through our comprehensive internal learning programme as well as the training offered through our membership of external organisations n Support social mobility mentoring opportunities globally n Continue to support external volunteering and networking opportunities n Expand Team AMS to sponsor new parathletes in new geographies and explore opportunities to engage our parathletes within other Global Citizenship initiatives 49 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Future Aspirations Looking back to see forward: for Alexander Mann Solutions the way ahead is clear I believe that this 2013 Global Citizenship Report clearly shows that we at Alexander Mann Solutions are committed to making a difference on a global basis. Every day, the decisions we make have the ability to deliver positive beneﬁts within the geographies in which we operate and this year has again seen us take significant steps forward. After six years producing these reports, I believe we have reached a point where we need to reflect on the journey we have taken, and to ‘look back to see forward’. Past achievements help us determine how we want tomorrow to unfold and if we are to move forward, we must be certain we know where we are moving from. The past years have seen major highlights. From the triumphs of Team AMS and our strong diversity offering – to our environmental commitments and Charities of Choice – all have come about by empowering our talented people to drive and lead change. 2014 is about renewing, refreshing and reminding ourselves of our responsibilities as global citizens. With New Mountain Capital supporting us, the future is very exciting for Alexander Mann Solutions. For that reason we should remind ourselves why we originally decided to be involved in the UN’s initiative and its 10 principles. Six years ago we described it as, “a turning point in the way we viewed our impact on the international community” and this has certainly been the case. We’ve defined policies to give our people clarity and formalised partnerships that we hold. We’ve opened up opportunities to get involved and lead the programmes we’re individually passionate about. That’s why Alexander Mann Solutions is today an inspiring organisation to work for and with – and one that champions Global Citizenship at every level. If you’d like to discuss our Global Citizenship programme, please do get in touch with me at david.heath@alexmann.com or globalcitizenship@alexmann.com David Heath Chief People Officer Alexander Mann Solutions 50 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations We hope you’ve enjoyed reading our Global Citizenship Report. We’d love to hear your feedback and we’re always looking for suggestions for future editions. Please just drop us an email with your ideas to globalcitizenship@alexmann.com www.alexandermannsolutions.com
