insuring all our futures Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Editorial Contents In 2003, CNP Assurances was one of the first French companies to pledge to uphold the United Nations Global Compact. Ten years on, this report attests to the progress made. We have p. 02 Corporate social responsibility formally expressed, deployed and deepened our commitments, at CNP Assurances not only as an insurer and an investor, but also more generally towards our stakeholders and our environment in France and p. 09 Providing long-term support in our international markets. for employees The challenge was not just to take action, but also to report our p. 26 Assuming our responsibility progress and publish objective indicators of the major to the economy challenges facing our organisation, the results of our CSR policies and the achievements of our teams. The CSR p. 38 Adapting our offering for diverse needs indicators covering all of our activities published since 2006 do just that. p. 46 Reducing our environmental footprint We are now set to go even further by making CSR a force for p. 55 Social and environmental indicators change and value creation, so that as well as locking in the of non-consolidated subsidiaries gains made to date we deepen our practical, everyday commitment to building a company that is increasingly p. 57 Methodology responsible in its dealings with its customers, employees, shareholders and the environment in which we operate. I hope you’ll enjoy reading this report. Frédéric Lavenir Chief Executive Officer CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 1 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances Group The story of our CRS commitment 2003: the fundamental ﬁrst step, pledging to uphold the Global Compact CNP Assurances Group has always upheld human rights and The ten principles citizens’ rights, in line with the Universal Declaration of Human of the global compact Rights, and more specifically has always complied with the labour standards of the International Labour Organisation and Human rights the national labour laws in each host country. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection In pledging to uphold the Global Compact in 2003, we of internationally proclaimed human rights; reaffirmed our commitment to respecting these fundamental 2. Make sure they are not complicit in human rights principles, and also to combating corruption and protecting abuses. the environment. CNP Argentina, Caixa Seguros Holding and CNP UniCredit Vita have also pledged uphold the Global Labour Compact. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 2009: helping to promote adoption bargaining; of these principles throughout the insurance sector 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory We played an active role in launching the Association Française labour; de l’Assurance’s sustainable development charter in 2009 and 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and have pledged to pursue its core aims of reducing social 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and vulnerability, combating climate change, supporting economic occupation. development and promoting socially responsible investment. Environnement 2011: deepening our commitment to acting as a responsible insurer and a responsible investor 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; In 2011, we pledged to uphold the United Nations’ Principles 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental for Responsible Investment (PRI), ushering in a new phase responsibility; and in our commitment as a responsible investor. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Coordinated deployment in subsidiaries environmentally friendly technologies. and shared with partners Anti-corruption Consistent with the Group’s business model, our main subsidiaries have one or several local partners, generally banks 10. Business should work against corruption in all its that distribute their products. These subsidiaries develop forms, including extortion and bribery. CSR policies in line with Group principles. There is regular dialogue between CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries and they share the same performance indicators. 2 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Components of the CSR approach CNP Assurances Group’s CSR approach is organised around Reducing our environmental footprint four strong commitments that inspire all our actions. A financial services company like CNP Assurances has little direct impact on the environment and the impact it does have Providing long-term support mainly concerns CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, we do for employees everything possible to reduce our environmental footprint, Our employees’ average length of service is 13 years. The low primarily by effectively managing the three main direct sources turnover rate is a factor in our organisation’s stability and of greenhouse gas emissions: paper use, for day-to-day efficiency. It attests to our ability to provide employees with administration and policyholder correspondence, business good internal career prospects, through individual career plans travel and office building management. and regularly re-aligned training programmes. We also ensure Read about our three priorities p.46 that there is diversity in recruitment and endeavour to drive and our other initiatives p.51 regular improvements in the quality of working life. Read about our three priorities p.9 Our ambition is to create value for all and our other initiatives p.18 CNP Assurances’s stakeholders as a responsible insurer and investor. Assuming our responsibility to the economy With more than €300 billion of financial assets at 31 December 2013, including €123 billion in France, the CNP Assurances Group plays a major role in funding the economy. These assets, which back very long-term commitments, are held for exceptionally long periods by comparison with standard market practices, providing public sector and corporate issuers with the stability needed to support their development. These investments also enable us to play a countercyclical role, which is especially valuable during periods of instability. Read about our three priorities p.26 and our other initiatives p.32 Adapting our offering for diverse needs With operations in 11 countries, we encounter a wide variety of economic and social situations. This diversity is a rich repository of innovation. In Brazil, for example, Caixa Seguros has developed personal risk products with premiums starting at BRL 2.5 a month and a very simple insurance application process to meet the needs of the 105 million Brazilians on low incomes. Read about our three priorities p.38 and our other initiatives p.44 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 3 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances Group CNP Assurances Group stakeholders at 31 December 2013 INSUREDS* ISSUERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS r 28 million personal risk/protection r 900 issuers of debt instruments policyholders and 230 issuers of equity instruments r 14 million savings/pensions policyholders included in the Group’s asset portfolios r 1 million non-life policyholders SHAREHOLDERS CNP r 4 core shareholders: ASSURANCES Caisse des Dépôts (40%), DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS GROUP La Banque Postale and r More than 600 partners 8 international BPCE Group (35.48%) and r Close to 89,000 points the French State (1.09%) of contact or sale subsidiaries r 23.43% of shares owned by 6 French institutional and retail investors subsidiaries r 140,000 individual shareholders SUPPLIERS CIVIL SOCIETY r Equipment, services r Insurance supervisor and public r Asset managers authorities r IT hardware and software r Professional bodies r Host communities r Beneficiaries of corporate sponsorship EMPLOYEES r 3,095 at CNP Assurances r 1,714 in the consolidated subsidiaries r 536 in the other subsidiaries * Estimates based in part on the number of managed policy, rounded up to the nearest million. 4 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue r Policyholder expectation surveys: r In addition to surveys carried out with the distribution We maintain regular dialogue with the main stakeholders or partners, we perform qualitative and quantitative studies conduct periodic stakeholder satisfaction surveys. to anticipate new needs arising from emerging social and Employees demographic trends. In 2013, we turned our attention to the need for innovative personal risk and savings products. r Employee satisfaction surveys: r Since 2007, LBP Prévoyance has been sponsoring the TNS r In addition to maintaining regular dialogue with employee Sofres personal risk and long-term care insurance survey, representatives, an employee satisfaction survey was which gauges French perceptions of long term care solutions. conducted in spring 2009 as part of the Caisse des Dépôts Group’s human resources initiatives. This was followed in autumn 2010 by a second survey focused more specifically Companies whose shares or bonds are included on workplace diversity. The employee satisfaction survey in the CNP Assurances asset portfolio was repeated in 2012. At CNP Assurances, constructive dialogue is engaged with r Psychosocial risk assessments: investee companies whenever a problem is revealed during the r Psychosocial risks are occupational risks caused by a variety quarterly SRI screening process, through our asset managers of factors that threaten the physical integrity and mental or directly during the lead-up to General Meetings. In 2013, health of employees and consequently may have an impact this dialogue was strengthened with an objective set and on an organisation’s operational efficiency. They can include achieved, to engage in dialogue with the main companies stress, anxiety or harassment. The general preventive included in the portfolio in the event that CNP Assurances approach involves first drawing up a risk inventory and then decided to vote against any resolutions presented at their combatting the actual or potential identified causes, General Meeting. preferably before the psychosocial risks give way to illnesses Individual shareholders or efficiency losses. The psychosocial risk assessment Regular dialogue is also nurtured with individual shareholders carried out in 2013 allowed us to better understand employee during regional meetings (for more details, go to www.cnpperceptions of their working environment (see Quality of ﬁnances.fr/agenda-actionnaires) and through the shareholder Working Life p.14). hotline and the corporate website, which had 45,577 unique Policyholders and distribution partners visitors in 2013. The 2011 survey of shareholders’ club members confirmed that they are satisfied. r Regular satisfaction surveys throughout the CNP Assurances Group: In 2013, four satisfaction surveys were conducted in Civil society France on policy administration processes. All of the We actively contribute to the work of the French Insurance international subsidiaries also conducted customer Federation (FFSA) in the area of corporate social responsibility. satisfaction surveys except CNP BVP, which uses the results We are also a member of ORSE, a French CSR think-tank, of surveys carried out by its distribution partner. The and its Finance Club, which brings together companies and frequency ranges from annual in Italy and Cyprus to monthly stakeholders (NGOs and unions). The international subsidiaries in Brazil and at CNP Vida. also participate in local professional bodies. r Whether they are carried out as part of a quality certification Caixa Seguros Holding conducts annual assessments of its process, or pursuant to a service level agreement or an CSR performance with the Ethos institute. internal decision, these surveys help to improve customer responsiveness, a core priority for our Group. r Employee perception surveys: r In 2011 employees were asked how they rated customer relations and policyholder and partner services. The results of the survey were used as the basis for deploying quality improvement plans. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 5 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances Group Creating shared value and social value-added Being a responsible insurer means acting as an informed The companies’ excellent risk assessment skills and long-term financial intermediary between policyholders looking for security investment strategy ensure that they fulfil their commitments. and an economy exposed to risks. Beyond these commitments that constitute the insurance offer, CNP Assurances Group companies allow policyholders to CNP Assurances innovates by offering real social value-added. protect themselves while minimizing their exposure to risks. Informed and protective ﬁnancial intermediation between the insured and the economy Assessing each risk Efficiently managing over its duration administrative Our insurance and the related Pooling risks processes, securely EFFICIENTLY expertise administrative and to optimise rates investing policyholder MANAGED RISKS financial management premiums, covering costs insurance commitments Guaranteed payment of benefits Capital or number Our insurance Guaranteed yield over GUARANTEED to the insured or of units guaranteed commitments a specified period PAYMENTS the designated at all times until death beneficiaries Offer affordable Offer prevention and Responsibly invest Our CSR products for customers SOCIAL assistance services policyholders’ commitments in every income VALUE-ADDED in addition to benefits premiums bracket A SAFE, RESPONSIBLE AND AFFORDABLE INVESTMENT 6 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 CSR in action A structured report that mirrors New CSR momentum at CNP UniCredit Vita in 2013 the Group’s business organisation CNP UniCredit Vita’s « green group » has been conducting regular The following report presents the Group’s CSR action plan, the awareness campaigns in recent years and 2013 was a particularly priorities for each component of the CSR policy and related active year on the CSR front. With the first “green footprints» day additional initiatives, with the corresponding figures. that reached over 70% of employees, a new CSR training programme for green group members, and the inclusion of This report covers all consolidated entities in CNP Assurances sustainable development indicators in the quarterly reporting Group and the main non-consolidated subsidiaries. It features package prepared for the management committee, all levels of examples of actions taken by all Group subsidiaries (for more the company were concerned. details, see Group reporting Methodology). The Statutory A working group was set up to look into diversity issues, in Auditors have reviewed the fairness of the most significant preparation for CNP UniCredit Vita’s signature of the Diversity information, performing procedures that included detailed tests Charter. Driven by this momentum, the company participated in the of the measurable indicators. See page 59 for more information. Sodalitas Social Awards, which recognize CSR innovations and provide an incentive for future corporate projects. The Statutory Auditors’ report is presented in the Registration Document available at www.cnp-ﬁnances.fr. The Registration Document also includes governance and risks items. A measure of CSR performance Progress in meeting CNP Assurances’s objectives as of end-2013 r Make CSR an integral part of its strategy: new ambition “to create value for all CNP Assurances’s stakeholders as a responsible investor and insurer”. r Rate suppliers from a CSR perspective: 26.2% (in revenue). r Continue to reduce CO2 emissions per full-time equivalent employee generated by internal operations: 1.2% reduction compared to 2012. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 7 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances Group 2013 CSR rating SUSTAINALYTICS The quality of CNP Assurances’s corporate social responsibility policy has been recognised by SRI rating 79/100 (August 2013) agencies. We obtained particularly high scores for our performance in the areas of human resources management insurance sector worldwide and community outreach. 8e/140 www.sustainalytics Rating summary (unsolicited ratings): OEKOM VIGÉO prime C+ 54/100 (march 2014) (march 2013) insurance sector www.oekom-research.com 7e/37 www.vigeo.com CNP Assurances March 2014 Sector: Insurance Companies in sector panel: 37 The score is the level of the company’s CSR engagement on a 0 to 100 scale. It is Environment: incorporation of environmental considerations into the manufacturing based on an analysis of the company’s policies and their effectiveness. The rating and distribution of products, and into their use & disposal. is the positioning of the company’s performance compared to its sector. Human resources: labor relations, working conditions, health and safety, career development and training, remuneration system. ++ the company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector. Human rights: fundamental human rights, freedom of association, non-discrimination, + the company is ranked as an active performer in its sector. forced & child labor. = the company is ranked as an average performer in its sector. Community involvement: impacts, on local communities, contribution to social and the company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector. economic development, general interest causes. -the company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector. Business behaviour: relationship with clients, suppliers & sub-contractors, prevention of corruption & antitrust. For further information on Vigeo’s rating methods, go to www.vigeo.com Corporate governance: board of directors, audit and internal controls, treatment of shareolders, executive remuneration. CNP Assurances’s inclusion in SRI indices CNP Assurances’s shares are included in several European SRI indices. In particular, its presence in the Ethibel Excellence Europe Sustainability Index and the Nyse Euronext Vigéo –Eurozone 120 has been confirmed. 8 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Providing long-term support for employees Our ambition Three priorities based on three beliefs We want to offer all employees personalized career support Our priorities are naturally guided by national and international throughout their career at CNP Assurances. In this way, corporate social responsibility standards. employees can take charge of their own professional But they are also inspired by our beliefs: development, supported by their manager and the career management, mobility and training resources made available Every employee should be able to achieve their full potential by the Human Resources Department. throughout their professional life. The aim is to support and promote each employee’s r Priority No. 1: professional and personal development, because our Optimising the career paths of employees Company’s success is built on the skills and personal qualities of its workforce. It’s also about deepening our diversity policy Employee well-being goes hand-in-hand with corporate to recruit a wide range of profiles and not deprive ourselves of performance. any talent. r Priority No. 2: Quality of life at work We should value everyone’s background and avoid depriving ourselves of anyone’s skills. r Priority No. 3: Promoting diversity « CNP Assurances 2013 key ﬁgures recognises the right of its employees to freedom of 28.9% of women association and nondiscrimination, and has articulated adequate policies on the issues. CNP Assurances has a strong senior managers programme in place to increase « in the Group workforce diversity. Sustainalytics, August 2013 Caixa Seguros BEST insurer in Brazil for human resources management. 20 hours of training a year on average per employee CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 9 Providing long-term support for employees Priority No. 1: Optimising the career paths of employees Human resources planning CNP Assurances recorded 276 separations during the year, of which 136 at the end of fixed-term contracts, 75 retirements, and development 28 resignations, 2 trial periods not completed, 16 negotiated Hiring Sustainable jobs and local hiring terminations and 12 dismissals. All vacant positions (415 Group-wide) were filled in 2013. CNP Assurances didn’t encounter any particular hiring Number Number of dismissals of resignations problems. The proportion of new hires under permanent contracts fell due to the inclusion of employees under fixedCNP Assurances (France) 12 28 term work-study contracts in employee data. MFPrévoyance (France) 3 3 LBP Prévoyance (France) 1 5 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 47 43 Separations – Carefully managed separations CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 3 8 None of the Group’s entities have ever carried out a CNP Vida (Spain) 9 3 restructuring plan or redundancy plan, in 2013 or in prior CNP BVP (Spain) 1 years. At CNP Assurances France, employee numbers are CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1 expected to stabilize based on forecast natural attrition CNP Argentine (Argentina) 5 4 in 2014. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 Total 80 97 Average Turnover Hires Sepayears of Turnover within the Group reflects the varying situations in rate rations service each country: in 2013, it stood at 4.10% for CNP Assurances France, compared with over 21% for CNP CIH because of high CNP Assurances (France) 4.1% 164 276 16 take-up of the voluntary early-retirement scheme. Fixed-term MFPrévoyance (France) 21.3% 38 32 7 work-study contracts are now included in the statistics, which LBP Prévoyance (France) 12.7% 15 7 2 explains the increase in the number of employees leaving at Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 11.0% 115 91 7 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 21.5% 1 70 13 the end of fixed-term contracts in 2013. Caixa Seguros’s CNP Vida (Spain) 9.8% 37 18 8 employee turnover was particularly well controlled in 2013, CNP BVP (Spain) 1.5% 5 1 8 at 11% compared with 20% for the Brazilian insurance industry. CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.7% 21 13 6 CNP Argentine (Argentina) 13.9% 15 11 5 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 17.0% 4 2 3 Total 6.9% 415 521 13 10 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Support many career development possibilities Seniority – Loyal employees CNP Assurances has a well-established internal mobility The average length of service is 15.8 years (14,4 years for policy. Nearly all vacant positions are initially advertised CNP Assurances’ direct employees and 35.9 years for seconded internally and in 2013, 88% of permanent positions were filled civil servants). Almost a third of CNP Assurances employees by internal candidates, a proportion that has been steadily have been with the company for between 10 and 15 years. increasing for the last four years. This strategy meets two objectives: it keeps overall employee CNP Assurances employees, by length of service numbers under control in a sluggish economic environment, while giving existing employees the chance to move up in their 6.4% 14.8% career. A total of 144 employees were promoted during the year, 18% more than in 2012. Alongside the managed policy of opening vacant positions 8.9% to internal candidates, internal mobility was further boosted by the programme of personalized support for employees 24.6% in developing and implementing a career plan. During the year, 96% of employees benefited from an annual performance review and 800 from a career review. 13.9% In the Group, 96% of employees participate in performance appraisals. 31.4% less than three years 3 to 9 years 10 to 15 years 16 to 21 years 22 to 27 years 28 years and over CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 11 Providing long-term support for employees Training Percentage of CNP Assurances employees who received training by category A strong and sustained commitment, year after year High training rate Training Percentage of Average as a the workforce number percentage that received of training of payroll training hours CNP Assurances (France) 5.1% 90% 21 MFPrévoyance (France) 3.2% 92% 16 LBP Prévoyance (France) 3.6% 100% 22 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 4.1% 92% 23 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 0.1% 22% 1 CNP Vida (Spain) 1.2% 67% 37 CNP BVP (Spain) 0.8% 45% 73 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 2.9% 98% 46 CNP Argentine (Argentina) 1.1% 100% 18 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1.0% 100% 3 Average 4.3% 86% 22 y2 y3 y4 y5 y6 y7 rs The drop in the number of training hours in 2012 and 2013 or or or or or or ge teg teg teg teg teg teg na was mainly due to a one-off technical certification programme ma Ca Ca Ca Ca Ca Ca at Caixa Seguros in 2012 (2,500 hours) and the end of the nio r management training cycle at CNP Assurances. More people Se received training in nearly all entities. The proportion of employees who received training during the year remained virtually unchanged across every category. 12 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Focus on expert training A wide range of training courses Developing employee skills is at the centre of the Group’s HR In 2013, Caixa Seguros, in partnership with the Federal policies. In recent years, CNP Assurances has invested the University of Rio de Janeiro, created the first specialised equivalent of over 5% of payroll in training to boost internal actuarial analysis course to fill a gap in the higher education mobility and help all employees prepare for changes in the system. CNP UniCredit Vita established a compulsory training Group’s professions. In the last two years, 150 employees – programme for all its employees on anti-money laundering including 69 in 2013 – have attended training courses leading procedures and IT security. CNP Europe also organised training to a diploma, in order to fulfil their professional ambitions within on anti-money laundering procedures. MFPrévoyance and the Group. The main training areas concerned are Insurance LBPrévoyance both implemented management training Techniques and Accounting, Economics and Finance. programs. At CNP Vida, the employee performance appraisal At Group level too, the main training area is insurance process includes an audit of training needs, in order to propose techniques, followed by computer/office systems, sales and individual training plans aligned with each employee’s marketing, personal development, management skills and objectives. languages. In addition, during the last two years, targeted training initiatives have been organised to expand the risk management skills base. Individual training needs and requests are generally discussed during the annual performance reviews. Group training needs are analysed when the annual training plans are drawn up. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 13 Providing long-term support for employees Priority No. 2: Quality of life at work Maintaining well-being in the work place is a central component Multiple initiatives in each subsidiary of the Group’s human resources policy. It requires a good understanding of stress factors and the deployment of the r The CEOs of the foreign subsidiaries all receive anti-stress personalized support measures for struggling employees. training. r Caixa Seguros Holding and CNP BVP have developed programs to promote overall well-being at work, through Promoting awareness initiatives to reduce employee stress levels and avoid of psychosocial risks and support occupational illnesses. Caixa Seguros organizes a “health systems at CNP Assurances in the workplace” week every year. CNP Assurances has paid particular attention to preventing r MFPrévoyance’s occupational health, safety and working stress and psychosocial risks since 2009. Through its various conditions committee started paying particular attention initiatives (in-house mediation service, management training, to psychosocial risks in 2012, and a special training course outside counselling available to all employees, etc.), the Group was included in the management training program. has created an environment that helps limit the occurrence of r CNP Argentina’s Code of Ethics provides for the these risks. The agreement on this subject signed with trade implementation of accident and occupational illness union representatives in April 2012 provides a practical, shared prevention programmes. framework in the shape of measures to identify, prevent and r CNP CIH has a team dedicated to regularly communicating manage psychosocial risks. on workplace health and safety risks, and has supported The first psychosocial risk audit provided for in the agreement the Ministry of Labour’s “health and safety week” for several was carried out in the second quarter of 2013, to analyse years. employees’ perceptions of working conditions and their r CNP UniCredit Vita introduced compulsory health and safety experiences. Levels of exposure to psychosocial risks were training for all employees in 2013. slightly less than those observed in a similar study carried out r Mutua Universal (mutual insurer for occupational risks) in 2005. An action plan will be proposed in 2014. is responsible for occupational risk prevention measures In-house mediation: the in-house mediation service aims for CNP Vida employees. to prevent and deal with allegations of harassment and discrimination, stress and everyday conflicts. In 2013, it received 63 referrals (down 30% compared to 2012), most In 2013, Caixa Seguros was named the best of which concerned requests for advice and support. Brazilian insurer for human resources management. A dedicated commission: a commission set up under This award, organized by the Epoca Negocios 360º the 2012 agreement with trade union representatives on guide, is based on a comparative study of best psychosocial risks (notably to handle situations involving practices among 250 companies. groups of employees) meets quarterly in each of the Paris, Angers and Arcueil sites. All employees also have access to a 24/7 hotline all year round (toll-free number Filassistance), if they need to talk to someone. 14 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Priority No. 3: Promoting diversity Timeline Structure and certiﬁcation of the Group’s diversity policy A pioneering commitment In January 2009, CNP Assurances was one of the seven first In September 2013, CNP UniCredit Vita set up a companies to earn the Seal of Diversity. After an audit by Afnor “diversity” working group of employee volunteers Certification in November 2011, this certification was renewed to analyse the situation and identify action plans. for four years on 21 February 2012. One of the objectives is to sign the Diversity Charter. A commitment applied across the Group The commitment to fighting discrimination is shared across the Group, and is underscored by specific clauses in the internal rules of CNP Assurances, in Caixa Seguros’ Code of Conduct, and CNP Argentina’s Code of Ethics. CNP CIH’s Code of Service also addresses the issues of discrimination, privacy, freedom of religion, and respect for each employee. A continual improvement process The Diversity steering committee set up in 2010 met once in 2013, to review the actions undertaken in each area of the business to ensure that consistent policies are applied throughout the organisation. Career management and employee performance review processes uphold the principle of non-discrimination, with over 300 managers now having received training on this subject. Various mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that application of the diversity policy is regularly monitored and an annual diversity report is presented for employee representatives. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 15 Providing long-term support for employees Promoting gender equality Uniting women employees in a network To advance the cause of women in the workplace, Formalizing the commitment CNP Assurances is a member of the Financi’elles network CNP Assurances constantly strives to reduce any observed of women managers in the insurance, banking and finance gender gaps in remuneration and promotion. The second sectors, and also takes part in Alter’égales, a network of female agreement on gender equality signed with trade union managers in the Caisse des Dépôts Group. representatives on 18 November 2011 sets measurable goals in terms of gender parity, promotions, training and work/life balance. The employment and integration 2013 Results of employees with disabilities Over the last 15 years, CNP Assurances has implemented Percentage Percentage of Weighted of women in women in senior average pay gap an assertive policy to help people with disabilities enter management grade management between men and the workforce. positions women by category positions CNP Assurances (France) 51% 33% 105% Commitments MFPrévoyance (France) 62% 0% 96% The most recent agreement, which was signed in 2010 for LBP Prévoyance (France) 64% 40% 108% a four-year period, contains specific commitments in terms of Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 44% 17% 126% the number of new hires with disabilities. CNP Assurances CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 40% 25% 107% employs 136 disabled workers on permanent contracts. Including CNP Vida (Spain) 43% 43% 105% the 141 disabled employees under permanent and fixed-term CNP BVP (Spain) 9% 40% 123% contracts and the employees of sheltered workshops used by CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 38% 14% 111% the Company (152 full-time equivalent employees), the proportion CNP Argentine (Argentina) 48% 33% 103% of disabled employees stood at 5.70% of the workforce at CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 25% 25% nc 31 December 2013. The slight 0.19-point decline compared Average 48% 29% 109% with 31 December 212 was due to retirements and an increase At CNP Assurances, 51% of managers and 33% of senior in part-time work. managers (30% in 2012) are women. The average male-toAccessibility audit female earnings ratio by category (employees under permanent Disabled access to all CNP Assurances facilities is monitored contracts with two years of service) was 1.05 in 2013 compared by the occupational health, safety and working conditions to 1.03 in 2012. The proportion of women on the Board of committee. An accessibility audit carried out in 2011 at the two Directors and the Executive Committee has increased steadily main Paris sites found that the sites were respectively 77.4% in recent years, reaching 33% and over 38% respectively at and 73.2% accessible to the disabled. the end of 2013. Particular attention is paid to women returning to work from maternity leave. Number of employees with disabilities Women’s place in management is being strengthened in the Group. A collective agreement on this subject was also signed by MFPrévoyance in 2011. 16 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Caixa Seguros is gradually increasing the number of disabled Promoting diversity workers it employs, by more widely circulating job offers with the help of organisations that support the integration through communication of disabled people. Internal awareness programmes help to Internal communication ensure that the teams welcome disabled employees properly. The internal diversity communication plan is reviewed annually. The plan allows employees to report any complaints regarding alleged or actual discrimination. It can be accessed Proportion of Number via the intranet. employees with of interns Various articles on the implementation of the diversity policy, as disabilities CNP Assurances (France) 5.7% 90 well as external links, are also available on the CNP intranet site. MFPrévoyance (France) 2.7% 1 Raising awareness among employees LBP Prévoyance (France) 0.0% 3 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 0.7% 92 Awareness campaigns are carried out to combat stereotypes, CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.0% prejudices and discriminatory comments and attitudes, as well CNP Vida (Spain) 0.7% 1 as to show the advantages of the diversity policy. CNP BVP (Spain) 0.0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 5.1% 3 Training resources CNP Argentine (Argentina) 0.0% r The e-Diversity awareness campaign was deployed in 2011 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.0% (78% of employees trained). Total 4.0% 190 r A programme to train managers in equal treatment during job interviews has been in place since 2009. 83% of managers Fighting age discrimination have been trained to date. Hiring young people r Specific awareness programmes on disabilities are carried CNP Assurances makes every effort to support young people out from time to time. through work-study contracts. As of end-2013, the number of r A new manager training course on stereotypes will be apprenticeship and vocational training contracts stood at 97. organised as part of the gender parity agreement as from Permanent employees aged under 25 accounted for 3% of the 2014/2015. workforce. An inter-generational contract action plan was r A new manager training course on managing inter-generational presented in 2013, laying out CNP Assurances’ commitment teams was launched in 2013. to helping young people find lasting employment under a r In 2013, Caixa Seguros developed awareness initiatives permanent contract. to help teams welcome disabled workers. Caixa Seguros Holding has set up a young apprentices programme to promote the hiring of young people whose family income is less than half the national minimum wage. Hiring seniors CNP Assurances had 27 seniors on fixed-term contracts in 2013, including 12 who were hired in 2013. Employees over 55 accounted for 19.7% of the total workforce at end-2013, versus 20% the year before. The inter-generational plan sets measurable targets for hiring or retaining seniors. MFPrévoyance also signed an inter-generational contract with employee representatives in 2013. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 17 Providing long-term support for employees Other initiatives Optimizing hiring processes Workforce and career management Number of Group employees The foundations of our commitment The CNP Assurances Group had a total of 4,809 employees at CNP Assurances ensures that orientation and integration end-2013, representing a same scope decline of over 2% from processes are in line with its diversity policy: all new employees 2012. must receive the same high quality orientation experience and follow the same integration pathway adapted to their job. Career management and performance review processes uphold the principle of non-discrimination. For example, CNP Assurances hires young seasonal workers, in accordance with the directive issued by the Equal Opportunities and Anti-Discrimination Commission (HALDE), which has now been replaced by a Human Rights Ombudsman (Défenseur des droits). Annual assessment and continuous progress Same scope Changes in scope Various mechanisms have been put in place to monitor * The reporting scope changed in 2013 to include work-study contracts (97). In 2011, the reporting scope changed with the inclusion of MFPrévoyance. implementation of the diversity policy and prepare an annual “diversity” report for employee representatives: Almost all (99%) employees are covered by local insurance For monitoring purposes: industry collective bargaining agreements. The only exceptions, r A report on the comparative situations of men and women. in accordance with local regulations, are in Ireland and for r Annual surveys of gender pay gaps. executives in Argentina. r Reports on the implementation of company agreements, comparisons of actual performance vs. objectives and indicators. r Diversity score card. r Annual and half-yearly reports of the in-house mediation service presented to the occupational health, safety and working conditions committee. r Annual report of the “gender equality ombudsman” r Internal/external complaint process for cases of alleged discrimination. r Fact sheet prepared following new diversity initiatives. r EvaluationOpt included in the various assessments. r Annual gender equality budget. r Analysis of the diversity score card and performance against the measurable objectives included in the various agreements. For reporting purposes: r Comprehensive annual report presented to the Works Council. r A report by topic (disabilities, training, equality, work-study programs, etc.) presented to the relevant commission. 18 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 The number of employees at CNP Assurances stabilized in The average age of employees under permanent contracts the three years prior to 2013, when the number of employees currently stands at 43 years. The breakdown by gender and under permanent contracts declined in line with budgetary age reflects the situation in the insurance industry in each forecasts. country. Women comprised 60% of the Group’s workforce, This decrease was due to: stable year-on-year. A slight increase in retirements, reflecting uncertainty CNP Assurances’s workforce includes 175 civil servants regarding new pension regulations. seconded from Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. Greater vigilance in replacing people who left the company, Expatriates represent 0.40% of its workforce and managers with positions left vacant no longer filled systematically in represent 56%. the sluggish economic environment. Workforce breakdown by age (%) An increased focus on internal mobility, with most vacant positions filled last year by internal candidates. LBP Prévoyance’s workforce continued to grow. CNP CIH’s voluntary early retirement plan led to a 19% reduction in employee numbers in 2013. Percentage of employees PercentAverage Geographical under age age distribution permanent of women contract 60% Paris 13% Arcueil s ) ce ce ce e) ce e) s ) ro sil IH ) da n) P n) ta ) e ) in a fe ) Li and 16% Angers an nc an nc gu Bra C ce Vi ai BV ai Vi aly nt tin CNP Assurances (France) 94% 61 45 an n oy ra oy ra P e P p P p it (It ge en pe el 11% in regional ur (Fra év (F Se g ( N re N (S N (S Ar Arg ro (Ir s év (F r C s/G C ed u As FP r P x a ai ld i n ru C C r P ( E or international P M P C Ho yp ni C N N P C N LB (C U C RIÀFHV C N P MFPrévoyance (France) 91% 72 42 100% Paris 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 LBP Prévoyance (France) 95% 64 38 100% Paris 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65 and over Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 100% 56 37 78% Brasilia 72% Nicosia 17% in Cyprus Breakdown by profession at CNP Assurances CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 100% 69 43 UHJLRQDORIÀFHV 11% Grèce 82% Madrid 14% in Milan CNP Vida (Spain) 89% 58 41 RIÀFHV et 4% à Paris 60% Spain CNP BVP (Spain) 94% 61 40 30% Portugal 10% Italy CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 96% 43 40 100% Milan CNP Argentine (Argentina) 96% 49 33 96% Buenos Aires CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 100% 43 38 100% Dublin Total 96% 60 43 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 19 Providing long-term support for employees Use of outside contractors Compliance with and promotion limited and supervised outsourcing of the fundamental ILO conventions Four of the Group’s entities have pledged to uphold the UN Outside contractors Global Compact CNP Assurances, CNP Argentina, Caixa Seguros Holding and CNP UniCredit Vita – notably undertaking 157 (including 84 for cleaning, 41 for security, to comply with the laws and regulations in their country. CNP Assurances (France) 22 for maintenance, and 7 for reception). IT (CNP TI intercompany partnership) : 330. All of the subsidiaries share the fundamental principles of IRU,7DQGIRUWHFKQLFDOÀQDQFH respect for human rights, freedom of association, the right MFPrévoyance (France) and accounting services to collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and 2 for cleaning, LBP Prévoyance (France) the promotion of equal opportunity. Each one submits an 1 for IT and 2 for security 373 for reception, security, cleaning, IT, annual report on their CSR performance to CNP Assurances, Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) and administration services with a special focus on these four criteria. Measures CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 15 for cleaning and 1 for maintenance guaranteeing respect for civil and political rights at CNP Assurances include the Company’s internal rules, CNP Vida (Spain) 37 (32 of whom work in IT) the appointment of a liaison officer for the French data 1 for cleaning, 1 for maintenance CNP BVP (Spain) (shared with CNP Vida), 5 for IT, protection agency (CNIL) and agreements on union rights. 2 for document management Employees are covered by insurance industry collective CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 30 (including 12 for IT) bargaining agreement (except for employees and managers in CNP Argentine (Argentina) 19 (including 10 for IT) Ireland and managers in Argentina): see Employee dialogue. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 for cleaning CNP Assurances pays particular attention to offering training and promotion opportunities to its employee representatives. CNP Assurances makes limited use of outside contractors. There are 41 security staff, 84 cleaning staff (including Arcueil Our compliance with the ILO’s fundamental conventions is and Angers), 22 maintenance workers, and seven receptionists, reflected in our relations with suppliers and sub-contractors for a total of 157 outside contractors, compared to 156 in (P.31), in our use of ESG screens in the selection of financial 2012. IT operations have been transferred to an intercompany assets (these screens are applied to 80% of the portfolio in partnership established in 2012 (CNP TI) which employs 330 France and 100% of the portfolio in Brazil) and in our property people within the Caisse des Depots group. management procedures. In other countries, the only significant use of outside Abolition of forced or compulsory labour and effective contractors is at Caixa Seguros and CNP Vida, where IT abolition of child labour: CNP Assurances and the Group’s operations are outsourced (203 people in total for both subsidiaries are not directly affected by the issues of forced entities). The two subsidiaries ensure that these contractors labour or child labour. Nonetheless, particular attention is are afforded the full protection of the applicable labour paid to this subject in our purchasing policy (see page 31). legislation (see Responsible Purchasing). 20 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Organisation of working hours Health and safety Annual number of hours Absenteeism At consolidated group level, annual working hours range from The Group absenteeism rate rose slightly in 2013 to 6%, after 1,555 to 1,980, depending on local legislation. The number falling to 5.89% in 2012. Excluding maternity leave, the of overtime hours stood at 28,417 in 2013, representing absenteeism rate stood at 4.89% compared to 4.75% in 2012. an overtime rate of 0.34%, the same as in 2012. Indicators for 2013 are calculated using the new method A new agreement on working hours has been signed by LBP introduced in 2012. Prévoyance to introduce personalised flexible working hours based on a total of 1,555 hours a year. Percentage Full time hours of part-time worked annually employees CNP Assurances (France) 1 575 22% MFPrévoyance (France) 1 575 12% LBP Prévoyance (France) 1 555 2% Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 1 980 0% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 1 800 0% CNP Vida (Spain) 1 700 3% CNP BVP (Spain) 1 700 2% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1 608 5% CNP Argentine (Argentina) 1 960 1% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 808 7% Total 14% High take-up of part-time working options Apart from four employees at CNP Vida, all employees who work part-time within the Group’s entities chose to do so. At Group level, part-time employees represent 14% of the workforce. At CNP Assurances, 21% of employees had chosen to work part-time in 2013, working an average of 1,243 hours a year. Part-time employees are entitled to all of the same benefits as full-time employees. At CNP Assurances, the CNAM-measured lost-time incident Flexible working time management frequency rate for 2012 was 2.08% for Paris with a severity In addition, 68% of the workforce at CNP Assurances have rate of 0.18%. The rate for 2013 will not be published by personalised working hours and employees have considerable the CNAM until later in 2014. However, CNP Assurances has freedom to organise their time in line with their professional not observed any increase in the frequency or duration of obligations. lost-time incidents. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 21 Providing long-term support for employees Health and safety Workplace health and safety agreements In all, 99.2% of the Group’s employees are covered by At Group level collective agreements dealing with the main health and safety lower accident rates and improved prevention issues. Number of workplace accident within the Group The occupational health, safety and working conditions committee acts on behalf of all CNP Assurances’s employees as well as outside service providers working on its premises. It meets once a month. Every year, a programme is drawn up to prevent risks and improve working conditions. A member of the occupational health, safety and working conditions committee is now the point person on psycho-social risks and meets with the in-house mediation team at least once a quarter. Another member is in charge of a prevention plan for outside service providers. For example, in summer 2013 the occupational health, safety and working conditions committee received an asbestos alert for the Tour Montparnasse. CNP Assurances employees were evacuated as a precautionary measure and were invited to work at back-up stations in the main building of Company headquarters close by. They were able to return to their desks In all, 19 workplace accidents were recorded Group-wide 48 hours later, after dust removal processes confirmed that in 2013, a drop of 17%. One victim of an occupational illness there were no airborne asbestos fibres. This will be confirmed was reported in the Group. There were no deaths in 2013, by new tests to be carried out at the end of August. resulting from a workplace accident or occupational illness. In addition to supplementary health insurance, CNP Assurances CNP Assurances is committed to ensuring the health and employees are covered by death/disability insurance with safety of its employees. Numerous health improvement an optional long-term care formula. Collective agreements programmes have been established within the Group’s entities with MFPrévoyance’s occupational health, safety and working (for more details, see priority 2: Quality of working life). conditions committee also include supplementary health and Within CNP Assurances death/disability insurance. CNP Vida also has an occupational specialized follow-up and prevention health, safety and working conditions committee, which met twice in 2013. At CNP Assurances, the company’s training programme includes road safety training modules for travelling insurance advisors. In addition, CNP Assurances has an occupational health department in its three main sites and offers employees additional preventative care from specialist doctors. A social worker is also available during office hours. Prevention programmes are organised on a regular basis, and include flu vaccination campaigns, repetitive strain injury awareness campaigns and fire safety e-learning. Similar initiatives have been undertaken at Caixa Seguros, where psychologists and nutritionists work on-site. 22 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Remuneration Proﬁt-sharing plans – the complete package At CNP Assurances, €6,505,676 was paid out under the discretionary profit-sharing plan in 2013, €17,387,981 was Average gross 2013 annual salary across-the-board rise paid out under the statutory profit-sharing plan, and €614,088 in profit-related bonuses were paid to seconded civil servants. CNP Assurances (France) 55 380 € 0.0% Employee savings: at 31 December 2013, CNP Assurances MFPrévoyance (France) 38 901 € 0.8% employees had invested €116,703,656 in employee savings LBP Prévoyance (France) 58 352 € 0.0% plans. Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 58 573 R$ 7.2% Employee share ownership: 2,093 employees held shares CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 40 000 € 0.0% directly and 1,208 via the employee savings plan, representing CNP Vida (Spain) 46 887 € 3.0% 0.29% of the share capital. CNP BVP (Spain) 44 269 € 3.9% All CNP Assurances employees are covered by supplementary CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 52 535€ 1.4% health and death/disability insurance, a separate long-term CNP Argentine (Argentina) 180 498 Ars 25.4% care insurance policy and a life insurance/pension plan with CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 58 613€ 0.0% matching employer contributions. They are also eligible to participate in a “time savings account” and invest in a PERCO For the consolidated CNP Assurances Group, the average voluntary pension plan. across-the-board pay rise was 1.85%, with variations among countries due to inflation (leading to a 29% increase in Argentina), or economic conditions (in Cyprus and Greece). Employee Dialogue CNP CIH decided not to increase salaries over the 2011-2013 Organisation: period but to maintain benefits, with the agreement of employee various forums for employee representation representatives. Number of employee/ Agreements signed in 2013 management Average annual remuneration (in euros) meetings for CNP Assurances employees GLVFUHWLRQDU\SURÀWVKDULQJWKHHDUO\ CNP Assurances (France) 86 withdrawal of statutory and discretionary SURÀWVKDULQJSURIHVVLRQDOHOHFWLRQV LQWHUJHQHUDWLRQDOFRQWUDFWFODVVLÀFDMFPrévoyance (France) 16 tion, working hours 3: working hours, time savings account, LBP Prévoyance (France) 11 SURÀWVKDULQJ Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 2 ZRUNLQJKRXUVDQGSURÀWVKDULQJ CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 5 1: wage freeze CNP Vida (Spain) 5 0 CNP BVP (Spain) 1 0 3: company agreement, CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 14 home working, overtime CNP Argentine (Argentina) 2 0 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 0 Total 142 At CNP Assurances, 1,811 employees (59%) also received individual pay rises. The total gross payroll increased by 4.74% compared to 2012. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 23 Providing long-term support for employees Employee representation and protection In 2013, the Works Council was consulted about two major projects: the merger of Fongépar with Humanis’s employee Social dialogue is a priority throughout the CNP Assurances savings plan subsidiary, and the new organisation of the Group Group. There is at least one employee representative in all to support its strategic ambitions. Six agreements were signed subsidiaries except CNP Europe Life which has only during the year: a discretionary profit-sharing agreement, 14 employees. Caixa Seguros Holding does not have a staff an agreement concerning the early withdrawal of statutory and delegate. However, in accordance with the rules set out in the discretionary profit-shares, and various agreements concerning union of insurance workers’ agreement, a representative of the election of employee representatives. An inter-generational employees and the union president participate in meetings action plan was also set up. between employee and management representatives. 99% of Group employees are covered by an insurance industry r At entity level agreements to improve working conditions collective bargaining agreement (except for employees and managers in Ireland and managers in Argentina). In total, MFPrévoyance has a set of twelve agreements on major topics 142 meetings between employees and management were held that are also regularly monitored through periodic reports and at the Group’s various entities in 2013. indicators. Agreements on working hours and profit-sharing were signed in Brazil. Other agreements concerned a reduction The European Works Council, created in 2010, met twice in in allowances in Cyprus, home-working and overtime in Italy, 2013. It brings together employee representatives from France, working hours and an inter-generational plan at MFPrévoyance. Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus and Ireland to discuss Supplementary health and death/disability insurance plans cross-border issues and projects. were also introduced at MFPrévoyance. Spending on social and cultural activities for Group employees Informing and consulting employee representatives represented 1.51% of payroll in 2013. CNP Assurances complies with the procedures to inform or consult the Works Council and the occupational health, safety and working conditions committee and generally respect their rights. The resources of the Works Council and the occupational health, safety and working conditions committee exceed regulatory requirements. CNP Assurances ensures that employee representatives benefit from the same training and promotion opportunities as other employees, as part of an agreement on trade union resources. Corporate agreements r At CNP Assurances level deﬁnition of new social projects Agreements are in force covering all fundamental issues. An agreement concerning the psychosocial risk prevention programme was signed for the 2012-2015 period. It is an extension of actions that have been developed for many years in the company to improve the prevention of health and safety risks and improve working conditions. This agreement also gives managers, employees, and their representatives a practical framework for identifying, preventing and managing psychosocial risks. Long-term agreements have also been signed in recent years on disability and gender equality in the work place. These agreements provide for progress to be monitored by the Works Council or special commissions. 24 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Inter-generational action plan Building employee awareness and training in Background sustainable development issues This plan was negotiated as part of the French government’s Sustainable development challenges are the subject of awareness/training initiatives to embed them in the corporate inter-generational contract initiative. culture and day-to-day practices. Based on a preliminary assessment (age pyramid, projected Awareness campaigns retirements, etc.), it has three objectives: to facilitate young Several of the Group’s entities have an intranet section dedicated people’s access to sustainable jobs under permanent contract, to sustainable development. For several years, regular events to help keep seniors in work, and to ensure that knowledge and activities have been organised in each entity to raise and skills are passed on. employee awareness about sustainable development challenges. Facilitating access to sustainable jobs r In 2012, a competition and a survey were launched during SRI for young people (under 30) week at CNP Assurances; a conference on this subject was also organised at headquarters and broadcast in regions The plan sets measurable targets for hiring under permanent outside Paris, and a mini SRI guide was distributed to contracts and describes the support measures to onboard employees and all sales teams. young people in the company. Each young person will now r In 2013, CNP Assurances marked sustainable development have a mentor and will be invited to a meeting to find out how week by raising employee awareness about eco-driving at they are settling in. The plan also outlines measures to develop its Paris and Angers sites. Teaching materials were distributed to employees, and a simulator was also made available. work-study contracts and guidelines for internships. The sustainable development department also organized an Helping to keep seniors (over 55) in the workplace information and discussion session on CSR ratings. r MFPrévoyance educated employees about selective sorting Measurable targets have also been set for hiring or keeping and LBP Prévoyance raised awareness about three seniors in work. The plan also lists actions to be taken in eco-responsible habits (turning off lights and computers, several areas such as improved health monitoring, a pilot limiting print-outs). home-working scheme, equal access to training, career r Caixa Seguros Holding continued its intense employee awareness campaign last year. In 2012, it used the 5Rs interviews for employees reaching the age of 45 and 55, lighter (recycle, reduce, re-use, re-think and respect) as the wallpaper working hours and measures to combat age discrimination. for the computers of all its employees and service providers. Ensuring knowledge and skills are passed on It distributed the new Code of ethics and conduct to all Caixa Group employees, while maintaining its dedicated training One of the plan’s provisions is the organisation of interprogramme “the challenge of the Code.” In 2013, different generational cooperation with the introduction of mentoring awareness campaigns covered water, electronic waste, DST prevention and food hygiene. and reverse mentoring (young employees passing on r In Italy, the green group has promoted selective sorting knowledge to senior employees). awareness and, since 2012, the use of more eco-responsible Preserving key skills involves identifying the skills that are means of transport and videoconferencing facilities. In 2013, in danger of disappearing after the retirement of an employee, it organized the first “green footprints” awareness day. in order to anticipate and plan the transmission of these skills. Training r Caixa Seguros Holding offers four-hour e-learning courses on socio-environmental responsibility for all staff, with 21% of employees trained in 2013. r CNP UniCredit Vita offered an external CSR training course in 2013 for members of the green group and launched an experimental internal CSR training programme. r A general sustainable development training pilot was tested by a few CNP employees. CNP Assurances buyers attended dedicated training courses. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 25 Assuming our responsibility to the economy Our ambition Three priorities based on three beliefs CNP Assurances’s primary financial responsibility is to secure Application of ESG criteria is a way of preventing a broader the commitments made to policyholders and guarantee a spectrum of risks so as to protect the sustainable performance steady, optimized performance year after year. of our investments. In line with the belief that including socially responsible r Priority No. 1: investment criteria in the investment selection process Investing responsibly in listed assets optimizes the yield-to-risk ratio over the long term, ESG screens have been applied to the majority of CNP Assurances’s Rolling out ever higher environmental and social responsibility assets and those of its French subsidiaries (80% at end-2013) standards is the best strategy for enhancing our property and over the last few years. CNP Assurances wants to use its woodland assets. investments as a driver for positive change in the economy. r Priority No. 2: In some sectors, there is a clear path to progress. In others, Investing responsibly in unlisted assets greater dialogue with the asset managers is required so that the parameters of socially responsible investment performance Our suppliers have to be able to call on our expert support to can be defined together and practices can be improved. engage in an improvement process. This commitment also extends to suppliers. CNP Assurances r Priority No. 3: has begun an auditing and improvement programme to Responsible purchasing steadily enhance the environmental and social responsibility performance of all its suppliers. « The Company discloses a very 2013 key ﬁgures detailed policy on responsible 242 billion € investment and 80% of the company’s total assets are screened according to ESG criteria. in assets managed Consistent with best practice, CNP Assurances discloses SRI « by the Group commitments for all asset classes. using ESG criteria 26% of CNP Assurances Sustainalytics, August 2013 suppliers audited Forests representing a carbon sink of 546,299 teqCO2 26 CNP Assurances CSR bilan report RSE 2013 2013 Priority No. 1: Investing responsibly in listed assets In France, a strategy deﬁned A responsible shareholder by CNP Assurances and Systematically voting at general meetings implemented by the asset managers Since 2005, CNP Assurances has followed a policy of CNP Assurances is an insurance company. As such, it does shareholder activism by systematically voting at the general not manage assets for others and entrusts the management meetings of listed companies in its portfolio. We don’t leave it of its own assets to specialists. The responsible investor to the asset management companies to vote on our behalf, approach is defined and led by CNP Assurances, drawing except in the case of shares held through mutual funds. on the SRI expertise of the asset management companies. A constructive stance This commitment was strengthened in 2011 when In 2013, CNP Assurances voted at the general meetings CNP Assurances pledged to uphold the Principles for of companies representing 72% of the equity portfolio Responsible Investment (PRI). The Company’s first PRI report and 99.9% of the portfolio of French equities. In all, we was issued in 2013 and can be downloaded from the PRI analysed 110 meetings and 1,821 resolutions, voting against website, www.unpri.org/signatories/signatories. 19.4% of them. As in prior years, when we had issues with Since 2008, CNP Assurances has chosen to exclude from its proposed resolutions, we endeavoured to talk to the companies assets arms manufacturers whose products include land concerned ahead of the meetings. mines or cluster bombs and firms that speculate in agricultural commodities. We also check that similar screens are applied to Shareholder activism inspired by our status the 67 investment funds whose units are held in the portfolio. as a long-term minority shareholder The last such check was carried out in October 2013. Our corporate governance principles are a cornerstone of In line with our responsible investing strategy, ESG screens our policy of responsible investing. They are defined by senior are gradually being applied to all asset classes in the entire management and shaped by our position as a long-term portfolio: minority shareholder, r Listed equities: selected according to best-in-class criteria. The core objective is to protect the rights of minority Quarterly monitoring since 2006 with Natixis AM’s SRI shareholders who are investing to support the investee’s analysts and since 2009 with LBPAM’s specialists. Whenever long-term growth. Shaped in part by investor concerns, these a problem of non-compliance with ESG criteria is detected, principles are pragmatically applied to all companies in the constructive dialogue is engaged with the company portfolio, taking into account each one’s characteristics, concerned, either through our asset managers or during the industry and regulatory environment. lead-up to the general Meeting. When dialogue fails to produce results, other measures can be taken. These might Deploying ESG screening include suspending purchases of the company’s securities or in international subsidiaries even selling the existing portfolio. Caixa Seguros Holding excludes certain industries from r Government bonds and equivalents: ESG screening excludes its equity and government and corporate bond portfolios. countries rated as “not free” and “partly free” by Freedom At CNP Argentina, when choosing among investments with House, and countries rated as “corrupt” by Transparency equivalent risk and yield profiles, priority is given to those International. with the best social and/or environmental profile. In 2013, r Corporate bonds: issuers are given quarterly ESG ratings, 10% of its assets financed projects in the real economy. and can be excluded from the portfolio or have their weighting limited on the basis of their compliance with Global Compact principles. r Mutual funds: SRI funds held in general asset portfolios (excluding unit-linked) totalled €2.3 billion at 31 December 2013 and represented 11% of CNP Assurances’s total mutual fund portfolio. For details of policyholder investments in SRI funds(unit-linked), see page 45. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 27 Assuming our responsibility to the economy Priority No. 2: Investing responsibly in unlisted assets Property Responsible management With €6 billion in property assets in France based on net book Since 2009, an environmental audit has been systematically values, CNP Assurances is an important player in this market. carried out on all newly acquired properties. Energy Management of its property assets is entrusted to specialised performance assessments have been performed on 96% of companies on the basis of strict specifications that deal residential property and 69% of commercial property. notably with the need to preserve the environment and ensure the safety of the properties’ tenants and users as well as A general audit of energy performance that of construction workers. These include the Sustainable To meet recent requirements introduced by France’s Grenelle I Property Management Charter adopted with Icade in 2008 and II Acts, and pending the enactment of the relevant enabling and the “green appendices” added to property management legislation, partner property management companies have master agreements and club deal agreements since 2012. been commissioned by CNP Assurances to audit its property portfolio. In 2013, the energy performance of 75% of its Improved energy performance property portfolio (corresponding to more than 100 residential In its maintenance and renovation of the property assets in its and office buildings) was analysed. Action plan scenarios portfolio, CNP Assurances constantly aims to make the adapted to each building were defined in order to reduce CO2 properties more energy efficient. Renovation projects are emissions and energy use. The analysis includes estimates of carried out to the highest environmental standards (8% of the payback period and potential energy savings for each office space is certified to HQE, THPE, BBC or Bream Very property. This gives us a clear overview of the energy weak Good standards) and in 2012 work began on transforming four spots in the portfolio as we prepare to respond to the Paris office properties into low-energy buildings. requirements of Grenelle II, building by building. CNP Assurances’s responsible investor policy timeline 28 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Woodlands Anticipating climate change In 2001, in compliance with France’s Forestry Act, Integrating environmental issues CNP Assurances approved a sustainable management charter in woodland management processes defining the commitments of Société Forestière, the company CNP Assurances is the largest private owner of woodland in in charge of managing its woodland. These commitments France, with 54,443 hectares of forest at end-2013. Société include managing the woodlands sustainably, protecting their Forestière, a 50%-owned subsidiary, applies sustainable biodiversity and pro-actively planning for the impact of climate management techniques that help to prevent accidents, change. promote biodiversity and anticipate the effects of climate The climate change issue is a key factor in managing change. In 2003, in addition to ISO 9001 certification, all of the CNP Assurances’s forests, in order to ensure the long-term woodland assets were certified by the Pan European Forest health and value of the woodland. The management company Council (PEFC), which guarantees that the timber comes from selects transitional tree species adapted to current and future sustainably managed forests. climates and pays increasing attention to the soil moisture Carbon sinks in France and Brazil reserves in areas where new trees are being planted. In 2013, CNP Assurances’s tree growth helped to sequester Protecting biodiversity 546,299 tonnes of carbon dioxide. After deducting timber sold Société Forestière is preparing environmental zoning maps or felled during the year, a net 288,357 tonnes of carbon and launches initiatives each year to protect biodiversity. dioxide was added to the sequestered total. For example, in 2013 it adapted its management techniques Since 2007, Caixa Seguros has been offsetting its carbon to protect the habitats of endangered birds of prey, a species emissions by financing NGO Green Initiative’s tree-planting of ant that plays a crucial role in the forest ecosystem and programmes in the Atlantic Forest, thus earning the subsidiary the Martagon lily. Woodland management also prevents soil CarbonFree certification. The management of these forests in erosion and ensures water filtration and purification. accordance with biodiversity principles also provides an Caixa Seguros Holding’s reforestation operations promote income for disadvantaged local communities and an biodiversity, protect water resources and participate in soil opportunity for them to acquire new skills. In all, 17 hectares conservation. of woodland have been planted and operations organised with CNP Assurances employees have added 4,665 trees to these plantations. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 29 Assuming our responsibility to the economy Private equity Infrastructure Since 2010, an ESG questionnaire has been introduced for all Our investments new infrastructure investments and regular reports are Since 2010, ESG ratings are awarded based on the due diligence requested. Investments in renewable energies and water and process carried out ahead of any new private equity investment. waste treatment represented total assets of €133 million at A total of 18 private equity funds were rated in 2013. In addition, 31 December 2013. CNP Assurances invested in several socially responsible funds that finance small businesses experiencing social barriers to raising equity capital and support struggling SMEs. Together, these thirteen funds represent total commitments of nearly €123 million, or 4.8% of investment lines and nearly 2.8% of total commitments at year-end 2013. Our support CNP Assurances has been active in the private equity market since 1992 and is one of France’s largest investors in unlisted companies. Investments in this area provide funding to SMEs at all stages in their development, from start-up to expansion to final sale. In this way, we are underpinning expansion at more than 500 French firms with revenue of less than €50 million. These companies play a strategic role in strengthening France’s economic base, creating jobs and helping to attract inward foreign investment. Investments are made through funds that have specialised knowledge of the sector, selected for their ability to provide long-term development support for investees in close cooperation with the companies’ management. We invest in all sectors of the economy, from high technology to traditional manufacturing industry, partnering SMEs operating in emerging niches as well as in established markets. 30 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Priority No. 3: Responsible purchasing The Group’s larger entities (CNP Assurances and Caixa Caixa Seguros Holding Seguros Holding) were the first to integrate CSR principles into their sourcing policy, but other subsidiaries are also CSR clauses in all contracts making progress in this area, particularly CNP UniCredit Vita, Since 2008, Caixa Seguros has included CSR clauses in with its green group. LBPprévoyance and CNP Argentina are its supplier contracts based on the Global Compact principles both taking steps to develop a responsible purchasing policy. (labour, the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking, the environment, fraud and money laundering). Contracts signed before 2008 have been amended to include CNP Assurances these provisions. Suppliers and subcontractors working for deploying a commitment the Caixa Seguros Holding Group pledge to comply with CNP Assurances’ CSR principles are also put into practice regulations and fulfil their environmental responsibility. by the purchasing department, with all buyers aware of these Non-compliance is grounds for termination of the contract issues and most of them trained in CSR compliance. or other appropriate legal responses. The Ethical Purchasing Charter and the Code of Ethics govern buying practices. A platform for supplier ESG audits CNP Assurances has signed the «10 responsible procurement CNP Assurances has signed a partnership agreement with commitments» charter prepared by France’s Credit EcoVadis to pool supplier environmental, social and ethical Ombudsman service and the French Managers and Buyers performance tracking processes. This online service allows Association (CDAF), with criteria that include environmental Purchasing Departments to holistically monitor the and regional impact. The main calls for tenders and environmental, social and ethical performance of their consultations include a CSR component that proposals must suppliers. The information is compiled on a collaborative address in order to be considered. platform that includes 150 business sectors and 95 countries. Having pledged to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, Following the audit, suppliers receive detailed feedback on CNP Assurances systematically promotes its commitment their CSR practices including a rating in four categories to human rights among subcontractors and suppliers. A CSR (environment, social, ethics, responsible purchasing) and a list clause was included in all contracts signed in 2013, requiring of their strengths and areas for improvement. suppliers to pledge to protect the environment, respect human rights, follow socially responsible practices and fight corruption. Supplier audits are requested for each new tender or new A programme of post-signature CSR audits of the main certification, while a parallel rating campaign has been suppliers by EcoVadis is being deployed (see below). launched for the main suppliers. In 2013, 26.2% of suppliers Nearly all of CNP Assurances’s suppliers of goods and in terms of revenue (57 suppliers) were rated. intellectual or other services are based in France. The use of subcontractors is mostly limited to intellectual services as well as printing, mailing, enveloping, archiving, bulk data entry, call centre and maintenance services. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 31 Assuming our responsibility to the economy Other initiatives Preventing money laundering The ﬁght against corruption A shared requirement Codes for all entities As a financial intermediary, CNP Assurances is deeply involved Corruption is not a major direct risk for the Group because all in the fight against money laundering. Given the business fund transfers are fully traceable and management procedures model, the main “know your customer” and due diligence prohibit cash payments. requirements are defined in the agreements signed with its Updated and expanded in 2010, the Code of Conduct serves distribution partners, who are in direct contact with customers. as standard operating procedure. It is posted on the intranet, These same requirements are also at the centre of and features in the Employee Orientation Guide for new hires. the procedures applied by the international subsidiaries, All other entities in the Group also have guidelines, specifications in compliance with local regulations. and regulations. End-to-end controls r A code of conduct at CNP Assurances In addition to the internal control process and the ethical r A code of ethics at CNP Argentina standards deployed throughout the organisation, a system of r An ethics charter and code of conduct in Italy cross-functional controls is in place to monitor compliance r An internal code of conduct at CNP BVP with anti-money laundering procedures on a regular basis. r An ethical code incorporated into CNP CIH’s code of service, These controls are updated to reflect changes to the regulatory with details of the sanctions applied in the case of corruption environment. r A cap on the value of gifts at MFPrévoyance Procedures describe the controls to be carried out particularly r A code of conduct signed by all CNP Vida employees by customer-facing sales staff or distribution partners, notably r A code of conduct distributed annually at Caixa Seguros to verify the identity of the premium payer and the beneficiary, Holding as well as the means of payment. Codes on speciﬁc topics A dedicated unit Some more exposed professions have specific codes. There are dedicated control units in France and in the major r The CNP Assurances code of conduct includes rules on subsidiaries, backed by a network of 20 people. The conflicts of interests and gifts, and an ethical purchasing international subsidiaries have a correspondent at the Group’s guide provides practical guidance on applying the 2006 headquarters, and any employee can check the Group-wide purchasing code of ethics in key situations encountered by anti-money laundering procedures on the intranet. the Company’s buyers. In June 2012, CNP Assurances Training programmes are carried out regularly in subsidiaries pledged to comply with the Charter on Inter-business with support from the corporate Risk Management department. Relations established by the French Managers and Buyers In 2013, they were conducted at MFPrévoyance, Association (CDAF). LBPprévoyance, CNP BVP and CNP UniCredit Vita. In 2010/2011, r A specific code of ethics has also been prepared for an e-learning programme was offered to all CNP Assurances CNP-Trésor insurance advisors and the Compliance unit employees, with modules adapted to different roles. In 2013, verifies that they comply with the regulations applicable to employees were invited to a presentation of measures to insurance sales. combat fraud, money laundering and terrorism organised with one of our major partners. 32 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Targeted training Corporate philanthropy In 2011 and 2012, training based on the Code of Conduct was and outreach partnerships dispensed to all managers with supervisory roles, who then Corporate philanthropy operations are carried out in partnership trained their staff with the help of a video and booklet. with non-profit organisations following calls for projects. The programme was subsequently extended to all employees In France, some of the projects are proposed by employees, during Sustainable Development Week. while in Brazil, philanthropic initiatives are supported by In Italy, compulsory training was provided on corporate employee volunteers. administrative responsibility. In Brazil, since 2012 Caixa Seguros Holding has provided guidance on applying Speciﬁc initiatives: the Group’s ethics code and code of conduct through its r Policyholders, training/research: CNP Assurances “The challenge of the Code” training programme. maintains close relations with ENASS, France’s leading A clear set of procedures governing the management business school specialised in the insurance sector. It also of ﬁnancial assets and supplier relations finances training centres and apprenticeship centres (CFAs) such as IFPASS and ADAPT, and helps schools through the This ethical vigilance also applies to CNP Assurances’s asset apprenticeship tax. CNP Assurances finances the Risk management, particularly for government bonds where the Foundation’s “Demographic Transitions, Economic country’s position in the Transparency International index is Transitions” Chair and since 2011, it has financed the one of three exclusionary criteria. “Change Management” Chair at ESSEC, which conducts The fight against corruption also extends to suppliers. Our research into change management issues in companies, purchasing contracts include a standard CSR clause requiring government agencies and society in general. suppliers to commit to combating all forms of corruption, r Integration: CNP Assurances has a tradition of helping young including on the part of its own suppliers and sub-contractors. people acquire work experience. In 2013, 100 school-leavers were taken on by CNP Assurances and LBPprévoyance under apprenticeship or work-study contracts, considerably more than in 2012, and the Group also had 190 interns. r CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de la Cité foundation, and co-insures the entrepreneurs helped by the foundation. It also invests in Business Angels des Cités Partenaires 2, an investment fund that supports entrepreneurs in underprivileged areas. Caixa Seguros Holding is heavily involved in the Jovem de Expressao programme, and signed a cooperation agreement with UNESCO in 2011 to develop community-based communication and youth health promotion initiatives as part of this outreach programme. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 33 Assuming our responsibility to the economy The subsidiaries have set up numerous programmes in partnership with non-profit organisations, such as the Caixa Seguros Institute reforestation campaign in Brazil with the NGO Iniciativa Verde, The Board of Directors of Caixa Seguros approved the a waste management initiative with Amis du Futur, an HIV creation of the Caixa Seguros Institute in May 2013, to prevention programme with UNESCO and the sponsorship take over all the Brazilian subsidiary’s initiatives in support of Yann Artus Bertrand’s travelling exhibition in 2013. of the country’s disadvantaged youth and place its social, CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP Vida are continuing their work environmental and cultural commitment on a more formal to support disadvantaged people. LBPprévoyance sponsored footing. This institute, the first of its kind with insurance an exhibition of the work of disabled artists in 2013, company backing in Brazil, will strengthen Caixa Seguros’s and MFPrévoyance, like CNP Assurances, supports access presence in its three strategic programme areas: to equestrian competition sports for disabled people. r Social programmes, particularly Jovem de Expressao, CNP Assurances Foundation which aim to reduce youth violence in Brasilia’s Each year, the CNP Assurances Foundation expands its disadvantaged suburbs. involvement in corporate philanthropy programmes related r Environmental programmes such as Carbono Seguro, to healthcare. Its 2013 budget totalled €800,000. which aim to control carbon emissions, combat climate r First aid for heart attack victims: in the past three years, the change, preserve water resources and protect Foundation has provided €1.5 million in grants to deploy biodiversity. more than 2,100 defibrillators and to train users in 1,500 r Cultural and philanthropy programmes focused mainly communities. In 2013, a new cardiac imaging research on Franco-Brazilian projects such as the recent partnership was established. sponsorship of the film Rouge brésil or the travelling r Pain management: the Foundation provided funding for a exhibition “The earth as seen from the sky”. number of projects in 2013, including a study on osteoarthritis pain and another on the use of acupuncture to relieve pain in pre-term babies. It also provided financial support for a troupe of clowns who visit paediatric units. r Other projects: four employee projects were selected for support, including one from the association “De la voix au chapitre”, which organizes life narrative workshops to preserve memories and create a link between the generations. 34 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Local impact Corporate income tax payments Local employment Europe 2013 Latin France excluding Total CNP Assurances is an active employer in the regions where (in € millions) America France it has had offices for almost a hundred years: 90% of CNP Assurances employees work at its Paris, Arcueil and Corporate -346 -313 -38 -697 Angers sites. With expatriates accounting for just 0.7% of income tax employees of the international subsidiaries, these companies also participate in their local job markets, including for senior In addition, the Group’s insurance companies in France paid management positions: at end-2013, 75% of Executive or more than €1 billion in taxes on behalf of policyholders. Management Committee members had been hired locally. Less directly, several insurance products include assistance in Initiatives to support local communities finding work. Examples include, in France, an unemployment The Group’s entities also contribute to resolving current social insurance product with a reduced premium or advisory services issues. to help the insured find a new job and, in Brazil, the job search For example: support service offered by Caixa Seguros Holding. r Filassistance’s assistance and prevention services meet the Impact of insurance and investing activities needs of people made vulnerable by age, disability or illness. By making its products widely accessible, in terms of both r Caixa Seguros Holding actively helps local communities, affordability and medical screening, the Group is helping with programmes such as Jovem de Expressao, which is to combat financial exclusion. These essential components of supporting human development during the current period the CSR approach are discussed in more detail in the “Aligning of demographic and epidemiological transition in Brazil our offer with diverse needs” section. (see www.jovemdeexpressao.com.br). The programme aims to combat youth violence through jobs in the region where With over €300 billion in investments, we play a major role Caixa Seguros Holding has its offices, by working with local in financing the economies of our host countries. cultural centres. Recognised for its original approach, since At 31 December 2013, CNP Assurances held €42 billion 2010 the programme has been managed in partnership with in French corporate bonds, €9 billion in French equities the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). and over €50 billion in French government bonds (based In 2013, Caixa Seguros conducted a survey on youth on net book values), making us one of the largest contributors vulnerability. to the financing of the French economy and, more generally, to France’s economic competitiveness. We support long-term r In 2012, LBPprévoyance published its fifth survey conducted growth across every sector of French business, while promoting with TNS Sofres and La Croix, providing a wealth corporate social responsibility among the companies in of information about the challenges for French society of the portfolio, through our policy of being a responsible investor financing welfare and long-term care systems. and shareholder (see priorities 1 and 2). Caixa Seguros r CNP Assurances is a founder member of the Entrepreneurs Holding’s financial investments are made entirely in Brazil. de la Cité foundation. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 35 Assuming our responsibility to the economy Lobbying A message communicated to stakeholders We take part in industry discussions on its core business and This commitment is reflected in the integration of environmental, on sustainable development in each of our host countries. social and governance criteria in financial asset management Group companies participate in their local insurance industry’s strategies. Respect for human rights is one of the criteria used professional bodies and the international subsidiaries also to select equity and bond investments. This commitment was attend events organised by the local French consulate, but strengthened in 2011 with CNP Assurances’s pledge to uphold they do not conduct any lobbying per se. We help to address the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). the challenges facing society by contributing to research and In addition, in supplier relations, the standard CSR clause discussion, notably on the topics of retirement and long-term in CNP Assurances’s purchase contracts stipulates that the care in France. supplier must undertake to combat human rights violations, CNP Assurances systematically acts through industry notably by upholding the Universal Declaration of Human organisations, in particular the Fédération Française des Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Sociétés d’Assurances (FFSA). In the area of sustainable Child, as well as the International Labour Organisation’s development, it takes part in the Paris Europlace SRI conventions. Commission and is also a member of ORSE, a French CSR In signing the Union des Annonceurs (UDA) responsible think-tank, and its Finance Club, which brings together the communication charter, CNP Assurances has also pledged various stakeholders (NGOs, unions and trade associations). to respect human rights and diversity in all of its advertising None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political and corporate communications. parties. This practice is specifically prohibited by the corporate The Human Resources intranet provides information for ethics codes adopted at CNP Argentina and CNP BVP. CNP Assurances employees about their rights, and includes sections on the collective bargaining agreement, social Human rights dialogue, professional diversity and stress management. A trade union section on the intranet allows unions to be The Global Compact as a guiding principle constantly in touch with employees. In line with its 2003 pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, we ensure that each local organisation complies with human Dedicated procedures. rights laws and regulations. Following CNP Argentina and Each subsidiary submits an annual report on their CSR Caixa Seguros Holding, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged to performance to the parent company, with a special focus on uphold the Compact in 2010. Every year, Caixa Seguros these fundamental criteria. Neither CNP Assurances nor the Holding has its corporate social responsibility performance Group’s subsidiaries have recourse to forced or child labour. audited by Ethos to ensure compliance with Global Compact The Group pays particularly close attention to this issue in its principles. purchasing policy (see priority 3) and in its property Each year, these companies reaffirm their commitment to management processes. Group procedures to guarantee upholding the Compact’s principles and promote it among respect for civil and political rights include internal codes and their asset managers and suppliers. standard operating procedures, agreements on union rights, All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles and data protection procedures. of respect for human rights, freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and the promotion of equal opportunity. 36 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Shareholder relations The representativeness of the Board of Directors The articles of association separate the functions of Chairman Individual shareholders of the Board of Directors from the day-to-day management The Company’s 140,000 individual shareholders are provided with responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer. regular information and can join the Shareholders’ Club, which is The Board of Directors had 18 members at 31 December 2013, open to all shareholders whatever the number of shares held. including four independent members, who make decisions as A shareholder conference was organized in 2013. a group. (see www.cnp-ﬁnances.fr/eng/shareholders-event-calendar) The membership of the Board of Directors is partly determined A toll-free number and a website are provided for shareholders. by the shareholders’ agreement and reflects the Company’s The website was visited 45,600 times in 2013. ownership structure. It demonstrates the bonds of trust and (www.cnp-ﬁnances.fr/eng/shareholders-event-calendar) the working relationship that unite the Company and its At 31 December 2013, 2,093 employees and former employees distribution partners. held shares directly, representing 0.29% of the share capital. At 31 December 2013, 33% of Board members were women A further 1,200 or so employees are shareholders through (six directors out of eighteen). The Board also includes a the corporate mutual fund, with an average investment of €16,000. director representing employees, which goes beyond current General Meetings are based on the principle of one share, regulatory obligations. one vote. To facilitate individual shareholder participation, Four representatives of the Works Council attend meetings in addition to publishing the notice of meeting in the official of the Board of Directors. They voice employee concerns and journal, individual notices were sent to the 2,900 holders of present the Works Council’s requests to which, in accordance registered shares in 2013, as well as to the 2,700 shareholders with the Labour Code, the Board offers its response. in the Paris region with more than 300 shares (as the General Meeting was held in Paris). Organisation of the Board of Directors Details about the practices and organisation of the Board of Directors are available in the Registration Document. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 37 Adapting our offering for diverse needs Our ambition Three priorities based on three beliefs CNP Assurances wants to offer all policyholders guarantees Insurance should become a financial service accessible to that match their daily life, needs and budget as closely as everyone. possible. r Priority No. 1: This is an ambitious goal because the Group encounters Efforts to ﬁght ﬁnancial exclusion hugely diverse situations in its different markets. Adapting to different purchasing powers is our way of The wide variety of situations encountered by our policyholders contributing to combating financial exclusion. It’s not just requires us to come up with new services that are closest to about rethinking premiums. It’s also about redefining their needs. distribution channels and marketing strategies, and in some r Priority No. 2: cases, going beyond financial support to offer policyholders Designing socially-responsible products and services innovative services to help them overcome difficulties. It’s this bespoke service that makes CNP Assurances the Listening to and engaging in dialogue with our policyholders is insurer for all our futures. Regular surveys are also carried out one of our primary responsibilities. to evaluate customer satisfaction levels. r Priority No. 3: Policyholder satisfaction « 2013 key ﬁgures The company eliminated any 220,000 micro-insurance policies impediments to insurance for clients written by the Group with precarious health conditions or chronic « CNP Assurances’s illnesses. Sustainalytics, August 2013 term creditor insurance rejection rate is still less than 85,000 unit-linked contracts 0.2% incorporating SRI 38 funds CNP Assurances bilan RSE 2013 Priority No. 1: Efforts to fight financial exclusion Products aligned Risk selection adapted with policyholders’ needs to each policyholder’s health proﬁle In France, an offer aligned with the needs CNP Assurances draws on its exceptionally deep understanding of people with low incomes of risks, acquired over its many years’ experience in personal insurance, to regularly update and refine its risk selection In agreement with our distribution partners, we offer products policy. A key aim of this policy, which takes into account with deliberately low minimum premiums or investment the state of health of each insured, is to ensure that the amounts (€30 for life insurance), despite the extra administrative acceptance rate for disability and incapacity cover is as high costs. The €30 tranche represented more than half of new as possible. In 2013, for the second year running, the specific money on these contracts in 2013. Another example is disability cover provided for in the Aeras aggravated risk in personal risk insurance, where a quarterly premium of €3 convention was made widely available. In addition, since 2012, buys a lump-sum payout of €7,500 under the Garantie Urgence the conditions of eligibility for the premium cap applicable formula in the event of the insured’s death. And for just €14 to low income borrowers have been relaxed. a month from the age of 50, a policyholder can receive a monthly income of €300 in the event long-term care is needed. CNP Assurances’s term creditor insurance rejection rate has remained at less than 0.2% for the past five years. As the leader in the group life insurance segment, CNP Assurances enables companies, non-profit associations, local authorities and hospitals to offer all their employees the CNP Assurances, same insurance cover at the same price, by pooling risks and covering aggravated health risks covering different generations under the same policy. We are resolutely committed to ensuring that individuals In 2010, CNP Assurances strengthened its ties with social representing an aggravated risk have access to credit economy stakeholders by becoming the insurer for loans and insurance in line with the provisions of the Aeras granted by Procilia, a partner to the French government’s Convention, and were quick to offer the specific disability Action Logement low-income housing loan scheme. By cover defined in the new version of the Convention dated the end of 2011, it was providing term creditor insurance for 1 February 2011. Disability cover is also being offered on more than 20% of the Action Logement partnerships. the terms provided for in the convention, to customers CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs who were denied incapacity or disability cover under de la Cité foundation, which aims to help micro-entrepreneurs a standard policy. In addition to these regulatory obtain insurance, and is one of the co-insurers for the obligations, we also offer disability cover to civil servants foundation’s “Basic Insurance Kit”, offering death/disability and self-employed workers. and health cover. Around 539 new Basic Insurance Kit contracts were sold in 2013. Information adapted In Brazil, successfully innovating in micro-insurance for every policyholder In Brazil, Caixa Seguros Holding is the first company to have In October 2010, we launched www.toutsavoirsurlassurancevie.fr, introduced a micro-insurance product in the market. Since its the first interactive video website dedicated entirely to life launch in 2011, over 218,000 Amparo policies have been sold. insurance, to respond to a real need for information. The site, The product includes accidental death benefit, cover for the which has attracted some 637,000 discrete visitors, enables cost of the funeral, along with comprehensive support services, Internet users to learn more about insurance through an a cash allowance, food aid for three months, and the opportunity educational web series and information sheets, free of sales to participate in a monthly random draw to receive an additional material. allowance. The product is the most affordable in the market, The Caixa Seguros group is instilling a culture of retirement with premiums starting at BRL 2.50 for coverage of BRL 2,000. saving among civil servants and is taking steps to make Caixa Seguros Holding also offers other affordable insurance information more accessible to people with hearing problems. products for the many people in Brazil with very low incomes, such as the AP and RD voucher and Vida da Gente. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 39 Adapting our offering for diverse needs Priority No. 2: Designing socially-responsible products and services CNP Assurances Group is continuing to update its offer to adapt to the latest changes in society, by enhancing existing offers and developing targeted prevention services. Caixa Seguros Assurassistance “Basic “Active emploi” Brazilian subsidiary becomes ﬁrst concept launched, Insurance Kit” unemployment Caixa Seguros Brazilian insurer bundling launched for insurance becomes the to offer cover assistance services microhas won the leading provider for serious chronic with traditional entrepreneurs most awards of micro-insurance diseases including cash beneﬁts for its job search aids and cancer support Service Enhancing the offers The Effinance term creditor insurance contract for homebuyers, co-insured with La Banque Postale Prévoyance, has Innovative guarantees are available covering the problems of won an award «for its broad acceptance criteria, useful loss of autonomy, job loss and aging. guarantees, small number of exclusions and affordability”. r CNP Assurances offers an unemployment insurance product with a reduced premium or advisory services to help the Promoting good health insured find a new job. Protection Active Emploi provides Making life-long support for insureds its mission, in 2003 financial support for six or 24 months, plus personalised CNP Assurances pioneered the integration of targeted assistance, such as career reviews, training and logistical assistance and prevention services in life insurance/savings and support. long-term care insurance contracts, in particular through its r Long-term care insurance that kicks in as soon as the first Filassistance International subsidiary. signs of disability appear has been added to all MGEN Services developed by Filassistance include: contracts, representing two million insureds. r Individual assessments to help to prevent loss of autonomy r In cooperation with GDF Suez, CNP Assurances offers and memory loss. insurance covering the payment of gas bills in the case of a personal accident. r A pandemic prevention service. r The Cachemire product distributed by La Banque Postale r An employee counselling and stress management service for carries a capital guarantee in the case of unforeseen adverse companies. events. r A support service for family carers of dependent people. r In Italy, CNP UniCredit Vita has responded to policyholders’ r A personal financial management service for people hit by desire for security by launching an innovative new product a serious, unforeseen health or family problem. with a capital guarantee. r Counselling for individuals coping with chronic illness, to provide r Caixa Seguros Holding offers a job search support service, social, administrative, financial and psychological support. including distribution of CVs and on-line career advice, for insureds who lose their jobs. Policyholders with advanced, serious illnesses can claim benefits without these payments being deducted from their insured capital, as well as free medication in the event of hospitalisation or emergency care. 40 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Priority No. 3: Policyholder satisfaction Filassistance continued to reinforce its presence in local Doubling up satisfaction monitoring personal assistance services and daily care and living assistance, notably by introducing in 2012 a cardiovascular Surveys are carried out periodically by Group entities among risk prevention programme, and enhanced its offerings for both policyholders and distribution partners, to obtain caregivers with its “360° Caregiver” module. Retirement a comprehensive vision of customer satisfaction. preparation services and support services for women cancer In 2013, four satisfaction surveys were conducted by sufferers and their families, from diagnosis to treatment, were CNP Assurances on policy administration processes. Whether added in 2013. they are carried out as part of a quality certification process, pursuant to a service level agreement or for other purposes, Prevention campaigns these surveys help to improve customer responsiveness CNP CIH conducts prevention campaigns targeting obesity and to provide feedback to our distribution partners. and stress, while some of its products come with an offer The satisfaction rate rose in 2013, reaching 84% for of free or low-cost medical check-ups. beneficiaries who purchased their policy through La Banque Postale, CNP Trésor or the Caisses d’Epargne. CNP Assurances also deploys workplace programmes to promote the health and well-being of local government Internationally, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted employees. by every subsidiary except CNP BVP, which outsources these surveys to its distribution partner. The surveys are conducted annually in Italy and Cyprus and up to monthly in Brazil. CNP Vida has been meeting distribution partners each month for the last few years to find out how they view the quality of services. In 2013, the satisfaction rate was 73%. Anticipating policyholder needs In addition to studies carried out with the distribution partners, the Group’s entities perform research to anticipate new needs arising from emerging social and demographic trends. In 2013, this research focused on inventing innovative product concepts in personal risk insurance and savings (CNP Assurances) and gaining a better understanding of personal risk insurance needs (CNP UniCredit Vita et LBPprévoyance). LBP prévoyance’s sixth long-term care survey LBP prévoyance has been sponsoring the personal risk long-term care survey carried out by TNS Sofres since 2007, which gauges perceptions and attitudes to long-term care of the elderly among French people aged between 35 and 75. The 2013 survey revealed that 6 out of 10 people admitted to being directly concerned by the issue, and one in four have already made provisions in this respect. Half think that their savings will cover the cost of possible long-term care needs. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 41 Adapting our offering for diverse needs Service quality aids CNP Assurances signs the ﬁrst full on-line term The workstations used by distribution partners of the Group’s creditor insurance policies with Boursorama entities incorporate duty of advice compliance, while enhancing Getting in ahead of the competition, CNP Assurances the quality and efficiency of policyholder services. New has accepted electronic signatures on term creditor common and convergent Quality initiatives were developed insurance applications and health questionnaires since in 2013 with CNP Assurances’s partners to improve the quality January 2014. The fully on-line, paperless service offers of service for insurance advisors and policyholders. customers the opportunity to purchase insurance quickly Shared applications and easily without leaving their computer screen. Basing the model on existing processes, we have The workstations used by distribution partners (Puma, Partage, leveraged the latest technological innovations to offer Majestic and CNPNet) incorporate duty of advice compliance, partners multiple advantages. The full on-line solution while enhancing the quality and efficiency of policyholder significantly reduces customers’ perception of the time services. required to purchase insurance, facilitates the bank’s A single platform back and middle office processes and offers more secure to process health questionnaires storage of insurance applications. Moreover, being The use of the CNPNet platform with bank partners has paperless, the process is more efficient and also has enabled 75% of the term creditor insurance health a positive effect on the Group’s carbon footprint. questionnaires sent to CNP Assurances to be processed The project required major IT developments, especially electronically in the last three years. In addition, another feature for information flows, which were designed with the introduced in 2013 lets policyholders fill out the questionnaire Group’s partner Boursorama. It involved coordinating at home. the activities of a very large internal team. The data are stored by an electronic archiving service provider in The deployment of new technologies has made life easier for a secure, intruder-proof digital safe. policyholders. For example, a website for reporting term creditor insurance claims set up in 2012 allows policyholders to submit scanned claim documents electronically, including by text message, and to track the claim’s status. CNP Assurances also offers its term creditor insurance distribution partners the option of allowing policyholders to fill out their health questionnaire at home. Caixa Seguros Holding has responded to customer calls for an extension of its on-line services to include insurance underwriting, with specialists available via a forum to assist customers during the purchase process. CNP Unicredit Vita has enhanced its website for direct access to insurance accounts, with downloadable information and claim forms. 42 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Easy access to policyholder service In 2013, CNP Assurances committed to replying within two months of a complaint being filed. The process has been teams and insurance advisors extensively reorganised with input from the distribution In 2013, 1.4 million calls were received by the CNP Assurances partners to ensure faster response. New tools have been individual insurance call centre. The economic environment deployed in order to enhance the complaint tracking and and the specific system set up in 2012 led to a significant analysis process and to capitalise on lessons learned so as improvement in the call completion rate to 88% in 2013, with to drive continuous improvement in quality of service. 90% of callers who purchased their contract from La Banque Postale or CNP Trésor expressing satisfaction with the service. Unclaimed settlements at CNP Assurances A business continuity plan has been set up to prepare for the Thanks to improvements to its unclaimed settlement system risk of downtime following an incident. Tests are performed made on the back of new regulations, CNP Assurances paid each year, using different scenarios, to ensure that in different out over €77 million to more than 11,000 beneficiaries found departments, normal business operations could be quickly in 2013. and efficiently restored. The system for finding beneficiaries is based on: r Solid ties with our two major distribution networks (Caisses Following up policyholder requests d’Epargne and La Banque Postale), which help to identify Mediation service beneficiaries and limit the number of unclaimed settlements, CNP Assurances has set up a mediation service, whose thanks to their close relationship with policyholders. contact details are systematically specified in policy terms and r A systematic review of the customer database and conditions. This easy-to-use, free dispute resolution process a beneficiary search carried out by strictly vetted service improves relations with policyholders and frequently helps providers, supplemented since July 2011 with a new secure to avoid litigation. In 2013, 1,374 mediation procedures were beneficiary search and contact system set up in compliance initiated or reopened, an increase of 20% on 2012. with France’s Act of 17 December 2007. Processing complaints more quickly Disputes A total of 1,401 disputes were in progress at 31 December 2013. During the year, CNP Assurances won 72% of the cases in the first instance, 67% on appeal and 81% when the matter was submitted to the highest court of appeal. Individual insurance Term creditor insurance The number of complaints concerning term creditor insurance has always been marginal and has stabilized since 2009, while in individual life insurance, complaints and requests for information are also rare. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 43 Adapting our offering for diverse needs Other initiatives Policyholder data protection Product and services compliance Tightly controlled Group procedure All of the Group’s entities check the legal compliance of Personal insurance is based on knowledge of sensitive contractual documents at each stage of the design process personal data. At CNP Assurances Group, protecting the for new products. confidentiality of policyholder data is central to our The certification process represents a highly effective tool for administrative processes and the obligations specified in our improving service quality. In order to maintain yearly progress, code of conduct. Customers’ medical and personal information the Group’s entities conduct campaigns to obtain certification is protected by procedures that comply with local regulations in new areas while ensuring that previous certifications are in each host country, and a dedicated system has been set up renewed. The main business processes of CNP Assurances to keep abreast of regulatory changes. A data protection officer and of several subsidiaries now have ISO 9001 certification. leads an in-house network and circulates procedures, notably through a dedicated intranet site. Controls are performed to r CNP Assurances: ISO 9001:2008 certification ensure that the procedure is applied and the data protection r The annual policyholder information process for individual officer prepares an annual report. The data protection officer insurance and group pension policies, call centre processes. works with representatives from each distributor to foster r Processing of incoming mail. best practices. r All of the term creditor insurance processes and the business development department’s BtoB relations with distribution Implementation in subsidiaries partners. The French and international subsidiaries have each r Management of individual insurance products sold by the established similar data protection processes that comply with CNP Trésor network (certification obtained as part of the drive local legislation. The European subsidiaries notably comply to shorten processing times and improve quality of service). with the European Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC) as r Processing of death benefit claims for individual insurance. transposed into national law. Employees at CNP Europe Life r Certification of internal audit processes by IFACI, France’s received special training in data protection during 2012. internal audit and internal control body. CNP UniCredit Vita updates its security policy governing the protection of customer data on an annual basis. r Âge d’Or Expansion’s services have been “NF Service” At MFPrévoyance, where medical confidentiality is a particular quality certified since 2011. concern, employees must sign a formal pledge to uphold their r CNP Argentina earned ISO 9001:2008 certification for its obligation to maintain professional secrecy. Medical confidentiality administration system in 2004, and has since had this training courses are regularly given to MFPrévoyance and certification renewed. It is the first life insurance company LBP prévoyance employees by the medical officer. in Argentina to obtain certification for both the underwriting The data security policy at Caixa Seguros Holding is also and administrative management of insurance policies. updated annually and all information is categorised by level of confidentiality to ensure appropriate treatment. Regular r CNP CIH has earned ISO 9001:2008 certification for its life intruder tests are conducted to assess the efficacy of insurance processes in Cyprus. the security measures. r Since 2000, CNP Vida has maintained its UNE-EN ISO In addition, policyholders must give their consent to receiving 9001:2008 compliant quality management system that is communications via email from CNP Assurances. A dedicated AENOR and IQNet-certified for the design, sale and computer system is used to manage customer authorisations. administration of life insurance policies and pension plans. 44 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 SRI products Encouraging policyholder commitment to sustainable Personal insurance Policyholders can contribute to sustainable development development by investing in SRI funds offered with their savings contracts. r To present the Group’s social and environmental challenges Each of the flagship savings products offered by and results, Caixa Seguros Holding has developed CNP Assurances includes unit-linked SRI funds, and an informative “Caring for the Future” website (www. environmental, social and governance screening is being rolled cuidardofuturo.com.br), which also hosts a blog about out to the general asset portfolios underlying all of our responsible consumerism. Its websites reiterate the «5 Rs» traditional savings products and own funds portfolios. of responsible communication: reduce, reuse, recycle, r LBPAM Responsable rethink consumption habits, and respect natural resources. (www.labanquepostale.fr/index/particuliers/placements/gamme_opcvm/isr.La_gamme.html) r Over 18 million letters sent to policyholders highlight r Écureuil Bénéfice CNP Assurances’s pledge to uphold the United Nations (www.caisse-epargne.fr/ecureuil-benefices-resp.aspx) Global Compact and its responsible investing strategy. Since 2011, this includes annual statements for all endowment r CNP développement durable (www.fongepar.fr/DOCS/ct_400001.pdf) policies (other than unit-linked contracts). r CNP Trésor, the CNP Assurances network, always includes a SRI funds continued to be promoted by CNP Assurances’s section on sustainable development in its half-yearly two major distribution partners in 2013. At 31 December 2013, policyholder newsletters. some 85,000 life insurance policies included an SRI fund. SRI r A percentage of the premiums from Caixa Seguros Holding’s assets totalled €319 million, a gain of more than 9% over 2012, Caixacap Blue Dream product is paid to The Green Initiative particularly thanks to amounts paid into SRI money market to help finance the Carbono Seguro reforestation programme. funds. Group insurance In the group insurance segment, our policy of responsible investing is presented to customers during the regular monitoring committee meetings. Employee savings Fongépar has created two new SRI funds with non-profit organisation Habitat et Humanisme, one in 2010 and the other in 2011. In all, employee savings invested in SRI funds amounted to €115 million, up 17% at 31 December 2013, and more than 73% of them were in CIES-certified funds. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 45 Reducing our environmental footprint Our ambition Three priorities based on three beliefs As a service company, CNP Assurances Group’s environmental New practices, such as eco-driving, and tried and tested footprint is related to employee behaviour and IT server activity. technology like videoconferencing, can help reduce our direct Everyone in the Group has a role to play in reducing its impact on the environment. environmental impact, primarily by effectively managing r Priority No. 1: the three main direct sources of greenhouse gas emissions: Reducing our environmental footprint related to travel paper use, for day-to-day administration and policyholder correspondence, business travel and office building management. Pooling printing resources and individual monitoring allows Awareness campaigns for teams have helped reduce this consumption to be reduced without affecting performance. impact. Some recycling practices have become second nature r Priority No. 2: for employees. Similarly, train travel is often replacing air travel Decreasing the consumption of supplies and videoconferencing is widely used. Printing has also been cut back. Paperless communications and procedures and environmental asset management reduce our direct and indirect environmental impact. r Priority No. 3: Reducing the environmental footprint in our business « The Company’s carbon 2013 key ﬁgures emissions intensity is well below the industry average. [...] Paper use Examples of initiatives has fallen undertaken by the company include employee access to 56% in the last five years a recycling system, the incorporation of environmental clauses for suppliers, the development of a SRI fund and the on a comparable responsible property and woodland « scope basis Greenhouse gas management. emissions generated Sustainalytics, (internal operations August 2013 and customer by business travel correspondence). by CNP Assurances employees has been reduced by 26% since 2009. 46 CNP Assurances bilan RSE 2013 Priority No. 1: Reducing our environmental footprint related to travel Promoting eco-driving Commuting Car travel is a big part of the Group’s carbon footprint and As part of its Business Travel Plan, CNP Assurances updated the potential financial and environmental gains are therefore the commuting survey in 2013. Commuting by car was down significant. This is illustrated by the fact that, according to (by 9% to 30% depending on the site), while journeys French environmental agency ADEME, an eco-driving course by motorcycle or scooter and car sharing were up (by 8% for results in an average fuel saving of 5.25 litres/100km. employees working at Paris Montparnasse). In all, greenhouse To mark Sustainable Development Week, CNP Assurances gas emissions related to commuting have been reduced employees have been trained in eco-driving techniques, such by 13% in three years. as shifting up early to keep RPMs low and avoiding abrupt acceleration or braking to maintain a smooth stable speed. Business travel Road risk awareness campaigns and eco-driving training have The Group’s carbon emissions linked to business travel been introduced for all employees, and customized modules (excluding taxis) are estimated at around 5,000 teqCO2, 65% will be introduced in 2014 specifically for sales teams. of which is from air travel. Developing videoconferencing Air travel The use of video and audio conferencing is now widespread (million km) 2010 2011 2012 2013 within the Group. It is encouraged as a way of reducing CNP Assurances (France) 5.20 4.30 3.30 2.73 business travel. Building employee awareness in this area has MFPrévoyance (France) nc nc 0.01 0.01 been particularly effective at CNP Vida and Caixa Seguros LBP Prévoyance (France) nc nc 0.08 0.08 Holding. CNP UniCredit Vita has included tracking indicators Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 9.20 6.09 8.48 7.99 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 0,19 0.26 0.30 0.40 for video and audio conferencing hours, as well as for air and CNP Vida (Spain) nc 0.75 0.65 0.51 train travel, in its quarterly report presented to the Management CNP BVP (Spain) nc nc 0.30 0.17 Committee. CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.77 0.72 0.13 0.24 CNP Argentine (Argentina) 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.05 Connection hours CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 Total 15.5 12.2 13.4 12.3 2013 CNP Assurances has prepared a written travel policy, providing CNP Assurances (France) 8056 a framework for employee practices to reduce the impact MFPrévoyance (France) nc on the environment, while continuing to ensure the comfort LBP Prévoyance (France) 0 and safety of travellers. The volume of business travel by air Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 2324 and train declined significantly in 2013, falling by 15% and CNP CIH (Cyprus) 111 42% respectively. Eighty per cent of employee air travel CNP Vida (Spain) 150 CNP BVP (Spain) 0 involves distances of 1,000 km or less. CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 139 A large number of subsidiaries cut back on business travelling CNP Argentine (Argentina) 14 or opted for less polluting modes of transport in 2013. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) nc CNP UniCredit Vita continued its employee awareness Total 10 794 campaigns (train vs. plane and promoting public transport). Similarly, Caixa Seguros set up a new videoconferencing system. This led to a 6% reduction in miles flown, although in Brazil, air travel is justified by business expansion and the size of the country. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 47 Reducing our environmental footprint Priority No. 2: Decreasing the consumption of supplies Train travel The CNP Assurances Group’s operations are entirely in Train travel mainly concerned CNP Assurances, where train the field of insurance. As with other financial services, paper is journeys amounted to 2,723,462 kilometers, over half of which the principal raw material consumed. Numerous initiatives was between its principal sites in Angers and Paris. The volume have been launched within the Group’s entities to reduce paper of train travel was lower at the Group’s other entities: use. For example, in 2013 CNP UniCredit Vita’s paper use was 5,796km for MFPrévoyance, 140,858km for LBP prévoyance, a key indicator included in the monthly report presented to 7,405 km for CNP Vida, 672km for CNP BVP and 34,991km the Management Committee. for CNP UniCredit Vida. A reduction Taxi travel in Group-wide paper use At CNP Assurances, the use of public transport is encouraged. Taxis can be used under certain conditions, and in this case, for internal operations hybrid vehicles have been given priority by the booking office Paper use for internal operations (millions of sheets) since May 2013. In December 2013, hybrid vehicles were used for 40% of taxi journeys. 2013 CNP Assurances (France) 23.6 Car travel MFPrévoyance (France) 1.0 CNP Assurances monitors car travel in fuel litres: 524,737 litres LBP Prévoyance (France) 0.4 of fuel were consumed in 2013, compared to 589,131 in 2012 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 1.3 (an 11% reduction). CNP CIH (Cyprus)* 6.6 CNP Vida (Spain) 0.8 CNP BVP (Spain) 0.3 Car travel (million km) excluding CNP Assurances CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.9 CNP Argentine (Argentina) 0.7 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.1 Total 36 * including paper used by CNP CIH agents. Thanks to the concerted efforts of employees, CNP Assurances is reducing its paper use year after year, with savings of 11% in 2012 and 5% in 2013. CNP UniCredit Vita cut its paper use by 20% in 2013. Of the total paper purchased for the Group’s internal operations, 18.7% is made from recycled paper. CNP UniCredit Vita, and CNP Europe Life both use only recycled paper for internal operations. 48 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Priority No. 3: Reducing the environmental footprint in our business Going even further with a pilot The carbon footprint project at CNP Assurances of an insurance product CNP Assurances launched a printing systems upgrade project The carbon emissions associated with an insurance product in 2011 following an audit which found that paper use and over its life cycle were estimated in 2010, using the Bilan the ratio of printers to users were both high. Carbone® analysis method. The new system, based on shared multifunction (printing, For example, a Trésor Prévoyance Autonomie policy generates photocopying, scanning, fax) peripherals incorporating 12 kilograms of CO2 over its lifetime, as follows: the latest technology, should also lead to energy savings. An information and awareness campaign to encourage responsible printing practices will be launched when the project is deployed, including a dedicated intranet page. More generalized use of electronic documents and a reduction in internal paper use are expected. Computer consumables (number of cartridges) 2010 2011 2012 2013 CNP Assurances (France) 7922 7572 8288 7860 MFPrévoyance (France) nc nc nc nc LBP Prévoyance (France) nc nc 79 84 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 1297 594 406 0 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 750 nc nc 0 CNP Vida (Spain) 123 120 80 110 CNP BVP (Spain) 15 24 25 30 We used the results of this analysis to set priorities for action, CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 110 nc 135 145 leading to our current work on the following life cycle stages: CNP Argentine (Argentina) 51 40 48 nc CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 15 9 12 14 r “Distribution”, focusing on eco-driving. r “Policy administration” with the development Green ofﬁce supplies purchasing of a paperless environment. In 2013, 43% of office supplies purchased by CNP Assurances r “Claims management” with on-line tracking. were certified eco-friendly products, compared to 38% previously, due to the wider range offered by the supplier. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 49 Reducing our environmental footprint Paper use in operations Reducing paper use at CNP Assurances Several Group entities, including Caixa Seguros Holding, Transitioning more quickly to a paperless eco-system CNP Vida, CNP Argentina, CNP BVP, and MFPrévoyance, have Progress has been made by CNP Assurances in the transition outsourced the printing of their contractual documents and/or to electronic documents and procedures. In 2011, CNP Trésor customer communications. began sending marketing letters to customers by email, and in The total number of sheets of paper purchased by 2012, a second milestone was reached when all half-yearly CNP Assurances for corporate brochures, policyholder policy statements were delivered electronically. In 2013, the notifications and contractual documents was down slightly at digitalisation of distribution partner BPCE’s mail flows was 90.8 million. A first major step in reducing paper volumes was tested, with a pilot digital mail stream at three sites. taken in 2009 with the introduction of duplex printing for most customer information letters (leading to a 42% drop in 2009 The environment and a 26% drop in 2010). as an investment criterion Eighty-nine per cent of paper used by the Group (including for internal operations) has a sustainable management label such As the largest private owner of woodland in France, as FSC, PEFC, EU Ecolabel. CNP Assurances helps to capture a significant quantity of CO2. Tree growth enabled 288,357 tons of carbon dioxide to be sequestered in 2013 (see Fulfilling our economic responsibility Paper use for contractual documents, claims management ). The company responsible for managing CNP Assurances’s and customer communication (millions of sheets) forestry assets has been considering how these woodlands can be adapted to cope with projected climate changes over 2013 the coming decades. CNP Assurances (France)* 90.8 CNP Assurances applies environmental screens to all of MFPrévoyance (France) 0.9 LBP Prévoyance (France) nc its equity and corporate bond portfolios (See Fulfilling our Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 3.9 economic responsibility, Responsible investment), giving priority, CNP CIH (Cyprus) 1.3 like CNP Argentina, to companies with a good environmental CNP Vida (Spain) 0.4 performance. In addition, it has developed CNP Développement CNP BVP (Spain) 0.2 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 4.2 Durable, an SRI fund focusing on environmentally responsible CNP Argentine (Argentina) 0.7 investments, which is marketed through the CNP Trésor network. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.4 Since mid-2009, Green Rating energy efficiency assessments Total 103 have been carried out on all newly acquired properties in order * including corporate brochures for CNP Assurances. to estimate the cost of upgrading the properties to meet the current standards. Caixa Seguros has a policy of not investing in property projects that pose a potential danger to the environment. Through their investment policies, CNP Assurances and its two subsidiaries in Brazil and Argentina encourage reductions 50 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 in the environmental footprint of the entire economy. Other initiatives Structures for addressing Caixa Seguros’s Ambiantal programme environmental issues This programme brings together initiatives designed Everyone in the Group has a role to play in reducing its to promote protection of the environment by instilling environmental impact, primarily by effectively managing the awareness of the quantity of resources used and three main direct sources of greenhouse gas emissions: encouraging resource-efficient practices. Its objectives are to: paper use, for day-to-day administration and policyholder r Strengthen the culture of recycling, reusing and correspondence, business travel and office building reducing materials and resources. management. Environmental issues are handled locally r Promote consideration of environmental issues at all by each entity and the system’s organisation depends on stages of operations and processes. the size of the entity. The subsidiaries report to CNP Assurances r Reduce the business’s impact in terms of carbon on their environmental performance on an annual basis. emissions. CNP Assurances has a sustainable development department, r Encourage the creation of products and services and which reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. the implementation of communication campaigns that Environmental issues are addressed by the corporate build awareness of our responsibility to protect the Purchasing, Working Environment and Property Investment environment. departments. Regulatory developments are monitored by the Building Management department. An external testing, The environment in stakeholder relations inspection and certification firm reviews compliance annually and inspects equipment giving rise to an environmental risk. Environmental criteria are applied not only in the financial management of equity and property portfolios, but also in At CNP UniCredit Vita, environmental programmes are handled the selection of suppliers, as part of the same strategy. by the Green Group, comprising employees who volunteer to help develop ideas for initiatives that address environmental For policyholders who purchase their contract through concerns. In 2013, CSR indicators were included in the the CNP Trésor network, CNP Assurances has developed company’s management reports. CNP Développement Durable, an SRI fund focusing on environmentally responsible investments. At Caixa Seguros Holding, a Sustainable Development Committee was appointed to deal with environmental matters CNP Assurances has reported its greenhouse gas emissions in 2007. Led by the chairman of the Caixa Seguros Executive to the Carbon Disclosure Project every year since 2005, and Committee, the Sustainable Development Committee is made complies with similar reporting requirements introduced up of 11 representatives from various areas within the company. in article 75 of France’s Grenelle II Act. It has also signed The initiatives in the environmental programme help to instil the Kyoto Statement of the Geneva Association on fighting a culture of sustainable development within the company climate change. (see below). Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no water, soil or noise pollution. In addition, neither CNP Assurances nor any of its subsidiaries have been convicted of any environmental violations or been the subject of any non-monetary sanctions. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 51 Reducing our environmental footprint Carbon footprint monitoring First partial assessment of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions CNP Assurances’s greenhouse gas emissions audit As part of its CSR approach, CNP Assurances wanted to Initial audit consolidate the results of its GHG emissions audits for all its consolidated subsidiaries. As a service company, CNP Assurances’s greenhouse gas emissions result from employee behaviour and IT server The initial consolidated assessment was based on 2013 data activity. For the past five years, the Bilan Carbone® method available from existing environmental reporting and covered has been used to measure the environmental impact of the the main emissions sources: electricity, gas, heating oil, paper biggest sources of emissions: business travel, paper use and for internal operations, waste and business travel. It did not building management. cover fuel, refrigerant gases (minor in terms of emissions), purchases of services, freight (minor in terms of emissions), Changes in greenhouse gas emissions commuting and visitors travel. It was carried out using the Total tonnes of carbon equivalent per employee for internal Bilan Carbone® method and the ADEME carbon database. operations excluding regional offices (including contract The Group’s partial GHG emissions stood at 9,400 teqCO2, employees) declined by more than 10% like-for-like between which is an average of 2 teqCO2 for each of its 4,809 2009 and 2012, thus meeting the 2012 target. employees. The biggest emissions sources were business Since 2012, they have been measured in accordance with travel and energy use, representing 5,000 teqCO 2 and article 75 of France’s Grenelle Act of 12 July 2010, and came to: 4,200 teqCO2 respectively. 2013 2012 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 2,859 teqCO2 2,964 teqCO2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2,015 teqCO2 1,993 teqCO2 related to energy (scope 2) Other indirect emissions 15,565 teqCO2 15,177 teqCO2 A breakdown by category is available in the regulatory statement available on the cnp.fr website. The decrease in 9,400 scope 1 emissions reflects reduced car fuel use, while the teqCO2 increase in scope 2 emissions was due to increased heating requirements. The significant decrease in emissions related to business travel in 2013 only partly compensated for emissions from IT servers. Caixa Seguros’s greenhouse gas emissions Caixa Seguros Holding’s carbon footprint has been monitored for over five years. Measured in the business travel and buildings categories according to the GHG protocol, greenhouse gas emissions stood at 2 teqCO2 per employee at 31 December 2013. They are offset through tree planting programmes in the Atlantic Forest with the NGO Iniciativa Verde, thus earning Carbon Free certification for Caixa Seguros for the last few years. 52 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Climate change Significant work has been carried out to reduce energy use: The Group’s main entities have undertaken significant work r Closed air cooling towers were installed in Paris in 2011 and in response to this issue. Their greenhouse gas emissions a similar project was in the planning stage for Angers have been reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project since Saint-Serge in 2013 (to avoid the water use that is a drawback 2005 and CNP Assurances has signed the Kyoto Statement of open air cooling towers). of the Geneva Association. r Windows in the head office were closed to reduce heat loss, The most significant issues for CNP Assurances concern its and low energy invertors were installed. woodland (54,443 hectares) and property assets (3.7 million sq.m.). r More efficient control systems were installed at the Angers As a provider of homeowner and automobile insurance, Caixa site in 2013. Seguros Holding is also conducting research on the impact of climate change, both internally and jointly with government CNP Assurances’s subsidiaries have also gradually adopted agencies, NGOs and private companies. measures to reduce electricity use, notably for lighting, heating and IT servers. Caixa Seguros Holding has been a forerunner Ofﬁce building in the use of virtual servers, which it installed in 2009, and in 2012 it replaced computer hardware with more energyenvironmental management efficient equipment. In addition, awareness campaigns have Controlling energy use been carried out for employees across the Group’s entities Energy use concerns heating and cooling systems, the office (see page 25, Building employee awareness and training equipment used by employees and IT servers. The primary on sustainable development issues). energy used is electricity. A very slight 2.9% increase was The buildings used by Group entities are not currently equipped observed in 2013 due to weather conditions. with systems for generating renewable energy, but a project is being examined in Italy. Electricity use (millions of kWh) District heating system use 2010 2011 2012 2013 by CNP Assurances (million kWh) CNP Assurances (France) 18.8 17.5 18 18.34 MFPrévoyance (France) nc nc 0.35 0.36 LBP Prévoyance (France) nc nc 0.09 0.07 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 1.07 1.19 1.32 1.19 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 1.6 0.33 0.34 1.36 CNP Vida (Spain) 0.25 0.25 0.31 0.31 CNP BVP (Spain) 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) nc 0.08 0.63 0.67 CNP Argentine (Argentina) 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.15 Total 21.9 19.5 21.2 22.5 CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed to help buildings operate more efficiently. For example, improving how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning and ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert management of programmable time settings, room temperature guidelines, and fan coil unit regulation. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 53 Reducing our environmental footprint A total of 3 million kWh of heating supplied by the CPCU Speciﬁc recycling processes district heating network in Paris was used to heat The CNP Assurances recycling system was extended in 2011 CNP Assurances’s Paris offices in 2013. Fuel oil use (93,016 with a dedicated process for office furniture, and a campaign litres) only concerns the power generators at the major sites to collect old writing instruments was organised. The main in France. It is exceptional and not material. offices feature used battery collection points (399 kilograms Gas use at the Angers and Arcueil sites, at CNP Argentina recovered) and 639 kilograms of light bulbs were collected and at MFPrévoyance totalled 2.3 million kWh (net calorific during the year. value), an increase of 10%. Computer equipment is also a significant source of waste: some obsolete equipment (38% at CNP Assurances in 2013 Water use and 5% at CNP Vida) was sold or given away, and the rest was Water use (thousands of cubic metres) dismantled for recycling by a specialized firm. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Pollution CNP Assurances (France) 39.3 45.8 43.5 41.1 Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no MFPrévoyance (France) nc nc 0.8 0.8 water or soil pollution and emits very few other greenhouse LBP Prévoyance (France) nc nc 0.4 0.4 Caixa Seguros Holding (Brasil) 28 33.5 35.5 39.9 gases apart from CO2. CNP Vida (Spain) 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.9 Nonetheless, as part of its woodland management, CNP BVP (Spain) 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.2 CNP Assurances employs techniques that prevent soil erosion CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) nc 1.8 1.5 3 and ensure water filtration and purification. CNP Argentine (Argentina) 1 1.9 1.7 1.8 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) nc 0.04 0.04 0.05 The Group’s entities do not cause noise or other forms Total (excluding CNP CIH) 69.2 83.8 84.2 88.2 of pollution. Several entities have installed lighting in their offices that switches off automatically. An analysis of local restrictions on the Group’s water use, based on the Global Water Tool 2011.14, shows that 3% of None of the Group’s entities have been convicted of any its water use is in water-scarce areas (Cyprus), 51% in waterenvironmental violations or have been the subject of any sufficient areas and 46% in water-abundant areas (find out non-monetary environmental sanctions. about the area definitions at www.wbcsd.org). Uncertainties regarding CNP CIH’s data led us to remove them from our indicators. Waste management Selective sorting at Group entities Selective sorting at Group entities made it possible to recycle paper used for internal office purposes and printer ink cartridges. During the year, 164 tonnes of paper were recycled. Ninety-six per cent of employees had access to a recycling system, a slight improvement on 2012. In Argentina and France, the proceeds from recycling are donated to non-profit organisations. Awareness operations were carried out in Group entities during the year. 54 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries For CNP Assurances, social responsibility extends beyond the companies consolidated for financial reporting purposes. As of 2013 social indicators end-2013, four companies that were more than 50% owned but were not consolidated – Sino French Life Insurance (SFLI), Employees Assuristance, CNP TI and Age d’Or – were also monitored Workforce Proportion of women Average age for CSR compliance. French subsidiaries 498 37.3% 43 ans International subsidiary 38 60.5% 35 ans Scope The workforce increased significantly with the inclusion of The 2013 scope includes two new entities – CNP TI and CNP TI and Garantie Assistance in the scope of reporting. Garantie Assistance (which, together with the Filassistance On a like-for-like basis, the number of employees contracted by Internationale subsidiary, forms the Assuristance unit). 7% in France and 2.6% in China. In France and in international subsidiaries, outside contractors are used mainly for cleaning r In France : and security, apart from at CNP TI, which uses 14 full-time r 152 Assuristance employees in the Saint-Cloud offices equivalent employees for IT support. (3,295sq.m.) including 59 from Filassistance and 93 from The proportion of women has remained at around 60% for Garantie Assistance. insurance/assistance companies. It is lower in the IT sector. r 16 Âge d’Or employees (excluding franchisees) in Troyes and other locations (390 square meters). Human resources planning r 330 CNP TI employees based in CNP Assurances offices (consumption data is included in CNP Assurances figures). <HDUV·VHUYLFH Turnover Number of Number of separations new hires r International : 38 SFLI employees in the Beijing, China offices French subsidiaries 13.8 years 3.3% 52 52 (1,537 square meters). International subsidiary 4.1 years 23.4% 7 3 In the French subsidiaries, 8% of employees work part-time by choice. More than 4,000 overtime hours were clocked in 2013. The Chinese subsidiary does not have any part-time employees and clocked 226 overtime hours. Separations primarily corresponded to fixed-term contracts coming to an end (31 in France) and resignations (7 in France and 6 in international subsidiaries.) Two dismissals were recorded in 2013, in France. Health and safety Absenteeism rate Total absenteeism rate excluding maternity French subsidiaries 5.7% (excluding CNPTI) 2.6% International subsidiary 3.8% 2.2% There were four workplace accidents in French subsidiaries during 2013, and none in China. The rise in the number of workplace accidents is lower than the increase in the number of employees included in the scope of reporting. CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 55 Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries 2013 environmental indicators Training CNP TI’s environmental data linked to consumption are 11,300 hours of training were offered in the three French included in CNP Assurances’s environmental data. subsidiaries, with a budget representing 3.5% of payroll. Consumption Training at the Chinese subsidiary fell sharply, to 0.6% of payroll, for a total of some 300 hours. Paper Electricity French subsidiaries 1 280 750 sheets 699 792 kWh International subsidiary 47 840 sheets 26 155 kWh Employee dialogue A total of 92 meetings were held in France – 22 meetings of the Both French subsidiaries are deploying projects to go occupational health, safety and working conditions committee paperless, optimise printing, insource marketing collateral and 70 meetings with employee representatives. Four production and put franchisee documents on-line. agreements were signed in 2013, including one on the employment terms applicable to the employees transferred Waste to the CNP TI inter-company partnership set up in 2012. Assuristance has introduced a collection system for batteries In China, employees are protected by the country’s Labour (11kg), paper (7.2 tonnes) and ink cartridges. Filassistance’s Law, in effect since 1 January 2008. The Chief Executive Officer paper recycling initiative allows it to help people excluded from regularly meets with the employee representative to outline the job market to find employment. the company’s main strategic objectives and discuss requests The Chinese subsidiary collected 325kg of paper and 1.2kg of from employees. batteries in 2013. It has put in place a battery recharging system. All employees have access to a recycling system. Equal opportunities Measures taken to reduce the environmental impact Proportion of women Proportion of women Filassistance has adopted the “green letter” fast, economical managers senior executives and eco-friendly mail delivery service. French subsidiaries 33% 5% For urgent deliveries of letters and parcels in Paris and the International subsidiary 33% 0% surrounding area, Filassistance uses a bicycle courier service, In French subsidiaries, there are six employees with disabilities. with which it has signed a code of ethics and social responsibility, In the international subsidiary, two people are employed under as a means of reducing CO2 emissions. vocational training contracts. SFLI estimates its carbon footprint at 1.3 teqCO2 per employee. 56 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Methodology JGroup reporting methodology JReporting period We track advances in our sustainable development process by Indictors mapping movements cover the period from 1 January means of dedicated indicators and by identifying benchmark 2013 to 31 December 2013 (excluding CNP Assurances accomplishments. Our corporate social responsibility business travel which is presented over a trailing 12-month indicators are reported in accordance with articles R225-104 period from 1 November 2012 to 30 October 2013); indicators to R225-105-2 of France’s Commercial Code. The 2013 of stocks are as at 31 December 2013. Corporate Social Responsibility Report presents these indicators in detail for each country. JBackground and changes in scope The consolidated entities for 2013 are the same as for 2012. JGuidelines Changes in scope can nevertheless appear when indicators The indicators and reporting processes have been defined for have not been provided for an entity or sub-entity in 2012, but all Group entities This process serves as a reference for the have been in 2013. various persons involved at CNP Assurances and at all subsidiaries for preparing this report. It describes the issues, JMethod for reporting, control and consolidation roles, indicators and data collection processes, as well as the Data for the indicators are collected from the operating main identified risks and the system for controlling and units (Human Resources, Building Management and managing these risks. Purchasing departments), by site when necessary. They The process was set up using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are reported via the accounting consolidation system. guidelines. The reference indicators are presented on the GRI A CSR Officer is appointed for each entity (a total of 18 website: www.globalreporting.org CSR Officers) and prepares the first level of consolidation within the entity concerned. JScope 13 validators check the data from their entities. The The indicators cover all fully consolidated entities in the CNP Assurances Sustainable Development department is CNP Assurances Group, unless otherwise specified: responsible for overall consolidation and carries out CNP Assurances (for environmental data: excluding 3,800 consistency checks on all the information collected from sq.m. in offices outside Paris), CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV, these CSR Officers. CNP International, LBP prévoyance, MFP Prévoyance, The introduction of CSR reporting from 2006 gradually CNP Vida (for environmental data: excluding CIS offices in improved the quality of CSR data, particularly for the Italy and France), CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, environment. Certification by the statutory auditors and Caixa Seguros Holding, CNP UniCredit Vita, CNP Cyprus the use of data collection software at Group level for the Insurance Holding (for environmental data: excluding Greek past three years has also enabled quality standards to be subsidiaries), CNP Europe Life and CNP Barclays Vida y tightened. These elements contribute to the initiative’s Pensiones (for environmental data: excluding offices in Italy and progress by making it easier for each unit to lead action Portugal), and their consolidated subsidiaries. The indicators plans. for consolidated subsidiaries are presented on a 100%-basis. The entities covered were the same in 2012 and 2013. Consolidated ratios for all entities are calculated by weighting reported ratios according to the number of For the purposes of this report, the term “CNP Assurances” employees in each entity. covers the legal entities CNP Assurances, CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV and CNP International. The scope for water and energy use includes the facilities in Paris, Angers and Arcueil, but excludes regional offices; this corresponds to 90% of CNP Assurances employees. The main indicators are also published for the nonconsolidated subsidiaries that were at least 50%-owned by CNP Assurances at 1 January 2013: Assuristance, Age d’Or Expansion, the CNP TI intercompany partnership and SFLI (China). CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 57 Methodology JLimitations and data reliability JVeriﬁcation Estimates have been used for certain environmental data, One of the Statutory Auditors performed procedures to verify where more exact information is not available, such as water that the report includes all the disclosures required by article and energy use data for buildings, which is sometimes 225 of the Commercial Code and that the information is fairly estimated on a pro-rata basis according to the number of stated. square meters (Arcueil, CNP BVP, CNP Europe Life sites), and The auditors’ report is presented in section 4.8 of the 2013 the definition of certain social indicators may differ slightly Registration Document which can be downloaded from the from one country to another. However, the consolidated CNP Assurances website, www.cnp-ﬁnances.fr indicators used below are nevertheless consistent and meaningful. The guidelines were deployed in 2013 in foreign A fairness review was performed for the most significant subsidiaries and certain definitions, such as that for information, including detailed tests on the corresponding absenteeism, were harmonised from one subsidiary to the next. measurable indicators, and the other information was reviewed for consistency. JNames of the entities To make this report easier to read, the names of certain entities have been simplified. For example, CNP Argentina is used for CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, LBPP for La Banque Postale Prévoyance, CNP CIH for CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, and CNP BVP for CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones. 58 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Labour indicators Articles 225-104 to R225-105-2 Level of assurance A) WORKFORCE Total workforce and breakdown by age, gender and geographic region Fairness Hires and terminations Fairness Remuneration and changes in remuneration Fairness B) ORGANISATION OF WORK Organisation of working hours Fairness Absenteeism Fairness C) EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Organisation of social dialogue (employee information and consultation procedures and negoFairness tiation processes). Agreements with employee representatives Fairness D) HEALTH AND SAFETY Workplace health and safety conditions Fairness Health and safety agreements signed with trade unions and other employee representatives Consistency Workplace accidents, frequency, seriousness and occupational illnesses Fairness E) TRAINING Training policies Fairness Total number of training hours Consistency F) EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Measures taken to promote gender equality Fairness Measures taken to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities Consistency Anti-discrimination policy Fairness G) PROMOTION OF AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION’S FUNDAMENTAL CONVENTIONS CONCERNING: The right to exercise freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Consistency The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Consistency The elimination of forced and compulsory labour Consistency The effective abolition of child labour Consistency CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 59 Methodology Social indicators 225-104 à R225-105-2 Level of assurance A) TERRITORIAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS In terms of employment and regional development Consistency On local residents and communities Consistency B) RELATIONS WITH PEOPLE OR ORGANISATIONS THAT HAVE AN INTEREST IN THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS Dialogue with these people and organisations. Consistency Partnership or philanthropy initiatives Fairness C) SUB-CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS Integration of social and environmental issues in purchasing policy Fairness The level of outsourcing and the extent to which ESG criteria are taken into account in relations Fairness with suppliers and contractors D) FAIR PRACTICES Action taken to prevent corruption Fairness Measures taken to promote the health and safety of consumers Consistency E) OTHER ACTION TAKEN TO PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS Consistency 60 CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 Environmental indicators 225-104 à R225-105-2 Level of assurance A) GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Structures for addressing environmental issues Consistency Employee training and awareness initiatives for the protection of the environment Consistency Resources allocated to preventing pollution and other environmental risks Consistency Environmental provisions and warranties Consistency B) POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Measures to prevent, reduce and remedy air, water and soil pollution seriously affecting the Consistency environment Measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste Consistency Measures to address noise and other forms of pollution specific to an activity Consistency C) SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Water use and supply in relation to local restrictions Consistency Raw materials use and the measures taken to use them more efficiently Fairness Energy use and the measures taken to improve energy efficiency and increase the use of Fairness renewable energies Land use Consistency D) CLIMATE CHANGE Greenhouse gas emissions Fairness Measures taken to adapt to climate change Fairness E) BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity Consistency CNP Assurances CSR report 2013 61 Find out more about CNP Assurances VISIT OUR NEW WEBSITE READ OUR PUBLICATIONS www.cnp.fr Available on request in both French and English* R Rediscover CNP Assurances, its businesses, and available for download from www.cnp.fr or its commitments and performance, read its latest www.cnp-ﬁnances.fr news, ﬁnd out about its innovations, obtain answers to your questions about life insurance, pensions and personal risk insurance. Whether you’re an individual, a professional, a candidate, a journalist, a shareholder or an analyst, the new site has a space dedicated to your speciﬁc information needs. The site, in French and English, complies with computer accessibility standards and can also be viewed on tablets and smartphones, reﬂecting CNP Assurances’s commitment to insuring all our futures. * Except for the 2014 shareholder guide which is only available in French. April 2014 CNP Assurances – Sustainable Development Department Cover design and production: Layout: Distingo Photos: © Sam Edwards/Caiaimages / Photononstop(cover), Franck Juery (p.1) Printed by Parnascopy on 100% recycled paper certiﬁed by Afnor for the EU Ecolabel “Copying and graphic paper” (licence no.03/001/1) – Ref. CNP/2014/CSR2013/F8 CNP ASSURANCES is a société anonyme (public limited company) incorporated in France with fully paid up share capital of €686,618,477. Registered ofﬁce: 4, place Raoul Dautry 75716 Paris Cedex 15 Registration number: 341 737 062 Paris Governed by the French Insurance Code www.cnp.fr Take a look at the new website and the new CNP Assurances video. For information about the Group, its business and services, its commitments, plus dedicated sections for everyone, interested individuals, professionals, journalists, institutional investors and private investors.
