Communication on Progress Year: 2013 STATEMENT BY MD We are proud to say that for all these years we have been incorporating the ten principles of the UN Global Compact into our business. For us at The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Ghana Limited, doing so gives the company the opportunity to support the UN Global Compact and find innovative ways to maintain the principles in our day to day operations. For instance in March 2013, both company and all 3rd parties partook in an external social audit in which we all successfully passed. The purpose of the audit was to demonstrate our compliance with local labour laws in our supply chain with particular emphasis on child labour, forced labour, abuse of labour, and freedom of association, collective bargaining, wages and benefits, working hours, overtime, health, safety and environment. Results showed a high level of compliance. A new plastic (PET) bottling line was acquired by the company to help boost our production capacity to meet huge demands for our products. But most importantly, the new line is more energy efficient, produces negligible carbon emissions and has a low wastage output (labels, screw caps, plastic bottles, etc). This supports our strategy to encourage the use of environmentally friendly technologies. We believe as a company that extending the ten principles to our suppliers is key to our sustainability as such; we built a waste water treatment plant for our Minute Maid Fruit Juice contract supplier, Healthilife Beverages Limited, which produces and packages the product on our behalf. We believe this will go a long way to promote our environmental responsibility to the people and communities we operate in even if such activities are done outside our premises and operations. P 1/7 Planned systems audit (announced and unannounced) from both our internal and external auditors are conducted regularly (three or more times in a year) to bring about improvements, close and eliminate gaps that could lead to fraud in our operations. We believe that with all these strategies and activities in place, The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Ghana Limited continues to exhibit its interest in pursuing the ten principles of the Global Compact and also extend it to our partners across the business. Felix Gomis NOVEMBER 04 2014, Managing Director The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Ghana Limited Contact: ISAAC ANTWI PUBLIC AFFAIRS AND COMMUNICATIONS’ DIRECTOR Email: iantwi@tccbcg.eccbc.com Phone: 233-302 814844 Fax: 233-302-812625 P 2/7 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and HEALTH FAIR PROGRAM respect the protection of TCCBCGL Health Fair has been in implementation since August 2009. The goal of the Health Fair is to promote health internationally proclaimed human and safety awareness at the workplace and general healthy living. It also offers health screenings, blood tests, blood rights; pressure checks, spot cholesterol, dental services, leukaemia, VCT etc. This day enables employees have access to free medical screening, testing and consultation in the plant. It also introduces staff to their health care service providers in their communities. Employees take this opportunity to know their health status. National Health Insurance Authority (NHIA) is always present with their cameras to take free passport photographs to register all unregistered Coca-Cola Staff. HIV/AIDS WORKPLACE PROGRAM The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Ghana (TCCBCG) HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy has been in implementation since March 2002.The key principles of the policy are recognition of HIV/AIDS as a workplace and business issue, non discrimination and stigmatization, gender equality, promoting social dialogue, prevention of screening for the purpose of exclusion, confidentiality, and continuation of employment, prevention of new infections providing care and support, and community outreach. Awareness, education and advocacy programs are held throughout each year. A permanent Voluntary Counselling Test centre is available on site where employees can have free tests. Anti – Retroviral Treatment is also available for employees and families. Awareness and education activations will be carried out during this year’s WORLD AIDS DAY Commemoration. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We have intensified our attention to protect the health and safety of employees, safety of all our facilities and others affected by our operations. We have consistently maintained our scope on our Coca-Cola systems as well as OHSAS 18001:2007 to our operations. In line with this we successfully applied and got certified in Occupational Health & Safety OHSAS 18001:2007. To ensure the continual safety of our workforce, visitors and contractors, work rules on safety practices have been developed and strictly enforced through coaching, awareness creation, refresher trainings, structural modifications and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Use. To ensure root cause of injuries are captured and addressed, an accident reporting system is designed and recorded. P 3/7 WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT We support the rule of law and collaborate with the labour authority in the legal resolution of complaints. For example, in July 2010, we used “Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR)” for an out-of-court settlement of a complaint lodged with the Ghana Labour Commission. 2: and make sure that they are not We do not tolerate human rights abuses in our operations and we extend the same conditions to our third party service complicit in human rights abuses. providers. Our third party service providers’ contracts specify the conditions of service for their employees (outsourced) to ensure there are no abusive conditions of service. As at December 2013, we had no records of Human Rights abuses. rd In March 2013, both company and all 3 parties partook in an external social audit in which we all successfully passed. The purpose of the audit was to demonstrate our compliance with local labour laws in our supply chain. In the audits, particular emphasis was laid on child labour, forced labour, abuse of labour, and freedom of association, collective bargaining, wages and benefits, working hours, overtime, health, safety and environment. Results showed a high level of compliance. TCCBCG is also committed to investigating any allegations of human rights abuses made against the company. 3: Businesses should uphold the The company respects the rights of employees to associate. To this effect ,there are currently four (4) employee freedom of association and the associations/unions operating in the company: effective recognition of the right to 1. The Local Union of the Industrial and Commercial Workers’ Union of Ghana (ICU) – membership subscribed by all collective bargaining; junior staff. 2. The Coca-Cola Senior Staff Association (COCASSA) – for some supervisors and middle management staff. 3. The Professional and Managerial Staff Union (PMSU) of Union of Industry, Commerce and Finance Workers (UNICOF) for some supervisors and middle management staff. 4. The Coca-Cola Management Staff Association (CCMA) for Managers. Collective Agreement (CA) is negotiated every two years and a wage opener every year. The executives of COCASSA and CCMA collaborate with Top Management in formulation and review of terms of conditions of service. Union Executives hold monthly meetings with all Union Shop Stewards. A general meeting between the Union Executives and the whole members of the Union is held quarterly. These meetings are approved and expensed by company. Top management holds quarterly communications meetings with the Local Union, COCASSA, UNICOF and CCMA. These meetings serve as platforms where the associations hold free face-to-face discussions with the Managing Director and his team. The company holds annual staff durbars – a general meeting of all staff with the Executive Management. The meeting is chaired by the Managing Director (MD). It is an open forum in which the discussions centre on the general “health and welfare” of the company. P 4/7 There is a strict adherence to schedules for Negotiations and wage openers timed such that implementation of agreements is effected January 1, each year. All employees belong to at least one employee association. Industrial harmony is monitored and reported by the HR Business Partners OPS as part of their performance assessment in each year. Tension between our workers and employer has been eliminated by the open door policy and constant dialogue with the unions on all issues. The management – employee associations’ relations have been strengthened with a seamless and continuous twoway dialogue with employees, communicating the business strategy and listening to employee opinions and concerns. The communications channels for employees include open door policies, employee forums and confidential dialogues. The elected Union Executive Office holders received training in July 2012 on the following topics: The New Ghana Labour Act (Act 651), Industrial Relations, Productivity Based Bargaining, Discipline at the Workplace and Performance Management. The training aims at broadening their perspectives on Labour –Management collaboration at the workplace. For the year 2013, no training was done as the same set of executives is still in office. 4: the elimination of all forms of When operational exigencies demand for overtime work, management at all levels, departmental or sectional, discuss forced and compulsory labour; and reach an arrangement with the Union shop stewards. Union Executives consult with Management. Both parties agree and draw schedules to cover areas where services are required during holidays. Work done is compensated for in addition to paid overtime. For the year under review we have not received any complaints from the labour front. Productivity –based incentive schemes since its inception has still been in operation and remuneration for Management staff is still linked to business performance. 5: the effective abolition of child In strict compliance with the National Labour law, TCCBCG does not employ minors and persons less than 18 years. labour; Age verification is normally carried out during recruitment processes. Our internal records show that the youngest employee is 24 years old as at December 2013. The age distribution in the company at December 2013 is as follows: Age 23-24 : 0.90% Age 25-35 : 26.90% Age 36-40 : 21.30% Age 41-45 : 23.20% Age 46-55 : 23.80% Age 56-60 : 3.80% Age verification is routinely enforced in the recruitment process. 6: and the elimination of TCCBCG permits the employment of qualified relatives or friends as long as such employment does not create actual discrimination in respect of or perceived conflict of interest. employment and occupation. HIV/AIDS infection shall not be barrier to employment, advancement, training, or other terms and conditions of employment. HIV/AIDS, physical challenge, ethnic background, marriage between employees and gender are not P 5/7 barriers to employment. Labour agencies have not lodged any report on in respect of discrimination against TCCBCG. 7: Businesses should support a The Core of our environmental Management system has five values to affirm the responsibility of TCCBCG : precautionary approach to Commitment: Our commitment to protecting and preserving the environment extends throughout our company with the involvement of employees at all levels. environmental challenges; Compliance: We are determined to integrate sound environmental practices into our daily business operations, complying with all regulatory standards. Impact/Opportunity: We minimize the environmental impact of our operations, equipment, product, packages. Accountability: TCCBCG shall conduct audits of our environmental performance and practices and take actions for continual improvement. Information: We shall communicate effectively with all our stakeholders on environmental reporting. TCCBCG successfully implemented a documented Environmental Management System in the two plants located in Kumasi and Accra, Ghana and has linked up with ISO 14001:2004 management system. The policy on Environment and the Environmental Management System were reviewed to make them congruent with all elements of ISO 14001:2004. Both Accra &Kumasi plants were certified to the ISO 14001:2004 management system in October 2010. A surveillance test was conducted in 2012 for which we passed successfully. Also due to our proactive and active Environmental systems, we have over the years established very good relationship with our Environmental and Protection Agency (EPA) regulator who regularly audits us to ensure we are continually doing the right things. 8: undertake initiatives to promote The $2.0million waste water treatment system built in both plants is still functioning and EPA monthly monitors all greater environmental responsibility; discharges from the facilities and reports on findings. Summonses are issued if violations or non-compliances are noted. There have been no summonses since the installation of the Waste Water Treatment plants. 9: and encourage the development We have acquired a new plastic bottling line which is energy efficient, produces low wastage (labels, screw caps, and diffusion of environmentally plastic package, etc) and negligible carbon emissions. This is part of our strategy to continually reduce our carbon and waste footprints through the use of environmentally friendly technologies. friendly technologies. We continue to ensure that new refrigeration equipment purchased since year 2004 do not contain or use CFCs. Since the Six Sigma Energy Usage Optimisation project started in February 2007, we have been so prudent and successful that we won the Most Improved Plant – Energy Efficiency Award of the Group President Sustainability Award in Dubai 2010 organised for the Eurasia & Africa Group. 10: Businesses should work against At The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Ghana, we work from a shared set of values recognizing that integrity is critical all forms of corruption, including to our business success and our outstanding reputation. Our Code of Business Conduct is one example of our absolute commitment to honesty, integrity and the highest standard of ethical behaviour. The governing principles of extortion and bribery. our Code of Business Conduct are: P 6/7 Comply with all laws, rules and regulations, treat all colleagues fairly, honestly, and with respect and promote the diversity of company work force, deal fairly with customers and consumers, deal appropriately with competitors, avoid conflicts of interest, keep accurate records, provide accurate disclosures to regulators and shareholders, do not take personal advantage of opportunities, protect company’s non-public information. Since 2010, extracts of the Code of Business Conduct are sent to all staff via the company’s intranet to share information and ensure compliance. Accountability, which is one of our values, seeks to encourage employees to desist from all forms of corruption and bribery. Planned systems audits are conducted on regular schedules by our internal audit team and external auditors. Internal audits include forensic audits. Fidelity of personnel in very sensitive positions of our operations is guaranteed before employment. Audit findings have prompted systems improvements to close and eliminate gaps that could lead to fraud in our operations. Again, a system called bOnPC which is a sales and distribution software application was introduced in 2010 to support our daily business operations. This system provides detailed business information on all daily transactions that feeds into other applications for all levels of reporting and analysis. It also serves as a good auditing tool. In addition, there has been a bOnPC/iScala interface which updates the iScala to avoid any human intervention and ensure data integrity. P 7/7
